Annual Report 2018 Becoming a simpler, better bank  e are building a simpler, more W focused bank, fully aligned to meeting the needs of customers in our core markets, underpinned by stronger risk management and a continuing commitment to innovation and customer service. We will advance our purpose to improve the financial wellbeing of our customers and communities. In doing so, we will be guided by our values: • We do what is right • We are accountable • We are dedicated to service • We pursue excellence • We get things done Commonwealth Bank of Australia ACN 123 123 124 Inside this report Strategic report Performance This year we have taken steps to make our reporting clearer and to provide information on all aspects of the overview Bank’s performance. In addition to detailing our financial performance and business strategy, this report outlines what we’re doing to operate sustainably and responsibly. Corporate governance Strategic report 2 Performance overview 61 2018 highlights 2 Financial performance 62 An overview of Group and business unit financial Chairman’s message 4 performance and strategic achievements Directors’ CEO’s message 7 Non-financial performance metrics 75 Key environmental, customer, social and report Becoming a better bank 10 governance metrics A summary of the year’s regulatory, legal and industry reviews and of the Bank’s responses Corporate governance 81 Our strategy12 Roles and responsibilities and Our strategy, the goals we’ve set governance priorities and progress made during 2018 Our Board 82 Financial report Doing business sustainably 28 The programs and initiatives that support Our Executive Leadership Team 84 better outcomes for our stakeholders Our approach to governance 86 Business risks 43 How we’re responding to the key risks to the Bank, including non-financial risks Directors’ report 91 The Directors’ overview of key Climate-related financial disclosures 48 information for the financial year Understanding and managing climate risk Other Remuneration report 96 information and opportunities Our approach to remuneration and outcomes for the Executive Leadership Team and Board Financial report 122 Financial statements 125 Notes to the financial statements 132 Risk management 195 Other information 265 Includes shareholding information, glossary of terms and contact information 1 Strategic report 2018 highlights Customers Community Customers served Tax paid 16.1 million $4.0 billion One of Australia’s largest taxpayers Digital customers 6.5 million Community investment $290 million Largest branch and ATM network 21,900 volunteering and pro bono hours in Australia 1,267 branches Group total CommBank Foundation 4,253 ATMs Group total 1,240+ grants For youth, education and health organisations Mobile banking app Net Promoter Score 37.8 Financial education More than 10 points above closest major bank peer 568,000+ students Participating in Start Smart sessions Commonwealth Bank of Australia 2 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report 2018 highlights Strategic report Performance overview Corporate governance Directors’ report Our people Shareholders Financial report Number of employees Net profit after tax 49,125 $9,233 million cash basis Employed in 15 countries, 40,508 in Australia $9,375 million statutory basis Other Continuing operations Women in Manager roles and above information 44.6% Dividend per share Women in Executive Manager roles and above 37.6% $4.31 Full year, fully franked, cash basis Total hours of training % of cash net profits returned 1,847,000+ to shareholders Average hours of training per employee 34.1 hours 80.4% $7.6bn in total, 79% of shareholders are Australian Employees working flexibly 73.7% Amount received by the average retail 20% work part-time or job share shareholder in dividends $3,853 3 Strategic report Chairman’s message “Your Board, management team Dear Shareholders, and our people are committed This has been a difficult year. Confidence in the Bank has been severely tested due to a series of conduct and to making CBA a better bank compliance issues. As a result, trust in the Bank, and its and to achieving our purpose reputation and standing, have been damaged. of improving financial The Board and I regret, without reservation, the Bank’s wellbeing for our customers failings over recent years, and apologise to all of our stakeholders for what has happened. and communities.” The Bank has, however, continued to deliver service and market-leading innovation for our customers, and has continued to contribute to our communities. Our Catherine Livingstone AO businesses have performed well this year, and we have Chairman maintained our capital strength. This financial performance has supported a strong dividend for shareholders and enabled the Board to determine a final dividend of $2.31 per share, taking the full year dividend to $4.31 per share, fully franked, up 2 cents on last year. It has also been a year of renewal at the Bank, and we have taken action to set the Bank up for future success. Regulatory and compliance issues We take full responsibility for the issues we have faced, and are committed to addressing our failures. An outline of the year’s main regulatory, legal and industry reviews is provided on pages 10-11 of this report. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 4 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Chairman’s message Strategic report The Board and I would like to provide context for our The report is also clear on the need for cultural change. Performance approach to these issues and the rationale for the We need to be less complacent and reactive and decisions we have made. In coming to a settlement instead be more reflective, open to challenge and overview with the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis customer focused. Centre (AUSTRAC), we agreed to pay a civil penalty Following the report, we have entered into an Enforceable of $700 million. This is a very large sum of money, and Undertaking (EU) with APRA. Under the terms of the understandably, a serious concern for shareholders. EU we have provided APRA with a Remedial Action Factors that contributed to the size of the penalty included Plan, which APRA has approved. The plan outlines the the Bank’s financial size and the significant role the Bank Corporate actions we are now taking to ensure that our governance, plays in the Australian economy. accountability and culture frameworks and practices When considering how to resolve the issue in are significantly improved and meet the high standards governance shareholders’ best interests, the Board formed the view expected of us. We have also further improved our that mediation and settlement with AUSTRAC would performance review and remuneration policies and deliver the best outcome overall. It enables us to focus practices to ensure greater accountability for risk and on improving our risk and compliance capabilities, and customer outcomes. to move forward and work constructively with AUSTRAC. We have reported to APRA on the extent to which the The Board also determined that it was in shareholders’ findings of the report have been reflected in remuneration consequences for current and past executives. These Directors’ best interests to reach an agreement with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) to settle outcomes are outlined in the Remuneration report on report the legal proceedings in relation to claims of manipulation page 98. of the Bank Bill Swap Rate. This brings to an end the We understand the scale of change which is necessary, uncertainty around bills trading, acknowledges our past and its seriousness, in order for us to become a better, mistakes and where we could have done better, and it stronger bank for our customers, people, regulators allows us to focus on productive engagement with ASIC. and shareholders. We are participating transparently and fully in the Royal Financial Your Board and management team are working to ensure Commission and we believe that through the process this is achieved. report of scrutiny and reflection we will become a better bank, and that the Australian financial services sector will also The way forward be strengthened. The selection of a new Chief Executive Officer was a key APRA Prudential Inquiry into CBA priority this year. The Board sought to appoint a candidate who would maintain momentum in the business while In August last year, the Australian Prudential Regulation addressing the regulatory and reputational challenges and Authority (APRA) announced that it was establishing an responding to evolving community expectations. We also Other independent prudential inquiry into the Bank. The decision sought a candidate who could transform the business to to initiate the inquiry was prompted by the succession of meet the rapidly evolving competitive and technologyinformation issues confronting the Bank, and concerns regarding its centric environment. governance, culture and accountability frameworks and practices. In appointing Matt Comyn to the role of CEO, we are confident that he has the mix of attributes and values We welcomed the opportunity for independent parties needed to lead the Bank. Matt has now appointed a very to take a fresh view, and co-operated fully with the inquiry. capable leadership team with deep skills and experience. We have since welcomed the final report, and the clear roadmap that it provides for us. The Bank’s purpose and strategy, outlined on pages 12–27, provides clear direction. It commits us to deliver A key finding was that more rigorous Board and for our stakeholders in a balanced and sustainable Executive level governance of non-financial risks, way. In emphasising trust and reputation, it recognises particularly operational and compliance risk, is required. the importance of having the community’s confidence The report emphasises the importance of accountability, and support. where everyone owns their actions, and where exacting Our decision to prioritise our core businesses and standards for risk and customer outcomes are reinforced capabilities will allow us to become a more focused by remuneration practices. bank. The proposed demerger of the Group’s wealth management and mortgage broking businesses will enable both companies to pursue growth and investment decisions appropriate to each business. 5 Strategic report Chairman’s message Board renewal The program of Board renewal continued this year, with the objective of ensuring that the Board has the appropriate mix of skills, expertise and experience to address current and emerging opportunities and issues. I would sincerely like to thank Andrew Mohl and Brian Long who will both be retiring at our Annual General Meeting on 7 November 2018. They are long-serving Directors and have contributed specialist expertise to the Board’s deliberations. In September 2017, Rob Whitfield was appointed an independent Non-Executive Director. He adds broad risk management and public sector experience, as well as extensive banking experience, to the Board’s skills and expertise. In March this year, Anne Templeman-Jones joined the Board. Anne is an experienced listed company NonExecutive Director and has a strong background in risk, corporate banking, insurance, advice and wealth management. Commitment to be a better bank While this has been a very difficult year for the Bank, we now have the impetus for change and a blueprint for strengthening the organisation. Your Board, management team and our people are committed to making this a better bank and to achieving our purpose of improving financial wellbeing for our customers and communities. Thank you for your support. Catherine Livingstone AO Chairman Commonwealth Bank of Australia 6 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Strategic CEO’s report message Performance overview Corporate governance Directors’ report “The work we are doing to Dear Shareholders, become a simpler, better As you know, the Bank has faced significant challenges Financial this year. This happened because at times we let our bank will deliver balanced customers down, our operational risk and compliance report and sustainable outcomes capabilities simply weren’t good enough, and we were too slow to fix our mistakes. I am sorry for these failings, for all our stakeholders, and I am committed to doing what is necessary to put and importantly, drive things right. long-term and sustainable The required changes are now underway, and we are outperformance for you, building on the Bank’s strong foundations. More than 16 million customers choose to do business with us. Other our shareholders.” We are the first choice for home loans, household deposits and digital banking. We have more branches in information more places, we rank first for our technology, and we are financially strong. Our financial results for the year reflect these strengths. Matt Comyn Operating momentum was resilient, driven by our core Chief Executive Officer banking businesses which delivered good volume margin management in home and business lending, ongoing growth in transaction accounts and deposits, and continued uptake of our market-leading digital banking services. Operating expenses were impacted by a number of oneoffs including the AUSTRAC civil penalty and regulatory and compliance costs. Excluding these items, expense growth was maintained at low levels due to productivity initiatives. This supported growth in overall earnings, excluding non-recurring items. Importantly, our balance sheet continued to strengthen across funding and liquidity metrics, and we remain one of the best capitalised banks in the world. This performance has supported an increased dividend for shareholders. 7 Strategic report CEO’s message Earning trust We are also committed to earning the community’s trust. The Royal Commission is bringing to light mistakes While it has been important to focus on maintaining we have made, the impact of those mistakes, and the business momentum, I’ve also been determined to face changes required to meet community expectations. up to issues and fix them so that we can earn the trust of To measure our progress in earning the community’s our customers, regulators and the community, and restore trust, we will track and disclose our reputation score your confidence and pride in your company. relative to a group of the largest ASX-listed consumerTo earn our customers’ trust we have to deliver better facing companies. outcomes. That’s why my leadership team is prioritising Most importantly, to ensure we don’t make mistakes that listening to customer complaints and fast-tracking the undermine trust in the future, we are working hard to resolution of longstanding issues. It’s also the reason achieve better risk outcomes across the Bank. We are that we’re focused on improving our customers’ financial focused on strengthening our operational, compliance wellbeing through the products and services we provide. and conduct risk capabilities, and building a risk culture This includes investing in new CommBank app features which emphasises that everyone is accountable for all that help customers save more, spend less and stay in the risks in their business. This is being reinforced through control of their finances. consequences for poor risk management, and rewards To understand our customers’ level of trust in us, we for identifying and managing risk well. are now measuring our Net Promoter Score (NPS). NPS subtracts our detractors from our promoters and is a good Setting a clear direction indicator of whether our customers would recommend us My second priority has been to set the Bank on the right to their family and friends. course for future success. To earn the trust of our regulators we are committed Key to this has been articulating a simple purpose for to engaging in a way that is proactive, transparent and the organisation. Our purpose is to improve the financial resolution-focused. A key step forward was settling the wellbeing of our customers and communities. It provides anti-money laundering proceedings with AUSTRAC. clear direction to our people and guides our strategy. Importantly, we are investing in our financial crimes capabilities and have a comprehensive program in Our ability to deliver good customer outcomes depends place. We are pleased to be working constructively on having an energised and accountable team. To help our with AUSTRAC to help protect the integrity of the people understand what we stand for, and to drive actions Australian financial system. and behaviours, our values have been updated. The revised values are simple and action-oriented: we do what We also reached an agreement with ASIC to settle is right; we are accountable; we are dedicated to service; the Bank Bill Swap Rate legal proceedings. We have we pursue excellence; and we get things done. given ASIC an enforceable undertaking under which an independent expert will confirm that the changes I have renewed the Executive Leadership Team to drive that we have made, and will be making, to our controls, change and lead our people through the transition. policies, training and monitoring in connection with our In appointing new executives, I focused on individuals’ BBSW business are sufficiently robust. values, attributes and behaviours to ensure the right fit for each role, while creating a good balance of external As the Chairman noted, the APRA Prudential Inquiry into experience and knowledge of the Bank. I am confident CBA, and its final report, have been pivotal for us this year. that your new management team has the skills and While the report made for confronting reading for me and experience required to lead the Bank into the future. my team, we believe it is fair and balanced and that it provides a clear roadmap for the organisational change required. The Remedial Action Plan we’ve developed, and which has been endorsed by APRA, contains our commitments to fix the issues identified. Each of us is now accountable for making these improvements. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 8 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report CEO’s message Strategic report Becoming a simpler, better bank Simplifying our portfolio Performance for our customers overview We have announced the sales of our life insurance Our strategy is to become a simpler, better bank, businesses – including Sovereign in New Zealand, supported by stronger capabilities, that delivers balanced CommInsure Life in Australia and BoComm Life in China. and sustainable outcomes for customers, the community, We have also announced the strategic review of PT our people and shareholders. Commonwealth Life in Indonesia. This is based on our view that we can best serve customers by partnering Our retail and commercial banking franchises will be at the with specialist insurance providers who have the scale Corporate heart of what we do. We aim to continue to lead in digital and capacity to invest in market-leading products banking and to offer a range of options for customers to and innovation. This is also why we are undertaking governance interact with us, including through our branches, business a strategic review of our general insurance business. centres and Australia-based call centres. As part of our simplification agenda we are tightening For our retail customers, key priorities include maintaining our international focus. We have also decided to exit our market-leading online banking offering, and providing our TymeDigital business in South Africa. the best proprietary home buying experience. In our business bank, we will be focused on providing Strengthening key capabilities Directors’ products that best fit our customers’ needs, and on Looking to the year ahead, we will be working extremely improving our service delivery by better integrating hard to execute our strategy. We will be investing in our relationship, product and analytics teams. In the report operational risk and compliance to strengthen our institutional banking business, we will concentrate on processes, systems and governance. We will build our market segments where we are well positioned, including data and analytics capabilities to deliver productivity payments and deposits, and will lend prudently. for our business and better insights for our customers. The strategy of ASB Bank, our retail and business bank And we will be reshaping and reducing our cost base so in New Zealand, will be closely aligned with our Australian that we can continue to invest in innovation to meet the businesses, but it will continue to operate on a stand-alone challenges of disruption and to deliver great experiences basis so that it can respond to local conditions. for our customers. Financial My team and I share the conviction that the work we report Further digitisation of our processes and businesses is also key to simplification and to providing customers with are doing to become a simpler, better bank will deliver the best digital experiences. balanced and sustainable outcomes for our stakeholders, and importantly, drive long-term and sustainable Demerging our wealth management outperformance for you, our shareholders. and mortgage broking businesses I look forward to updating you on our progress. Other The proposed demerger of our wealth management and mortgage broking businesses is an important step Matt Comyn information towards simplification. It will result in the creation of a new, leading wealth management business (NewCo). It will Chief Executive Officer include Colonial First State, Colonial First State Global Asset Management, Count Financial, Financial Wisdom, Aussie Home Loans, and our minority shareholdings in CountPlus and Mortgage Choice. The demerger allows NewCo to pursue growth and investment decisions appropriate for its business, and enables shareholders to participate in this opportunity if they decide to hold NewCo shares. CBA shareholders will receive shares in NewCo proportional to their existing CBA holding. This will enable CBA shareholders, who already own these assets, to choose whether to continue owning them or not. 9 Strategic report Becoming a better bank Regulatory, legal and industry review update We have been involved in a number of We submitted our Plan to APRA in June. It contains clear and measurable responses to each of the final report’s regulatory, legal and industry reviews recommendations, supported by a timeline and executive this year. We have been committed accountabilities. The Plan has been endorsed by APRA and is subject to a comprehensive assurance framework. The to participating fully and openly, and Promontory Financial Group will act as independent reviewer to providing transparency on the and will provide quarterly progress updates to APRA. processes and outcomes. In addition, we have advised APRA how the findings of the Prudential Inquiry will impact remuneration outcomes for current and former executives. See the Remuneration report APRA Prudential Inquiry into CBA on page 98 for more details. On 28 August 2017, the Australian Prudential Regulation Work to ensure delivery of the Plan is now underway, and is Authority (APRA) announced the establishment of an being managed under a dedicated Better Risk Outcomes independent prudential inquiry into the Bank (Prudential Program (BROP). Inquiry). APRA appointed three panel members, A centralised BROP team, reporting directly to the CEO, Dr John Laker AO, Professor Graeme Samuel AC will govern implementation of the Plan. Business unit and and Jillian Broadbent AO, to undertake the inquiry. support unit leaders are accountable for execution of the On 1 May 2018, APRA released the final report of the Plan. Work is already underway, for example an Executive Prudential Inquiry. It laid out shortcomings in governance, Leadership Team Non-financial Risk Committee, one of the culture and accountability at the Bank. The final report recommendations, has been established and held its first is constructive and fair and we accept all of its 35 meeting in June, and similar forums are being established recommendations. We are committed to implementing in each business unit and support unit. all of the recommendations and have entered into BROP will also govern major risk uplift programs, and build an Enforceable Undertaking (EU) with APRA. specific additional capabilities including system, data and The final report’s recommendations outline five key areas reporting foundations, to support delivery of the Plan. for improvement: AUSTRAC proceedings • Governance: more rigorous Board and Executive Committee level governance of non-financial risks. On 4 June 2018, we announced that we had entered into an agreement with Australian Transaction Reports and • Accountability: exacting accountability standards Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC), the Australian Government’s reinforced by remuneration practices. financial intelligence agency, to resolve the civil proceedings • Capability: a substantial upgrading of the authority commenced by AUSTRAC in the Federal Court of Australia and capability of the operational risk management on 3 August 2017. AUSTRAC’s claim alleged past and and compliance functions. ongoing contraventions of four provisions of the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth). • Customer: injection into CBA’s DNA of the “should we?” The agreement with AUSTRAC has been approved by the question in relation to all dealings and decisions on Federal Court. customers. As part of the agreement we have incurred a civil penalty • Culture: cultural change that moves the dial from reactive of $700 million, together with AUSTRAC’s legal costs. and complacent to empowered, challenging and striving for best practice in risk identification and remediation. Banks have a critical role to play in combating financial crime and protecting the integrity of the financial system. APRA also applied a capital adjustment to our minimum In reaching this position, we have also agreed with capital requirement by applying an add-on of $1 billion to our AUSTRAC that we will work closely together in an open operational risk capital requirement. We have undertaken only and constructive way. to apply for removal of all or part of the capital adjustment when we believe we can demonstrate compliance, to APRA’s We are committed to build on the significant changes made satisfaction, with the specific undertakings within the EU and in recent years as part of a comprehensive program to the commitments set out in our Remedial Action Plan (Plan). improve operational risk management and compliance at the Bank. We continue to make significant investment in Commonwealth Bank of Australia 10 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Becoming a better bank Strategic report Performance overview anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-terrorism financing The Royal Commission is conducting rounds of public (CTF) compliance, including upgrading and enhancing our hearings, focusing on key elements of the financial services AML/CTF technology, updating our process documentation, industry, including consumer lending, financial advice, lending investing in further resourcing, and strengthening training to small and medium enterprises, superannuation, general Corporate of our personnel. and life insurance, and experiences with financial services entities in regional and remote communities. governance We have acted to strengthen financial crime capabilities, and have invested significantly recognising the crucial The Royal Commission is playing an important role in role that we play, including through our Program of highlighting misconduct and conduct below community Action with coverage across all aspects of financial crime standards and expectations, demonstrating that the industry (including AML/CTF, sanctions and anti-bribery and hasn’t always done the right thing by customers, and it will corruption) and all business units. The Program of Action continue to highlight cases where we have made mistakes. Directors’ is uplifting the Bank’s processes for monitoring, managing, We are engaging openly and transparently with the Royal reporting and controlling financial crime across all of our Commission and carefully considering the issues specific operations, including how we engage with and inform to the Group and the broader issues the Royal Commission, report AUSTRAC and other regulators, and the operating model of customers, regulators and other stakeholders are raising the Bank which relates specifically to financial crime to ensure around how the financial services industry operates. increased confidence in managing this area of risk. Our Royal Commission project team leads our engagement We have changed senior leadership in the key roles with the Royal Commission and manages the various overseeing financial crimes compliance supported by requirements, including finding and providing requested significant resources and clear accountabilities. documents, supporting our witnesses, attending hearings, Two class actions have been filed alleging that we failed and preparing submissions. Financial to disclose to the market, prior to 3 August 2017 when As at 30 June 2018, we had responded to 106 notices to report we became aware of the AUSTRAC proceeding, material produce documents from the Royal Commission, provided information in relation to aspects of our AML/CTF controls. 47 witness statements and 10 submissions. In addition, We reject the assertion that we had any price sensitive CBA executives had provided in-hearing evidence to the information in respect of our AML/CTF controls environment Royal Commission on 12 occasions. or the risk of the AUSTRAC proceeding, and maintain that at all times we have complied with our continuous disclosure For more information on the Royal Commission see: obligations. We intend to vigorously defend both claims. https://financialservices.royalcommission.gov.au For more information on the AUSTRAC proceedings, Other ASIC Bank Bill Swap Rate proceedings information including the Statement of Agreed Facts and Admissions see: commbank.com.au/AUSTRAC In May 2018, we announced that we had reached an agreement with the Australian Securities and Investments Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Commission (ASIC) to settle the legal proceedings in relation Banking, Superannuation and Financial to claims of manipulation of the Bank Bill Swap Rate (BBSW). Services Industry The settlement was approved by the Federal Court in June. On 30 November 2017, the Government announced the As part of the settlement, we have acknowledged that, establishment of the Royal Commission into Misconduct in in the course of trading on the BBSW market in Australia the Banking, Superannuation and Financial Services Industry. on five occasions between February and June 2012, there The former High Court Judge, the Honourable Kenneth Hayne were attempts to engage in unconscionable conduct in AC QC, was appointed as the Commissioner. breach of the ASIC Act. We have also acknowledged that we did not have adequate policies and systems in place The purpose of the Royal Commission is to inquire into to monitor the trading and communications of our staff the conduct of banks, insurers, superannuation funds in order to prevent that conduct from occurring. and other financial services institutions, and to assess the effectiveness of existing regulatory frameworks and The settlement also included a $5 million penalty, a payment mechanisms for customer redress. A final report is due by of $15 million to a financial consumer protection fund, and 1 February 2019, with an interim report due by 30 September a $5 million payment towards ASIC’s costs of the litigation 2018. The Commissioner’s report is expected to outline his and its investigation. We have also entered into an enforceable findings and recommendations, which may form the basis undertaking with ASIC, under which an independent expert for regulatory changes. will be appointed to review controls, policies, training and monitoring in relation to our BBSW business. 11 Strategic report Our strategy Strong foundations The Australian banking industry has We have the right foundations to thrive in this evolving context. performed well financially over the We have the strongest retail bank franchise in Australia past decade, supported by favourable and very strong commercial banking franchises. We have relationships with more than half of all Australians and more credit market conditions and a stable, business customers than any other bank, supported by the well-regulated domestic financial system. broadest branch network in Australia and our relationship managers for business and institutional clients. Steady economic conditions and credit growth have enabled the industry to invest This strength has enabled us to invest in market-leading in customer experience and deliver good technology. We now have 6.5 million active digital users and remain the only major Australian bank with a real time shareholder returns in a competitive market. banking system. We also have a strong balance sheet and have been During this period, CBA has been able to grow our strengthening our capital, liquidity and funding. main financial institution (MFI) share, deepen customer relationships, and invest in businesses, technologies Our strategy builds on our strong foundations and reflects the and capabilities. changes in operating context to strengthen our business for the long term and deliver balanced and sustainable outcomes There have, however, also been times when we have let our for our stakeholders. customers down, which is unacceptable. We are committed to being a better bank, earning community trust and doing We take our role and responsibility in the community seriously the right thing by our customers. and are committed to making a broad, meaningful and positive contribution to Australian society. Our operating context is evolving. We are experiencing, and are likely to continue to see, ongoing changes in our economic, regulatory and competitive environment, as outlined in our Business risks section on page 43. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 12 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our strategy Strategic report Our purpose and strategy Stronger capabilities To deliver on our strategy we need to achieve better customer, We have a simple purpose: to improve the efficiency, and risk outcomes. To do this, we will prioritise strengthening four critical capabilities: financial wellbeing of our customers and communities. Our purpose guides our strategy. • operational risk and compliance Our strategy is to become a simpler, better • cost reduction Performance overview bank that delivers balanced and sustainable • data and analytics outcomes for our customers, community, • innovation our people and shareholders. Balanced and sustainable outcomes A simpler, better bank for our customers We believe that delivering for each of our stakeholders creates We will simplify our portfolio, operating model and processes. a virtuous cycle. We exist to serve customers. Engaged Corporate We will focus on our core retail and commercial banking employees with strong values will deliver excellent customer businesses in Australia and New Zealand. service, better customer outcomes and make a positive governance contribution to the community. This will, in turn, generate Within our retail and business franchises, our priorities are strong, sustainable returns for shareholders. to build deep, trusted relationships with our customers, strengthen our business banking proposition, and deliver We will focus on achieving better customer outcomes, earning better operational discipline. the community’s trust, renewing our culture and delivering for shareholders. We must also operate in a way that helps We will grow from a simpler and more digital foundation. to ensure a resilient, efficient, fair and safe financial system. We will accelerate our innovation agenda to give customers Directors’ the best digital experiences, and make it easier for our To measure our progress, we will monitor a balanced people to better serve customers. set of metrics. We have set ourselves the following goals: report • #1 Net Promoter Score for consumer and business customers • Top quartile reputation score • Top 10% employee engagement score • Top quartile total shareholder returns Financial report Our strategy Become a simpler, better To deliver balanced and bank for our customers sustainable outcomes Other Simplify our business Lead in retail and commercial banking information Customers Best in digital Better outcomes People Shareholders Supported by stronger capabilities Energised, accountable Long-term sustainable returns Operational risk and Cost Data and Innovation compliance reduction analytics Community Trusted and reputable 13 Strategic report Our strategy Balanced and sustainable outcomes Our customers: delivering better outcomes Our focus on service and our In addition to meeting multiple customer needs, we need to help customers better understand and manage their spending strong digital proposition have and saving, avoid fees, and make better financial decisions. led to high levels of customer Our purpose of improving financial wellbeing requires us satisfaction, as evidenced by the to guide customers through key life events, such as buying their first home or dealing with job loss, and to have the right Bank leading in retail customer conversations with customers to help them build financial satisfaction for 51 of the past security now and for the future. 60 months. (1) We have made good progress but we have more to do and will maintain a strong focus on these outcomes. Despite this, we acknowledge that if we want customers to be our supporters and advocates, we need to demonstrate more clearly that we are on their side. This requires not only Customers served continued leadership in service and digital innovation, but also ensuring that we make a tangible, positive impact on 16.1 million our customers’ financial wellbeing. This is why we have changed our focus from customer Digital customers satisfaction to tracking both our promoters and detractors through a Net Promoter Score (NPS). 6.5 million NPS asks customers if they would recommend us to their friends and family, which will provide a better measure of Largest branch and ATM network in Australia overall customer sentiment. Gaining NPS leadership requires us to shift beyond customer 1,267 branches Group total service and product quality, to eliminate customer pain points. 4,253 ATMs Group total It means being there when it counts, and making a real difference in customers’ lives. (1) Roy Morgan Research Retail Main Financial Institution Customer Satisfaction. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 14 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our strategy Our aim is to be #1 Strategic in NPS for consumer report and business Focusing on Net Promoter Score (NPS) customer segments NPS is now our primary measure of customer outcomes. Our digital channels have performed well, and we have consistently achieved #1 NPS scores for both our mobile app and internet banking. Improving our consumer and Performance our business customer scores is a major focus for us. Mobile app NPS (1) Consumer NPS (3) overview 10 +35 +37.8 8 6 4 +25 2 Corporate 0 -2 -2.7 +15 governance -4 -6 +5 -8 Jul 17 Jun 18 -10 Jul 15 Jun 18 CBA Peers CBA Peers Internet banking NPS (2) Business NPS (4) Directors’ 0.0 report +35 +31.3 -5.0 +25 -10.0 +15 -15.0 -20.0 -19.6 Financial +5 report Jul 17 Jun 18 -25.0 Jul 15 Jun 18 CBA Peers CBA Peers Putting customers in control of their finances With almost half of all Australians spending more Other information than they’d like to, we are providing customers with features that give them more visibility and control of their finances. We have launched a range of features through the CommBank app to help customers better track their spending and set savings goals. The features include real time transaction notifications and Spend Tracker which help improve everyday spending habits. We are also piloting a Spend Less Challenge for credit card customers. Helping customers avoid fees We are now providing alerts through the CommBank app for insufficient funds, credit card payment due dates, and high cost transactions Spend Spend Less High cost such as ATM withdrawals on credit. Tracker Challenge transaction alerts (1) Roy Morgan’s Single Source survey, Australian population 14+ (Internet banking services via mobile app). See page 293 of the glossary for details. (2) Roy Morgan’s Single Source survey, Australian population 14+ (Internet banking services via website or mobile app). See page 293 of the glossary for details. (3) DBM Consumer MFI Net Promoter Score, Australian population 14+ (from Aug 16; 18+ for data prior). See page 293 of the glossary for details. (4) DBM Business Net Promoter Score. See page 293 of the glossary for details. 15 Strategic report Our strategy Balanced and sustainable outcomes Our community: earning trust The Bank has an important Trust is the cornerstone of banking, but the community’s trust in us and our reputation have been damaged recently. role to play in the community We have launched a comprehensive remediation program as a responsible provider of (the Better Risk Outcomes Program) to fix weakness in financial services. our risk management, strengthen our overall management of risk, and ensure we exceed our regulatory and compliance obligations. Given our heritage, and our role in the economy and the community, we must also be a responsible To restore trust and reputation we will change the way corporate citizen. we engage with our community and stakeholders by: We take these responsibilities seriously and are focused • being more proactive and less reactive on meeting the community’s expectations – both in • being honest and transparent when issues terms of the products and services we provide, and the or incidents occur contribution we make to the community. • showing genuine traction in addressing the root The Bank supports a range of community organisations causes of issues and initiatives. Information on the support we provide is outlined on pages 34–37. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 16 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our strategy Our goal is to be Strategic in the top quartile report of peer companies for reputation Focusing on trust and reputation Trust and reputation are critical drivers of the Bank’s longterm ability to operate and create value for stakeholders. We are now measuring our reputation performance with the independent RepTrak® survey conducted by Reputation Institute. Our RepTrak® Reputation score is monitored Performance overview quarterly and is also included in executive leaders’ long-term variable remuneration assessments. Reputation score versus peer companies 66.2 Corporate 65.7 governance 65.1 65.0 62.8 62.5 63.2 63.5 60.6 59.4 57.1 56.0 56.3 Directors’ 53.0 report 48.0 46.9 CBA Average of peer companies 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Financial Source: RepTrak 2018, Q2 Australia Report, June 2018, Reputation Institute. Peer companies is the average of 16 of the largest consumer-facing companies listed on the ASX. report Delivering for our community Helping fund affordable housing and inclusive communities Other information On census night in 2016, more than 116,000 Australians were homeless. In New South Wales, there are over 55,000 approved households waiting for public housing and demand for affordable housing options is increasing. SGCH (formerly St George Community Housing) was founded more than 30 years ago as a not-for-profit with the aim of providing sustainable, affordable and safe homes for low income households in Sydney. In April 2018, Commonwealth Bank provided a fouryear, $110 million debt facility to enable SGCH to build 285 new homes, adding to its existing portfolio of 4,700 social and affordable properties. The bank will “If we want a diverse and thriving local community also refinance existing debt to support the delivery and economy, we need more affordable housing of several other developments. options so that low income earners and key workers, such as teachers, can live in the suburbs where they work.” Scott Langford, CEO of SGCH Left to right: Julie Stojanovska, contracts officer, Irene Malina, tenant, and Scott Langford. 17 Strategic report Our strategy Balanced and sustainable outcomes Our people: maintaining an energised and accountable team Our people’s focus on customer Our values are: service, based on deep motivation to • We do what is right serve customers well and a real pride • We are accountable in our institution, has been a key • We are dedicated to service strength over the last decade. • We pursue excellence • We get things done We have also supported our people and have been recognised as an employer of choice in the Australian The importance of diversity and inclusion workplace by: Diversity and inclusion are an integral part of our culture, • LinkedIn – #2 Top Companies 2017: Where Australia values and the way we do business. There are tangible wants to work now benefits for our employees, customers, shareholders and the communities we operate in. • GradAustralia – #1 Top banking and financial services graduate employer For more information on the Bank’s initiatives in this area see page 39. • Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency Employer of Choice for Gender Equality 2017-2018 Helping our people build skills for the future While there is much to preserve, we need to clarify the expectations of how we live our values, and lead our The pace and extent of change in the workplace has workforce through significant change. accelerated due to rapid adoption of new technologies, the adoption of flexible working, greater responsiveness to our customers, and an enhanced focus on risk and controls. Our values Automation and digitisation of the business also changes Our objective is to build an energised and accountable team. the capabilities and skillsets we need. We have clarified our values as one step of many required to renew our culture. We are preparing for this shift in a way that embraces reskilling and provides choices for our people. Our values provide a clear statement about what we stand for and what drives our actions and behaviours. They apply to everyone at the Bank and are a core component of our performance reviews for all staff. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 18 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our strategy Our goal is to be in Strategic the top 10% globally report for our employee engagement score Focusing on employee engagement Engaged and energised employees deliver better customer outcomes and experiences, and are more productive. It’s therefore fundamental to our success that our people care deeply about our customers, the Performance overview community and the Bank, and are committed to our purpose, values and strategy. As a sign of how important these outcomes are, employee Employee Engagement Index score engagement has been incorporated as a long-term variable remuneration performance measure for the CEO and Group Executives. Employees participate in a survey called Your 82% Corporate Voice twice per year. The survey measures our progress on embedding our values, and employee engagement, through 78% 73% 72% an Employee Engagement Index (EEI) score. The EEI score governance is based on responses to questions relating to satisfaction, commitment, advocacy and pride. According to our most recent EEI score, overall employee engagement has declined to 72%. This is a reduction of 1% from 73%, recorded in September 2017. Pride in the organisation was one of the most affected areas. However, CBA CBA CBA Top 10% in a clear sign that our people are eager to engage, the Mar 2017 Sep 2017 Mar 2018 globally Directors’ report participation rate in the survey was high at 89%. Employees (threshold) also provided their views on what we need to do better, Source: IBM Kenexa. giving us a clear list of areas for improvement. Financial report Creating an energised team “I’m still learning. Most of my colleagues are younger We have a 59 year difference between our youngest and than me, but it’s not about oldest employee, and our workforce is more culturally age, it’s about capability. diverse than the Australian population. The most important thing This provides us with a rich and diverse set of skills, for customers is our ability Other information perspectives and experiences to draw on when serving to adapt according to customers. It allows us to better understand their needs their needs. We earn their as we share life experiences like securing a first job, respect by showing energy, starting a family, getting a first mortgage, caring for enthusiasm and empathy.” elderly parents or planning for retirement. Our diversity Sam Bazzi, Branch Manager, helps us think more creatively and solve complex Campsie, NSW problems. It also enriches the Bank’s culture when people are valued for who they are, and are supported in career and life transitions. “At the Campsie branch we speak 14 different Our employee-run network, AdvantAge, champions age languages to cater and life-stage related topics. It’s made up of graduates, for our multicultural working parents and older employees planning for community. We all have retirement. Key priorities include providing flexible work something unique to options to help employees reach their potential at every offer. Sam has such rich stage of life, breaking down stereotypes and promoting life and professional age-inclusive behaviours. We also have employee experiences, he networks for gender, sexual orientation, accessibility can always answer and disability, reconciliation and cultural diversity. customer queries.” Aemu Wong, Lending Specialist, Campsie, NSW 19 Strategic report Our strategy Balanced and sustainable outcomes Our shareholders: delivering long-term sustainable returns The Bank has historically delivered By focusing on both the financial and non-financial drivers of shareholder value, we will deliver sustainable financial consistently strong total shareholder performance into the future. returns, and has outperformed the For detailed information on our approach to ESG see Australian market and peer banks. both the Doing business sustainably and Corporate governance sections at pages 28 and 81 respectively. We know that stable dividends are valued by our shareholders and that this income supports their financial wellbeing. With millions of Australians owning nearly 80% of the Bank, the dividends we pay also help support the Australian Net profit after tax economy. $9,233 million cash basis We believe that becoming a simpler, better bank, combined with the work being done to improve governance, $9,375 million statutory basis accountability and risk management, will underpin future Continuing operations shareholder returns. We are also optimising our business and capital settings and adapting to the changing operating environment to drive financial performance and strength. Dividend per share We recognise that investors are increasingly looking for longterm returns that are supported by strong environmental, $4.31 social and governance (ESG) performance. Full year, fully franked, cash basis Amount received by the average retail shareholder in dividends $3,853 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 20 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our strategy Our goal is to deliver Strategic top quartile TSR report outperformance relative to peers Focusing on shareholders Our aim is to deliver sector-leading returns and a stable dividend stream. We achieve this by focusing on both operating performance and capital generation. Performance overview Dividend Total shareholder return (TSR) Per share, fully franked, cash basis Percent The Bank seeks to pay cash dividends at strong and The Bank aims for long-term, sustainable outperformance sustainable levels. This year 80% of profits are being on TSR, because TSR combines both share price returned to shareholders as dividends (75% excluding appreciation and dividends paid and shows the total return the impact of the AUSTRAC civil penalty). to shareholders over time. Corporate 2018 $4.31 10 years 222% governance 2017 $4.29 5 years 41% 2016 $4.20 1 year -7% Source: Bloomberg Directors’ Capital Return on equity report Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (CET1, APRA) Cash ROE, continuing operations The CET1 ratio is an important measure of the Bank’s ability Return on equity is an important measure of the Bank’s to absorb unexpected losses. It compares a bank’s core profitability. It represents the net profit generated as a capital with its risk weighted assets. APRA requires the major percentage of the equity shareholders have invested. ROE Australian banks to have a CET1 ratio of 10.5% or more by remains strong, though has declined in recent years due 1 January 2020. We are on track to meet this requirement. primarily to regulatory requirements for higher levels of capital. Financial 2018 10.1% 2018 14.1% report 2017 10.1% 2017 15.7% 2016 10.6% 2016 16.1% For more detail on the Bank’s financial and non-financial performance see the Performance overview section on page 61. Other information Aligning executive remuneration with shareholder experience The Bank’s executive remuneration framework supports the Banks’ strategy and shareholder interests. This year action has been taken to further the alignment with shareholders by imposing remuneration consequences on all senior leaders in the Bank for the poor risk and customer outcomes that have occurred. Remuneration has been reduced by more than $60 million for current and former senior leaders as a result of adjustments to variable remuneration and partial or full lapsing of outstanding deferred variable remuneration awards. This includes the actions taken by the Board in August 2017 to reduce Non-Executive Director fees, and reduce to zero the short-term variable remuneration for Group Executives in the previous financial year. For more information see the Remuneration report on page 96. 21 Strategic report Our strategy A simpler, better bank for our customers We will simplify our portfolio and focus on our core retail and commercial banking franchise. In parallel, we will accelerate our digitisation agenda. Simplify our business Reviewing our portfolio We are making progress on divesting our life insurance Demerging wealth management businesses, with Sovereign already divested and the and mortgage broking divestments of CommInsure Life and BoComm Life subject to regulatory approvals. PT Commonwealth Life is under To simplify our business and allow us to focus on our core strategic review. banking businesses, we have announced our intention to demerge our wealth management and mortgage Also under strategic review are our general insurance broking businesses. This will create a new, leading wealth business and our stake in Vietnam International Bank. management and mortgage broking company (NewCo), We have also decided to exit our TymeDigital business which will be listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. in South Africa. Shares in the new listed company will be allocated to our shareholders in proportion to their ownership of CBA shares. Lead in retail and NewCo will be made up of Colonial First State, Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM), our third-party commercial banking distribution businesses – Count Financial, Financial Wisdom, The Bank will benefit from greater focus on our core banking Aussie Home Loans – and our minority shareholdings in businesses in Australia and New Zealand. These businesses CountPlus and Mortgage Choice. all have market-leading capabilities and together represent The demerger will enable NewCo to pursue growth and over 90% of the Group’s net profit after tax in 2018. investment decisions appropriate for its business. In an era of increased scrutiny and disruption, it is important We expect to implement the demerger in 2019, subject that we direct our investment and management attention on to shareholder and various regulatory approvals. our core businesses to improve operational risk and best position us for the future. We will accelerate our innovation agenda around our core businesses to create growth options for the future. Our primary focus will be on strengthening our position in three critical areas: mortgages, business banking, and payments. NewCo CFS Global Colonial First Aussie Home Financial Mortgage Asset Count Financial CountPlus State Loans Wisdom Choice Management Investment, Global Leading Financial Financial Accounting Mortgage superannuation investment mortgage advice advice and advice broker and retirement management broker (minority stake) (minority stake) products Commonwealth Bank of Australia 22 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our strategy Strategic report Retail banking The strategic direction of ASB, our New Zealand bank, will be broadly aligned to our Australian mass retail Deepening customer relationships and customer proposition, but adapted to local conditions. ASB will continue to operate on a stand-alone basis given enhancing distribution through digital the separate regulatory jurisdictions and ASB’s strong We will continue to offer the best digital experiences execution track record. Performance to increase customer loyalty, attract new customers Our continued success in retail will be marked by improved and improve retention. We will also maintain the broadest customer outcomes, loyalty and experience, and a #1 overview and most efficient distribution network in Australia. ranking relative to our peers in NPS. We will also aim to We will continue to provide market-leading products and continue managing volume and margins for strong and services to meet customer needs at every life stage, including sustainable outcomes. everyday banking, consumer finance, and home buying. We will invest to maintain the best home buying experience. Digital will play a larger role, but will be tightly integrated with Business and Private Banking home lending specialists and mobile lenders who will continue to be an important part of the customer experience. Investing and innovating for growth Corporate governance Providing financial advice to our customers is consistent with Business banking remains a focus as we concentrate our purpose: to improve financial wellbeing. Commonwealth our efforts on the domestic market. Financial Planning will remain part of Commonwealth Bank Group and will be integrated into our Retail Banking Services We will grow in business banking by hiring more bankers business unit. We will continue to evolve our model for Advice to serve customers, and by innovating to compete in to ensure we consistently deliver good quality advice that an increasingly competitive market. Our priorities are meets community expectations and regulatory obligations. to provide a better commercial lending experience and deeper payments integration. Bankwest, which provides banking services AustraliaDirectors’ wide but has most customers in Western Australia, will be We have established a more complete end-to-end more closely integrated with our Retail Banking Services accountability in our Business and Private Banking report business unit. This will allow us to leverage our shared (BPB) business unit by integrating our small business understanding of retail customers’ needs and expectations team, core business products, and analytics teams across brands. and capabilities into BPB. This new model will enhance coordination between our product and distribution functions, provide clearer accountabilities for our people, and deliver improvements to the business customer experience. The changes will Financial also ensure that we are able to make more efficient use report of our resources, so we can invest and innovate for growth. Other information We’re helping SMEs get Wiise Business management for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) is set to become easier with the launch of a new cloud-based, end-to-end, business management solution called Wiise. Developed in collaboration with KPMG Australia and Microsoft, Wiise empowers SMEs to take control of their business by combining accounting, payroll and banking, and operational functions, including HR, inventory and manufacturing. Wiise integrates with the Bank’s invoicing platform, CommBank Simplify, as well as banking data feeds, linking customers’ banking and accounting platforms together. Users will also be able to enquire about and in some cases apply for specialised business banking products directly through the platform. 23 Strategic report Our strategy A simpler, better bank for our customers Institutional Banking and Markets We are optimising our portfolio mix and international footprint for lower risk and better returns. We support Simplifying and refocusing on the most our clients’ needs through proven structuring capabilities and by leveraging our data and analytics. attractive segments By supporting industry and economic development, Our Institutional Banking and Markets (IB&M) business unit and through a commitment to financing the transition makes an important contribution to its clients, Australia and to a zero-emissions economy, IB&M contributes to the markets in which it operates. It serves a large corporate, building Australia and has a broader impact on the government and institutional client base with funding, risk financial wellbeing of the country and all Australians. management and working capital product offerings. We will focus on the most attractive market segments where we are well positioned. This means strengthening domestic deposits, payments and lending and supporting client activity with a close link to Australia or New Zealand. Helping Adelaide Oval shine Cricket fans got a world-class experience at Adelaide Adelaide Oval’s upgrade was delivered through the Oval’s historic day-night Ashes Test in December thanks Commonwealth Bank and CEFC Energy Efficient to a new, energy efficient upgrade to its lighting and Equipment Finance (EEEF) program, which helps sound equipment. businesses fund energy efficient vehicles, equipment and projects. The upgrade, financed by Commonwealth Bank and the Clean Energy Finance Council (CEFC) not only The EEEF program has provided approximately makes for a better spectator experience, but has $50 million in funding for energy efficient projects reduced the stadium’s energy use by up to 35%. in South Australia since launch. More than 220 energy efficient LED lights were installed throughout the grandstands, as well as atmospheric feature LEDs, high-definition ribbon boards and audio visual equipment upgrades. It’s a winning combination for the Adelaide Oval Stadium Management Authority, as innovation helps attract international event promotors, cuts energy costs and pleases fans who like to see their team colours on display. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 24 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our strategy Strategic report Best in digital Performance Our future will be increasingly digital. Our customers continue Introducing Ceba – your overview to be more and more digitally active and are doing more banking on their mobile phones. digital assistant Ceba is Commonwealth Bank’s chatbot. Available Over a number of years we have invested to build market24/7 through NetBank and the CommBank app, leading digital assets and innovative customer interfaces. Ceba helps customers complete 282 banking We now have 6.5 million active digital customers and our tasks and can understand 85,000 different ways Corporate CommBank app and NetBank website both rank #1 for Net of asking these questions. Promoter Score. governance Ceba helps by guiding customers through an We intend to continue to lead the market with the digital action, pointing them to more information, or experiences and services that we provide. We will accelerate smoothly transferring them to a human assistant. towards a mobile-first, multi-channel experience for our Driven by artificial intelligence, Ceba will keep customers across all of our businesses. learning how to best help with different enquiries. Our strong franchise also means we have the broadest and All NetBank and CommBank app customers can richest data assets of our peers. Over the past three years now chat to Ceba. Since launch, Ceba has had Directors’ we have built our Customer Engagement Engine to use the over 580,000 conversations with our customers data we have to create personalised experiences for our and is currently handling around 10 chats customers. For instance, last year we thanked 4.6 million per minute. report customers for their loyalty. We also invest in privacy and cyber security to make sure customers’ information is safe. 282 Financial report banking tasks through Ceba Other information 25 Strategic report Our strategy Stronger capabilities To deliver on our strategy, we need Cost reduction to achieve better customer, risk and Effective cost reduction across the Group is a critical cost outcomes. To do this, we will area of focus, given the lower-growth outlook, margin pressure, increasing competitive threats from lower-cost strengthen four critical capabilities: business models, and the need for ongoing spend on operational risk and compliance, risk, remediation and compliance. We are optimising the structure and composition of our expense base to provide cost reduction, data and analytics, us with the operating agility to effectively respond to the and innovation. rapidly changing landscape. Our new strategy helps us achieve these cost outcomes: Operational risk and compliance Simpler operating model – Focusing on our core business allows us to create a leaner organisation by consolidating Our management of operational risk and compliance overlapping and complementary activities and teams across obligations has not kept pace with increasing demands. business units, and by streamlining processes and operations A good risk culture is one where risk management is in support functions. Having a simpler business also makes everyone’s job. it easier to prioritise and dedicate investment where it is We will preserve the customer orientation of our culture, required. In this way, portfolio optimisation reduces cost but apply lessons from best-in-class organisations that and complexity and improves risk-adjusted returns. We are have built strong operational risk cultures. also reducing our IT costs by adopting a new operating model and new procurement strategies, and through better We will do what it takes to fix the root causes of issues, demand and cost management. including governance, capability, culture and investment. We’ll also simplify underlying operational processes, Innovation focusing on digitisation and automation – policies and systems. We are evolving our distribution model in line with a growing customer preference for digital channels and functionality. We have launched the Group-wide Better Risk Outcomes The shift to digital allows us to redesign and automate manual Program (BROP), reporting directly to the CEO with processes. In addition to the cost savings, freeing our people strong Board oversight and independent assurance on up from timeand labour-intensive tasks allows them to implementation effectiveness. BROP will drive sound focus on service. This improves the customer experience and execution of the changes we need to make throughout the provides more opportunities for growth. Bank, and will support greater focus on the individual risk management accountabilities of our leaders and people. Use of data and analytics – In addition to providing growth and revenue opportunities, we are using data and analytics as cost reduction tools. Increased ability to capture, analyse and extrapolate findings from data allows us to completely re-engineer key monitoring and trend identification activities, such as financial crimes compliance, cyber security and Improved productivity and fraud. It’s also helping us to make informed decisions about greater flexibility through our distribution network, including where to locate branches and how to resource all of our distribution channels to best automation meet customers’ needs. The introduction of Robotic Process Automation and digital workflow has significantly improved the way we process home loan settlements. More than 90% of the financial transactions required for settlement have been automated, and paper has been removed from the process. This has created productivity savings of approximately 100 hours per day across the team. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 26 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Our strategy Strategic report Performance overview Customer engagement engine Our Customer Engagement Engine (CEE) decides the next best conversation to have with customers 21 million Corporate times every weekday across our digital channels, contact centres and branches. The CEE looks at each governance of those interactions, and in less than 300 milliseconds, updates our understanding of the customer, so that our next interaction with them is more meaningful and personalised. Machine learning enables the CEE to make these interactions more and more relevant to our customers’ financial wellbeing over time. Directors’ report Data and analytics Innovation Data and analytics are critical to our future success. We have invested heavily to build market-leading digital We invested early in analytics and we have great examples assets and have more than 6.5 million active digital users. where our scale, capabilities and unique data sets have Our CommBank app is used by 5 million customers and Financial been a clear competitive advantage. We have even more has a Net Promoter Score of +37.8, more than 10 points report opportunity to further enhance our risk control environment, higher than our closest major bank peer. further drive productivity and improve customer experience. We have launched a range of market-leading innovations, As customers demand greater personalisation and tailored and our digital offering plays a critical role in our financial insights, and expect their personal information to be secure wellbeing program by helping customers to manage and private, we will be investing in the data and analytics spending, avoid fees, save more, and use credit prudently. capabilities that put us in the best position to meet their Going forward, we will develop new propositions and adapt needs. Other our business to drive better customer and business outcomes Open Banking and Comprehensive Credit Reporting in the face of increasing regulatory, macroeconomic and accentuate the case for change. When fully implemented, competitor headwinds. information these regulatory reforms will enable financial data to We will also take a more active approach to managing be shared between financial services companies, with innovation as a portfolio, ensuring that we invest in a balanced customers’ consent. Ahead of these changes, we are portfolio of nearer-term and longer-term innovation. focusing on our data security and privacy capabilities to protect our customers. We are also working on using these data sources to provide new services and products that improve our customers’ financial wellbeing. 27 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Our corporate responsibility What is important programs and initiatives to our stakeholders support the Bank’s strategy to deliver balanced and This year we asked our stakeholders to consider the current operating environment, global megatrends and emerging sustainable outcomes for our issues, including trust in business, technology as a disruptor, customers, community, people the transitioning workforce and climate change. and shareholders. Every year The following table outlines the areas of most interest to our stakeholders, and how we are responding. we undertake a materiality assessment to understand what our stakeholders consider to be important. This helps us to evolve our strategy, supporting programs and initiatives in response. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 28 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Strategic report Identified stakeholder issues Areas of focus How we respond Serve customers Our purpose is to improve the financial wellbeing of our customers and communities. responsibly We are committed to delivering better outcomes for our customers. We do this by Performance listening to our customers (page 31), providing a range of financial wellbeing initiatives (page 15), through customer advocacy (page 32) and with financial education programs (page 34). Trust and reputation Trust and reputation are critical to our ability to operate and to deliver for our overview stakeholders. We are contributing to our communities through our CommBank Foundation community grants and pro bono engagement with community groups (page 34), recognition of great educators through the Commonwealth Bank Teaching Awards (page 36), and role modelling reconciliation with career opportunities and dedicated customer assistance for Indigenous people, and cultural capability training for Corporate our employees (page 37). Accountable, diverse and We empower our people to deliver the best outcomes for our customers. Our people are inclusive workforce guided by the Bank’s updated values, which are explained in the Our strategy section governance (page 18). We are promoting health and wellbeing for our people (page 38) and we continue to create a diverse and inclusive workplace culture (page 39). Long-term sustainability Conducting our business in a responsible way is critical to delivering balanced and sustainable stakeholder outcomes. We minimise risks and seek opportunities through responsible business lending (page 40) and investing (page 41) practices, by operating our offices and branches efficiently (page 41), sourcing responsibly and by respecting human rights (page 42). Climate change as a significant long-term driver for financial Directors’ report and non-financial risks and opportunities, and our response to this is reported in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (from page 48). Stakeholder engagement We engage with a wide range of stakeholder groups on issues that impact our business. This is fundamental to the way we Financial operate, as stakeholder views provide us with valuable insights. Our approach to stakeholder engagement is guided by the AA1000 AccountAbility Stakeholder Engagement Standard and our Stakeholder Engagement Approach. report Stakeholders How we engage Customers Multi-channel engagement, customer feedback and complaint channels, customer surveys and workshops, customer advocate, customer representatives and bodies, and external dispute resolutions. Other Employees Group-wide and ad-hoc employee engagement surveys, digital and social platforms, meetings, employee events and the SpeakUP Hotline. Shareholders Financial and non-financial reporting, briefings, surveys, meetings and the Annual information General Meeting. Government and regulators Meetings, submissions and proposals, commissions and inquiries, and financial institution associations. Suppliers Supplier meetings, briefings and workshops, risk assessments, Supplier Code of Conduct and the SpeakUP Hotline. Media Phone calls, meetings and emails, briefings and media releases, digital and social channels. Community organisations, External advisory panels, industry memberships, meetings, phone calls, correspondence, non-governmental organisations and support of events, summits and forums. and charities Service providers Meetings, phone calls and correspondence. and academics 29 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Transparent about our progress We measure what matters, and what we measure gets managed. We benchmark our progress against a number of leading sustainability indices and surveys to drive better performance in environmental, social and governance issues. Recognition Frameworks In 2018, we were again Listed in the Dow Jones Our non-financial reporting is The Group is a participant ranked as the top Australian Sustainability World Index presented in accordance with in the United Nations company and top bank in the the Global Reporting Initiative Global Compact (UNGC) Global 100 Index of the most (GRI) Standards – core option. and we are committed to sustainable corporations in The GRI Index is available on implementing the UNGC the world our website commbank.com. principles that cover human au/about-us/investors. rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption matters. Scored a B for taking Listed on this index for Complied with project Reported in line with the co-ordinated action on demonstrating strong ESG finance reporting for the recommendations of the climate change practices since 2009 Equator Principles Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have been adopted by 193 countries, including Australia and New Zealand, in support of the UN’s Sustainable Development Agenda. These 17 interconnected goals are designed to trigger action to address issues such as poverty, hunger, inequality and impacts to the environment. With our material issues in mind, we have identified the SDGs that are most relevant to our business and stakeholders. Our customers We show our customers that we are on their side through service excellence, supporting financial wellbeing, good customer outcomes and advocacy, and digital innovation. Our community We are rebuilding trust and our reputation by engaging proactively and openly with government and regulators, investing in communities and education, and rolemodelling reconciliation. Our people We motivate our people through leadership and engagement, by promoting health, wellbeing, diversity and inclusion, and by providing training and career development. Our shareholders We deliver sustainable financial performance through strong conduct, culture, governance, accountability, remuneration and responsible business practices. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 30 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Strategic report Better customer outcomes Performance overview Improving the financial wellbeing of our customers supports better outcomes for our business. In addition to the business focus on customer service and financial Corporate wellbeing, we are committed to governance doing better for customers in need, providing improved access to banking services for marginalised customers, and resolving issues for customers who have had poor Directors’ experiences with the bank. report Listening to our customers Our customers are the first to tell us when we haven’t met their expectations. We take complaints seriously and all staff are trained to work with our customers to address them quickly, and in a fair and transparent way. Financial We record all complaints so we can learn from our mistakes and fix underlying issues. report Group Customer Relations manages the most complex and sensitive complaints escalated from our frontline staff, and customers, as well as those lodged through external dispute Advocating for customers resolution processes. Our staff are trained to consider whether each complaint they handle might be a systemic issue and flag it for further investigation. Ms E, 86, lives in a nursing home and has As per regulatory guidance from the Australian Securities dementia. Her representative disputed almost Other and Investments Commission (ASIC), we must apply our full $25,000 of transactions on her credit card. internal dispute resolution process to complaints or disputes information As the personal identification number (PIN) had that are not resolved within five business days of receiving been used for the transactions and the credit card the complaint. Based on this criteria, we handled more had not been declared lost or stolen, the claim was than 62,000 customer complaints this year. This was a not accepted. 15% increase on the previous year. Ms E’s representative took the claim to the Improving support for customers in financial hardship Customer Advocate, where a review found that due We have made significant improvements in how we support to her dementia Ms E may have disclosed her PIN customers who are experiencing financial hardship. to another person. The disputed transactions were not in line with her usual spending habits. These efforts were recognised in the Financial Counselling Australia Rank the Banks survey of financial counsellors. The Customer Advocate determined that it was We were the highest ranked bank for our financial hardship likely that Ms E was not responsible for making policies and practices in the survey, which took place in the transactions and the amount in dispute should November and December 2017. This was a significant be written off on compassionate grounds. turnaround for us, as two years ago we were ranked last amongst our peers. 31 Strategic report Doing business sustainably We will continue to improve further. This year we helped Removing barriers more than 56,000 customers experiencing financial hardship. Banking can be complex and, for some, intimidating. Depending on individual circumstances, the solutions we Our customer advocate team is focused on reducing and offer include reduced payments, loan term extensions, debt removing the barriers that stand in the way of financial inclusion. refinancing or concessions for certain fees and charges. We continually investigate areas of customer vulnerability to We also continue to support financial counsellors to build their help us identify where customers may be at risk of receiving skills in partnership with Financial Counselling Australia and poor outcomes. Over the last 12 months we have conducted funding scholarships through the Jan Pentland Foundation. investigations into areas such as financial vulnerability, payment frequency, language barriers, elder abuse and Better customer outcomes through advocacy scams, Indigenous disadvantage, and challenges that arise We are committed to being open and transparent with our from poor mental health. The results of this work help the customers and our community. We understand that we have Bank improve its products and services for vulnerable people. failed some of our customers and have not responded to, or A quarter of our customers live in regional Australia and many not resolved, issues quickly enough. face challenges that are unique to their areas. We have met This is why we established the customer advocate function with customers and community leaders around Australia, from to strengthen accountability for fair customer outcomes and Launceston, Mandurah and Mildura to Palm Island, Tamworth offer a more customer-oriented approach to our business. and Wagga Wagga, to better understand how we can support The 40 people in our customer advocate team help improve our regional customers. products, processes, systems and decision making in order We have continued to work closely with our Customer to deliver better and consistently fair customer outcomes. The Advocate Community Council, which brings together 25 team amplifies the voice of the customer, particularly those thought leaders and senior representatives from community who are marginalised, disadvantaged, or find the financial and social policy organisations to ensure that we are informed system daunting. and responsive to community concerns. Since 2016, the team has undertaken important work to This year we partnered with CommInsure to launch a program help deliver fair customer outcomes by removing barriers that automatically directs customers to agents who speak to banking, finding and fixing customer issues, and providing their language. Our Arabic and Mandarin pilot results are a helping hand to those in need. promising and we continue to explore other languages. The Customer Advocate also launched our Accessibility and Inclusion Plan 2017-2020 to improve access to banking for Australians with a disability. We also reviewed the Bank’s processes to ensure we were ready to support customers who wish to marry same-sex partners. Percentage of older Australians estimated to be affected by elder abuse, with financial abuse the most common form 10% (Australian Institute of Family Studies, 2013) Money lost to scams and fraud each year $3 billion (Australian Bureau of Statistics 2015) Percentage of those affected by scam activity aged over 50 75% (CBA internal data) Commonwealth Bank of Australia 32 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Strategic report Finding and fixing customer issues To help prevent problems occurring in the first place, the In a business our size things will sometimes go wrong. The Customer Advocate has recently taken on the role of managing customer advocate team is focused on identifying issues that systemic issues that become apparent from the investigation might have a negative impact on customers. The team aims of complaints. This pre-emptive action allows us to identify to proactively identify issues before customers are affected, people who have not yet complained, and help them quickly. but if there is already a customer impact, the team looks to If we identify a number of customers whose circumstances Performance identify everyone who is affected. This helps us resolve issues require remediation, the customer advocate team works to quickly and fairly. ensure that remediation is fair, timely and consistent. If a customer is unhappy about the outcome of a complaint The team also provides support throughout the Bank to overview investigated by Group Customer Relations, he or she ensure customers receive appropriate products for their can refer it to the customer advocate team for an independent circumstances. During the year the team has had an active review. Decisions made are final and binding on the Bank, role in setting up and participating in project investment, but not on customers, who are still free to go to an external product forums, and review processes aimed at achieving dispute resolution body. The independent review can result better results for customers. in compensation for financial or non-financial loss, amending or voiding the terms of a contract, or another outcome. Providing a helping hand Corporate governance The customer advocate team maintains its independence by We are often well placed to reach out to customers who might remaining separate from the Group’s business units and also need a helping hand. Following the analysis of seven years’ by having independent decision rights and delegations. worth of complaints data, we identified that our customers in regional communities may be at higher risk of mental health The team reviews complaints closed by the Bank in areas problems. As strong and prosperous communities benefit such as mental health, small businesses and scams, to everyone, we partnered with the regional and agribusiness assess how they are resolved, the time it takes to resolve teams to hold a mental health summit in Tamworth. The them, and what the outcomes were. These findings are expert community representatives who attended will help then used to make improvements and in turn create better us develop a roadmap for how the Bank can play a greater Directors’ outcomes for our customers. report role in the community response to mental health. To help multicultural communities we have delivered initiatives that include an internship program to provide opportunities for members of African communities to work in the Bank, a Victoria University mentoring program, and a youth-focused financial literacy program in partnership with the Islamic Museum of Australia. This year our customer advocate team launched Safe & Financial report Savvy – a guide and awareness program to help protect older The customer advocacy team seeks people and their families from financial abuse, scams and to resolve all disputes within 15 days. frauds. The threat posed to elderly people is increasing as incidents of abuse have grown and scams have become more sophisticated and targeted. Many cases go unreported. The Average number of days it took for the Safe & Savvy guide is available online and in our branches, team to resolve disputes during the year and gives an overview of the types of financial abuse to look out for, tips to avoid scams and fraud, and practical steps to 11 Other help safeguard the interests of older people. To complement this work, more than 9,000 retail employees have received information specialist training. Closed complaints reviewed by the Customer Advocate as part of thematic reviews 850 Open complaints referred to the Customer Outcomes from the Customer Advocate Advocate directly by customers review process 592 reviewed  52% – Customer Advocate agreed with the Bank’s decision  34% – Customer Advocate agreed Customers who sought external with the Bank’s decision but took further action to deliver a fair and dispute resolution afterwards reasonable resolution 19  14% – Customer Advocate disagreed with the Bank’s decision and substituted a new decision for the customer Customer Advocate decisions that were overturned by external dispute resolution 0 33 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Contributing to our Time is just as valuable community Community organisations often rely on donations to enable them to continue the great work they do. Many of these organisations benefit just as much from people donating their time and skills. We work with communities in eleven Our pro bono services provide opportunities for our people different countries. We engage and community groups to connect and work together. with community groups and the Pro bono engagements provide value to the community and to us, where community groups benefit from our skills broader community on a number and expertise, and our employees develop professionally of projects and initiatives. and personally. One of our key partnerships is with Jawun, which facilitates Supporting our community secondments between companies, government agencies and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander organisations. The Bank and its people support community organisations During the year, 20 of our employees spent time working with through donating money and time. community groups and businesses in the NSW Central Coast, Inner Sydney, North East Arnhem Land and Ngaanyatjarra A century of giving through CommBank Foundation Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands. This year, our charity, CommBank Foundation, celebrated 100 years of giving. Teaching the value of money To recognise how much our people contribute to their local Our financial education programs provide people with communities, and to celebrate the centenary, we gave much-needed skills to manage their money and prepare employees the opportunity to donate more than $10 million them for the future of work. to local organisations. This initiative delivered 1,028 grants, each valued at $10,000, to youth, education and health Start Smart and ASB GetWise build financial know-how organisations nominated by local employees. Developing financial capability is a valuable future skill for This donation was made in addition to CommBank young people. Start Smart is a free financial education Foundation’s ongoing Community Grants program. Last year program that is curriculum-aligned and available to all we changed the program to provide a three-year commitment students, irrespective of whether they bank with us. to our Community Grants recipients. More than $3 million was This year we had more than 568,000 students participate in awarded to 220 youth organisations throughout Australia. Start Smart classes across primary, secondary and vocational education and training (VET) education institutions. Laughter helps to heal The Humour Foundation’s Clown Doctors are our 20172020 national community grant recipient, and we have supported their fantastic work since 1999. Clown Doctors are specially trained performers who use their unique flair and humour to brighten a sick child’s stay in hospital. In addition to the $400,000 National Community Grant they receive each year for the next three years from CommBank Foundation, we also raised more than $180,000 for the Clown Doctors, with the help of teams in communities like Shepparton, who ran a range of fundraising Smile Day events. $580,000+ raised for Clown Doctors this year Commonwealth Bank of Australia 34 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Strategic report We support community organisations with donations and time Performance Community investment $290 million overview includes cash, volunteering, forgone revenue and project costs Recipients of CommBank Foundation centenary grants Corporate 1,000+ governance community organisations Volunteering and pro bono hours 21,900+ Directors’ report We are building on the success of Start Smart and introducing entrepreneurial education programs. Working Move against cancer with the Foundation for Young Australians we are sponsoring and further developing the $20 Boss program, the largest Through our annual fundraiser Can4Cancer, run entrepreneurship program in Australia for secondary school Financial students. It provides a real-world experience that kids can in partnership with Tour de Cure, our people raise report funds for cancer research and prevention, whilst easily translate into their everyday lives. In addition, we are actively promoting employee health and wellbeing. working with the Business Educators Australasia to sponsor the Plan Your Own Enterprise program which invites students In 2017, more than 1,500 employees participated to devise a business idea and create a plan to turn their in walks and bike rides in Sydney, Melbourne concept into a financially viable enterprise. and Brisbane. Their collective participation in Can4Cancer means they travelled more than In New Zealand, ASB GetWise is the country’s largest youth 92,500 kilometres to raise money for cancer financial education program, delivered free to primary and research and prevention. Further, many of our intermediate students. It teaches basic money management Other skills, including establishing good savings habits at an information people were encouraged to make lasting lifestyle changes which translate into lower cancer risks early age. and improved wellbeing. This year, the program exceeded its school participation We raised more than $1.6 million through target for schools in lower socio-economic communities. these activities, well surpassing our target of Overall, it delivered 3,877 workshops to more than 460 $1.25 million. We aim to raise more than $2 million schools, and reached more than 97,000 registered students. in 2018, with a national rollout of this initiative. Supporting Indonesia’s female entrepreneurs More and more women are entering the world of business 92,500km+ and entrepreneurship in Indonesia. Our Women Investment Series (WISE) program offers free financial workshops, masterclasses and a financial literacy app to equip female entrepreneurs in Indonesia with the core skills needed to collective distance build successful businesses. In partnership with a number travelled by more than of on-the-ground organisations, we have helped empower 1,500 employees to more than 2,800 women. This benefits families and raise money for cancer local communities. research and prevention This year we updated the WISE app to include new features, content and an enhanced user experience. We also launched a joint research program with MasterCard to understand the factors that help female entrepreneurs transition from the informal to the formal economy. 35 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Using data and analytics to assist Northcott As one of Australia’s largest not-for-profit disability service organisations, Northcott works with customers to realise their potential. A group of 20 employees from our customer experience team spent a day at Northcott to look at data and analytical challenges in the organisation. Teams worked on issues in reporting for the help desk, rostering, sales and claims, and building on sales. This effort helped Northcott to fix reports that had not run for a year and update financial models. The organisation identified potential savings of $300,000 a year from these improvements. Commonwealth Bank Teaching Awards In recognition that great educators help children reach their full potential, each year we work in partnership with Australian Schools Plus to award 12 Commonwealth Bank Teaching Award Fellows. These awards help showcase Australia’s great teachers, celebrate their achievements, and show an appreciation for the important work they do. Investment in education programs over the last three years The 12 Teaching Award Fellows for 2018 each received a $45,000 Fellowship to implement school programs and $50 million put towards their own professional development. All previous recipients of the award say that they have been able to use this recognition to influence the education Students participating in system, drive inter-school collaboration, and improve their Start Smart sessions professional standing. 568,000+ Evidence for Learning In partnership with Social Ventures Australia we have developed a social enterprise called Evidence for Learning, School banking participants which supports evidence-based teaching practices 299,000+ in Australia. Since 2015, Evidence for Learning has successfully completed trials with more than 8,000 students in 160 schools. These trials, combined with the Australian Teaching and Learning Toolkit and the creation of the Teacher Practice Guide for Evidence, have delivered an increase in the overall use of evidence-based learning. Our support of Evidence for Learning allowed us to respond to the Federal Government’s Review to Achieve Educational Excellence in Australian Schools. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 36 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Strategic report Role modelling reconciliation Skills for building relationships We support the success of Aboriginal and Torres Strait We are making sure that our people have the skills to Islander customers, employees, businesses and communities. build strong relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Our Elevate Reconciliation Action Plan details the initiatives Islander peoples. and programs that we have embedded to generate We continue to roll out our Cultural Capability Framework, positive outcomes. Performance which was developed in conjunction with BlackCard. To-date we have trained more than 300 employees through face-toA career, not just a job overview face workshops. We are committed to providing more employment opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Each year we send 40 employees on cultural immersion Australians. It is important that the opportunities we provide programs at the Bawaka and Nyinyikay Aboriginal homelands are meaningful. We are investing in a range of programs that in North East Arnhem Land. The programs are operated by provide skill development in new areas such as information Lirrwi Aboriginal Corporation, and provide our people with technology and cyber security. unique cultural learning opportunities. Corporate We are targeting an increase in the proportion of Aboriginal Stronger Indigenous businesses and customers and Torres Strait Islander employees in our domestic Our Indigenous Customer Assistance Line continues to governance workforce to 3% by the end of 2026. This will be equal to the provide a valued banking service to customers in more than proportion of Indigenous people in the Australian population. 150 remote communities in Australia. We received more than It is a challenging target. The current level of representation 180,000 calls to this service during the reporting period. is 1%, which is an improvement from last year. We have two We have partnered with the Indigenous Customer Assistance years to meet our interim target of 1.5%. Network’s (ICAN) Indigenous Financial Counselling Our Indigenous Careers team has focused on key areas of Mentorship Program, and over the past three years we have supported 34 Indigenous Australians to complete their Directors’ traineeships, internships and experienced recruits to deliver career opportunities. Diploma in Financial Counselling. This mentorship approach report is recognised within the financial counselling sector as a We provided school-based and full-time traineeships to best practice training model for people wishing to undertake 66 Indigenous trainees during the year, with 47% of trainees the diploma. securing employment with the Bank. The success of this mentorship program has encouraged As a 10x10 partner of the CareerTrackers Indigenous ICAN to expand its offering of scholarships to its new Internship Program, we exceeded our annual multicultural financial counselling mentorship program. We commitment to provide at least 25 internships by providing are funding 10 student placements on this program this year. 30 opportunities for Indigenous university students. Since 2015, this partnership has provided a pathway for Financial 17 graduates into our graduate program and with a further report seven graduates joining us next year. Other information Working with suppliers to support Indigenous businesses This year we launched a pilot initiative that commits selected major suppliers to work with us on opportunities for Indigenous businesses throughout our supply chain. This collaboration will create subcontracting possibilities, and other indirect opportunities, for Indigenous-owned businesses to work with the bank. This initiative complements our Responsible Procurement program, which includes working directly with Indigenous-owned businesses. Commonwealth Bank and business attendees at the launch 37 Strategic report Doing business sustainably We have a personalised, mobile-enabled health and wellbeing portal for our people called Thrive. It provides access to support, resources and information for physical and psychological health and wellbeing. We have introduced health and wellbeing hubs in seven of our office locations. In these hubs our people can speak to Empowering our people health experts and undertake a health assessment to better understand their own health. Our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) improved, with When people are proud to represent 1.1 incidents per million hours worked. the company they work for, they Workplace response to domestic and family violence are energised to deliver the best To help any of our people who are impacted by domestic and outcomes for our customers. family violence, we provide leading workplace practices that Diversity of ideas, engagement with include ten days of special leave, training for employees and managers, and a first-response guide for leaders to support the workplace and access to the their team. right tools are all prerequisites for Over the course of the year, the UN Women National ensuring our people thrive. Committee Australia collaborated with the Bank and other corporate partners to deliver the Taking the first step: Workplace responses to domestic and family violence report, Listening to our people which recognises the work that Australian businesses and unions are doing to address the impact of domestic violence. It has been a difficult year for the Bank, and this has been reflected in a decrease in the overall engagement of our Continuous learning people. Our twice-yearly employee engagement survey, Your Voice, shows the overall employee engagement score It is crucial that our people are supported to do their jobs has declined by 6%, to 72% for this year. Put simply, the pride effectively. The Bank provides training and development that our people have in representing the Bank has declined. to help them deliver better outcomes for our customers, manage risk (including anti-money laundering and Know We had strong employee participation of 89% in the latest Your Customer), be accountable, and develop their skills survey which demonstrates a willingness to support the to suit new ways of working. Bank’s focus on values, accountability and service. The responses have provided us with areas for improvement. In addition to mandatory training modules, we also provide We need to balance performance and values when promoting personal development opportunities. people, and focus more on managing risk effectively. The To help prepare our workforce for the future of work, we survey also highlighted that our people feel our strengths lie actively work with universities and our people to create in our approach to diversity and inclusion, and collaboration. opportunities for employees to re-skill and make the most of new career opportunities. We also provide face-to-face Whistleblowing policy training and mentoring to help our people succeed. The Bank’s whistleblowing policy outlines the processes for investigating and resolving any misconduct issues that During the year, we provided an average of 34.1 hours have been reported through our SpeakUP hotline or to of training for all employees. senior management. The SpeakUP hotline allows a whistleblower, including an employee, contractor, consultant or supplier, to anonymously raise a conduct issue. The policy outlines the actions we take to protect a whistleblower from any retaliation, including protection from termination of employment, harassment and discrimination. This year we had 143 misconduct cases recorded under the SpeakUP program, of which 33 were whistleblower reports. Total hours of training Promoting health and wellbeing 1,847,000+ The health, safety and wellbeing of our people is crucial for our success. Our strategy sets long-term objectives for Average hours of training managing and enhancing the wellbeing of our people. per employee We work to continuously improve the management of safety risks, and the effectiveness of controls, across key risk areas including 34.1 mental health, customer aggression and work-related driving to provide a safe and healthy environment for all our people. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 1.1 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 38 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Strategic Flexible work report delivers better outcomes Women in Manager roles and above (1) Performance 44.6% Women in Executive Manager overview roles and above (1) 37.6% Our people who identify with having a disability(2) 11.9% Corporate governance Our people who work flexibly(2) 73.7% Directors’ Creating a diverse, inclusive culture report A diverse workforce to serve a diverse community Flexible working delivers We can best understand and respond to the needs of our customers when our people and leaders reflect the better outcomes for all diversity of our customers, and when their diverse views Over the year, more than 3,500 people in Group are encouraged and valued. Operations (GO) increased their uptake of the This year, as part of the next phase, we launched our 2018+ division’s flexible working initiative, GO Flex. Global Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, which details how we Financial Not only has there been a marked improvement in can achieve better outcomes for our customers, communities engagement and wellbeing – where participants report and people by building a more inclusive and diverse culture. have noted higher job satisfaction due to more One of our goals is that our leaders should reflect the diversity time with family and friends – there has also been of the community. So our strategy sets out targets for positive knock-on effect on overall efficiencies. increasing the representation of women in leadership. We want GO Flex is saving people up to two or three hours to see women comprising 40% of Executive Manager and of travel time each day, reducing travel costs, above roles, and 45% of Manager roles and above by 2020. boosting productivity, and in turn, providing a Other The Bank complied with the Australian Workplace Gender better service for our customers. Equality Act 2012 by submitting annual compliance reports for 2018.(3) information Our Cultural Diversity Index (CDI) measures how culturally diverse we are as a business. This year’s result shows that Towards pay equity the Bank is more culturally diverse than the population of We have a minimal pay gap between what we pay men and Australia. The results demonstrate that we are well positioned women in similar roles, as reported on page 77. Gender pay to understand and respond to the needs of our customers equity took a slight step backwards with a wider pay gap and communities. Details on the CDI can be found on page for Executive General Managers and General Managers. 77, and the methodology can be found on page 298. We review pay equity throughout the year and as part of the Our employee-led networks play an important role in building annual remuneration review process. an inclusive environment and developing relevant solutions for Getting the job done our people and our customers. Our networks include Women CAN (gender), Unity (sexual orientation and gender identity), We encourage our people to balance work with other important Enable (accessibility and disability), Advantage (age and responsibilities in their lives. Our iCAN Flex program supports life stage), Mosaic (cultural diversity) and Yana Budjari our people to adopt flexible working practices, allowing them (reconciliation actions within our Reconciliation Action Plan). to adjust how, when and where they work, to deliver better outcomes for themselves, our customers and the business. (1) Excludes ASB, Sovereign and AHL. (2) Results from Your Voice survey and excludes Bankwest, ASB, Sovereign, IFS, AHL and CFSGAM. (3) Excludes Bankwest and AHL, which submit separate compliance reports. International businesses are excluded. 39 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Updating Australia’s banking code of conduct We have been active participants in the development by the Australian Banking Association (ABA) of a new Code of Banking Practice, which has been updated to better meet the needs of customers and expectations of the community. We agree to implement the new Code within 12 months Doing business responsibly of approval by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). The new Code will deliver important changes, including: The Bank’s corporate responsibility • plain English contracts program plays a crucial part in its • ending unsolicited offers of credit card increases overall ability to operate responsibly • mandated ability for customers to cancel a credit card online and sustainably. • improved transparency around fees While the Bank has managed financial risks well, we have The Bank has established a governance structure and not performed as well in relation to non-financial risks. executive oversight to ensure it meets the implementation Non-financial risks cover culture, conduct, governance, deadlines for the revised Code and that it is on track to meet compliance, operational risk management and accountability. its commitment to implementing the new Code. This section details how we are addressing some of the nonfinancial risks in our business. More detail is provided in the Banking Reform Program Strategy, Governance and Remuneration chapters, and in the The Australian banking industry is committed to an overall Chairman and CEO statements. reform program that will improve consumer outcomes, increase transparency and accountability, and build trust. Government and regulators As part of the Banking Reform Program, in April 2016 The Bank has had extensive engagement with government Commonwealth Bank began to design and implement a set of departments, politicians and regulators during the 2018 initiatives to address issues including employee remuneration, financial year. customer advocacy, industry background checks and protection of whistleblowers. The implementation of many Royal Commission initiatives is nearing completion, with some reforms (such as Community expectations of banks have evolved over time, the new Code of Banking Practice) still being put into action. and the Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Banking, The banking industry appointed Ian McPhee AO as an Superannuation and Financial Services Industry is playing independent expert to oversee the implementation of the an important role in demonstrating that we, and our industry, overall reform program. Mr McPhee’s term as independent haven’t always met those expectations. expert has concluded, but Commonwealth Bank continues The Royal Commission has highlighted some cases where to report on the progress of its initiatives through the ABA. we have made mistakes and our conduct has fallen below the standards expected of us by our customers, our staff, Political donations policy our regulators and the broader community. When mistakes Our policy explicitly precludes the Bank from making happen, the community rightly expects us to work closely with political donations. However, we pay to attend some political affected customers, Government and regulators to address events attended by the business community. Payments the issues so they do not reoccur. We know that in the past associated with these events must be approved by the Bank’s we have often been too slow to fix issues when they arise. Government and Industry Affairs team. In addition to Federal and State Government requirements on political contribution We welcome the work the Royal Commission is doing to disclosure, it is also our policy to publicly disclose all such hold us to account, and we are engaging actively, openly and political contributions. transparently with them. When the Royal Commission asks questions or makes findings, we are listening closely and considering them seriously, and while this inquiry continues, Climate change we are getting on with the job of being a better bank. More Climate change poses both a financial risk and information on the Royal Commission is outlined in the opportunity for our business. We manage this risk by Becoming a better bank section on pages 10–11. reducing our own environmental footprint, and by lending and investing responsibly. We support the transition to a Open participation in inquiries low carbon economy through support of renewable energy We have participated in more than 50 inquiries into the and other low carbon projects. Our progress is covered banking industry in recent years, and have implemented in the Climate-related financial disclosures section many of the recommendations for reform. We have been on page 48–60 of this Annual Report. open, transparent and co-operative while also getting on with fixing what we know needs to be fixed. Our responses to the Considering ESG risks in lending key inquiries and reports, and an overview of the work we have underway, are outlined in the Becoming a better bank The Bank considers the credit risk of every lending section on pages 10–11. decision it makes. We believe we should also consider the environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities of our lending decisions, as these can impact the long-term viability of a customer or project. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 40 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Strategic report We are a signatory to the Equator Principles and use the standards they set to assess, mitigate, manage and monitor ESG risk for project finance loans. Other business loans are assessed under our own ESG policies, systems and processes. We have a compulsory ESG risk assessment process for all Institutional Bank loans, and for large loans in other business Performance units. The process includes an initial ESG risk assessment based on country of operations and over 500 industry overview sectors. The client’s capacity and strategy to manage risks is also considered. Additional ESG due diligence is required for transactions which have medium or high ESG risks identified in the initial assessment. Loans with high ESG risk are escalated to senior management We support Australian Corporate for further interrogation and decision. Outputs from ESG assessments are used as a key input into the credit solar power governance decision process. Our client relationship, risk and product teams undertake annual refresher training on ESG risks. This Victoria’s first large-scale solar farm entered year, more than 3,500 employees completed this training. commercial operation at Gannawarra in April 2018 just over one year after financing was provided. Transition to a low carbon economy With almost 210,000 solar panels, the solar farm While climate change is acknowledged as a business risk, has capacity to supply power to more than 25,000 it also provides opportunities for clients who develop low homes. The project is one of three solar farms that carbon solutions for energy production and transport. Our Directors’ renewable energy companies Edify Energy and Climate Policy Position Statement includes our commitment Wirsol Energy are developing across the country report to increase funding to low carbon projects to $15 billion by through financing we committed in March 2017. 2025. This year we increased our lending to $3.7 billion, In August 2017, we extended our partnership including new solar farms in Queensland. During the year we with Edify Energy through a syndicated debt led more than $2 billion of green or sustainability notes. facility, to finance an additional two solar farms in Queensland. Together, these five solar farms will Responsible investing generate enough electricity to power approximately We provide wealth management services in Australia and 160,000 homes. Financial globally and integrate ESG risks and opportunities into our investment processes. This is governed by our Responsible Investing Framework, and is consistent with delivering longFor more than a decade the Bank’s funds management arm, report term investment outcomes for our customers and clients. Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM), has This year CommSec and CommPrivate developed new progressively evolved its approach to responsible investment approaches to measuring ESG risks in their Approved Product and stewardship, and is now considered a global leader in the Lists and Model Portfolios, and are now offering clients ethical area. CFSGAM maintains its strong responsible investment investment solutions upon request. through initiatives that include becoming a signatory to the Climate Action 100+ initiative, which brings together investors Colonial First State (CFS) continues to progress its ESG from around the world to encourage companies to reduce Other integration, and reported to the Principles of Responsible emissions in line with the Paris Climate Change Agreement. Investment (PRI) and the Responsible Investment Association It has also launched a Sustainable Infrastructure Fund, which information of Australasia (RIAA) for the first time. CFS also launched targets investment in listed infrastructure companies that a new Alliance Partnership with Affirmative Investment are contributing to sustainable development. Management – whose global green and impact bond fund generates positive environmental impacts and social benefits Managing our operations efficiently without compromising financial returns. The Bank continues to build on its track record of reducing energy use, and subsequent emissions, in its branches and offices. Since 2009, we have reduced our direct emissions by 52.5%. During that time our emissions intensity for domestic operations has reduced from 5.0tCO2-e per FTE to 2.3tCO2-e per FTE. We have set a target to reduce these emissions to 2.0tCO2-e by 2020. We have also committed to sourcing renewable energy for 25% of our power needs by 2020. Lending to renewable energy projects Certified branch and office design We were the first Australian financial institution to achieve $3.7 billion 5-Star Green Star certification for our retail design standards and we have completed certification for 15 Commonwealth Bank and Bankwest branches. More than 80% of our Training on responsible lending, commercial office space is currently rated by the National investment and procurement Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) for its environmental performance, which considers energy 3,500+ employees efficiency and water usage. 41 Strategic report Doing business sustainably Commonwealth Bank Square Our commitment to delivering globally leading, sustainable workplaces is evident in our new workplace Commonwealth Bank Square, which is part of the wider Darling Harbour precinct. This year we moved 3,000 Sydney employees into this workplace which meets the highest sustainability ratings of 6-Star Green Star for both the building and its interiors. We expect this building to use 70% less energy than the average Australian office building, thanks to initiatives in design, construction and operation. During the design and construction phase, we diverted more than 90% of construction waste from landfill, sourced timber from certified sustainable forestry, installed rooftop solar power generation, and maximised natural light and people connectivity through a central atrium. We also use high levels of fresh air, numerous plants and natural materials to improve indoor air quality for our employees, harvest rainwater for internal use and separate waste streams at the source. Photo credit: Tyrone Branigan This year, we were named the CitySwitch National Signatory Supplier diversity is a key element of our procurement of the Year in recognition of our efforts to improve office strategy and we continue to strengthen our partnership with tenancy energy and waste efficiency. The CitySwitch program Supply Nation, an organisation which promotes and facilitates is led by state governments to support office tenants to procurement from Indigenous-owned businesses. More than improve efficiency. 40 procurement employees received training by BlackCard this year. BlackCard provides cultural awareness training to A carbon positive road map people working with Aboriginal communities to help people We are a Carbon Positive Partner with the Green Building build and maintain respectful relationships with one another. Council of Australia (GBCA). We supported the release of This work has led to supplier partnerships with 18 IndigenousA Carbon Positive Roadmap for the built environment, which owned businesses, with a total spend of $2.23 million. includes a proposal that new and existing Green Star-rated We have commenced a program to engage with 25 of buildings will have no greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. our largest suppliers to explore opportunities for greater It also promotes policies to retrofit existing buildings, improve participation by Indigenous businesses in our supply chains. new buildings, increase the supply of renewable energy, and phase out fossil fuel use. Respecting human rights Plugging into solar energy As stated in our Human Rights Position Statement, we are We continue to invest in onsite renewable energy generation committed to respecting human rights across all of our across our branch network and currently have a capacity of operations, including: lending, investing, operations and 750 kilowatts (kW) installed at 47 Australian sites. Our realsupply chains. time public portal (cbasolarpower.com.au) tracks the energy To date, we have published two Slavery and Human production across our network. Trafficking statements, in compliance with the United The effectiveness of our network is illustrated at our Margaret Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act 2015. We have participated River branch, where the combination of onsite solar energy in government consultations on the development of an generation and in-branch energy efficiency has resulted in Australian Modern Slavery Act, which we anticipate will an 80% reduction in energy use and emissions. be passed as legislation over the next 12 months. In light of the evolving legislation, we have updated Sourcing responsibly training on ESG risk fundamentals for lending and the new We spend more than $4.8 billion a year on products and responsible procurement training includes information on the services from our suppliers. risk of modern slavery and how to mitigate that risk. Our supplier governance processes, supplier engagement, We have also looked to implement practical, on-the-ground and our supplier code of conduct all help us work with initiatives. As an example, our business units operating suppliers to minimise ESG risks such as human rights and in Hong Kong are partnering with the Mekong Club, a notclimate change in our supply chain. This year we rolled out for-profit that is working to engage, inspire and support our responsible procurement training for our procurement the private sector to lead the fight against slavery. The staff to provide awareness of how these risks can be Mekong Club has built our staff’s knowledge of the issue managed and reduced. More than 50 procurement staff of modern slavery. have already completed this training. Want to know more? Our programs drive positive change through education, communities and good business practices, and more information is available at commbank.com.au/about-us/ opportunity-initiatives. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 42 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Strategic Business report risks Performance overview Corporate governance Directors’ report This section describes the key drivers of risk that could impact Financial our ability to serve our customers report and/or deliver our strategy, and the actions we are taking to mitigate Macroeconomic environment them. These are not listed in order of materiality. The risk and its impact Our business performance is closely linked to the performance Risks can arise from our external Other of the Australian economy, which in turn, is impacted by events in the global economy. Headwinds such as rising interest rates, and internal operating environment. inflation and stagnant wage growth could impact households’ information Our strategy and business model disposable income and businesses’ profitability. A significant or sustained economic downturn would have an impact on our need to be robust and flexible to revenue, credit losses and our access to, and cost of, funds. allow us to appropriately respond to How we are responding these uncertainties and changes in • We maintain a strong balance sheet which enables us to our environment. continue to meet regulatory requirements and serve our customers. We actively monitor and manage risks which could impact our balance sheet resilience through the cycle. • We are further aligning our strategy, risk and finance processes to ensure we understand and rapidly respond to changes in our environment. For example, we are enhancing scenario planning to allow for more robust decision-making. • We actively manage the credit quality of our portfolio by, for example, reviewing our lending standards to ensure that we can meet our customers’ financial needs now and in the future. • We undertake regular stress tests to ensure that we understand the dynamics of our business, how we would expect it to perform under a range of severe scenarios, and the balance sheet, funding and liquidity-related options we could use to respond. 43 Strategic report Business risks We are proactively and quickly working to address issues and concerns raised by key stakeholders. Regulatory and policy Competition and industry disruption environment The risk and its impact The risk and its impact Delivering market-leading solutions is key to maintaining a strong relationship with our customers and continuously The industry is undergoing a period of intense regulatory improving the way we run our business. As customer change. Participating constructively in policy debates and preferences continue to evolve, existing and new competitors adapting to regulatory changes are critical to our ability are finding alternative ways to meet customer needs. to serve customers well, run our business effectively, and contribute to economic prosperity. Emerging technologies also present opportunities for new sources of competitive advantage. Failure to innovate How we are responding and effectively respond to these changes could erode our relevance to customers and ability to compete in the • We are reducing the breadth and complexity of our long term. regulatory environment by simplifying our portfolio. We are also strengthening our risk management and compliance capabilities across the Group. How we are responding • We have extended our focus from average customer • We are digitising activities and standardising processes satisfaction to the experience of all customers including to drive better customer experience and cost outcomes. the least satisfied. To deepen our relationships with these • We are proactively and quickly working to address issues customers, and ensure that we can continue to meet their and concerns raised by our customers, regulators and needs in new and engaging ways, we are sharpening our policy makers, including sales practices and incentives, focus on our core strengths including digital propositions, responsible lending, financial crimes, cyber security, data and analytics, and innovation. and privacy. • We will continue to invest in technology and innovation • We are also strengthening our relationships with regulators to reduce costs and risk in a lower growth and intensely and government bodies to engage constructively and competitive environment. For example, we have transparently on emerging policy issues, and are actively automated parts of our home lending processes. preparing for anticipated regulatory change. • We have built mechanisms to understand, test and respond to competition, such as stress testing based on potential disruption from fintech companies. • We are also exploring and forming partnerships to strengthen our relationships with customers and improve the way we operate. For example, we have recently partnered with KPMG Australia and Microsoft to launch Wiise, and have entered into a joint venture with Westpac and NAB to create Beem It. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 44 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Business risks Strategic report We have plans in place to address the root causes of our recent reputational Performance challenges, and are taking steps to ensure overview that they do not happen again. Reputation and trust Pace and quality of execution Corporate The risk and its impact The risk and its impact Our reputation and the trust of our stakeholders is crucial for The breadth of change in our operating environment, delivering sustainable business outcomes. Our reputation has and the complexity of our business may affect our ability governance suffered as a result of mistakes we have made as a business to efficiently deliver our strategy. For example, if the pace and an industry. of execution is too fast for processes, people and systems to work as they need to, or too slow to keep pace with our A sustained shift in any of our key stakeholders’ perceptions changing environment, the success of our strategy could of us could undermine our ability to serve customers, be compromised. deliver positive outcomes for the broader community, foster an engaging culture for our people, and deliver long-term sustainable returns for our shareholders. How we are responding Directors’ • We have set clear priorities and milestones for each report How we are responding Business and Support Unit to ensure alignment of objectives and disciplined focus. We are clarifying • As outlined in Our strategy (on page 13), we are focused accountabilities to ensure that all of our leaders on delivering balanced outcomes for all stakeholders. understand what is expected of them. We are committed to demonstrating meaningful change and we will be monitoring our performance against • We regularly review and monitor our progress in execution a balanced set of metrics. of our strategy, particularly in the context of a rapidly • We have plans in place to address the root causes of our evolving external environment. Financial recent reputational challenges, and are taking steps to • We have established a Better Risk Outcomes Program report ensure that they do not happen again. We received APRA (BROP) to ensure that we are delivering a comprehensive approval of our Remedial Action Plan to address the transformational program to uplift our customer and risk recommendations of the Prudential Inquiry, and we have outcomes while also addressing all the recommendations appointed an independent reviewer to track our progress of APRA’s Prudential Inquiry. As part of BROP, we are against this plan. introducing a new execution approach in delivering on our priorities which includes clear, realistic timelines, ownership • We have been focused on resolving open issues that by senior leadership and appropriate consequence impact our reputation. For example, we recently settled Other management. This approach will be progressively deployed the BBSW and AUSTRAC matters. We are working to by BROP to improve execution capability across the Group. information address the concerns raised in the Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Banking, Superannuation and Financial • We are continuing to invest in innovative and new ways to Services Industry. serve our customers, as well as addressing operational risk and compliance requirements. • We are continuing to improve outcomes for customers in a range of ways, from changing sales incentives and practices, to actively listening to and acting on complaints, increasing transparency around fees, and providing support for vulnerable customers. 45 Strategic report Business risks Data management, People capability security, and privacy The risk and its impact The risk and its impact Our people are critical to the success of our strategy. We expect them to constantly find new and better ways to meet As Australia’s largest financial institution, we manage a large customer needs and improve the way we run our business. volume of sensitive data which our stakeholders expect to be managed and used appropriately. The regulatory An inability to attract or retain top talent, whether it be through landscape is increasingly focused on privacy, cyber security a shortage of key skills in the market, or an erosion of our and obligations on banks to make data more available to brand, could prevent us from delivering our strategy. customers. At the same time, cyber threats are becoming increasingly sophisticated. How we are responding A failure to ensure this information is kept safe and used • We are continuing to invest in our value proposition as appropriately may impact our stakeholders and result in an employer. We offer flexible working models, including financial and non-financial consequences. mobility options, and competitive benefits, and foster a diverse and inclusive workforce. How we are responding • We are focused on targeted training programs to develop • As described in Our strategy (page 27), data and analytics our people, including senior management, and are will be critical to our future success. We are prioritising reviewing our career paths and talent development model investments that will allow us to better meet regulatory to ensure that we attract and retain high-calibre people. obligations, better manage risk and cost, and deliver market-leading propositions for customers. • We are piloting opportunities to re-skill and support our people to be ready for the future of work. We are engaging • We are strengthening our data governance, including with educators, government and the community to prepare by addressing the recommendations made by APRA’s the workforce that we need and are building these changes Prudential Inquiry. We have commenced a detailed into our long-term workforce plan and capability roadmaps. program of work to enhance our data, systems and reporting processes, supported by operating model • We are also strengthening our people and culture changes to provide clear accountability for data frameworks to ensure our people are clear on our governance and management. expectations and their accountabilities, have end-to-end visibility of the activities for which they are responsible, • We continue to invest to secure the confidentiality, are empowered to address issues and drive balanced integrity and availability of our data. In the context of the outcomes for our stakeholders, and are assessed imminent Comprehensive Credit Reporting and Open consistently based on the outcomes they achieve. Banking regimes, we are developing solutions to ensure our customers’ data remains protected whilst also being able to deliver richer offers and experiences. • We have also improved our Procurement Policies and Standards and supplier governance to ensure, not only continued alignment with regulatory requirements, but enhancements to meet customer expectations. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 46 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Business risks Strategic report Performance overview Climate change Business resilience Corporate The risk and its impact The risk and its impact Extreme weather events and the legal, market, policy, The continuity and resilience of our operations are crucial technology and reputational impacts of transitioning to a for serving our customers, upholding community trust, and governance low-carbon economy have the potential to disrupt business maintaining our reputation. Events in the external environment activities, damage property and otherwise affect the value of such as cyber-attacks, natural disasters, war, or critical assets, and affect our customers’ ability to repay loans. failures with third-party suppliers can significantly disrupt our operations. Climate change is systemic in nature, and is a significant long-term driver of both financial and non-financial risks. How we are responding As a lender to individuals and companies exposed to climate change risks, we have an obligation to our shareholders to Directors’ • We monitor the health of all systems and perform continually assess those risks. A failure to respond to the contingency planning for disruptions to critical systems report potential and expected impacts of climate change will affect and processes. our long-term performance. • We are investing in agile capability, automation and systems resilience to enable multiple process and system How we are responding simplification projects. For example, our agile ways of • We are focused on having the right policies in place, working ensure that we prioritise what matters most to understanding risk, developing and implementing strategic our customers for key risk programs, while our data centre Financial responses, building internal and customer capability, and network modernisation program is improving the and contributing to economy-wide initiatives to build our security and efficiency of our technology infrastructure. resilience to climate change. report • We are monitoring cyber security threats, and mitigating • We have implemented strong policy frameworks for their potential impact on our businesses and customers, considering environmental, social and governance (ESG) with continued investments in cyber security controls. issues, including climate change. These include our • We are also driving greater agility and alignment in our Climate Policy Position Statement, Environment Policy, supplier partnerships to ensure we effectively mitigate risks ESG Lending Commitments, and our Responsible across the supply chain. We are enhancing our policies Investing Framework. and standards on supplier governance, selection and Other management to better identify and manage the risk of • We are identifying climate-related risks and opportunities by third-party disruptions. information conducting comprehensive scenario analyses of transition and physical risks. In the 2018 financial year we assessed the primary climate-related risks to our business lending, retail lending and insurance portfolios. We will expand our analysis in the 2019 financial year. • We are developing strategic responses to climate change, informed by the results of the climate scenario analysis. Our response includes strengthening our due diligence processes, considering our range of products and services, and expanding the coverage and depth of our analysis. • We also continue to reduce our direct impact on the environment by monitoring and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and energy use through our Sustainable Property Strategy. Further detail about our Risk Management • Our approach to climate governance, strategy, risk Framework is provided in the Notes to the management and metrics and targets, in line with the Financial Statements. recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, is discussed in detail on page 49. 47 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Why is CBA taking action on climate change? As a provider of financial services including lending, insurance and We are taking action on climate change to: wealth management, climate change presents both risks and opportunities • Better understand the impacts of climate change on the Bank to our business. We are a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related • Increase the resilience of the Bank to climate risks Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and this is our first report in line with its • Take advantage of opportunities created by climate change recommendations. • Support our customers and people in the transition to a low carbon economy Commonwealth Bank of Australia 48 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Strategic report We are taking a phased approach to identifying and managing climate risk. That means we are focusing on having the right policies in place, understanding risk, developing and implementing strategic responses, building internal and customer capability, and contributing to economy-wide initiatives. Performance Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 overview Policy, due diligence, governance Analysis of portfolio Extending scenario analysis, risks and opportunities strategic responses, capability building Pre-FY18 FY18 FY19-20 Corporate Governance • Climate Policy Position • The Board governs climate • Review our Climate Policy Statement (1) risks and opportunities Position Statement governance through the Risk Management • Environment Policy (2) • Update Responsible Investing Framework (7) • Equator Principles III Framework signatory (3) • Update investment-related • ESG Lending Commitments (4) ESG risk management policies • Responsible Investing Framework (5) Directors’ Strategy • Commitment to support • Climate scenario analysis: • Climate scenario analysis: the objectives of the Paris 1. Business lending – 1. B  usiness lending – physical report Agreement transition risks risks 2. FirstChoice Australian Share .R 2  etail (home lending) and Fund – transition risks insurance – transition risks 3. R  etail (home lending) and 3. Investment portfolios – insurance – physical risks transition and physical risks • Portfolio-level strategic • Further develop portfolio-level Financial responses strategic responses report • Client engagement Risk • Elevated climate as a strategic • ESG risk assessment process • Include physical risks in ESG management risk and a long-term driver for business lending updated risk assessment process for of both financial and nonbusiness lending • Updated Energy Value financial risks (6) Chain analysis • Update client due diligence • ESG risk assessment to include transition heat maps Other including climate risk, for climate sensitive sectors introduced for business information • Update Energy Value lending Chain analysis • Introduced training on ESG risks, including climate, for business lenders • Established Energy Value Chain analysis Metrics • Emissions reduction target • Emissions reduction target • Emissions reduction target and targets (scope 1 and 2) (scope 1 and 2) (scope 1 and 2) • Assessed emissions in • Assessed emissions in • Assessed emissions in business lending portfolio business lending portfolio business lending portfolio • Set low carbon project funding • Low carbon project funding • Low carbon project funding target of $15bn by 2025 target target (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) Available at: https://www.commbank.com.au/about-us/opportunity-initiatives/policies-and-practices.html (6) Note 31 Risk Management, FY17 Commonwealth Bank Annual Report. (7) The Group’s Risk Management Framework is detailed in Note 9.1 to the Financial Statements on page 195. 49 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Scenario analysis helps us understand potential impacts, risks and opportunities for the Bank. Climate governance Climate strategy The Board acknowledges that climate change is creating To understand potential climate impacts, risks and risks and opportunities for our business, our customers opportunities for the Bank, and to build the resilience and our communities. Due to their significance, the Board of our business, we have commenced company-wide directly oversees the management of the Bank’s climatescenario analysis. We have prioritised analysis of areas related risks and strategies, including through: that are most material given the size of our portfolios. • Receiving reports on risks in business lending Here we outline the scenarios we chose, the process and stranded asset risks we went through, the results of the scenario analysis and how the results have impacted our strategic decisions. • Considering the results of climate scenario analysis The results of our scenario analysis will help to inform undertaken in the 2018 financial year for transition and the evolution of our Climate Policy Position Statement. physical risks and opportunities It is important to note that scenario analysis considers the • Approving the Bank’s Climate Policy Position Statement, outcomes of a range of possible future pathways, based which outlines our approach to climate-related risks on assumptions, and is not a forecast or prediction. and opportunities • Setting and monitoring performance against our Scenario analysis climate-related goals and targets (outlined on page 60) Global Co-ordination – 2 degrees • Reviewing and approving the climate-related This scenario reflects the impacts of supportive disclosures in our Annual Report national and international climate policy, which The Executive Leadership Team (ELT) is responsible for: results in a smooth transition to a low carbon economy enabled by global emissions trading. • Directing the development and implementation The Global Co-ordination scenario is based on investment of ESG policies, including climate in large scale, low-emissions infrastructure such as • Oversight of progress, performance and reporting carbon capture and storage (CCS), biofuels production on climate and distribution. Such investment improves the long-term viability of these technologies. • Leading external engagement, advocacy and helping customers on climate-related matters Disruptive Decarbonisation – 2 degrees This scenario reflects the potential disruptive impacts associated with decarbonisation. It is achieved through a disorderly transition, led by consumers and business rather than policy. Under this scenario, there is an initial delay in action to 2025 during which time emissions continue to rise. There are challenges securing finance for large scale renewable energy projects in the short term, due to inconsistent climate policy. There is strong reliance on bottom up action, including renewable electricity Physical risk Transition risk (particularly small scale solar), electric vehicles and energy efficiency. Arises from extreme Refers to financial weather events impacts as a result Policy Inertia – 3 degrees (e.g. storm, flood, of the policy, legal, This scenario reflects the current national drought) or longertechnology, reputation and international policies. In this scenario, term shifts in climate and market changes the current Nationally Determined Contributions patterns (e.g. rising associated with the are maintained, and no further international temperatures). This can transition to a low frameworks and mechanisms are negotiated to encourage result in financial costs carbon economy. additional global decarbonisation. A lack of certainty due to direct damage around mechanisms to achieve abatement targets reduces to assets and indirect the capacity to invest in large scale abatement activity. impacts from disruption This results in a disorderly transition with a reliance on to businesses and their bottom up, small-scale technologies. supply chain. Further information on scenario characteristics is available on page 52 for the physical analysis and page 54 for the transition analysis. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 50 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Strategic report FY18 Climate Change 2018 financial year climate change Scenario scenario Analysis analysis program program SCENARIOS Performance overview Global Disruptive Policy Co-ordination Decarbonisation Inertia Corporate governance Physical Transition DRIVERS OF RISK Flooding Storms Extreme heat Bushﬁres Sea level Market Regulatory Legal Reputation Technology and drought rise Directors’ report Insurance Retail lending Wealth Business lending MODELLING ANALYSIS Expected insurance Expected impacts on Transition risk impacts Transition risk impacts Financial premium cost impacts damage and loss over time on domestic economy on domestic economy over time at a sectoral level at a sectoral level report CBA-SPECIFIC Building Home loan portfolio FirstChoice Business lending portfolio APPLIED ANALYSIS Other insurance policies Australian Share Fund debt exposure information Economic growth and PROJECT OUTPUTS Potential damage to properties contraction by sector (at an aggregated level) Change to sector Potential impacts due to perils value add contribution Sector heat maps on insurance claims and affordability of insurance Home loan portfolio Exposure of fund to growth Exposure of portfolio to growth exposure concentrations and contraction sectors and contraction sectors STRATEGIC RESPONSE Consider business and Develop Consider Update ESG risk customer implications and management approach asset allocations assessment tool emerging insurance of current and Consider further product needs Explore and develop future portfolio in scenario analysis for low carbon products Explore approaches high risk areas global portfolios and services to risk mitigation Consider customer awareness Client engagement and Consider customer awareness and engagement options capacity building and engagement options 51 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Physical risks and opportunities Although the Group is committed to supporting the achievement of a 2 degree scenario, we are cognisant that Home lending makes up nearly half of the Group’s balance the high emissions scenario (RCP 8.5) represents the greater sheet, making it a material portfolio with regard to our risk to the Bank, because a higher level of warming gives rise exposure to climate risks and opportunities. Physical risks are to greater physical climate impacts. the most relevant to property and insurance, driving our focus and coverage for this component of our scenario analysis. The physical impacts we are likely to see up to 2050 are primarily driven by historical levels of emissions, as there is We have considered the impact of five perils on our home a delay between emissions and increased frequency and lending across Commonwealth Bank and Bankwest, and severity of weather events. Therefore, the different trajectories building insurance policies in CommInsure. The perils we between our two 2 degree scenarios are of little consequence have considered are: to physical impacts over the timeframe of our analysis, but would be significant in the longer term. • Inundation – including sea level rise and storm surge, resulting in flooding This project was undertaken with the support of Deloitte and Climate Risk. • Soil contraction – as a result of increased heat and reduced average rainfall in some areas, which causes Physical risks and opportunities in our home lending damage to foundations in contracting clay soils and insurance portfolios • Inland or riverine flooding What we found • Wind/cyclone This project has undertaken a forward-looking, portfolio-level assessment based on current home lending and insurance • Bushfire portfolios. We have undertaken detailed physical risk scenario analysis The analysis suggests the impact of physical climate change using the model developed by the Climate Risk consultancy, risk will greatly vary across the geographic locations as which combines asset, hazard and climate change well as the vulnerability of each property. The diversity in projection data to understand the estimated annual average geographic and climate conditions determine the climate loss which is a combination of the annual probability of an risks experienced within a location, as well as the severity extreme weather event capable of damaging a property, of impact. The analysis indicates that whilst all locations in and the costs associated with such damage in a given year. which our residential property portfolio is situated will be Most data is drawn from Australian Government agencies subject to impacts of climate change to varying degrees, only such as Bureau of Meteorology, CSIRO, and Geosciences a small proportion of properties in high risk locations and Australia, as well as state government entities including with vulnerable characteristics are projected to experience a rural fire services, Valuer General and land data services. significant increase in impacts over the scenario time period. We have also incorporated proprietary flood modelling Locations affected by climate risk are expected to experience undertaken for the Commonwealth Bank. an increase in maintenance and damage costs, leading to We have modelled damage to the underlying properties higher insurance costs, due to flooding, storms, bushfire currently subject to loans from and/or insured with the and drought, with rising sea levels expected to have the Bank. The results are on an aggregated basis, including most significant increase. For the small proportion of current postcode-level. properties that may be significantly affected, this may lead to difficulties in customers servicing their loans. Scenario characteristics – physical analysis Based on these results, if we were to continue to lend in these areas, property demand and valuations in locations more Low emissions High emissions scenario scenario prone to physical climate risk may be adversely impacted. CBA climate Global Coordination Policy Inertia To understand the potential credit implications of the physical scenario alignment impact of climate change, we have analysed the annual Disruptive average loss associated with both extreme events and Decarbonisation incremental changes in climate. Through this project, we Temperature rise 2 degrees 4 degrees have analysed where damage, and associated loss, is likely by 2100 to occur for customers currently in our portfolio and the rate IPCC (1) climate RCP (2) 4.5 RCP 8.5 that it will increase. We have also analysed which perils, not projections all of which are currently covered under mainstream insurance Sea level rise 0.5m by 2100 1.1m by 2100 policies, are likely to cause the problems, and their rate of increase. The results for estimated annual average loss and the high risk proportion of our portfolio are shown in more (1) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. detail on the following page. (2) Representative Concentration Pathway. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 52 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Strategic report Estimated annual average losses to customers from physical risks Impact Customers facing increasing repair and replacement costs for physical damage to their properties. Performance Findings Under the high emissions (RCP 8.5) scenario, overview if we were to continue to lend in these areas, the estimated annual average losses to customers across our home lending portfolio are expected to increase by 27% by 2060 – this is less than 1% per annum. The largest contributor to these losses currently arises from soil contraction, but the modeling shows Corporate that coastal inundation losses could increase governance Low High by 71% by 2060, primarily due to sea level Estimated annual average loss by rises. postcode in year 2060 Estimated annual average loss by peril Index (2018 = 100) 127 140 Directors’ report 120 100 100 80 60 40 20 0 2018 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 Financial Soil contraction Flood Bushfire Wind Inundation report High risk properties Estimated % of portfolio (outstanding To better understand our potential credit risk, we have balance) considered high risk estimated the part of our current portfolio which may be high risk, where this is located and how it could change 1.0 Other over time. We have considered high risk to be properties 0.8 where the increase in insurance costs from 2018 as a 0.6 information result of climate change have the potential to create financial strain for customers and their property values. 0.4 0.2 High risk properties make up only 0.01% of our portfolio (by outstanding balance) in 2020 and rises to be around 0 1% in 2060 if there are no changes in the way we lend 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 in these areas. This assumes no change in the portfolio over the period and no mitigating actions are taken. Low High Low High Estimated average annual loss for high risk Estimated average annual loss for high risk properties by postcode (in year 2020) properties by postcode (in year 2060) 53 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures How we are responding Transition risks and opportunities It is important for the Bank to consider the impacts and risks of physical climate changes on our customers as well as our We have undertaken scenario analysis to assess the transition insurance and residential lending portfolios. We will continue risks and opportunities in our business lending portfolio, to develop our understanding of physical climate change and covering Commonwealth Bank, Bankwest and ASB. The the locations and types of properties most affected by climate climate scenarios (outlined on page 50) were assessed to risk. Based on these learnings, we will build our capability to identify the impacts for the Australian economy at a sectoral effectively respond, develop and implement business rules level, and these were analysed in relation to the Bank’s debt (such as maximum loan to valuation ratios or loan conditions) exposure and one of our domestic equity portfolios, to 2050. to protect both our customers and the Bank from risks The scenarios align to reference scenarios and industryassociated with climate change. specific research. There were a number of out-of-model The expected impact of climate change may compound the adjustments, based on industry-specific research, made in existing issue of insurance affordability in areas with high order to ensure that the model reflected our view of different risk of severe weather events. To counter this threat, we will climate futures. These adjustments were on: consider the most effective approaches to mitigating against • carbon pricing and offset markets physical climate change risks. This will include consideration of our products and services through which there may be • international energy demand opportunities to assist or incentivise customers to make home resilience improvements, and advocating on their behalf for • materials efficiency governments to invest in mitigation measures to respond to • domestic energy use community level risks. • new business models Minimising climate risk for property, both residential and commercial, is an issue that goes beyond the banking and This project was supported by EY and ClimateWorks insurance sectors. Appropriate planning regulation is essential Australia. to building climate resilience in the sector going forward and both a private and public response is needed. Where we don’t Transition risks and opportunities in our business have the ability to help our customers directly, we will engage lending portfolio and advocate on their behalf across government, insurance What we found and banking to find solutions to these problems before they Emissions fall under all three of our scenarios. However, become acute. Australia only meets its existing international emissions To this end, we have been actively involved in the commitments under the Global Co-ordination and Disruptive development of the National Risk Reduction Framework, as Decarbonisation scenarios. a priority of the National Resilience Taskforce, which is being The analysis provided economic growth, by sector, for the led by the Department of Home Affairs. This is a collective Australian economy under the three scenarios through effort involving public, private and community sectors in the to 2050. development of a framework to identify, address and mitigate disaster risk. The analysis found that the overall economy grows across all scenarios and timeframes through to 2050. However, the rate of growth, sectors impacted and degree of impact, vary by scenario. The variation is illustrated in the transition risk heatmap which represents the growth and contraction at a sectoral level across the three scenarios over the medium term (2035). Scenario characteristics – transition analysis Scenario characteristics Global Coordination Disruptive Decarbonisation Policy Inertia Reference scenarios Deep Decarbonisation Deep Decarbonisation Deep Decarbonisation Pathways Project Pathways Project Pathways Project IEA 2DS Review of disruptive technologies IEA 4DS and business models Target 66% likelihood of limiting 66% likelihood of limiting 66% likelihood of limiting global warming to 2oC global warming to 2oC global warming to 3oC Proportion of renewables of 73% 94% 58% total generation in 2050 (from Distributed generation increases baseline of 15% in 2017) from 4% of total generation in 2017 to 39% in 2050 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 54 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Strategic report Analysis of our business lending portfolio shows that 97% of our business lending portfolio sits within sectors that Transition risk heat map by industry continue to grow under all scenarios. There is a small (2017-2035) portion of our portfolio – less than 2% – which sits in sectors that contract under all scenarios. And the remainder of Global Disruptive CoorddecarbonPolicy our portfolio (1%) sits across sectors that grow under one Sector ination isation Inertia Performance or two scenarios and decline under other scenarios. Accommodation and hotels overview How we are responding Agricultural services and fishing To ensure transition risk is considered going forward, we will Air transport incorporate the results of our scenario analysis into our clientAlumina level due diligence process. Our initial focus will be on sectors most likely to be impacted by climate change. We will use this Aluminium to help us understand risk exposure at a client and a portfolio Business services level, and inform our engagement with clients (where relevant) Cement and risk evaluation. We will incorporate relevant questions into Corporate the process to allow us to further understand client exposure, Coal mining and their strategy to respond to climate risk. This will help governance Communication services us to determine our clients’ resilience and inform our lending Construction services actions and strategies. Dairy Our support for the transition to a low carbon economy, from Electricity – coal an energy value chain perspective, is reflected in our declining exposure to coal and our growing exposure to renewables, Electricity – gas and to gas as a transition fuel. The energy value chain Electricity – hydro infographic (on page 59) shows our main concentrations of credit exposure to carbon-related assets. The 2018 financial Electricity – non-hydro renewable Directors’ report year analysis shows the downward trend in our exposure to Electricity – oil products the coal sector continued, across mining, infrastructure and Electricity supply electricity generation. Financial services Transition risks and opportunities in our Forestry and logging agribusiness portfolio Gas mining What we found Gas supply Undertaking transition analysis was the first step toward Financial Grains analysing the strategic risks and opportunities for agriculture. report Iron and steel How we are responding Iron ore mining There is still considerable work that needs to be completed Meat products to better understand the physical impacts of climate on Motor vehicle and parts agricultural industries across the regions in which they operate, and to understand the implications for our portfolio. Non-ferrous metal ores The physical risk analysis for agriculture will be undertaken in Non-metallic construction the 2019 financial year. We will start training our agribusiness materials (not cement) Other teams to support customers by increasing their awareness Oil mining of the issue and consider how best to incorporate climate into information the agribusiness due diligence process. This will consider the Paper products outcomes of the physical risk analysis and expert guidance Petroleum refinery on observed best practices. Printing and publishing Private transport services Public services Rail transport – freight Rail transport – passenger Road transport – freight Road transport – passenger Rubber and plastic products Sheep and cattle Textiles, clothing and footwear Trade services Water supply Wood products Contraction Growth 55 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Transition risks and opportunities in our Wealth business Next steps What we found We are continuing to roll out scenario analysis across the As part of our transition risk analysis, we have measured the Bank and we will next consider physical risks for business carbon footprint of our equity investments, and are continuing lending and transition risks for retail lending and insurance. to work on the footprinting of our bonds. We will also widen the breadth of our investment analysis CFS’s two MySuper offers – Commonwealth Essential to cover transition and physical risks and opportunities for Super and FirstChoice Employer Super – currently have our global portfolios. carbon footprints higher than their asset allocation weighted benchmarks. However, both footprints have reduced since 30 June 2016 (1). Colonial First State Global Asset Management As at 31 March 2018, the equities allocation of the (CFSGAM) has developed a summary of its approach Commonwealth Essential Super range has a carbon footprint to managing climate change risks and opportunities. of 435,500 tCO2e. Per $100,000 invested this equates to In developing the statement CFSGAM has sought to 16.01 tCO2e or four cars driven daily for a year(2). The equities align its disclosure with the TCFD’s recommendations allocation of the FirstChoice Employer Super range has a and the Investor Group on Climate Change’s Guide carbon footprint of 919,600 tCO2e. Per $100,000 invested this for Investor Disclosure. equates to 34.17 tCO2e or seven cars driven daily for a year. The approach to climate change is available here: We have also undertaken scenario analysis of FirstChoice http://ri.firststateinvestments.com/our-approach/ Australian Share Fund, as a proxy for Wealth’s domestic featured-content/climate-change/ equity portfolios. The scenario analysis found a very low proportion of FirstChoice Australian Share Fund’s assets – 1.5 per cent – sit in sectors that contract under all three scenarios. Two-thirds of the Fund’s assets are in sectors that grow under all scenarios. The remainder of Fund assets are in sectors that grow under our Policy Inertia and/or Global Co-ordination scenarios, but not under Disruptive Decarbonisation. How we are responding We are currently investigating approaches to undertake further detailed scenario analysis of our investment portfolios, expand the transition risk analysis to include other asset classes, and explore physical risk analysis. We intend to progress this analysis in the 2019 financial year. CFS has updated its ESG Risk Management and Proxy Voting Policy, and Investment Governance Framework; Commonwealth Private has adopted the Responsible Investing Framework and created an ESG Policy; and CommSec is incorporating ESG and climate risk criteria into its Investment Policy. These policies ensure ESG and climate risk criteria are taken into account in investment selection, and that, over time, Wealth reduces the ESG and climate risks our clients are exposed to through asset allocation, advocacy, engagement and shareholder voting. (1) Carbon emissions data is provided and calculated by MSCI Inc. MSCI collects reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from each company. Only 60% of companies in the global equities universe report their greenhouse gas emissions, so MSCI estimates the remaining 40%. (2) The equivalent number of cars data is sourced from the United States Environmental Protection Agency Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 56 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures There are significant Strategic opportunities report presented by the transition to a low carbon economy. Performance overview Corporate governance Directors’ report Low carbon transition Global environmental markets We are aiming to be a market leader in environmental opportunities markets, supporting our clients’ transition to a net zero emissions economy. We target clients globally who There are significant opportunities presented by the have a strategy in place to support their transition. We transition to a low carbon economy. support this transition by providing tailored financing Sustainable finance and risk management environmental market solutions Financial to meet client requirements. This includes facilitating This financial year our lending exposure to the renewable liquidity across global environmental markets. report energy sector grew to $3.7 billion, reflecting our expertise in this market. For the year ended June 2018, Products and services Commonwealth Bank ranked number one for Mandated Across retail and business lending, investment and Lead Arranger financing roles of renewables projects insurance, we will continue to explore and develop in Australia and ranked 18th globally.(1) product and service options which meet emerging We have also set up a Sustainable Finance Committee customer needs, to help them reduce their exposure and/or build resilience to climate change. Other to focus on identifying other low carbon opportunities, such as climate bonds. This year we led more than This year we added a new Alliance Partner – Affirmative information $2 billion of green or sustainability notes. Investment Management – and the Affirmative Global We continue to support business investment in energy Bond Fund (the Fund) to the FirstChoice platform. The efficiency improvements through our $300 million Fund invests in global green bonds and utilises ESG partnership with the Clean Energy Finance Corporation criteria and environmental impact screens; it is the first on the Energy Efficient Equipment Finance program. of its kind available to retail investors in Australia. $15bn In the 2017 financial year we set ourselves a Low Carbon Target of $15 billion by 2025 (2). Our progress to date shows our exposure to low carbon projects as at 30 June 2018 is $7.3 billion. Eligible projects include renewable energy, 6-star rated commercial green buildings, energy efficiency and low carbon transport. We have aligned our 2025 low carbon target Low Carbon Target eligible projects with the green project categories identified in the Green Loan principles (3). 2025 $15bn 2018 $7.3bn (1) IJ Global, Renewables League tables, 2018 financial year, by transaction value. (2) Our target is on the basis of total committed exposures as at 30 June 2025, and is not a cumulative financing target. (3) The Green Loan Principles were launched in March 2018 by the Loan Market Association, in conjunction with the Asia Pacific Loan Market Association, and supported by the International Capital Market Association. It is a high level framework for the wholesale green loan market. Indicative categories of eligibility for Green Projects are included in Appendix 1 of the Green Loan Principles. They are based on the categories provided in the Green Bond Principles 2017. 57 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Climate risk management Additional ESG due diligence is required for transactions which have medium or high ESG risks identified in the initial Climate is a strategic business risk which we identify, assess assessment. and manage as part of our ESG risk framework. Detail on our ESG risk assessment process is outlined on Our approach to climate risk management is shown below, page 40. cascading down from Group-level framework to sector/ portfolio controls, through to specific transaction and clientThe Bank reports regularly to the Board on the key ESG level consideration of ESG risks. risks in the portfolio using the ESG variables collected in the assessment process. For example, the number Comprehensive policy frameworks of high, medium and low ESG risks across the business lending portfolio. We have a comprehensive set of policy frameworks that govern our approach to climate risk management. The Risk Climate as part of ESG training Management Approach documents the Group’s key risk management practices across all major risk classes. Our ESG training (ESG Fundamentals and the ESG Risk Tool) includes climate risk – physical and transition – to help identify Climate risk is largely a credit risk for the Bank. Extreme the risks, as well as suggestions on the type of evidence weather events and the legal, market, policy, technology that clients should provide. This training is compulsory for all and reputational impacts of transitioning to a low carbon Institutional Banking and Business Banking client facing roles, economy have the potential to disrupt business activities, plus the credit risk teams. damage property and otherwise affect the value of assets held and our customers’ ability to repay their loans on Reducing our carbon-related exposures property, businesses and projects. Additional credit risk To understand the concentration of carbon-related exposures, could arise from the occurrence of stranded assets, if this we measure the following: is not sufficiently identified and managed through our risk management framework. • Energy value chain: Our 2018 financial year exposures continue to show significant movement away from coal Climate has both financial and non-financial implications and towards renewables, and gas as a transition fuel. is covered as a specific aspect of Strategic Risk in Note 9.1 (Risk Management). • Assessed emissions in our business lending portfolio: We continue to reduce the emissions intensity of our Climate in our ESG risk assessment process business lending portfolio. In the 2016 financial year, the The Bank is a major global provider of lending services. emissions intensity of our business lending portfolio was Assessing potential transactions for ESG risks – including 0.29 kgCO2/AUD of expenditure. In the 2017 financial year(1), climate – is a key step in our approach to credit risk due this declined to 0.28 kgCO2/AUD of expenditure. diligence for business lending. This has been driven by a significant decline in the sector Business lending is subject to ESG risk assessment. This classified as Electricity, Gas and Water Supply over the must take place before a loan can be priced. The process period, in line with the transition of our power generation includes an initial ESG risk assessment based on country exposures from coal to renewables, as was shown in the of operations and over 500 industry sectors. The overall 2017 Energy Value Chain. ESG risk levels are aligned with the Equator Principles’ risk categories A, B and C. Approach to climate risk management GROUP Risk Management Approach ESG Lending Responsible Investing Climate Policy Environment Investment ESG risk Commitments Framework Position Statement Policy management policies SECTOR/ PORTFOLIO Reducing our carbonESG training Scenario analysis related exposures TRANSACTION ESG risk Stranded asset Equator Principles III assessment risk register /CLIENT (1) Our financed emissions method relies on client-specific data which limits when we can undertake and release the analysis. 2018 financial year analysis will be undertaken once 2018 client data is available. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 58 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Strategic report FY18 Energy Value Chain Key: (+%) (-%) CBA exposures (1) as at 30 June 2018 Change since FY17 Natural resources (2) Infrastructure Electricity generation Network and retailers Performance Renewables overview $3.7b (+33%) Gas LNG terminals Gas Electricity and gas $1.7b $3.2b $0.6b transmission, (+10%) (-3%) (-6%) distribution and Corporate retailing $6.2b governance Coal Coal terminals Coal (-22%) $0.27b $1.0b $0.2b (-7%) (-30%) (-53%) Uranium Nuclear $0.0b $0.0b Directors’ Oil Oil distribution $2.8b and refining (-15%) $0.9b report (-56%) (1) All figures are Total Committed Exposures (TCE) as of 30 June 2018. Figures represented have been specifically derived based on material client exposures. (2) Diversified miners not included. (3) Other energy-related exposures ($0.2b) includes smaller loans. Compared to the previous year, our exposure to mining fell Updating our Equator Principles III (EPIII) process Financial (-16%) and emissions allocated to mining sector clients fell We are in the process of updating our EPIII due diligence report (-18%). However, the expenditure allocated to mining sector process to include an assessment of our clients’ approach clients also fell (-37%). The net result of these changes is to climate transition and physical risks. The consideration that the weighted average emissions intensity of the sector of transition risks is included as part of the EPIII alternatives rose over the period. analysis for high carbon-intensive projects. We will include • In the Wealth portfolio, the Group uses a variety of physical risks in the Commonwealth Bank EPIII due diligence tools such as MSCI ESG Manager and MSCI Barra as well as add it to the ESG risk assessment process in the Portfolio Manager which identify, measure and track 2019 financial year. ESG and carbon risk at the company, stock, bond, Other Stranded asset risk register information asset and investment strategy level. We focus on assessing our institutional lending exposures • Carbon footprint and carbon intensity metrics (CFS equity against the risk of stranded assets. The risk of obsolescence investments): The footprints for both MySuper offers have for all clients is managed through the origination and reduced since 30 June 2016. annual review process. Exposures identified as potentially For most of these metrics, we publicly report on our being impacted by stranded asset risk, due to climate and performance and progress to hold ourselves accountable other factors, are subject to heightened consideration and and demonstrate our commitment to reducing our exposure assessment in the credit process. We maintain a stranded to carbon-related assets. asset risk register, and currently there is considered to be no material risk of loss due to climate-related stranded asset risk. Scenario analysis Our use of scenario analysis in the 2018 financial year, for strategic management as well as a risk management tool, is outlined in detail in the Climate strategy section on page 50. 59 Strategic report Climate-related financial disclosures Metrics and targets We report regularly on key metrics in order to measure our progress and hold ourselves accountable to our stakeholders with regard to climate risks and opportunities. Our Climate Policy Position Statement commits us to a number of targets. The table below shows our latest progress against our climate-related targets. Metric Target FY18 progress Low carbon target $15 billion $7.3 billion by 2025 Committed exposure as at 30 June 2018 Sourcing renewable energy for our power needs 25% Tender and consumption modelling completed. Currently undertaking by 2020 power purchase agreement contract negotiations. Emissions per FTE (Australia) 2.0 tCO2-e 2.3 tCO2-e by 2020 Solar panels on branches 1,250 kW 750 kW by 2020 Assessed emissions in our business An average emissions intensity 0.28 kgCO2-e/AUD of expenditure lending portfolio decrease of our business lending (FY17) portfolio consistent with our commitment to a net zero emissions economy by 2050 For a full set of our environmental, social and governance metrics, see our 2018 Group non-financial performance metrics on pages 75–78. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 60 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Performance Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report overview governance report report information 61 Performance overview Performance Financial overview performance Group performance overview(1) The key performance indicators (2) used to assess shareholder return, profitability and balance sheet strength are outlined below. We report Group profit on a statutory and cash basis as outlined on page 63. 4.8% 6.2% Cash net profit after tax (NPAT) Earnings per share cash basis ($M) (cents) 9,233 528.6 FY18 9,233 FY18 528.6 FY17 9,696 FY17 563.4 4.0% 2 cents Statutory NPAT Dividend per share ($M) (cents) 9,375 431 FY18 9,375 FY18 431 FY17 9,766 FY17 429 2.6% 540bpts Total operating income cash basis Dividend payout ratio cash basis ($M) (%) 25,907 80.4 FY18 25,907 FY18 80.4 FY17 25,257 FY17 75.0 9.2% 160bpts Operating expense cash basis Return on equity cash basis ($M) (%) 11,599 14.1 FY18 11,599 FY18 14.1 FY17 10,622 FY17 15.7 3.8% Flat bpts Tax expense cash basis Capital ratio CET1 (APRA) ($M) (%) 3,994 10.1 FY18 3,994 FY18 10.1 FY17 3,847 FY17 10.1 (1) Information has been presented on a continuing operations basis. Discontinued operations are detailed on page 73. (2) Detailed in glossary on page 292. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 62 Annual Report 2018 Performance Financial overview performance Strategic report Group performance Group profit Group profit represents the operating income earned less operating expenses, impairment costs and tax paid. It is Performance also called net profit after tax (NPAT). We report NPAT on a statutory and cash basis. The statutory basis is prepared and audited in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and Australian Accounting Standards which comply with overview International Accounting Standards (IFRS). The cash basis is used by management to present a clear view of the underlying operating result, excluding certain items that introduce volatility and/or one-off distortions of the Group’s current period performance. The difference between each basis is set out on page 74. Group profit included a number of one-off items: 4.8% • AUSTRAC civil penalty of $700m (non-tax deductible); Cash NPAT • one-off regulatory costs totalling $155 million associated ($M) Corporate with the Royal Commission, AUSTRAC proceedings and the APRA Prudential Inquiry; and governance FY18 9,233 • the acquisition of Aussie Home Loans and eChoice resulting in consolidation of $237 million of income and $197 million of expenses. 4.0% Statutory NPAT ($M) Directors’ FY18 9,375 report Dividends Financial Dividends are discretionary distributions of profits to shareholders. report The final dividend determined was $2.31 per share, bringing the total dividend for the year ended 30 June Full-year dividend history 2018 to $4.31, an increase of two cents on the prior ($) year. The dividend payout ratio (cash basis) was 80.4%. 4.29 2.31 4.31 4.20 4.20 Excluding the AUSTRAC civil penalty, the dividend payout ratio was 74.9%. 4.01 Other 2.00 3.64 2.22 2.22 2.30 information The dividend will be fully franked and will be paid on 3.34 2.18 1.88 3.20 28 September 2018 to owners of ordinary shares at the close of business on 16 August 2018 (record date). Shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 15 August 2018. 1.97 Dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) 75.8% 75.9% 75.1% 75.2% 76.5% 75.0% 73.2% 74.9%(1) The DRP will continue to be offered to shareholders, and no discount will be applied to shares allocated under the plan for the final dividend. Dividend policy The Bank will seek to: 1.32 1.37 1.64 1.83 1.98 1.98 1.99 2.00 • pay cash dividends at strong and sustainable levels FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 • target a full-year payout ratio of 70% to 80% • maximise the use of its franking account by paying fully franked dividends Interim Final Payout ratio (1) The FY18 full year payout ratio has been presented excluding the impact of the AUSTRAC civil penalty. Including the AUSTRAC civil penalty the payout ratio was 80.4%. 63 Performance Financial overview performance Total operating income Total operating income is made up of net interest income, other banking income, funds management income and insurance income. Net interest margin (NIM) largely represents the percentage difference between the interest rates charged to borrowers and the interest rates paid to depositors. The underlying performance of the business remained 2.6% strong, with income growth of 2.6%. Total operating income cash basis • Net interest income increased as a result of repricing ($M) interest-only and investor home loans in order to manage regulatory requirements, selective growth in lending and an increased proportion of low cost funding via transaction 25,907 deposits; partly offset by the impact of the major FY18 25,907 bank levy. • Other banking income decreased as a result of the FY17 25,257 removal of ATM fees, the decrease in commission income on credit and debit card transactions and weaker trading performance. 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Jun 18 vs Jun 17 Full year ended (1) $M $M % Net interest income 18,336 17,543 4.5 Other banking income 4,950 5,140 (3.7) Funds management income 2,091 1,913 9 .3 Insurance income 293 223 31.4 Total operating income excluding one-off items cash basis 25,670 24,819 3 .4 One-off items (2) 237 438 (45.9) Total operating income cash basis 25,907 25,257 2.6 Net interest margin (%) 2.15 2.10 5 bpts (1) Comparative information has been reclassified to conform to presentation in the current period. (2) For explanation of one-off items refer to page 73. Operating expenses Operating expenses include the salaries and other benefits paid to staff, the cost of IT systems and property costs. The remaining expenses have been included in other expenses, with further details provided in Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements. Operating expenses to total operating income is an efficiency measure used to determine the cost to the bank of earning income. Operating expenses increased 9.2% due to the AUSTRAC 9.2% civil penalty and one-off regulatory costs. Excluding one-off items outlined on page 73, operating expenses increased Operating expense cash basis 3.1% during the year. The key drivers of the increase were: ($M) • Staff expenses increased 0.5% driven by wage inflation, partly offset by lower employee incentives. 11,599 • Occupancy and equipment expenses increased, FY18 11,599 primarily due to the relocation of a number of offices to a single location, annual rental reviews and depreciation. FY17 10,622 • Information technology services expenses increased due to higher investment spend, particularly on risk and compliance based projects, amortisation and the write-off of software, and increased software licensing costs. • Other expenses increased due to an elevated investment in financial crime compliance, partly offset by lower Advice Review program costs, lower non-lending losses and lower discretionary spend. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 64 Annual Report 2018 Performance Financial overview performance Strategic report 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Jun 18 vs Jun 17 Full year ended (1) $M $M % Staff expenses 5,895 5,865 0.5 Occupancy and equipment expenses 1,165 1,110 5.0 Performance Information technology services expenses 1,787 1,578 13.2 Other expenses 1,700 1,676 1.4 overview Operating expenses excluding one-off items cash basis 10,547 10,229 3.1 One-off items (2) 1,052 393 large Operating expenses cash basis 11,599 10,622 9.2 Operating expenses to total operating income (%) 44.8 42.1 270 bpts Number of full-time equivalent staff (FTE) 43,771 43,620 0.3 Corporate (1) Comparative information has been reclassified to conform to presentation in the current period. governance (2) For explanation of one-off items refer to page 73. Loan impairment expense Loan impairment expense represents an estimate of the losses incurred during the year due to bad debts, net of any amounts recovered. Directors’ report Loan impairment expense decreased 1.5% during the year. 1.5% Improvements in the performance of the Bankwest home loan portfolio across mining and regional areas were partly Loan impairment expense cash basis offset by an increase in collective provisions against business ($M) loans and an increase in individual provisions against a loan to a large corporate client within Institutional Banking 1,079 and Markets. FY18 1,079 Financial FY17 1,095 report Impairment provisions and credit quality Provisions for impairment represent the Bank’s estimate of the total amount of bad debts that could emerge within the existing loan portfolio at balance date. Provisions include collectively assessed provisions that are applied against Other portfolios of loans and individually assessed provisions applied against specific customer loans. The Group also applies provision overlays to take into account changes in the wider economic and regulatory environment. Impaired assets are loans that are not meeting their repayment obligations. They are made up of loans in default, loans information that have been restructured to non-commercial terms due to the financial difficulties of the borrower or unsecured personal loans and credit cards whose minimum repayments are 90 days past due. 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Jun 18 vs Jun 17 Full year ended $M $M % Total provisions for impairment losses 3,633 3,727 (2.5) Gross impaired assets ($M) 3,179 3,187 (0.3) Total provisions for impairment losses decreased 2.5% during the year and is shown graphically on page 66. Movements are made up of: • a 15% reduction in individually assessed provisions due to a small number of large write-offs and recoveries impacting institutional and business customers; and • a 4% reduction in corporate collective provisions due to reductions in exposures, improvements in the quality of the Bankwest business portfolio, and improvements in the New Zealand business portfolio; partly offset by • a 6% increase in management overlays, principally in Retail Banking Services, due to the anticipated adverse impact of changing personal bankruptcy legislation. 65 Performance Financial overview performance Collective provisions Individual provisions ($M) ($M) 2,747 2,772 2,763 980 978 870 711 811 756 257 254 256 1,195 1,158 1,199 723 724 614 Overlay Consumer Consumer 841 803 808 Corporate Corporate Jun 17 Dec 17 Jun 18 Jun 17 Dec 17 Jun 18 90 days arrears are loans where minimum repayments are 90 days arrears 90 days late. (%) Domestic home loan arrears were elevated on the prior year 2.0% as some households experienced difficulties with rising essential costs and limited income growth leading to some pockets of stress. 1.46% 1.41% 1.44% 0.99% 1.03% 1.03% 1.0% 0.70% 0.54% 0.60% 0.0% Jun 16 Dec 16 Jun 17 Dec 17 Jun 18 Personal Loans Credit Cards Home Loans Taxation expense Corporate tax expense represents income taxes paid to taxation authorities in operating jurisdictions. Corporate tax expense for the year increased $147 million 3.8% or 3.8% on the prior year, a 30.2% effective tax rate. Taxation expense cash basis The increase in the effective tax rate during the period is ($M) primarily due to the $700 million civil penalty in the AUSTRAC proceedings being non-deductible for tax purposes. 3,994 Adjusting for the AUSTRAC civil penalty the tax rate would FY18 3,994 be 28.6%. CBA was one of Australia’s largest tax payers in 2018. FY17 3,847 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 66 Annual Report 2018 Performance Financial overview performance Strategic report Divisional performance analysis(1) Retail Banking Services Business and Private Banking Performance Cash NPAT Cash NPAT $5,193m $1,888m overview Up 5.3% on 2017 Up 4.4% on 2017 Proportion of Group profit Proportion of Group profit 56.2% 20.4% Corporate governance Retail Banking Services is the Commonwealth Bank branded Business and Private Banking serves the banking needs of retail banking division. It provides simple, convenient and business, corporate and agribusiness customers across the affordable banking products and services to more than full range of financial services solutions, as well as providing 10 million personal and small business customers, helping banking and advisory services for high net worth individuals. them manage their everyday banking needs, buy a home, We also provide equities trading and margin lending services build and grow their business, or invest for the future. through our CommSec business. Customers are supported through an extensive network of close to 1,000 branches, more than 3,000 ATMs, AustraliaDirectors’ based customer call centres, leading online services and apps, report as well as mobile banking specialists and support teams. Performance at a glance Performance at a glance 8bpts 7bpts Net interest margin (NIM) Net interest margin (NIM) Financial 2.98% 3.05% report FY18 2.98% FY18 3.05% FY17 2.90% FY17 2.98% NIM improved as a result of repricing interest-only and NIM improved as a result of repricing interest-only and investor home loans to manage regulatory requirements, as investor home loans to manage regulatory requirements, as well as growth in transaction deposits, partly offset by the well as growth in transaction deposits, partly offset by the Other introduction of the major bank levy. introduction of the major bank levy and the run-off of higher margin residential property development lending. information 50bpts 120bpts Operating expense to total banking income Operating expense to total banking income 30.5% 36.1% FY18 30.5% FY18 36.1% FY17 31.0% FY17 37.3% The ratio decreased (improved) due to growth in net interest The ratio decreased (improved) due to higher total banking income linked to growing lending margins and balances and income, partially offset by the increase in operating expenses transaction deposits, partly offset by increases in operating with higher spend on product development initiatives. expenses from continued investment in technology, risk and compliance. (1) Divisional metrics are reported on a cash basis for continuing operations. Refer page 73 for the Bank’s discontinued operations. 67 Performance Financial overview performance Institutional Banking and Markets New Zealand Cash NPAT Cash NPAT $1,121m $975m/NZ$1,072m Down 14.5% on 2017 Up 12.2% on 2017 Proportion of Group profit Proportion of Group profit 12.1% 10.6% Institutional Banking & Markets serves the commercial and New Zealand includes the banking, funds management and wholesale banking needs of large corporate, institutional insurance businesses operating in New Zealand under the and government clients across a full range of financial ASB and Sovereign brands. services solutions including access to debt capital markets, ASB conducts its business through three business units: transaction banking, working capital and risk management Retail Banking provides services to individuals across multiple through dedicated product and industry specialists. channels including a branch network, digital platforms, ATMs, mobile managers and contact centres. Business Banking provides services to corporate, commercial, rural and small business customers. Private Banking, Wealth and Insurance provides securities, investment and insurance services to customers, and banking services to high net worth individuals. Performance at a glance Performance at a glance 6bpts 7bpts Net interest margin (NIM) Net interest margin (NIM) 1.04% 2.24% FY18 1.04% FY18 2.24% FY17 1.10% FY17 2.17% The reduction in NIM was primarily driven by the major NIM improved due to an increase in fixed rate home bank levy. loan margins. 500bpts 140bpts Operating expense to total banking income Operating expense to total banking income 42.7% 36.0% FY18 42.7% FY18 36.0% FY17 37.7% FY17 37.4% The ratio increased (deteriorated) primarily due to lower The ratio decreased (improved) due to increased interest, Markets revenue, the introduction of the major bank levy fee and funds management income on growing lending and higher operating expenses due to higher regulatory and funds balances. risk and compliance spend. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 68 Annual Report 2018 Performance Financial overview performance Strategic report Bankwest Wealth Management Cash NPAT Cash NPAT $681m $563m Performance overview Up 18.2% on 2017 Up 33.4% on 2017 Proportion of Group profit Proportion of Group profit 7.4% 6.1% Corporate Bankwest provides simple and affordable banking products Wealth Management provides superannuation, investment, to more than 1 million retail, business and rural customers retirement and insurance products, and services including across Australia. Customers are assisted to manage their financial planning which help to improve the financial wellbeing governance everyday banking needs, buy a home, build and grow of more than 2.1 million customers. CFS Global Asset businesses and invest for the future. We also support our Management manages investments on behalf of institutional customers through a network of close to 100 branches and investors and pension funds, wholesale distributors and over 300 ATMs, easy-to-use digital and mobile services and platforms, financial advisers and their clients. During 2017 the an Australia-based 24/7 customer contact centre. Bank announced the sale of its life insurance business, the demerger of its wealth management business and strategic Directors’ review of its general insurance business. report Performance at a glance Performance at a glance 3bpts 570bpts Net interest margin (NIM) Operating expense to total operating income Financial 2.10% 66.6% report FY18 2.10% FY18 66.6% FY17 2.07% FY17 72.3% NIM increased as a result of repricing interest-only and The reduction was driven by increased funds management investor home loans to manage regulatory requirements and income on growing funds balances, a rise in general increased transaction deposit balances. insurance income due to lower weather event claims and Other a reduction in operating expenses due to the wind down in advice remediation costs. information 290bpts 5% Operating expense to total banking income Assets Under Management – average (AUM) 42.1% $216b FY18 42.1% FY18 $216b FY17 45.0% FY17 $206b The ratio decreased (improved) due to increased interest and Growth in average AUM was driven by strong investment fee income and lower operating expenses due to one-off markets offset by net outflows in the global equities and Bankwest east coast business integration costs in financial fixed income funds. year 2017. 69 Performance Financial overview performance International Financial Services (IFS) Cash NPAT $178m Up 32.8% on 2017 Proportion of Group profit 1.9% International Financial Services (IFS) incorporates the Asian retail and business banking operations, investments in China and Vietnam and the life insurance operations in Indonesia. Performance at a glance large Operating expense to total operating income 46.7% FY18 46.7% FY17 57.9% The improvement was driven by reduced staff costs due to business divestments and increasing income from investments in China. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 70 Annual Report 2018 Performance Financial overview performance Strategic report Assets and liabilities Over 75% of the Group’s assets are loans to customers. The remaining assets primarily include investments, trading securities and cash and liquid assets. Approximately 68% of the Group’s liabilities are deposits from customers. The majority of the remaining liabilities include debt issues and subordinated debt issues referred to as loan capital. All these liabilities are used to fund the Group’s assets and generate a return for the Group. Performance overview As at 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Jun 18 vs Jun 17 Total Group assets and liabilities $M $M % Interest earning assets Home loans (1) 501,665 485,857 3.3 Consumer finance 23,317 23,577 (1.1) Business and corporate loans 222,367 226,484 (1.8) Corporate governance Loans, bills discounted and other receivables (2) 747,349 735,918 1.6 Non-lending interest earning assets 150,306 163,665 (8.2) Total interest earning assets 897,655 899,583 (0.2) Other assets (2) (3) (4) 61,856 76,735 (19.4) Assets held for sale (3) 15,654 – n/a Directors’ Total assets 975,165 976,318 (0.1) Interest bearing liabilities report Transaction deposits (5) 109,181 98,884 10.4 Savings deposits (5) 187,587 191,245 (1.9) Investment deposits 216,852 220,530 (1.7) Other demand deposits 58,057 70,313 (17.4) Financial Total interest bearing deposits 571,677 580,972 (1.6) report Debt issues 172,673 168,034 2.8 Other interest bearing liabilities 54,124 57,531 (5.9) Total interest bearing liabilities 798,474 806,537 (1.0) Non-interest bearing transaction deposits 48,831 44,032 10.9 Other non-interest bearing liabilities (3) 45,100 62,089 (27.4) Liabilities held for sale (3) 14,900 – n/a Total liabilities 907,305 912,658 (0.6) Other (1) Gross of mortgage offset balances. information (2) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables exclude provisions for impairment which are included in other assets. (3) For 30 June 2018, assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale have been reclassified and separately disclosed in the balance sheet. (4) Comparatives have been restated following a change in accounting policy to recognise deferred tax on brand names acquired by the Group. Further details on the change are provided in Note 1.1 of the Financial Statements. (5) Includes mortgage offset balances. Total assets were $975 billion, which was flat relative to the prior year, reflecting lower liquid assets and institutional lending, offset by increased home and business lending. Total liabilities were $907 billion, a decrease of 0.6% on the prior year, reflecting lower other demand deposits and derivative liability balances, partly offset by increased transaction deposits and debt issues. The Bank continued to satisfy a significant portion of lending growth from customer deposits. Customer deposits represented 68% of total funding (30 June 2017: 67%). Explanations of key movements in balance sheet line items are set out below: Home loans Home loan balances were $502 billion, an increase of 3.3% on the prior year. The increase excluding foreign exchange was 4%, driven by Retail Banking Services, Bankwest and New Zealand. Domestic loan growth of 4% was 2% below the overall banking system, reflecting the Bank’s approach to complying with regulatory requirements on investor and interest-only home lending, and increased competition, particularly from non-banks. Home loans in Australia amount to $451 billion (30 June 2017: $436 billion) of which 65% are owner occupied loans, 32% are investment loans and 3% are lines of credit (30 June 2017: 63% owner occupied, 33% investment, and 4% were lines of credit). 71 Performance Financial overview performance Business and corporate loans Business and corporate loans were $222 billion, a 1.8% decrease on the prior year. The decrease was driven by a 6% decrease in institutional lending balances, as a result of portfolio optimisation initatives. This was partly offset by growth of 2% in Business and Private Banking across various industries, including agribusiness, hospitality and health, and growth of 4% in Bankwest driven by the property and corporate segments. Growth in New Zealand of 8% was above the overall New Zealand banking system, reflecting the long-term strategic focus on the business and rural segment. Total interest bearing deposits Total interest bearing deposits were $572 billion, a 2% decrease on the prior year. The decrease excluding foreign exchange was 1%. This was driven by changes in the short to long term funding mix as the Bank replaced short-term wholesale deposit funding with long-term debt issues to improve funding stability, and lower investment deposits in Institutional Banking and Markets driven by increased competition from domestic and foreign banks. The decrease was partly offset by strong growth in transaction deposits in Retail Banking Services, Business and Private Banking and Institutional Banking and Markets. Debt issues Debt issues on wholesale markets were $173 billion, a 3% increase on the prior year. The Bank actively replaced short-term wholesale funding with long-term wholesale funding to reduce the annual funding requirement and to take advantage of favourable global funding conditions. Capital The Bank is an Authorised Deposit-taking Institution (ADI) regulated by APRA. To ensure banks hold sufficient capital to protect deposit holders against unexpected losses, APRA sets minimum capital requirements for ADIs based on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision guidelines. These requirements influence the Bank’s ability to pay dividends. CET1 was maintained well in excess of the regulatory Flat bpts minimum capital requirement at all times throughout the year. CET1 remained unchanged during the year Capital ratio CET1 (APRA) and was impacted by the following: (%) • The benefit of profits generated in the ordinary course of business. 10.1% • Dividends paid during the period to shareholders FY18 10.1% which have the effect of reducing capital, however this impact was partly offset via equity raised through FY17 10.1% the Bank’s dividend reinvestment plan. • On 1 May 2018, APRA released the findings of the Prudential Inquiry into the Bank. APRA required the Bank to increase Operational Risk regulatory capital by $1 billion, equivalent to an additional 0.28% of CET1. This adjustment was effective as at 30 April 2018. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 72 Annual Report 2018 Performance Financial overview performance Strategic report Guidance on the impact of one-off items The Bank’s financial results were impacted by a number of one-off items. In order to present a transparent view of business performance, operating income and operating expense are shown both before and after the following one-off items below: FY18 includes: Performance • the acquisition of Aussie Home Loans and eChoice resulting in consolidation of $237 million of income and $197 million of expenses • a $700 million non-tax deductible expense provision for the AUSTRAC civil penalty • one-off regulatory costs of $155 million relating to costs associated with the Royal Commission, AUSTRAC proceedings overview and the APRA Prudential Inquiry FY17 includes: • a $397 million gain on sale of the Bank’s remaining equity stake in Visa Inc. • $41 million share of profits from our 80% stake in AHL Corporate • a $393 million one-off expense for acceleration of amortisation on certain software assets 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Jun 18 vs Jun 17 governance Full year ended (1) $M $M % Operating income excluding one-off items cash basis 25,670 24,819 3.4 One-off items: Sale of Visa shares – 397 large AHL and eChoice (2) 237 41 large Directors’ Total operating income cash basis 25,907 25,257 2.6 report Operating expense excluding one-off items cash basis (10,547) (10,229) 3.1 One-off items: Accelerated amortisation on certain software assets – (393) large AHL and eChoice (197) – n/a AUSTRAC civil penalty (700) – n/a Financial One-off regulatory costs (155) – n/a report Total operating expenses cash basis (11,599) (10,622) 9.2 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. Discontinued operations include the Bank’s life insurance business in Australia and New Zealand, its 37.5% equity interest in BoComm Life Insurance Company Limited, and TymeDigital. (2) The consolidation of AHL and eChoice in FY18 includes $5 million of interest income and $232 million of other banking income. Other Net profit after tax from discontinued operations information Discontinued operations represent a major business or a division that the Bank plans to sell or close within the next 12 months, or that has already been sold or closed. For reporting purposes profit is presented excluding discontinued operations to provide a clear view of the ongoing performance of the business. The Bank also reports profit including discontinued operations to provide shareholders with a complete view of the Bank’s performance. The following businesses have been classified as discontinued operations during the year: • Life insurance businesses, CommInsure Life and Sovereign • Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (TymeDigital) • BoComm Life Insurance Company Limited 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Jun 18 vs Jun 17 Full year ended $M $M % Life insurance (CommInsure Life and Sovereign) 242 226 7.1 Commonwealth Bank South Africa (82) (57) (43.9) BoComm Life Insurance Company Limited 19 16 18.8 Net profit after tax from discontinued operations cash basis 179 185 (3.2) Non-cash items (after tax) – discontinued operations (225) (19) large Net profit/(loss) after tax from discontinued operations statutory basis (46) 166 large 73 Performance Financial overview performance Cash to statutory profit reconciliation Non-cash items are excluded from net profit after tax (cash basis), which is management’s preferred measure of the Bank’s financial performance, as they tend to be non-recurring in nature or are not considered representative of the Bank’s ongoing financial performance. Non-cash items are treated consistently each period. The reconciliations below provide a reconciliation between cash and statutory basis profit from continuing operations and on a total operations basis including discontinued operations. For further detail refer to the cash to statutory profit reconciliation on page 290. The non-cash items excluded from cash profit for the period are: (Loss)/gain on acquisition, disposal, closure and demerger of businesses Gains and losses on these transactions are inclusive of foreign exchange impacts, impairments, restructuring, separation and transaction costs and cover both controlled businesses and associates. Hedging and IFRS volatility Hedging and IFRS volatility represents timing differences between fair value movements on hedges and the underlying exposure. They do not affect the Bank’s performance over the life of the hedge transaction. To qualify as an economic hedge the terms and/or risk profile must match or be substantially the same as the underlying exposure. Bankwest non-cash items The acquisition of Bankwest resulted in the recognition of assets at fair value, some of which have been amortising over their useful life. The transaction was considered one-off in nature. Bankwest customer lists are the only asset still being amortised. Treasury shares valuation adjustment These valuation adjustments represent the elimination of gains and losses on CBA shares held through funds in the Wealth Management business. 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Jun 18 vs Full year ended (1) $M $M Jun 17 % Net profit after tax from continuing operations cash basis 9,233 9,696 (4.8) (Loss)/gain on acquisition, disposal, closure and demerger of businesses 44 – n/a Hedging and IFRS volatility 101 73 38.4 Bankwest non-cash items (3) (3) – Net profit after tax from continuing operations statutory basis 9,375 9,766 (4.0) (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current period. 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Jun 18 vs Full year ended (1) $M $M Jun 17 % Net profit after tax cash basis including discontinued operations 9,412 9,881 (5) (Loss)/gain on acquisition, disposal, closure and demerger of businesses (183) – n/a Hedging and IFRS volatility 101 73 38 Bankwest non-cash items (3) (3) – Treasury shares valuation adjustment discontinued operations 2 (23) large Net profit after tax including discontinued operations statutory basis 9,329 9,928 (6) (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current period. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 74 Annual Report 2018 Performance Non-financial overview performance metrics Strategic report Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics(1) The Group’s wholly owned and operated entities includes Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA), Bankwest, Sovereign, ASB, PT Bank Commonwealth and others. All metrics capture data of the wholly owned and operated entities of the Commonwealth Bank Group (the Group), excluding Aussie Home Loans (AHL), associates and joint ventures such as equigroup unless Performance otherwise stated. PwC has provided limited assurance on the metrics below, excluding the low carbon transition, for the year ended 30 June 2018. overview The PwC Limited Assurance Report is available on page 79. Environmental metrics Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) tCO2-e 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 181,771 197,439 (2) 210,447 (2) 222,631 (2) 241,666 (2) Scope 1 emissions 8,740 9,694 9,063 9,729 10,540 Corporate governance Scope 2 emissions 87,277 96,595 107,762 115,580 122,190 Scope 3 emissions 85,754 91,150 (2) 93,622 (2) 97,322 (2) 108,936 (2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions per FTE 2.1 2.3 2.6 2.7 3.0 (Scope 1 & 2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) tCO2-e 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 156,553 168,686 (2) 180,898 (2) 190,936 (2) 208,720 (2) Scope 1 emissions 7,257 7,411 7,682 8,025 8,678 Directors’ Scope 2 emissions 76,866 83,723 94,255 101,125 108,651 report Scope 3 emissions 72,430 77,553 (2) 78,961(2) 81,786 (2) 91,391(2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions per FTE 2.3 2.6 2.9 3.0 3.4 (Scope 1 & 2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) tCO2-e 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 9,030 7,822 8,599 8,640 10,184 Financial Scope 1 emissions 733 1,348 436 632 698 report Scope 2 emissions 2,462 2,661 3,213 3,393 4,197 Scope 3 emissions 5,834 3,813 4,950 4,615 5,289 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) tCO2-e 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 16,189 20,930 (2) 20,950 (2) 23,055 (2) 22,762 (2) Scope 1 emissions 750 935 945 1,072 1,164 Scope 2 emissions 7,949 10,211 10,294 11,062 9,342 Other information Scope 3 emissions 7,490 9,784 (2) 9,711 (2) 10,921 (2) 12,256 (2) Australia operations Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (3) tCO2-e 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Stationary emissions 389 541 663 1,167 1,459 Transport emissions 6,868 6,870 7,019 6,858 7,219 Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (3) tCO2-e 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Purchased electricity 76,866 83,723 94,255 101,125 108,651 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (3) tCO2-e 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Stationary emissions 79 116 133 238 344 Purchased electricity 10,021 10,503 12,453 13,989 18,147 Data centres 39,647 44,052 (2) 41,261 (2) 38,247 (2) 41,922 (2) Waste to landfill 1,334 1,306 1,663 1,130 1,259 Transport emissions 21,349 21,576 23,451 28,182 29,719 75 Performance Non-financial overview performance metrics Waste (Australia) t 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Total waste 1,892 1,270 1,407 1,855 2,057 Waste to landfill 1,088 680 755 960 1,129 Waste recycled 804 590 652 895 928 Water (Australia) kL 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total water 172,134 171,477 114,608 90,784 Data centre water 33,438 41,124 41,071 38,984 Low carbon transition (4) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Renewable energy lending exposure $M 3,716 2,800 2,200 1,400 Business lending emissions intensity (5) (kgCO2-e/AUD) N/A (6) 0.28 0.29 0.28 Climate bond arrangement $M 2,014 1,018 50 – Customer metrics Customer Satisfaction 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 CBA – Retail Net Promoter Score (3) # 4.2 1.7 1.8 3.9 2.6 Rank 1st 1st 1st 2nd 2nd CBA – Online Net Promoter Score (3) # 31.3 – – – – Rank 1st – – – – CBA – Business Net Promoter Score (3) # -19.6 -13.1 -13.0 0.2 -2.8 Rank 4th 1st 3rd 2nd 2nd Wealth Management – Colonial First State’s out of 10 8.1 8.0 8.1 7.8 7.9 platforms Customer Satisfaction Rank 1st 1st 1st 2nd 1st Bankwest – Retail Banking Customer Advocacy out of 10 7.4 7.4 7.6 7.4 7.5 Bankwest – Business Banking Customer out of 10 7.5 7.2 7.8 7.2 6.9 Advocacy Sovereign – Customer Experience Score # 84.9 83.4 81.8 79.1 77.5 ASB – Retail Banking Customer Satisfaction % 76.3 74.4 74.5 73.0 74.1 Rank 3rd 3rd 3rd 3rd 3rd ASB – Business and Rural Banking Customer % 74.0 75.0 78.0 76.0 76.0 Satisfaction Rank 1st 1st 1st 1st 1st PT Bank Commonwealth – Banking Service % 84.5 70.0 68.3 84.7 77.4 Excellence Performance Rank 1st 7th 8th 3rd 7th Customer Complaints 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 CBA – Customer Complaints (3) # 62,073 53,813 42,673 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 76 Annual Report 2018 Performance Non-financial overview performance metrics Strategic report Social metrics Full-time equivalent employees # 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Total 45,753 45,614 45,129 45,948 44,329 Australia 36,446 35,701 35,273 35,797 34,312 New Zealand 5,538 5,409 5,518 5,371 5,416 Performance overview Others 3,769 4,504 4,338 4,780 4,601 Employee engagement % 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Employee engagement index – CBA 72 78 77 81 81 Employee turnover (voluntary) 11.8 10.1 11.3 10.2 10.2 Gender diversity % 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Corporate Women in workforce 57.4 57.8 58.0 58.5 59.2 governance Women in Manager and above roles 44.6 44.4 43.6 43.2 42.9 Women in Executive Manager and above roles 37.6 36.7 35.2 33.9 31.8 Women in Senior Leadership (Group Executives) (3) 20.0 Gender pay equity – female to male base salary comparison Ratio 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Executive General Manager 0.94 0.95 0.96 General Manager 0.99 1.03 0.99 Directors’ Executive Manager 1.00 1.00 1.00 report Manager/Professional 0.98 0.98 0.99 Team Member 1.00 1.00 0.99 Age diversity % 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 <25 years 7.3 8.1 8.3 8.9 9.4 25-34 years 33.2 34.8 35.9 36.9 36.9 Financial 35-44 years 31.0 29.7 29.5 29.1 28.8 report 45-54 years 19.5 18.9 18.5 17.8 17.7 55-64 years 8.0 7.6 7.2 6.8 6.8 65+ years 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.4 Australia, Indigenous, Cultural Diversity New Zealand, Africa, Pacific Cultural diversity based Index (CDI) British, Irish Europe Asia Middle East Americas Islanders Other on ancestry – 30 Jun 18 (3) # % % % % % % information CBA Overall 0.77 51 15 26 3 1 2 General Manager and above 0.60 68 17 6 5 4 1 Executive Manager and above 0.64 65 17 11 3 2 1 2016 Australia Census (ancestry) 0.59 69 12 14 4 1 1 2016 Australia Census (Question 7 on Indigenous workforce % 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander) CBA Indigenous workforce (ancestry) (3) 1.0 0.8 2.8 Other diversity dimensions % 30 Jun 18 Employees who identify as having a disability (3) 11.9 Employees who identify as LGBTI (3) 3.4 Flexibility % 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Employees working flexibly 73.7 69.4 43.4 44.5 43.8 Employees working part-time or job-sharing 19.7 19.4 19.8 20.1 20.7 Employees with caring responsibilities (3) 53.0 – – – – Human capital development # 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Number of graduates 188 149 119 114 131 77 Performance Non-financial overview performance metrics 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Training hours # Female Male Total Female Male Total Executive Managers and above 70,019 69,373 139,392 74,051 83,676 157,727 Others 983,633 724,364 1,707,997 1,103,412 795,122 1,898,534 Total 1,053,652 793,737 1,847,389 1,177,463 878,798 2,056,261 Training hours per employee Hours Female Male Total Female Male Total Executive Managers and above 57.5 34.6 43.3 70.7 43.5 53.1 Others 35.0 31.6 33.5 40.4 35.6 38.3 Total 35.9 31.8 34.1 41.6 36.2 39.1 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 ESG training # 3,577 2,768 1,786 Safety and wellbeing 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Rate 1.1 1.6 (7) 1.6 (7) 2.0 1.5 Absenteeism Days 6.0 5.9 6.0 6.0 6.1 Community investment $M 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total community investment 290.1 266.0 262.6 243.4 Cash contributions 55.5 37.2 37.8 31.3 Time volunteering 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.8 Forgone revenue 220.3 215.9 (8) 211.8 203.5 Program implementation costs 13.2 11.7 11.6 6.8 Community investment as a % 2.2 2.0 2.0 1.9 percentage of pre-tax profit Financial literacy programs # 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 School banking students (active) (9) 299,074 321,389 325,797 305,844 269,340 Start Smart students (booked) 568,649 574,246 557,475 298,505 288,728 Indigenous community support 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Indigenous Customer Assistance Line # 180,225 168,218 170,789 (calls received) Australian Indigenous supplier spend $’000 2,226 1,460 1,080 Governance metrics Board diversity # 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Male 6 6 8 8 7 Female 4 4 4 3 3 Total 10 10 12 11 10 Female Directors on Board % 40 40 33 27 30 Training related to code and conduct % 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Training completion rates on ‘Our Commitments’ 99.4 97.6 Training completion rates on mandatory learning 94.4 96.9 Conduct and whistleblowing # 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Substantiated misconduct cases 1,259 1,022 SpeakUP Program cases 143 171 Whistleblower cases 33 44 (1) For definitions, please refer to pages 294 to 299. (2) Prior period comparative results have been restated for consistency. FY17 Scope 3 results have been restated to remove upstream emissions on electricity consumption in our Australian data centres not under our operational control. FY14 to FY16 results have been restated to include Scope 3 emissions relating to the electricity and diesel consumption in our Australian data centres not under our operational control. (3) Reported for the first time in 2018. (4) Low carbon metrics on page 76 have not been covered by the PwC Limited Assurance Report. (5) For methodology and further details, please refer to www.commbank.com.au/about-us/opportunity-initiatives/performance-reporting. (6) Our methodology for estimating financed emissions relies on client-specific data, which limits the timing for conducting this assessment. (7) Prior year data has been restated due to claims received after year-end reporting date as well as expanded scope to include New Zealand employees. (8) Prior year data has been restated to remove duplication in certain accounts. (9) Prior year data has been restated to remove duplication from student relocations. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 78 Annual Report 2018 Performance Independent Limited overview Assurance Report on Non-financial performance metrics Strategic report Performance overview Independent Limited Assurance Report To the Board of Directors of Commonwealth Bank of Australia What we found Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Non-Financial Performance Metrics (Environmental, Customer, Social and Governance metrics), excluding the low carbon transition metrics Corporate (the Metrics), for the year ended 30 June 2018 have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the definitions established by management. governance What we did Commonwealth Bank of Australia engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement on the preparation of the Metrics for the year ended 30 June 2018. Subject matter Directors’ The Metrics for the year ended 30 June 2018 are as presented in the Non-Financial Performance Metrics on pages 75 to 78 of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia 2018 Annual Report (the 2018 Annual Report). report Reporting criteria The definitions for the Metrics are established by management and are as presented on pages 294 to 299 of the 2018 Annual Report. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with relevant ethical requirements related to assurance engagements, which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Financial The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintains report a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Inherent limitations Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements due to the selective testing of the information being examined. Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Other Limited assurance This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance for our conclusions. As a limited assurance engagement is restricted information primarily to enquiries and analytical procedures and the work is substantially less detailed than that undertaken for a reasonable assurance engagement, the level of assurance is lower than would be obtained in a reasonable assurance engagement. Professional standards require us to use negative wording in the conclusion of a limited assurance report. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo NSW 2000, GPO Box 2650 Sydney NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 79 Performance Independent Limited overview Assurance Report on Non-financial performance metrics Independent Limited Assurance Report continued Responsibilities PwC Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work we performed. Management of Commonwealth Bank of Australia The management of Commonwealth Bank of Australia is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the subject matter in accordance with the Reporting criteria. Restriction on use This report has been prepared for the purpose of providing limited assurance on preparation of the Metrics of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and may not be suitable for any other purpose. Our report is intended solely for the use and benefit of the Directors of Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the purpose described above, and we disclaim all liability and responsibility for the consequences of any other party using or relying on it. If any other party chooses to use or rely on it, they do so at their own risk. What our work involved We conducted our work in accordance with the Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements (ASAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. This Standard requires that we comply with independence and ethical requirements and plan the engagement so that it will be performed effectively. Main procedures performed The procedures performed included: • Enquiries of relevant staff responsible for preparing the Metrics; • Enquiries about the design of the internal controls and systems used to collect and process the Metrics; • Where applicable, enquiries of third parties responsible for the preparation of data included in the Metrics; • Enquiries about the design of the systems used by third parties to collect and process the Metrics; • Comparing the Metrics to relevant underlying sources on a sample basis; and • Reading the Metrics presented in the Non-Financial Performance Metrics to determine whether they are in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the corporate responsibility performance. We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. PricewaterhouseCoopers Matthew Lunn Partner Sydney 7 August 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 80 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Performance Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report overview governance report report information 81 Corporate governance Corporate governance Our Board Catherine has been a Director since March 2016 and was appointed Chairman on 1 January 2017. She is a former Chairman of Telstra Corporation Ltd and of the CSIRO, and was Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Cochlear Ltd. She has served on the boards of Macquarie Group Ltd, Goodman Fielder Ltd and Rural Press Ltd, and has contributed to the work of the Innovation and Productivity Council for the NSW Government. She is a former President of the Business Council of Australia. In 2008, Catherine was awarded Officer of the Order of Australia. Committees: Nominations Committee (Chairman), Risk Committee, Audit Committee and Catherine Livingstone AO Remuneration Committee. Chairman Other Directorships and interests: WorleyParsons Limited, Saluda Medical Pty Ltd, University Resident of NSW. Age 62. of Technology Sydney (Chancellor) and The Australian Ballet. Qualifications: BA (Accounting) (Hons), FCA, FTSE, FAICD, FAA. Matt was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer on 9 April 2018. He has nearly 20 years’ experience across business, institutional and retail banking and in wealth management. He joined the Bank in 1999 and has held a number of senior leadership roles. Between 2006 and 2010, Matt was Managing Director of CommSec. In 2010, he left the Bank for a short time to become Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley’s wealth business in Australia. Matt returned to the Bank to lead local business banking and in 2012 he was appointed Group Executive, Retail Banking Services. He is a former Non-Executive Director of AHL Holdings Pty Ltd (Aussie Home Loans). Matt Comyn Other Directorships and interests: Unicef Australia and MasterCard’s Global Advisory Board Managing Director and Chief (Member). Executive Officer Qualifications: BAv (UNSW), MCom (UNSW), EMBA (USyd), GMP (HBS). Resident of NSW. Age 42. Shirish has been a Director since June 2014. He has more than 32 years’ financial services experience having held various senior roles with Citi, including Co-Chairman of Citi Asia Pacific Banking, Chief Executive Officer of Citi Asia Pacific, Chief Executive Officer of Central & Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa, and Country Manager and Deputy President of Citi Handlowy, where he is now Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Shirish is a former Director of Crompton Greaves Ltd. Committees: Risk Committee (Chairman) and Audit Committee. Other Directorships and interests: IHH Healthcare Bhd (including two of its subsidiaries), Shirish Apte Fullerton India Credit Company Limited, AIG Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, Clifford Capital Pte Ltd, Pierfront Non-Executive Director Capital Mezzanine Fund Pte Ltd (Chairman) and Supervisory Board of Citi Handlowy (Vice Chairman). Resident of Singapore. Qualifications: CA, BCom (Calc), MBA (LondBus). Age 65. Sir David has been a Director since September 2014. He is Chairman of Gatwick Airport Ltd, which operates Gatwick Airport in the UK. Sir David is a senior adviser to Global Infrastructure Partners in the US and to Lone Star Funds. He is the former Chairman of High Speed Two (HS2) Ltd. Previously he was Chief Executive Officer of Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd, Chief Executive Officer of the Olympic Delivery Authority for the London 2012 Olympic Games, Chief Executive Officer of English Partnerships and Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Lend Lease. Committees: Remuneration Committee (Chairman) and Risk Committee. Sir David Higgins Other Directorships and interests: Gatwick Airport Ltd (Chairman). Non-Executive Director Qualifications: BE (Civil) (USyd), Diploma (Securities Institute of Australia). Resident of UK. Age 63. Brian has been a Director since September 2010. He retired as a partner of Ernst & Young on 30 June 2010. Until that time he was Chairman of both the Ernst & Young Global Advisory Council and the Oceania Area Advisory Council. Brian was one of the firm’s most experienced audit partners, with over 30 years’ experience serving as audit signing partner for major Australian public companies including those in the financial services, property, insurance and media sectors. Brian will retire from the Board at the end of the 2018 annual general meeting. Committees: Audit Committee (Chairman), Risk Committee and Nominations Committee. Brian Long Other Directorships and interests: Brambles Ltd, OneMarket Limited, Cantarella Bros Pty Ltd, Non-Executive Director University of NSW (Council Member) and Centennial Park and Moore Park Trust (Trustee). Resident of NSW. Age 72. Qualifications: FCA. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 82 Annual Report 2018 Corporate Our Board governance Strategic report Andrew has been a Director since July 2008. He has over 40 years’ financial services experience. He was Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of AMP Ltd from October 2002 until December 2007. Andrew’s previous roles at AMP included Managing Director, AMP Financial Services and Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, AMP Asset Management. Previously, he was the Group Chief Economist, Chief Manager, Retail Banking and Managing Director, ANZ Funds Management at Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Andrew commenced his career at the Reserve Bank of Australia where his roles included Senior Economist and Deputy Head of Research. Performance Andrew will retire from the Board at the end of the 2018 annual general meeting. Andrew Mohl Non-Executive Director Committees: Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee. overview Resident of NSW. Age 62. Other Directorships and interests: ASIC External Advisory Panel (Member) and CEDA Board of Governors (Member). Qualifications: BEc (Hons) (Monash). Mary has been a Director since June 2016. She is a pre-eminent intellectual property lawyer with over 30 years’ experience. Mary retired as Partner of Ashurst at the end of April 2018 and from the role of Vice Chairman of Ashurst at the end of 2017. She was Chairman of Ashurst Australia for eight years Corporate prior to the firm’s full merger with Ashurst LLP in 2013. Mary spent a number of years in the UK with boutique firm Bristows, and as resident partner of Ashurst Australia. She has undertaken intellectual governance property work for Australian and multinational corporations in a range of technology areas and has extensive international, legal and governance experience. Mary Padbury Committees: Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee. Non-Executive Director Other Directorships and interests: Trans-Tasman IP Attorneys Board (Chairman), The Macfarlane Resident of Victoria. Age 59. Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health Ltd, Chief Executive Women (Member) and Victorian Legal Admissions Committee (Member). Qualifications: BA LLB (Hons) (Melb), GAICD. Directors’ report Wendy has been a Director since March 2015. She was Senior Managing Director, Technology – Asia Pacific for Accenture Ltd from 2012 until June 2014. Her career at Accenture spanned some 32 years in which she held various senior positions, including Global Managing Director, Technology Quality & Risk Management, Global Managing Director, Outsourcing Quality & Risk Management and Director of Operations, Asia Pacific. She also served on Accenture’s Global Leadership Council from 2008 until her retirement. Committees: Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee. Wendy Stops Other Directorships and interests: Altium Ltd, Fitted For Work Ltd, University of Melbourne Non-Executive Director (Council Member) and Chief Executive Women (Member). Financial Resident of Victoria. Age 57. Qualifications: BAppSc (Information Technology), GAICD. report Anne has been a Director since March 2018. She is an experienced listed company Non-Executive Director, currently serving on the boards of GUD Holdings Ltd, The Citadel Group Ltd and WorleyParsons Ltd. She is the former Chairman of the Commonwealth Bank’s financial advice companies and is a former Director of Cuscal Ltd, HT&E Limited, Pioneer Credit Ltd, TAL Superannuation Fund, and HBF’s private health and general insurance companies. Anne had a 30-year executive career developing deep operational risk, governance and strategy experience. Early in her Other career she held audit and accounting roles with Price Waterhouse working in Australia and overseas. She gained experience in corporate banking with Bank of Singapore and then Westpac Banking Anne Templeman-Jones information Corporation, and in private banking with Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Anne returned Non-Executive Director to Westpac in 2007 and went on to hold various senior management positions in private banking, risk Resident of NSW. Age 57. and strategy until 2013. She has served as a Chair or member of audit and risk committees on current and past boards. Committee: Audit Committee. Other Directorships and interests: GUD Holdings Ltd, The Citadel Group Ltd and WorleyParsons Ltd. Qualifications: BCom (UWA), EMBA (AGSM), MRM (UNSW), CA, FAICD. Rob has been a Director since September 2017. He has significant banking and finance and senior management experience in the private and public sectors. He is a Director of NSW Treasury Corporation and was previously its Chairman. He is a former Secretary of NSW Treasury and NSW Industrial Relations. Prior to NSW Treasury, Rob had a 30-year career with Westpac Banking Corporation and held various senior management positions there, including Chief Executive Officer of the Institutional Bank, Chief Risk Officer, Group Treasurer and Chairman of the Asia Advisory Board. At Westpac, Rob developed a deep knowledge of equity and capital markets and was instrumental in developing Westpac’s risk management function and strategies. Rob is a former Deputy Chair of the Rob Whitfield Australian Financial Markets Association. Non-Executive Director Committees: Risk Committee and Nominations Committee. Resident of NSW. Age 53. Other Directorships and interests: NSW Treasury Corporation. Qualifications: BCom (UNSW), Grad Dip Banking, Grad Dip Fin, AMP (HBS), SF Fin, FAICD. 83 Corporate governance Our Executive Leadership Team Adam was appointed Group Executive, Business and Private Banking in January 2015. He has responsibility for Business Banking, Private Banking, CommSec and Bankwest. He joined the Group in 2004 and was the Chief Information Officer for the Retail Banking and Business Banking divisions during the Core Banking Modernisation project. He joined the Business and Private Banking Leadership Team in 2009, serving as Executive General Manager of Local Business Banking from 2012 to 2014. Prior to joining the Group, Adam was Principal at strategic consulting practice A.T. Kearney, working Adam Bennett across industries in Australia, New Zealand, Asia, and Europe. He also previously worked as a Group Executive, consultant at Ernst & Young. Business and Private Banking David commenced as Group Chief Risk Officer in July 2016. In this role he provides leadership to ensure effective risk management and risk governance across the Group. David joined the Group in June 2008 as Group General Counsel and took on the role of leading Group Corporate Affairs in early 2012 with responsibility for advising the CEO and Board on legal matters and leading the Group’s legal team, and for the Group’s external and internal affairs, communications, sustainability and corporate governance. Previously David was General Counsel of AMP and a partner with Allens Arthur Robinson for David Cohen (1) 12 years. Group Chief Risk Officer(2) George was appointed Acting Group Executive, Institutional Banking and Markets in May 2018. The Institutional Banking and Markets division is responsible for global relationships with corporate, government and institutional clients, and provides a full range of financial services solutions across financial and capital markets, transaction banking, working capital and risk management. George joined the Commonwealth Bank in 1997 and has held a variety of senior leadership roles in business and institutional banking, including Executive General Manager of Business & Corporate Finance and Executive General Manager of Global Markets. George is an Associate Member of George Confos the Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand and a Graduate of the Australian Institute Acting Group Executive, of Company Directors. Institutional Banking and Markets (3) Alan was appointed Acting Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer in May 2018. He is responsible for the overall financial functions of the Group. Alan joined Commonwealth Bank in 2003 and has held a variety of senior finance roles in Group Finance, Group Treasury and Business and Private Banking before serving as Chief Financial Officer of the Institutional Banking and Markets division. Prior to joining the Group, Alan worked in PwC’s Financial Services practice in the United Kingdom, and with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young in Australia. Alan is a Member of the Institute of Alan Docherty Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Acting Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer Coen was appointed Group Executive, International Financial Services in July 2017. He is responsible for the Group’s emerging markets retail, SME banking and life insurance businesses outside Australia and New Zealand. Previously, Coen was the Executive General Manager responsible for the digital banking strategy across South Africa, Indonesia, India, Vietnam, China and Hong Kong. Prior to joining the Group, Coen was the co-founder and CEO of TYME (Take Your Money Everywhere) – a South African fintech start-up that Commonwealth Bank acquired in 2015. He has served on the Executive Committee of Nedcor Investment Bank, and as Director of Inclusive Banking at Standard Coenraad (Coen) Jonker Bank South Africa. Coen has also acted as advisor to the Gates Foundation and lectured in Corporate Group Executive, International Governance & Ethics and Emerging Markets at the Gordon Institution of Business Science. Financial Services (1) On 5 November 2018, David Cohen will assume the role of Deputy Chief Executive Officer. (2) On 5 November 2018, Nigel Williams will assume the role of Group Chief Risk Officer. (3) On 1 August 2018, Andrew Hinchliff assumed the role of Group Executive, Institutional Banking and Markets. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 84 Annual Report 2018 Corporate Our Executive governance Leadership Team Strategic report Melanie joined Commonwealth Bank in February 2012 as Group Executive, Human Resources with responsibility for all of the Group’s HR functions. She has a strong and diverse background leading HR functions for large companies, and has headed global and regional HR functions for several multinational and ASX listed organisations. Prior to joining the Group, Melanie was Executive General Manager, People & Culture at Origin Energy and held executive HR leadership roles with Unisys Asia Pacific, Vodafone Asia Pacific and the General Re Corporation. She is a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and the Australian Performance Melanie Laing (1) Human Resources Institute, and a member of Chief Executive Women. Group Executive, Human Resources (2) overview Anna joined Commonwealth Bank in November 2016 as Group General Counsel and Group Executive, Group Corporate Affairs. She leads the Group’s Legal, Secretariat and Corporate Affairs teams. She advises the CEO and the Board on legal matters and is also responsible for delivering an integrated and consistent approach to the Group’s external and internal affairs, communications, sustainability and corporate governance. Corporate Prior to joining the Group, Anna was the Chief Risk and Legal Officer at Suncorp Group, having joined Suncorp in 2011 as Group General Counsel and Company Secretary. Previously she was a governance Anna Lenahan Corporate Partner at Allens Arthur Robinson (now Allens Linklaters) and a crown prosecutor with the Group General Counsel and Department of Public Prosecutions in Perth. Anna is a member of the GC100 (Australia) and Chief Group Executive, Group Executive Women. Corporate Affairs Paul is the Acting Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer. Appointed to this role in April 2018, he leads the Enterprise Services division which is responsible for all banking operations and technology across the organisation. Directors’ Paul joined Commonwealth Bank in 2012 as Executive General Manager of Group Operations where he was accountable for all banking operations across Commonwealth Bank. Paul has more than 30 report years’ experience in banking and is an operations and technology professional, having held senior executive roles at some of the most well-known banks in Australia. Paul Newham Acting Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer(3) Vittoria was appointed Chief Executive and Managing Director of ASB, the Group’s New Zealand Financial subsidiary in February 2018. report Vittoria joined the Commonwealth Bank in 2002 and gained experience in leadership roles across the retail banking businesses of Commonwealth Bank and Bankwest, including customer-facing, operations and strategy roles such as the Commonwealth Bank’s Chief Marketing Officer and Chief Executive Retail Bankwest. In 2015, Vittoria was appointed Group Executive, Marketing and Strategy. In this role Vittoria was responsible for the Group’s Corporate Strategy, Mergers and Acquisitions, Advanced Vittoria Shortt Analytics, Customer Advocacy and Marketing. Vittoria’s career initially began in New Zealand, working Chief Executive and in Corporate Finance and Mergers and Acquisitions with Deloitte and Carter Holt Harvey. Managing Director, ASB Other information Angus was appointed Acting Group Executive, Retail Banking Services in April 2018. He is responsible for the Group’s retail banking operations which serves a customer base of over 10 million customers. Angus joined Commonwealth Bank in 2012 as Executive General Manager of Group Strategy. In 2013, Angus moved across to Retail Banking Services where he held a number of senior roles including Executive General Manager of Credit Cards & Payments, Executive General Manager of Retail Products and Executive General Manager of Retail Sales & Service with responsibility for leading the Group’s branch network. Angus Sullivan Prior to joining Commonwealth Bank, Angus was a Partner at McKinsey & Co. in New York, Acting Group Executive, specialising in retail and commercial banking, wealth management, payments and general insurance. Retail Banking Services (4) Michael was appointed Chief Operating Officer, Wealth Management in January 2018. He is responsible for Colonial First State, Colonial First State Global Asset Management, Wealth Management Advice and Commlnsure. He is also a Director of a number of Group subsidiaries, including the CommInsure entities and a number of the Group’s international investments. Michael joined the Group in 2004 and has held a number of positions including Chief Financial Officer Wealth Management, Chief Financial Officer International Financial Services, and Group Deputy Chief Financial Officer. He previously held positions at AMP and Nedcor Bank. Michael is a Member of Michael Venter Chartered Accountants Australia & New Zealand. Chief Operating Officer, Wealth Management (1) On 31 July 2018, Melanie Laing retired. (2) On 1 August 2018, Sian Lewis assumed the role of Group Executive, Human Resources. (3) On 1 October 2018, Pascal Boillat will assume the role of Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer. (4) On 1 July 2018, Angus Sullivan assumed the role of Group Executive, Retail Banking Services. 85 Corporate Our approach governance to governance Our approach Governance overview to governance s F r a me l icie w or The Board acknowledges the Po k governance shortcomings identified Ri sk s Re by the APRA Prudential Inquiry and va l ue m me an is committed to making the changes dia re and ltu ag Cu l Ac needed for a more accountable en Pu rp o s e Board em t i on P l a n Committees and customer-focused culture t and enhanced risk management. CEO During the year, the Board’s governance priorities were: rs Cu ld e • undertaking board renewal, supported by a refreshed board skills matrix sto ho re rs m Stak ha e • overseeing succession of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) e holders S Co and renewal of the Executive Leadership Team mm le u niti e s eop O ur p • clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the Board, Board Committees and management • continuing to review Board governance arrangements and documents, and commencing simplification of our policy framework • reviewing the Bank’s strategy and evolution of purpose and values • working with our regulators, including supporting an Corporate Governance Statement extensive APRA Prudential Inquiry into the governance, culture and accountability of the Bank Our Corporate Governance Statement describes the key elements of our governance framework • reviewing the findings of the APRA Prudential Inquiry and and highlights key actions taken during the financial overseeing the development of a Remedial Action Plan year to enhance the framework. It can be viewed at to strengthen the Bank’s culture, governance and risk commbank.com.au/corporategovernance. management • enhancing our senior executive remuneration and governance framework • demonstrating and reinforcing accountability through remuneration consequences for the poor customer and risk outcomes that have occurred • overseeing improvements to IT systems resilience • resolving the civil proceedings commenced by the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) in August 2017 for alleged breaches of the antimoney laundering and counter-terrorism financing (AML/CTF) law. A summary of how we are reshaping our culture, strengthening risk management, engaging with stakeholders and enhancing the Board’s effectiveness follows. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 86 Annual Report 2018 Corporate Areas of focus governance Strategic report Areas of focus Policies Our policies play a central role in setting decision-making rights and conduct expectations across the Bank and Culture its controlled entities (Group). We are strengthening the We are focused on shaping a more accountable culture governance of our policies, as well as making them simpler and easier to understand. An evolved Group Code of Conduct Performance that not only supports achievement of our business strategies, but also drives decisions that are lawful, ethical will be launched in the coming months and will outline and responsible, and that lead to better customer and how we are to act, solve problems and make decisions. risk outcomes. We know that community confidence in Details on key policies imposing conduct standards overview us depends on this. are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement, The Board recognises that, together with management, which is available on our website commbank.com.au/ it has a critical role in setting the cultural tone of the Bank. corporategovernance. The Board seeks to guide the Bank’s culture through the CEO and oversight of risk, remuneration and governance Risk management Corporate frameworks, policies and processes. We are committed to having robust and effective risk governance Purpose and values management policies, processes and practices that support a high standard of governance. Recent leadership actions aimed at reshaping our culture include: Framework • evolving our corporate vision to a simple purpose statement Our risk management framework (RMF) allows the Group that makes it easier for our people to connect their daily to manage risks within a Board-approved risk appetite. work with what we are trying to achieve as a bank Directors’ The RMF incorporates the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, • more clearly setting out the values that are to guide us as Risk Management Approach and Business Plan. It is overseen we strive to fulfil this purpose. by the Board with the assistance of the Risk and Audit report Our purpose and values are outlined in Our strategy section Committees. The RMF is regularly reviewed in light of the on pages 13 and 18. evolving risk environment. Remedial Action Plan The APRA Prudential Inquiry Report highlighted that additional Accountability reinforced through improvements are required to risk management, particularly in pay outcomes relation to: Financial • issue identification and escalation report The Board determined that there should be individual and collective accountability for current and former • operational risk and compliance risk management. senior leaders for the findings of the APRA Prudential Inquiry, and the poor customer and risk outcomes that We have committed to implementing all of the Inquiry’s have occurred. recommendations. Addressing the findings of the report is a key focus for the Board and management. The impact of the operation of remuneration frameworks and Board discretion over the 2017 We have a Remedial Action Plan in place to address the Other and 2018 financial years has been a reduction in 35 recommendations outlined in the report. The plan was remuneration outcomes across the Group of an endorsed by APRA on 29 June 2018. We have already made information amount exceeding $100m, with the most senior progress in executing against the plan, including by: leaders within the organisation being held most • establishing a new management committee for oversight accountable. These remuneration outcomes include of non-financial risks the actions taken by the Board in August 2017 to reduce Non-Executive Director fees by an amount • elevating the stature of our compliance function by making equal to 20% of their individual fees for the previous the Executive General Manager of Compliance a member financial year, and the reduction to zero of the 2017 of management’s newly formed Non-Financial Risk financial year short-term variable remuneration for Committee, by making that executive’s appointment and Group Executives. removal subject to approval by the Risk Committee, and by ensuring they have direct access to the Board and Risk Details of the remuneration paid to the Board and Committee. Group Executives during the year are set out on pages 96 to 119. For more on our response to the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report refer to page 10. 87 Corporate Areas of focus governance Stakeholders Roles and responsibilities We engage with stakeholders to: The roles, responsibilities and accountabilities of the Board, Board Committees and management were clarified during • listen, understand and respond to their perspectives and the year through: expectations, and ensure the broader business hears these perspectives • updated Board and Board Committee charters • utilise insights from engaging with them to understand risks • accountability statements prepared for Director and senior and opportunities, and to inform operational and strategic management roles in line with the requirements of the new improvements. Banking Executive Accountability Regime (BEAR).(1) Further detail on our stakeholder engagement is available on A summary of these roles follows. pages 28 and 29. The Board Customers The Board is responsible for: We are working to fulfil our purpose to improve the financial • appointing the CEO wellbeing of our customers. Key to this is engagement with • setting the strategic objectives of the Bank with input from our customers. We do this in numerous ways, including management through customer feedback and complaint channels, surveys • overseeing the management, performance, remuneration and workshops, customer representative bodies, and external and governance frameworks of the Group. dispute resolution bodies. Additionally, we have a Customer Advocate to champion fairness for customers. Board Committees Community The Board has four principal Committees that assist it in carrying out its responsibilities. These are the: We engage with community organisations and members through direct and indirect channels, including external • Audit Committee advisory panels, industry memberships, meetings and • Nominations Committee support of events and summits. • Remuneration Committee Our people • Risk Committee We are committed to: The roles and responsibilities of the Committees are described in Board-approved charters, which are available on • building a more inclusive and diverse culture our website commbank.com.au/corporategovernance. The • supporting flexible work practices key responsibilities of the Board Committees are summarised in our Corporate Governance Statement commbank.com.au/ • rewarding our people responsibly. corporategovernance. During the year we launched our 2018+ Global Diversity and The Board also convenes ad hoc Committees for special Inclusion Strategy. We are tracking well against our gender purpose business from time to time to support the Board in and cultural diversity in leadership targets. For more on our carrying out its responsibilities. approach to diversity and inclusion refer to page 39. In August 2017, the Board established the Financial Crimes For a summary of the governance arrangements, policies and Review Committee (FCRC). The members of the FCRC were practices for director and senior executive remuneration refer Mary Padbury (Chair), Shirish Apte, Catherine Livingstone AO to pages 103 to 110. and Brian Long. The Committee’s responsibilities included overseeing the response to the AUSTRAC proceedings, and Shareholders the Program of Action to uplift the Bank’s AML/CTF processes We seek to provide shareholders with information that is and controls. It met 20 times during the year. Following the timely, of high quality and relevant to their investment, and resolution of the AUSTRAC proceedings, the FCRC was to listen and respond to shareholder feedback. dissolved and the Risk Committee assumed responsibility for the continuing oversight of the Program of Action. We have an investor relations program to facilitate two-way communication with shareholders and to foster participation The CEO at shareholder meetings. The Board has delegated the management of the Bank to the CEO, except for any specific powers reserved by the Board, or delegated to its Committees or to an individual Director. The CEO may make all decisions and take any action necessary to manage the Bank. We have a delegations framework through which the authority and responsibility for decision-making conferred by the Board on the CEO cascades to senior executives and then throughout the Group. The CEO is accountable to the Board for the exercise of the delegated powers and management’s performance as articulated in the Board charter. (1) The BEAR was introduced by the Treasury Laws Amendment (Banking Executive Accountability and Related Measures) Act 2018 (Cth) and imposes accountability, remuneration, key personnel and notification obligations on Authorised Deposit-taking Institutions and persons in director and senior executive roles. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 88 Annual Report 2018 Corporate Areas of focus governance Strategic report Board effectiveness CEO succession The Board periodically reviews its governance arrangements Appointing the CEO is one of the Board’s most to reflect the Bank’s changing environment. This year, important functions. In January 2018, the Board the Board has been particularly focused on refining its announced that Matt Comyn would replace Ian composition, policies and practices in light of the challenges Performance Narev as CEO of the Bank effective 9 April. Ian had and opportunities highlighted in the recent regulatory, legal announced his intention to retire in August 2017, and industry reviews. overview after more than six years in the role. Board composition The Board undertook an extensive and thorough recruitment process in selecting the CEO, including The Board’s approach to its composition and renewal a global and local candidate search. In assessing emphasises the need for: candidates, the Board was focused on: • Skills, expertise and experience: The Board seeks to have • maintaining the momentum in the business an appropriate mix of skills, expertise and experience to enable it to deal with current and emerging opportunities Corporate • addressing the regulatory and reputational challenges and issues, and to effectively review and challenge the and recognising evolving community expectations performance of management. • transforming the Bank and adapting the organisational • Independence: The Board considers that all of its governance capability and culture to suit the rapidly evolving Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, competitive and technology-centric environment. were independent during the year and continue to be Following the rigorous recruitment process, the Board independent. concluded that Matt Comyn had the best mix of • Diversity: The Board has a gender diversity objective skills, attributes and values needed to lead the Bank of 40% female representation by 2020. The Board first met through our current challenges to become a simpler, Directors’ this objective in 2017 and continues to meet it. better bank. • Tenure: The Board balances longer-serving Directors with a deep knowledge of the Bank’s operations and history, report and newer Directors with fresh perspectives. Board skills matrix Financial acumen Proficiency in financial accounting and reporting, capital 9 out of 10 management and/or actuarial experience Financial report Legal expertise Skills and expertise Proven ability and understanding in the application of legal 1 out of 10 principles Technology 5 out of 10 Experience in technology strategies and innovation Other Strategy Demonstrated experience in developing, implementing and 9 out of 10 information delivering strategic business objectives Risk management Proven ability in identifying, assessing and managing macro, 10 out of 10 strategic, operational and financial risks Financial services experience 8 out of 10 Experience in banking, as relevant to CBA, and financial regulation Listed company experience Experience as a non-executive director of at least two other listed 5 out of 10 entities (Australia or overseas) Experience Leadership Held CEO or similar position in an organisation of significant size 9 out of 10 Global perspective Having a global perspective through exposure or responsibility 9 out of 10 for international operations Stakeholder engagement Demonstrated ability to build and maintain key relationships with 8 out of 10 industry, government or regulators 89 Corporate Areas of focus governance Board composition Independence Gender Tenure 1 1 3  Independent Female 2  0 -1 year 6 4  CEO Male  1-4 years 9 4  4-10 years  10+ years Board renewal This year the Board undertook an internal evaluation to consider, among other things: The Board has succession plans to facilitate the orderly transition of Directors. During the year, the Board underwent • the respective roles and responsibilities of the Board and extensive renewal, with a focus on skills and expertise in its Committees the areas of banking and risk management. Long-serving • whether matters raised in the APRA Prudential Inquiry Directors Launa Inman and Harrison Young retired in 2017, Report were being addressed and Andrew Mohl and Brian Long are due to retire at the 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM). Rob Whitfield and • the adequacy of the Board’s processes Anne Templeman-Jones were appointed to the Board during the year. • the sufficiency of management’s reporting to the Board To assist in succession planning, the Board uses a skills • the robustness of Director discussion and challenge matrix to assess its compositional needs. The Board’s skills of management. matrix was revised this year with strategy, risk management and stakeholder engagement competencies added to the Board governance matrix together with competency descriptions. The updated During the year, key Board governance arrangements and skills matrix and the collective skills, expertise and experience documents were reviewed and refreshed to ensure they of the Directors on the Board as at 30 June 2018 are depicted remain fit for purpose. Specifically, the review sought to: on the previous page. • clarify the respective roles and responsibilities of the Board, Director induction and continuing development Board Committees and management, and ensure that the division of functions between them continues to be Non-Executive Directors joining the Board participate in a appropriate for the Bank comprehensive induction program. The induction program was refined during the year to reflect the Bank’s dynamic • make the governance documents simpler and more environment. enduring The Board also has a continuing education program for • streamline processes and enhance reporting to the Board Directors to ensure their knowledge of the Bank’s business • reflect the BEAR requirements and the governance operations and the financial services sector remains current. recommendations in APRA’s Prudential Inquiry Report Education sessions were held during the year, with Directors • incorporate developments in market practice. gaining insights and deeper knowledge of the business by participating in cyber security simulation exercises, an The documents reviewed included: interactive exercise in the trading room, and briefing sessions • the charters of the Board and its Committees on the operation of our platforms, new ways of working and IFRS 9. Additionally, the Board visited our cyber security • Board and Committee meeting paper templates centre, and operations in Singapore and Indonesia. The • the Board’s Corporate Governance Guidelines Directors undertook regulatory and business engagements on behalf of the Bank while in these countries. • the Board Appointment, Renewal and Performance Policy Performance reviews • the Appointment Policy for Subsidiary and Other Boards. The Board annually evaluates its performance, and the This year the Board also continued to strengthen its performance of each of its Committees and Directors. oversight of key operating subsidiaries with additional reporting obligations implemented. Performance reviews are facilitated by an external consultant every three years or as otherwise determined by the Board. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 90 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Performance Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report overview governance report report information 91 Directors’ Report Directors’ report The Directors’ Report provides information to assist shareholders to make an informed assessment of the Bank’s principal activities, financial position, operations, business strategies and prospects. The Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia present their report, together with the financial report of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (Bank) and of the Group, being the Bank and its controlled entities, for the year ending 30 June 2018. Principal activities We are one of Australia’s leading providers of integrated financial services, providing retail, business and institutional banking, funds management, superannuation, life insurance, general insurance, broking services and finance company activities. Our operations are conducted primarily in Australia and New Zealand. In addition, we also operate in a number of other countries, including the United Kingdom, the United States, China, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia and South Africa. In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell 100% of our life insurance business in Australia (CommInsure Life) and New Zealand (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA). The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July 2018, resulting in a post tax gain of $102 million (subject to purchase price adjustments to be finalised in September). This has also been reported as a subsequent event. The CommInsure Life sale is expected to be completed in calendar year 2018. The sale agreement also includes a 20-year partnership with AIA to distribute life insurance products to customers in Australia and New Zealand. On 23 May 2018, CBA announced the sale of BoCommLife Insurance Company Limited (BoComm) to Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd. The sale requires approval by the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission. The CBA Board has approved the sale of Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited (“TymeDigital”) to the minority shareholder, African Rainbow Capital. The sale is subject to regulatory approval and potential sale price adjustments. As a result, the financial effect of the sale currently cannot be reliably estimated, however, it is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s results. On 25 June 2018, CBA announced the proposed demerger of its wealth management and mortgage broking businesses (“NewCo”) and the intention to undertake a strategic review of its general insurance business, including a potential sale. Due to the uncertain timing of the completion of the demerger, NewCo is included in continuing operations. On 25 June 2018, when CBA announced the proposed demerger of its wealth management and mortgage broking businesses, CBA’s use of the term “independent” in this announcement was intended to describe the proposed demerger of the businesses and new listing of the demerged businesses on the ASX. These statements were not intended to be representations that any services to be provided by the demerged businesses in the future will be independent from CBA. CBA anticipates that it will continue to have an ongoing relationship with the demerged businesses into the future. Consolidated profit Statutory net profit after tax including discontinued operations for the year ended 30 June 2018 decreased 6% on the prior year to $9,329 million. Statutory net profit after tax from continuing operations for the year ended 30 June 2018 decreased 4% on the prior year to $9,375 million. Both were impacted by a number of one-off items including a $700 million non-tax deductible expense provision for the AUSTRAC civil penalty. Operating income growth was 3% primarily driven by a 5% increase in net interest income, with average interest earning assets increasing 2% from growth in home loans and business loans. Net interest margin increased 5 basis points, largely from the repricing of interest-only and investor home loans in order to manage regulatory benchmarks that limit growth in these products. Operating expense growth was 9%, impacted by a number of one-off items including a $700 million non-tax deductible expense provision for the AUSTRAC civil penalty and $155 million of regulatory costs associated with the Royal Commission, the AUSTRAC proceedings and the APRA Prudential Inquiry. Operating expense growth was also impacted by higher risk and compliance costs, relocation costs of a number of offices to a single location, and the impairment of certain capitalised software assets. Loan losses reduced by $16 million over the year, reflecting the continued benign environment in both the retail and business portfolios, due to low interest rates and low levels of unemployment. Tax expense increased by 4% during the period due to the $700 million civil penalty in the AUSTRAC proceedings being non-deductible for tax purposes. Dividends The Directors have determined a fully franked (at 30%) final dividend of $2.31 cents per share amounting to $4,053 million. The dividend will be payable on 28 September 2018 to shareholders on the register at 5pm AEST on 16 August 2018. Dividends paid in the year ended 30 June 2018 were as follows: Fully franked Total dividend Total dividend Dividend Date paid dividends per share ($million) comprises ($ million) Final Dividend for the year 29 Sept 2017 230 cents $3,979 Cash: $2,406 ended 30 June 2017 DRP: $1,573 Interim Dividend for the year 28 Mar 2018 200 cents $3,505 Cash: $2,969 ended 30 June 2018 DRP: $536 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 92 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Strategic report Review of operations Business strategies and future development An analysis of operations for the financial year is set out in The business strategy and prospects for future financial the Performance Overview section on pages 61 to 80. years are included in the Strategy and Performance section on pages 12 to 27. The material business risks are set out in Changes in state of affairs the Business Risks section on pages 43 to 47. These should Performance be read in conjunction with Notes 9.1 to 9.4 to the Financial We continue to make progress against each of the key Statements on pages 195 to 224. strategic priorities in pursuit of our purpose to improve the overview financial wellbeing of our customers and communities. Environmental reporting Further to the changes in principal activities referred to above We are subject to the Federal Government’s National there have been no significant changes in the state of affairs Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) scheme. during the financial year. The scheme makes it mandatory for controlling corporations to report annually on greenhouse gas emissions, energy Events subsequent to balance sheet date production and energy consumption, if they exceed certain Corporate We expect the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) for the final threshold levels. The Group has a long history of voluntary dividend for the year ended 30 June 2018 will be satisfied by environmental reporting including Corporate Responsibility governance the issue of shares of approximately $622 million. Reporting and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). As a result, the Group is well placed to meet the On 2 July 2018, we announced the sale of Sovereign, our NGER requirements. New Zealand life insurance business, to AIA. It resulted in a total post gain of $102 million (inclusive of separation costs We are not subject to any other significant environment and subject to final tax calculations and purchase price reporting regulations under the law of the Commonwealth adjustments). or of a State or Territory of Australia. Our Environment Policy is updated to ensure risks are managed appropriately. Directors’ The CBA Board has approved the sale of Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited Directors (“TymeDigital”) to the minority shareholder, African Rainbow report Capital. The sale is subject to regulatory approval and The names of the Directors holding office at any time during potential sale price adjustments. As a result, the financial or since the end of the financial year are: effect of the sale currently cannot be reliably estimated, • Catherine Livingstone AO however, it is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s results. • Matt Comyn (appointed as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer on 9 April 2018) The Directors are not aware of any other matter or circumstance that has occurred since the end of the financial • Shirish Apte Financial year that has significantly affected or may significantly affect the operations of the Group, the results of those operations or • Sir David Higgins report the state of affairs of the Group in subsequent financial years. • Brian Long • Andrew Mohl • Mary Padbury • Wendy Stops Other • Anne Templeman-Jones (appointed 5 March 2018) information • Rob Whitfield (appointed 4 September 2017) • Ian Narev (retired as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer on 8 April 2018) • Launa Inman (retired 16 November 2017) • Harrison Young (retired 16 November 2017) Details of current Directors, their experience, qualifications and any special responsibilities, including Committee memberships, are set out on pages 82, 83 and 88. 93 Directors’ report Other directorships The Directors held the following directorships in other Australian listed companies in the three years prior to the end of the 2018 financial year: Retirement date Director Company Appointment dates (if applicable) Catherine Livingstone AO WorleyParsons Limited 01/07/2007 Telstra Corporation Ltd 17/11/2000 27/04/2016 Launa Inman Bellamy’s Australia Limited 18/02/2015 28/02/2017 Super Retail Group Limited 21/10/2015 Brian Long Brambles Limited 01/07/2014 OneMarket Limited 07/06/2018 Ten Network Holdings Limited 01/07/2010 25/07/2016 Wendy Stops Altium Limited 01/02/2018 Anne Templeman-Jones WorleyParsons Limited 01/11/2017 The Citadel Group Limited 08/09/2017 G.U.D. Holdings Limited 01/08/2015 Pioneer Credit Limited 23/09/2014 07/11/2016 HT&E Limited 04/06/2013 14/05/2018 Directors’ meetings The number of Board and standing Board Committee meetings held during the financial year that each Director was eligible to attend, and the number of meetings attended by each Director, were: Board Committees (1) Scheduled Unscheduled Risk (2) Audit (2) Remuneration (2) Nominations Meetings Meetings Held (3) Attended Held (3) Attended Held (3) Attended Held (3) Attended Held (3) Attended Held (3) Attended Director Catherine Livingstone AO 10 10 17 17 10 10 9 9 15 15 13 13 Matt Comyn (4) 2 2 7 7 – – – – – – – – Shirish Apte 10 10 17 15 10 10 9 9 – – – – Sir David Higgins 10 10 17 17 10 10 – – 15 15 – – Brian Long 10 10 17 16 10 10 9 9 – – 13 13 Andrew Mohl 10 10 17 17 10 10 – – 15 15 – – Mary Padbury 10 10 17 17 – – – – 15 15 13 13 Wendy Stops (5) 10 10 17 16 – – 7 7 15 14 – – Anne Templeman-Jones (6) 3 3 8 7 – – 2 2 – – – – Rob Whitfield (7) 8 8 15 15 8 8 – – – – 7 7 Ian Narev (8) 8 8 10 3 (9) – – – – – – – – Launa Inman (10) 5 5 2 2 – – 2 2 4 4 – – Harrison Young (11) 5 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 – – 6 6 (1) The Board also establishes ad hoc Committees for special purpose business from time to time to support the Board in carrying out its responsibilities. (2) A meeting of the Risk, Audit and Remuneration Committees held concurrently has been counted as an additional meeting of each Committee. (3) The number of scheduled and unscheduled meetings held during the time the Director was a member of the Board or of the relevant Committee. (4) Matt Comyn was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer effective 9 April 2018. (5) Wendy Stops was appointed a member of the Audit Committee effective 1 November 2017. (6) Anne Templeman-Jones was appointed a member of the Board effective 5 March 2018 and the Audit Committee effective 6 June 2018. (7) Rob Whitfield was appointed a member of the Board effective 4 September 2017 and the Risk and Nominations Committees effective 1 November 2017. (8) Ian Narev retired as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer effective 8 April 2018. (9) Ian Narev had a material personal interest in the substantive matters discussed during unscheduled meetings and was not present. (10) Launa Inman retired from the Audit and Remuneration Committees effective 1 November 2017 and the Board effective 16 November 2017. (11) Harrison Young retired from the Audit, Risk and Nominations Committees effective 1 November 2017 and the Board effective 16 November 2017. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 94 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Strategic report Directors’ shareholdings and options Insurance Particulars of shares held by Directors including the Chief The Bank has, during the financial year, paid an insurance Executive Officer (CEO), in the Bank or in a related body premium in respect of a Directors’ and Officers’ liability and corporate are set out in the Remuneration Report that forms company reimbursement insurance policy for the benefit part of this report. No options have been granted to the of the Bank and persons defined in the insurance policy Directors, including the CEO, during the period. who include Directors, Company Secretaries, Officers and Performance certain employees of the Bank and related bodies corporate. The insurance is appropriate pursuant to section 199B of Options and share rights outstanding overview the Corporations Act 2001. In accordance with commercial As at the date of this report there are no employee options practice, the insurance policy prohibits disclosure of the terms and 1,946,793 share rights outstanding in relation to Bank of the policy, including the nature of the liability insured against ordinary shares. and the amount of the premium. Directors’ and officers’ indemnity Proceedings on behalf of the Bank and insurance No application has been made under section 237 of the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of the Bank, and there are Corporate Constitution no proceedings that a person has brought or intervened in on The Directors, as named on page 93 of this report, and the behalf of the Bank under that section. governance Company Secretaries of the Bank, referred to below, are indemnified under the Constitution of the Commonwealth Rounding and presentation of amounts Bank of Australia (Constitution), as are all senior managers of the Bank. Unless otherwise indicated, the Bank has rounded off amounts in this Directors’ Report and the accompanying The indemnity extends to such other officers, employees, financial statements to the nearest million dollars in former officers or former employees of the Bank, or of its Directors’ accordance with ASIC Corporations Instrument 2016/191. related bodies corporate, as the Directors in each case The financial information included in this Annual Report has report determine (each, including the Directors and Company Secretaries, is defined as an “Officer” for the purpose of this been prepared and presented in accordance with Australian section). Accounting Standards, unless otherwise indicated. This ensures compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards. The Officers are indemnified on a full indemnity basis and to the full extent permitted by law against all losses, liabilities, The Group manages its business performance using a “cash costs, charges and expenses incurred by the Officer as an basis” profit measure. The key items that are excluded from Officer of the Bank or of a related body corporate. statutory profit for this purpose are non-recurring or not considered representative of the Group’s ongoing financial Deeds of indemnity performance. Profit on an “underlying basis” is used primarily Financial Deeds of indemnity, which include indemnification in in the Wealth Management businesses. It provides a profit report substantially the same terms to that provided in the measure that excludes both the volatility of equity markets Constitution, have been executed by the Bank in favour on shareholder funds and the mark to market revaluations of each Director of the Bank. on the Guaranteed Annuity portfolio for a measure of core operating performance. An Indemnity Deed Poll, which includes indemnification in substantially the same terms to that provided in the Company secretaries Constitution, has been executed by the Bank in favour Details of the Bank’s Company Secretaries, including their Other of each: experience and qualifications, follow. • company secretary and senior manager of the Bank Taryn Morton was appointed Group Company Secretary information • Director, secretary or senior manager of a related body of the Bank in October 2015. She has over 19 years of corporate of the Bank combined corporate governance, company secretarial and • person who, at the prior formal request of the Bank or legal experience. Prior to the Bank, she was with Insurance a related body corporate, acts as Director, secretary or Australia Group and before that held the role of Company senior manager of a body corporate which is not a related Secretary of Qantas Airways, where she was also a Director body corporate of the Bank (in which case the indemnity of Qantas subsidiaries. Her earlier governance roles were at operates only in excess of protection provided by that Babcock & Brown, Ten Network Holdings and Ashurst. She body corporate) holds Bachelor degrees in Arts and Law and is a Fellow of the Governance Institute of Australia. • person who, at the request of a related body corporate of the Bank, acts as a member of the compliance committee Clare McManus was appointed a Company Secretary of of a registered scheme for which the related body corporate the Bank in February 2017. She was previously the Deputy of the Bank is the responsible entity. Company Secretary and Corporate Counsel at WorleyParsons and prior to that an Associate Director of Macquarie Group In the case of a partly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, where a and a Senior Associate at MinterEllison. She holds a Bachelor Director, company secretary or a senior manager of that entity of Laws (Hons), Bachelor of Commerce, Diploma of Modern is a nominee of an entity which is not a related body corporate Languages (Mandarin) and Graduate Diploma in Applied of the Bank, the Indemnity Deed Poll will not apply to that Corporate Governance. person unless the Bank’s CEO has certified that the indemnity will apply to that person. 95 Directors’ report Remuneration report Remuneration report The report has been prepared and audited against the disclosure requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). Message from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Reflecting consideration of individual and collective accountability for the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings, the Board exercised its discretion to: • reduce 2018 financial year STVR payments of current and former Group Executives by 20%; • lapse a portion of the unvested deferred STVR awards for approximately 400 current and former Executive General Sir David Higgins Managers and General Managers; and Remuneration Committee Chairman • forfeit the full amount of unvested LTVR awards of select former Group Executives. Dear Shareholder, The Board applied further negative STVR adjustments to Thank you for your valued feedback on our remuneration current and former Group Executives relating to individual framework and practices. We continue to listen to all our risk matters, separate to the APRA Prudential Inquiry stakeholders and have taken material steps to further Report findings. strengthen Board governance and the operation of The total impact for all employees of the operation of the remuneration frameworks. In the 2018 financial year, individual remuneration framework and exercise of Board discretion executive remuneration has been reduced in accordance over the 2017 and 2018 financial years has been a reduction with measurable performance and as a result of the Board in remuneration outcomes exceeding $100m. This includes exercising discretion. the Board’s action in August 2017 to reduce Non-Executive These remuneration outcomes have been facilitated by the Director fees, and reduce to zero the STVR for Group support of shareholders for the significant changes made Executives for the 2017 financial year. to our remuneration framework at the 2017 Annual General In making these decisions, the Committee and Board Meeting. Those changes included enhancements to the risk were determined to address fully, past performance issues and reputation review process. identified for former and current Executives, and focus their The most senior executives have been held accountable for efforts on becoming a stronger, better bank. the Bank’s performance over the past year. This includes former Executives. Changing Executives New appointments to the Executive Leadership Team provide Executive pay outcomes for our current and former a balance between external experience and knowledge of Executives have been directly impacted by the AUSTRAC the Group. These appointments reflect the Board’s continual settlement and the findings of the Australian Prudential scrutiny of our Executives’ ability to cope with complex Regulation Authority’s (APRA) Prudential Inquiry Report into changes, and act on ensuring we have the leadership talent CBA. The Board has also exercised its discretion to adjust and capability as strategy adapts to competitive pressure and downwards individual Executive remuneration outcomes, expectations of performance and behaviour. having regard to other risk and reputation matters. In determining remuneration arrangements for the new In March 2018, the current CEO of his own accord, offered to appointments, the Board considered the individual skills and forgo his 2018 financial year short-term variable remuneration experience that each Executive brings, internal and external (STVR) award, which the Board accepted. market comparators, our emphasis on delivering customer In addition, the Board and the former CEO agreed that he will service and sustainable value, and community expectations. not receive his 2018 financial year STVR award or any of his unvested long-term variable remuneration (LTVR) awards. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 96 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report We are committed to improving our remuneration practices. We have made Performance and are continuing to make changes to our remuneration practices to better align with and support our customers, our community, our people overview and our shareholders. Specifically, for the new Group Chief Risk Officer, the Board has had regard for the comments of the APRA Prudential The Remuneration Committee is the governing Corporate Inquiry Report and ensured the remuneration mix supports body for remuneration across the Group. During independence. the 2018 financial year, its key focus areas were: Remuneration arrangements for the internal appointments • enhancing remuneration and risk governance governance have been set at or below the level of previous incumbents. and frameworks The Group’s remuneration framework has supported the • setting remuneration for newly appointed Executives Board and the Committee’s judgements and decisionmaking. The outcomes demonstrate a robust, quantitative • determining termination arrangements for departing and rigorous approach which reinforces both individual and Executives collective accountability. Directors’ • implementing remuneration changes to align with the I invite you to review the full report, and thank you for Banking Executive Accountability Regime (BEAR) your interest. report • developing the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report’s remuneration-related remediation plan and agreeing key milestones • assessing remuneration outcomes reflecting all elements of performance, assisted by the Audit and Risk Committees. Financial Sir David Higgins We also made substantive changes to the way our Remuneration Committee Chairman retail customer-facing roles and their leaders are report recognised and rewarded, effective 1 July 2018: • limiting the weighting of any financial measures to 30% of a balanced scorecard • removal of high-risk features such as accelerators • rewarding tellers based on customer feedback and Other leader observations information • introducing net promoter score (NPS) to support customer centricity. The Remuneration Committee’s priorities and key actions for the 2019 financial year are: • completing all of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report’s agreed 2019 financial year remunerationrelated milestones • further enhancing frameworks and governance in relation to remuneration consequences for risk, reputation and conduct outcomes • undertaking a comprehensive review of the Executive remuneration strategy and framework. 97 Directors’ report Remuneration report Key remuneration outcomes CEO target remuneration on appointment Matt Comyn’s fixed and total target remuneration is 17% reduction in total approximately 17% lower than the former CEO’s fixed $10.07M target remuneration and total target remuneration. $8.36M In setting the CEO’s remuneration we took into account the $4.77M remuneration of market peers, as well as broader stakeholder and community expectations. 74% variable $3.96M $2.65M remuneration $2.20M Fixed remuneration $2.65M $2.20M Target STVR Maximum face value LTVR Former CEO – Ian Narev Current CEO – Matt Comyn Fixed remuneration (FR) increases For the 2018 financial year: • Due to his change in role, Matt Comyn received an increase to his FR effective from the date of his appointment to CEO. • Two Group Executives received FR increases: • Adam ­ Bennett (5%) due to a significant change in role and portfolio scope • Melanie ­ Laing (2%) to reflect consideration of market remuneration levels. STVR outcomes Overall, performance outcomes against scorecard measures % of maximum STVR are lower than the prior year, largely due to Group financial performance and Group customer NPS outcomes. 2018 2017 financial year financial year In addition, as a consequence of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report’s findings, the Board has resolved to apply a negative CEO – Matt Comyn (1) 0% 0% adjustment of 20% to the 2018 financial year performance Former CEO – Ian Narev (2) 0% 0% scorecard outcomes for each individual Group Executive. This is to reflect collective accountability for the APRA Prudential Group Executives (range) (1) 0% – 38% 0% Inquiry Report findings. Further negative adjustments to STVR outcomes were also made to reflect individual accountability (1) In March 2018, Matt Comyn offered to forgo his 2018 financial year STVR award in both his CEO and Group Executive, Retail Banking Services roles. for other risk and reputation matters separate from the APRA The Board accepted his offer and no STVR was awarded for the 2018 Prudential Inquiry Report findings. financial year. (2) The Board and Ian Narev have agreed he will not receive his 2018 financial Read more page 106 year STVR award. LTVR outcomes The 2015 financial year LTVR award reached the end of its four-year performance period on 30 June 2018 and 23.82% vested as a result of performance against the LTVR hurdles. Read more page 110 Remuneration consequences of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report 2018 financial year remuneration outcomes incorporate consequences for the findings of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report. The Board determined that an approach that predominantly attributed accountability for the findings collectively was most appropriate, with a number of senior executives also being held accountable individually. The remuneration consequences determined by the Board that were applied are as follows: • Current CEO and Group Executives: The CEO and Group Executives were assessed as Partially Met on risk outcomes with the Board applying a negative risk adjustment of 20% to the 2018 financial year STVR outcomes for each individual. Separately, in March 2018, Matt Comyn offered to forgo his 2018 financial year STVR award and the Board accepted his offer. • Former CEO: The Board and former CEO believe that the CEO has the highest level of accountability of all the Group’s Executives for the findings of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report. Accordingly, the Board and Ian Narev have agreed that he will not receive his 2018 financial year STVR award or any of his unvested LTVR awards. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 98 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report • Former Group Executives: The Board forfeited all unvested LTVR awards for David Craig and Alden Toevs reflecting collective and individual accountability for the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings. The Board forfeited a portion of all unvested deferred STVR awards for current and former Group EGMs and GMs (including Other Executives, defined on page 101). The Board recognises that, as CBA’s most senior governing body, it too is collectively accountable for the trust and reputational Performance issues that prompted the need for the APRA Prudential Inquiry. It announced in August 2017 that Non-Executive Directors’ base and committee fees for the 2018 financial year would be reduced by an amount equivalent to 20% of individual 2017 financial year fees. overview Exit arrangements The table below outlines the exit arrangements for Executives during the 2018 financial year. Further detail is provided in the statutory remuneration table on page 111. Executive (1) Exit arrangement Ian Narev • Employment formally ended after a period of gardening leave (9 Apr 18 to 30 Jun 18) Corporate governance (ceased as KMP • Payment in lieu of balance of notice period (notice commenced 13 Aug 17 so payment in lieu of period from 8 Apr 18) 1 Jul 18 to 12 Aug 18) • Provision of other benefits required by law and agreed legal costs related to termination Kelly Bayer Rosmarin • Employment formally ended after a period of gardening leave (1 May 18 to 30 Jun 18) (ceased as KMP • Payment in lieu of balance of notice period (notice commenced 1 Apr 18 so payment in lieu of period from 30 Apr 18) 1 Jul 18 to 30 Sept 18) • Provision of other benefits required by law, severance payment for past services in accordance with her employment agreement (six months FR) and agreed legal costs related to termination Directors’ Rob Jesudason • Employment formally ended after a period of gardening leave (14 May 18 to 8 Jun 18) report (ceased as KMP • Payment in lieu of balance of notice period (notice commenced 13 May 18 so payment in lieu of period from 13 May 18) 9 Jun 18 to 13 Nov 18) • Provision of other benefits required by law • 50% of Rob’s relocation costs provided in the 2018 financial year were recovered Annabel Spring • Employment formally ended after a period of gardening leave (1 Jan 18 to 30 Jun 18) (ceased as KMP • Provision of other benefits required by law (including 14 weeks’ statutory redundancy pay), severance payment 31 Dec 17) for past service in accordance with her employment agreement (six months FR) and agreed legal costs related Financial report to termination David Whiteing • Employment formally ended after a period of gardening leave (1 May 18 to 30 Jun 18) (ceased as KMP • Payment in lieu of balance of notice period (notice commenced 1 Apr 18 so payment in lieu of period from 30 Apr 18) 1 Jul 18 to 30 Sept 18) • Provision of other benefits required by law, severance payment for past service in accordance with his employment agreement (six months FR) and agreed legal costs related to termination Other (1) Melanie Laing ceased as KMP on 31 Jul 18. Her exit arrangements will be disclosed in the 2019 financial year remuneration report. During their gardening leave periods, each of the Executives were available to assist with handover, provide guidance on matters within their respective scope of responsibility and remained available to perform other reasonable transitional duties as required information by the Bank. Rob Jesudason was not entitled to a 2018 financial year STVR award and all of his unvested LTVR awards were forfeited upon termination of employment. For Kelly Bayer Rosmarin and David Whiteing, any variable remuneration awarded would be treated as follows: • 2018 financial year STVR payment to be determined and paid in normal course of business, subject to performance and risk and reputation review, with 50% paid in cash and remaining 50% deferred as cash in two equal tranches over two years. • Unvested LTVR awards to continue unchanged with performance measured at the end of the performance period related to each award. There is no accelerated or automatic vesting upon ceasing employment. Ian Narev agreed he would not receive a 2018 financial year STVR and agreed he would forfeit all of his unvested LTVR awards. Annabel Spring agreed she would not receive a 2018 financial year STVR. Her LTVR awards will continue unchanged with performance measured at the end of the performance period related to each award. Other awards • No sign-on or retention awards were made to Executives during the 2018 financial year. • While acting in Group Executive roles, George Confos, Alan Docherty and Paul Newham received an additional cash allowance. Angus Sullivan did not receive an additional cash allowance while acting in the Group Executive, Retail Banking Services role. Other Executives did not participate in the LTVR plan during the 2018 financial year. 99 Directors’ report Remuneration report Remuneration received by current Executives during the 2018 financial year The remuneration outcomes table below provides a summary of the remuneration that was received by current Executives in their KMP role during the 2018 financial year. We believe that presenting this information provides shareholders with greater clarity and transparency about Executive remuneration. This differs from the statutory remuneration table on page 111, which presents remuneration in accordance with accounting standards. Remuneration received by current Executives during the financial year ended 30 June 2018: Cash payments a) FR: Base remuneration plus superannuation paid for the period as KMP. For Other Executives (defined on page 101), this includes their acting cash allowance (where applicable). b) Cash STVR: For the CEO and Group Executives the amount is 50% of the 2018 financial year STVR (relates to performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2018). For Other Executives, this represents two-thirds of the 2018 financial year STVR for the relevant period. Vesting of prior d) Deferred cash awards: The value of all deferred cash STVR awards that vested during their period as KMP plus any accrued interest. year awards e) Deferred equity awards: The value of all equity awards that vested during their period as KMP plus any dividends accrued during the vesting period. The value shown is the face value (i.e. based on the volume-weighted average closing price (VWACP) of the Group’s ordinary shares over the five trading days preceding the vesting date). Awards forfeited g) Previous years’ awards forfeited or lapsed: The value of all deferred cash and/or equity awards that were forfeited or lapsed or lapsed during the 2018 financial year. Vesting of prior year awards Previous Total years' awards Total cash Deferred Deferred remuneration forfeited or FR Cash STVR (1) payments cash awards equity awards(2) received lapsed a b c=a+b d e f=c+d+e g CEO Matt Comyn (3) 30 Jun 18 1,315,949 – 1,315,949 – 1,529,923 2,845,872 (653,185) 30 Jun 17 1,055,750 – 1,055,750 667,623 556,427 2,279,800 (1,892,800) Current Executives Adam Bennett 30 Jun 18 1,049,580 225,988 1,275,568 – 280,480 1,556,048 – 30 Jun 17 999,600 – 999,600 566,483 310,626 1,876,709 – David Cohen 30 Jun 18 1,200,000 261,300 1,461,300 – 1,377,033 2,838,333 (587,842) 30 Jun 17 1,200,000 – 1,200,000 541,294 510,966 2,252,260 (1,738,351) George Confos 30 Jun 18 (effective 1 May 18) 137,210 103,417 240,627 – – 240,627 (99,349) Alan Docherty 30 Jun 18 (effective 14 May 18) 98,630 51,966 150,596 – – 150,596 (41,820) Coen Jonker (4) 30 Jun 18 (effective 1 Jul 17) 848,793 202,623 1,051,416 – 52,470 1,103,886 – Melanie Laing 30 Jun 18 861,900 – 861,900 – 1,262,296 2,124,196 (538,855) 30 Jun 17 845,000 – 845,000 494,180 454,251 1,793,431 (1,545,176) Anna Lenahan 30 Jun 18 865,000 249,120 1,114,120 – 260,418 1,374,538 – 30 Jun 17 (effective 26 Nov 16) 509,521 – 509,521 – 859,586 1,369,107 – Paul Newham 30 Jun 18 (effective 1 May 18) 142,054 92,879 234,933 – – 234,933 (78,330) Angus Sullivan 30 Jun 18 (effective 9 Apr 18) 114,909 78,641 193,550 – – 193,550 (67,857) Michael Venter 30 Jun 18 (effective 1 Jan 18) 325,779 271,702 597,481 – – 597,481 (82,258) (1) 2017 financial year STVR awards: The STVR outcomes for the CEO and Group Executives were adjusted downwards to zero, reflecting collective accountability for the overall reputation of the Group and risk matters. (2) Deferred equity awards: For Matt Comyn, David Cohen and Melanie Laing this reflects the portion of the 2014 financial year LTVR award (performance period ended 30 June 2017) that vested during the 2018 financial year. For Adam Bennett and Coen Jonker this reflects the 2014 financial year deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements that vested in 2018 financial year. For Anna Lenahan, this reflects the portion of the sign-on award that vested in the 2018 financial year. (3) Matt Comyn was appointed as CEO effective 9 April 2018. 2018 financial year remuneration reflects his time in both the Group Executive, Retail Banking Services role (1 July 2017 to 8 April 2018) and CEO role (9 April 2018 to 30 June 2018). Prior year comparison reflects remuneration for his prior role, Group Executive, Retail Banking Services. In March 2018, Matt Comyn offered to forgo his 2018 financial year STVR award. The Board accepted his offer and no STVR was awarded for the 2018 financial year. (4) Coen Jonker was appointed as KMP effective 1 July 2017, therefore no prior year comparison is shown. Remuneration was paid in Hong Kong dollars and was impacted by movements in exchange rates. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 100 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report Performance Contents overview 1. Key Management Personnel 102 2. Executive remuneration framework 103 Corporate 3. Performance and remuneration outcomes 104 governance 4. Remuneration governance 110 5. E  xecutive statutory remuneration disclosures 111 6. Non-Executive Director arrangements 116 Directors’ 7. Loans and other transactions 118 report Financial report Definitions This remuneration report details the performance and remuneration of Key Management Personnel (KMP) for the 2018 financial year. KMP is defined as persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an entity, directly or indirectly, including any Director (whether executive or otherwise) of that entity. The following terms are used throughout this report to describe different groups of KMP. Other Term Meaning information CEO Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Executives Collective term referring to the CEO, Group Executives and Other Executives Group Executives Includes all permanent Group Executives (for both business units and support functions) Other Executives Includes Michael Venter (Chief Operating Officer Wealth Management) and all Acting Group Executives Non-Executive Directors KMP who are not Executives 101 Directors’ report Remuneration report 1. Key Management Personnel The table below outlines the Group’s KMP in the financial year ended 30 June 2018. Name Position Term as KMP Chairman Catherine Livingstone AO Chairman Full year Current Non-Executive Directors Shirish Apte Director Full year David Higgins Director Full year Brian Long (1) Director Full year Andrew Mohl (1) Director Full year Mary Padbury Director Full year Wendy Stops Director Full year Anne Templeman-Jones Director (from 5 March 2018) Part year Robert Whitfield Director (from 4 September 2017) Part year Former Non-Executive Directors Launa Inman Director (ceased as KMP on 16 November 2017) Part year Harrison Young Director (ceased as KMP on 16 November 2017) Part year Managing Director and CEO Matt Comyn (2) Managing Director and CEO (from 9 April 2018) Full year Current Executives Adam Bennett Group Executive, Business and Private Banking Full year David Cohen (3) Group Chief Risk Officer Full year George Confos (4) Acting Group Executive, Institutional Banking and Markets (from 1 May 2018) Part year Alan Docherty Acting Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer (from 14 May 2018) Part year Coen Jonker Group Executive, International Financial Services Full year Melanie Laing (3) Group Executive, Human Resources Full year Anna Lenahan Group General Counsel and Group Executive, Group Corporate Affairs Full year Paul Newham (4) Acting Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer Part year (from 1 May 2018) Angus Sullivan (4) Acting Group Executive, Retail Banking Services (from 9 April 2018) Part year Michael Venter Chief Operating Officer Wealth Management (from 1 January 2018) Part year Former Managing Director and CEO Ian Narev Managing Director and CEO (ceased as KMP on 8 April 2018) Part year Former Executives Kelly Bayer Rosmarin Group Executive, Institutional Banking and Markets (ceased as KMP on 30 April 2018) Part year Rob Jesudason Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer Part year (ceased as KMP on 13 May 2018) Vittoria Shortt Group Executive, Marketing and Strategy (ceased as KMP on 2 February 2018) Part year Annabel Spring Group Executive, Wealth Management (ceased as KMP on 31 December 2017) Part year David Whiteing Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer Part year (ceased as KMP on 30 April 2018) (1) Brian Long and Andrew Mohl will cease their duties as Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of the 2018 Annual General Meeting. (2) Matt Comyn was the Group Executive, Retail Banking Services from 1 July 2017 to 8 April 2018 and Managing Director and CEO of the Group from 9 April 2018 to 30 June 2018. (3) Post 30 June 2018, David Cohen has been appointed as Deputy Chief Executive Officer effective 5 November 2018 and Melanie Laing ceased as KMP on 31 July 2018. Nigel Williams has been appointed Group Chief Risk Officer effective 5 November 2018 and Sian Lewis has been appointed Group Executive, Human Resources effective 1 August 2018. (4) Post 30 June 2018, George Confos ceased as KMP on 31 July 2018. Paul Newham will cease as KMP on 30 September 2018. Andrew Hinchliff has been appointed Group Executive, Institutional Banking and Markets effective 1 August 2018, Pascal Boillat has been appointed Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer effective 1 October 2018 and Angus Sullivan has been appointed Group Executive, Retail Banking Services effective 1 July 2018. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 102 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report 2. Executive remuneration framework CEO and Group Executive summary Alignment to the Banking The following diagram illustrates the remuneration framework that applied to the CEO and Executive Accountability Group Executives during the 2018 financial year. The Remuneration Committee undertook a Regime (BEAR) comprehensive review with changes effective from 1 July 2017. The key changes included: Our existing variable Performance • increased weighting on financial and quantitative measures in STVR remuneration deferral for the CEO and Group Executives overview • 50% of STVR deferred into equity (previously cash) complies with the BEAR. • a longer STVR deferral period over two years (previously STVR deferral was one year) All Accountable Person’s • introduction of new LTVR performance measures variable remuneration for the 2019 financial year onwards • allocating LTVR reward rights on a face value basis (previously this was on a fair will be BEAR compliant. value basis) Corporate • enhanced risk and remuneration governance and frameworks. Our remuneration principles governance Aligned with Market competitive Rewards sustainable Recognises the Simple Reflects the shareholder value to attract and retain outperformance role of non-financial and transparent Group’s strategy Directors’ creation high-calibre talent and discourages drivers in longer-term and values poor performance value creation report FR STVR (at risk) LTVR (at risk) • Base remuneration and superannuation • STVR outcomes range from 0% to 150% • Maximum face value allocation of 180% (includes cash salary and any salary of FR. of FR, vesting is subject to performance sacrificed items). measures and risk and reputation review. • Risk and reputation and values • Reviewed annually against peer group assessment as modifier of outcomes. • Performance measures comprise Financial report remuneration disclosures. financial (relative TSR – 75%); and non• Balanced scorecard comprising financial financial (trust and reputation – 12.5%; • Primary peer group is the other three and non-financial measures. and employee engagement – 12.5%). major Australian banks. 50% is paid 25% is 25% is • A positive TSR gateway applies to the as cash deferred as deferred as 25% non-financial measures. equity for equity for • Delivered as reward rights (no dividend one year two years equivalent payments). • Four-year performance period. Other information Varies remuneration up or down Varies remuneration up or down reflecting Attracts high quality talent and reflecting annual performance results. performance over multiple years. reflects role size and scope. Subject to Board risk and reputation review. Subject to Board risk and reputation review. CEO and Group Executive remuneration mix The following diagrams illustrate the remuneration mix for the CEO and Group Executives at target and maximum. More than three-quarters of maximum remuneration is variable and at risk. Target STVR (100% of FR) Maximum STVR (150% of FR) 26% 13% 13% 48% 23% 17.5% 17.5% 42% Variable remuneration (74%) Variable remuneration (77%) FR Cash STVR Deferred equity STVR Maximum face value LTVR  103 Directors’ report Remuneration report All variable remuneration (STVR and LTVR) is subject to Board risk and reputation review prior to final outcome Other Executives or vesting (malus). The STVR for Other Executives is calculated as a percentage of base remuneration The Board has the discretion (before superannuation), not FR. Two-thirds of their STVR is paid in cash and the to adjust STVR and LTVR remaining one-third is deferred into equity that vests in three equal tranches over three outcomes down to zero years. George Confos’ arrangement does not specify an STVR target and/or maximum. where appropriate. Note, Other Executives did not participate in the LTVR plan during the 2018 financial year. George Confos, Alan Docherty and Paul Newham received an additional cash allowance during their acting periods to recognise the additional accountability and responsibilities of their respective roles. Angus Sullivan did not receive an additional cash allowance during his acting period. Risk and reputation review We further strengthened our risk and reputation review processes in the 2018 financial year. Risk scorecards were introduced as a key input to the overall risk assessment for Executives, providing the Board with robust information to determine the appropriate consequences to be applied to Executive STVR and LTVR outcomes for risk and reputation matters. Executive risk scorecards are independently reviewed and challenged by the Group Chief Risk Officer. The Remuneration Committee also met with the Risk and Audit Committees to consider all relevant risk and audit matters in the determination of Executive remuneration outcomes. Mandatory shareholding Proportion of FR: The CEO and Group Executives are required to accumulate CBA shares over a five-year period from 1 July 2013 when the mandatory shareholding requirement was implemented or from the 3x date of their appointment to a Group Executive role, to the value shown in the diagram. 2x As at 30 June 2018, all Group Executives who have been in a Group Executive role for more than five years meet these shareholding requirements. Individuals who have been in Group Executive Group CEO roles for less than five years are working towards, or have already satisfied these requirements. Group Executives More detail about the shareholdings for Executives as at 30 June 2018 is provided in section 5. 3. Performance and remuneration outcomes Remuneration varies with short-term and long-term performance outcomes. Group financial performance The table below shows the link between CEO and Group Executive remuneration and the Group’s financial performance over the past five financial years (including the 2018 financial year). STVR scorecard measure LTVR relative TSR measure Group Cash NPAT Group PACC Share price as at Dividends per share TSR – 4-year period ($M) (1) ($M) (2) 30 Jun ($) ($) as at 30 Jun (%) 4.29 4.31 109.89 110.43 9,881 85.13 82.81 4.20 4.20 9,127 9,171 9,412 6,187 6,525 80.88 4.01 8,680 5,803 74.37 72.87 74.74 50.75 11.39 n/a n/a 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 (1) Group Cash NPAT includes discontinued operations. (2) Due to methodology changes, comparatives for Group Profit after Capital Charge (PACC) have only been provided for the 2016 and 2017 financial years. Outcomes 30 Jun 14 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 STVR outcome (average % of maximum) 82% 78% 75% 0% (1) 19% (2) LTVR vesting outcome (% of maximum) 97% 86% 20% 67% 24% (1) The STVR outcomes for the CEO and Group Executives were adjusted downwards to zero, reflecting collective accountability for the overall reputation of the Group and risk matters. (2) As a consequence of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report, the Board has applied a negative adjustment of 20% to the 2018 financial year performance scorecard outcomes for each current Group Executive and assessed individual risk outcomes as Partially Met to reflect collective accountability for the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings. Further negative risk adjustments to STVR outcomes were also made to reflect individual accountability relating to the individual for other risk and reputation matters separate from the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 104 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report Short-term variable remuneration 2018 financial year STVR award – key features The table below outlines key features of the 2018 financial year STVR award for the Executives. Refer to page 116 for treatment of STVR on cessation of employment. Features Approach Purpose Reward annual performance, incorporating both risk and reputation and values outcomes. Performance overview Participants All Executives Opportunity Executives Target STVR Maximum STVR CEO and Group Executives 100% of FR 150% of FR Other Executives n/a 130% – 170% of base remuneration (excluding George Confos) (1) (1) George Confos’ arrangement does not specify an STVR target and/or maximum. Corporate governance CEO and Group Individual STVR outcomes are determined on the basis of overall Group performance and an assessment of individual Executive performance through a balanced scorecard. The performance measures chosen support the delivery of the Group’s performance strategy and reflect a mix of quantitative and qualitative outcomes to provide a balanced assessment of performance. measures Scorecard weightings cover financial and non-financial measures linked to Group and business unit targets, and vary and weightings by role. Non-financial (split between Role Financial/Shareholder customer, people and strategy) Directors’ CEO 60% 40% report Group Executive managing business 60% 40% units Group Executive managing support 40% 60% functions and the Group Executive, International Financial Services Group Chief Risk Officer 30% 70% Financial (40% of the 70% is weighted towards risk management-related measures) report Modifier(s) In addition to performance against a balanced scorecard, Executives are assessed on how they demonstrate exemplary leadership of: • values: the Board has the discretion to adjust Executive STVR outcomes upwards or downwards including to zero where appropriate • risk and reputation: the Board has the discretion to adjust Executive STVR outcomes downwards including to zero where appropriate. Calculation STVR awards for the CEO and Group Executives are calculated as follows: Other information of awards Unadjusted Opportunity Modifiers Adjusted outcome outcome Target Performance à Values modifier Value of adjusted FR STVR scorecard x x = STVR award $ opportunity result (1) à Risk and reputation modifier $ % % (1) The Board retains discretion to adjust scorecard outcomes. Deferral • CEO and Group Executives: 50% of the STVR award is deferred and delivered in restricted shares that vest equally over one and two years. Deferred STVR awards are subject to Board risk and reputation review prior to vesting. • Other Executives: One-third of the STVR award is deferred and delivered in restricted shares that vest equally over one, two and three years. Deferred STVR awards are subject to Board risk and reputation review prior to vesting. 105 Directors’ report Remuneration report STVR performance outcomes in the financial year ended 30 June 2018 – CEO The Board’s assessment of the CEO’s performance in the 2018 financial year is outlined below. Key: • = Actual result Threshold 50% – Board assesses CEO has met the threshold level of performance. Target 100% – Board assesses CEO has met the stated performance level in all aspects. Above expectations 150% – Board assesses CEO has substantially exceeded the stated performance level. Matt Comyn The table below reflects an assessment of the CEO’s performance during the period 9 April 2018 to 30 June 2018. The STVR disclosed in the table on page 107 comprises STVR outcomes as Group Executive, Retail Banking Services for the period 1 July 2017 to 8 April 2018 and as CEO for the period 9 April 2018 to 30 June 2018. In March 2018, Matt Comyn offered to forgo his 2018 financial year STVR award. The Board accepted his offer and no STVR was awarded for the 2018 financial year. Ian Narev Ian was rated as Partially Met for risk and reputation and Exceptionally Demonstrated for values. However, the Board and Ian Narev believe that given his former position and in light of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings, he must demonstrate the highest level of accountability. As such, they have agreed that he will not receive his 2018 financial year STVR award. Above % of STVR % of STVR Threshold Target expectations target maximum (100% (150% Measure % 50% 100% 150% of FR) of FR) Commentary Performance scorecard Financial/shareholder Group cash NPAT 25% • Below threshold in Group cash NPAT (including discontinued operations) (Actual: $9,412M, Group underlying 25% 10% 7% Target: $10,102M) PACC • Below threshold in Group underlying PACC (Actual: $5,803M, Target: $6,523M) Group productivity 10% • Progress on productivity targets Customer Blended average • Actual result was -7.7 (decline of 2 points) of NPS outcomes • Blended average NPS target was set at a level for retail and 15% 0% 0% of NPS increase of +5 percentage points relative business customers to June 2017 score (-5.7) (Target: -0.7) (six-month rolling) People Board discretion, having regard to: • “Your Voice” outcomes for the Group Culture, talent, • Quality of talent development within the Group diversity, safety 15% 15% 10% • Improvement in gender and cultural diversity and wellbeing metrics for Executive Manager and above population within the Group • Quality of safety outcomes and processes Strategy • Better Risk Outcomes Program established to drive Group response to APRA Delivery of key 10% 7.5% 5% recommendations and enforceable undertaking strategic initiatives • Good progress on M&A and divestment strategies Overall STVR CEO outcome 33% 22% STVR modifier Values Exceptionally Demonstrated No adjustment • Developed partnerships for vulnerable customers • Launched Welcome Change campaign • Enhanced Better Customer Outcomes Program Risk and reputation Partially Met -20% reduction • Collective accountability for APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings Overall adjusted STVR CEO outcome 26% 17% Final STVR outcome (due to voluntary forfeiture) 0% 0% Commonwealth Bank of Australia 106 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report STVR performance outcomes in the financial year ended 30 June 2018 – Executives The following table provides the 2018 financial year STVR outcomes for Executives. The minimum potential outcome is zero. STVR actual STVR actual STVR actual as % of STVR as % of STVR STVR target Total Cash Deferred target maximum Performance $ $ $ $ % % CEO Matt Comyn (1) 1,315,949 – – – 0% 0% overview Current Executives Adam Bennett 1,049,580 451,975 225,988 225,987 43% 29% David Cohen 1,200,000 522,600 261,300 261,300 44% 29% George Confos (2)(3) n/a 155,126 103,417 51,709 n/a n/a Alan Docherty (2)(3) 82,052 77,949 51,966 25,983 n/a 95% Corporate Coen Jonker 848,793 405,246 202,623 202,623 48% 32% governance Melanie Laing 861,900 – – – 0% 0% Anna Lenahan 865,000 498,240 249,120 249,120 58% 38% Paul Newham (2)(3) 162,945 139,318 92,879 46,439 n/a 85% Angus Sullivan (2)(3) 163,836 117,962 78,641 39,321 n/a 72% Michael Venter(2)(3) 532,748 407,553 271,702 135,851 n/a 77% Directors’ Former CEO report Ian Narev (4)(5) 2,047,397 – – – 0% 0% Former Executives Kelly Bayer Rosmarin (4) 875,020 397,870 198,935 198,935 45% 30% Rob Jesudason (4) 955,342 – – – 0% 0% Vittoria Shortt (4) 512,417 194,847 97,424 97,423 38% 25% Financial Annabel Spring (4)(6) 532,214 – – – 0% 0% report David Whiteing (4) 832,544 297,634 148,817 148,817 36% 24% (1) Matt Comyn was appointed to the CEO role effective 9 April 2018. His STVR target reflects his time in both the Group Executive, Retail Banking Services role (1 July 2017 to 8 April 2018) and CEO role (9 April 2018 to 30 June 2018). In March 2018, Matt offered to forgo his 2018 financial year STVR award and the Board accepted. (2) Newly appointed Executives’ remuneration reflects their time in the role. George Confos (1 May 2018 to 30 June 2018), Alan Docherty (14 May 2018 to 30 June 2018), Paul Newham (1 May 2018 to 30 June 2018), Angus Sullivan (9 April 2018 to 30 June 2018) and Michael Venter (1 January 2018 to 30 June 2018). (3) Other Executives’ STVR target shown above reflects their STVR maximum (excluding George Confos). Paul Newham’s and Michael Venter’s STVR maximum is 170% of base remuneration. Angus Sullivan’s STVR maximum is 150% of base remuneration. Alan Docherty’s STVR maximum is 130% of base remuneration. Other George Confos’ arrangement does not specify an STVR target and/or maximum. information (4) Former Executives’ remuneration reflects their time in the role. Ian Narev (1 July 2017 to 8 April 2018), Kelly Bayer Rosmarin (1 July 2017 to 30 April 2018), Vittoria Shortt (1 July 2017 to 2 February 2018), Annabel Spring (1 July 2017 to 31 December 2017) and David Whiteing (1 July 2017 to 30 April 2018). Rob Jesudason ceased as KMP on 13 May 2018 and is not eligible for an STVR award for the 2018 financial year. (5) The Board and Ian Narev believe that given his former position and in light of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings, he must demonstrate the highest level of accountability. They have agreed he will not receive his 2018 financial year STVR award. (6) Annabel Spring agreed not to receive a 2018 financial year STVR award. 107 Directors’ report Remuneration report Long-term variable remuneration LTVR award in the year ended 30 June 2018 – key features The table below outlines key features of the 2018 financial year LTVR for the CEO and Group Executives. Refer to page 116 for treatment of LTVR on cessation of employment. Features Approach Purpose To focus efforts on achieving superior performance for key stakeholder groups – being shareholders, customers, our people and the community – creating sustainable long-term shareholder value. Participants CEO and Group Executives. Opportunity The maximum face value of LTVR that can be granted is 180% of FR. The minimum potential outcome value is zero. Performance period Four years from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2021. Instrument Reward rights – each reward right entitles the participant to receive one CBA share, subject to meeting performance hurdles. Allocation approach Maximum face value allocation approach. Reward rights granted are calculated as follows: FR Share price Number of (at time of grant) x 180% ÷ (no discount applied) = reward rights $ $ Share price: The share price used was the VWACP of CBA’s ordinary shares over the five trading days up to and including 1 July 2017. Dividend payments No dividends or dividend equivalent payments are provided on reward rights. Board discretion The total LTVR award is subject to a risk and reputation review prior to vesting, and can be reduced to zero. The Board has discretion to determine that some or all of the award will lapse in certain circumstances, including where, in the opinion of the Board: • the vesting of reward rights is not justified or supportable, having regard for the participant’s performance and/or conduct, the performance of the business unit or function, or the overall Group performance • the vesting of reward rights will impact on the financial soundness of the Group or a member of the Group • a significant unexpected or unintended consequence or outcome has occurred. Performance measures Approach 75% TSR (relative) Peer group • TSR measures a company’s share price movement, • The peer group is made up of the 20 largest companies on the ASX dividends paid and any return on capital over a specific by market capitalisation at the beginning of the performance period, period. excluding resources companies, and the Group (1). • Relative TSR compares the ranking of Group TSR • This cross-industry peer group has been chosen as it represents over the performance period with the TSR of other the typical portfolio of companies in which the Group’s shareholders companies in a peer group. invest, and so provides valid benchmarks for measuring against the Group’s TSR. Reason for selection: Provides a direct link between Vesting framework Executive reward and shareholder returns, for alignment with our shareholders’ interests. Peer group ranking Vesting % At the 75th percentile or higher 100% Between the median and 75th percentile Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% At the median 50% Below the median 0% Calculation of results Each company in the peer group will be given a percentile ranking based on the growth in its TSR over the four-year performance period. TSR outcomes are calculated by an independent provider, Orient Capital. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 108 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report Performance measures Approach 12.5% Trust and reputation (relative) Peer group • Measured against the independent RepTrak® pulse • The peer group of the 16 largest consumer-facing companies listed on score survey conducted by the Reputation Institute, the ASX by market capitalisation at the beginning of the performance which uses a set of four equally weighted questions period, excluding resource companies, companies that are not familiar Performance to test the trust, respect and admiration a respondent to the general public, companies that do not operate nationally, and the has for a particular company. Our score over the Group (2). overview performance period is compared with the performance • This cross-industry peer group has been chosen to ensure that the Group over the same period of a peer group. focuses on delivering trust and reputation outcomes that are among • The RepTrak® pulse score survey is conducted quarterly. the best in class for all customer-focused industries, not just financial services. Reason for selection: The Board recognises the Vesting framework critical importance for the Group and the industry Peer group ranking Vesting % Corporate of rebuilding and improving the trust of customers and the broader community. This is a key factor in At the 75th percentile or higher 100% governance enhancing long-term financial performance and value to shareholders. Between the median and 75th percentile Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% At the median 50% Subject to positive TSR gateway Below the median 0% Calculation of results The opening pulse score for each company will be based on the average of Directors’ report the March, June and September 2017 surveys, while the closing pulse score will be based on the November 2020, March and June 2021 surveys. Each company in the peer group will be given a percentile ranking based on the change in its pulse score over the four-year performance period. 12.5% Employee engagement (absolute) Target setting • Employees of the Group are invited to participate in an The target and stretch levels of performance have been set by the externally conducted online survey. Board having regard for the IBM Kenexa gap closure method and Financial global benchmark scores provided by IBM Kenexa. • The Employee Engagement Index (EEI) is calculated Vesting framework using particular questions from the survey. report • EEI is based on the proportion of employees responding EEI score Vesting % that they “strongly agree” or “agree” with the four 82% or higher 100% questions relating to satisfaction, commitment, advocacy and pride (each of which is equally weighted). Between 80% and 82% Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% 80% 50% Reason for selection: The Board considers that Below 80% 0% Other an engaged workforce results in greater productivity and a better customer experience, and that builds Calculation of results information overall value for the Group. It is important the Group’s employees are its advocates, committed to our The surveys will be conducted by an independent provider who will facilitate purpose, values and strategy. and collate the EEI results. The change in the EEI scores between the March 2017 EEI score of 78% and the March 2021 score will be used to determine the level of vesting. (1) The peer group at the beginning of the performance period for the TSR performance hurdle comprised: AGL Limited, Amcor Limited, AMP Limited, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Limited, Brambles Limited, CSL Limited, Insurance Australia Group Limited, Macquarie Group Limited, National Australia Bank Limited, A positive TSR gateway QBE Insurance Group Limited, Ramsay Health Care Limited, Scentre Group, Suncorp Group Limited, Sydney Airport, Telstra Corporation Limited, Transurban Group, Wesfarmers Limited, Westfield Corporation, Westpac is applied to the nonBanking Corporation and Woolworths Limited. The reserve bench comprised Aristocrat Leisure Limited, financial performance Aurizon Holdings Limited, Cimic Group Limited, Goodman Group and Stockland. A reserve bench company measures (trust and will be substituted (in order of market capitalisation as at the beginning of the performance period) into the peer group when a peer group company ceases to be listed on the ASX as a result of an acquisition, merger reputation, employee or other relevant corporate action or delisting. engagement), such that (2) The peer group at the beginning of the performance period for the trust and reputation performance hurdle no vesting on these comprised: AGL Limited, AMP Limited, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Limited, Crown Resorts measures occurs unless Limited, Insurance Australia Group Limited, Lendlease Group Limited, Macquarie Group Limited, National Australia Bank Limited, Qantas Limited, QBE Insurance Group Limited, Stockland Corporation Limited, the change in shareholder Suncorp Group Limited, Telstra Corporation Limited, Wesfarmers Limited, Westpac Banking Corporation and value is positive. Woolworths Limited. The reserve bench comprised Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited, BlueScope Steel Limited, Coca-Cola Amatil Limited and Medibank Private Limited. 109 Directors’ report Remuneration report LTVR performance outcomes for the financial year ended 30 June 2018 The 2015 financial year LTVR award reached the end of its four-year performance period on 30 June 2018 and vested at 23.82%. 76.18% of the 2015 financial year LTVR lapsed. Performance measure Percentage of award Performance outcome Vesting outcome Relative TSR 73.97% 35th percentile ranking relative to TSR peer group 0% Relative customer 26.03% Average result by business over performance period: 91.5% satisfaction (1) • retail main financial institution (MFI) customer satisfaction = 1.25 • wealth management customer satisfaction = 1.25 • business MFI customer satisfaction = 1.04 Total weighted average ranking = 1.17 (1) Vesting outcome for relative customer satisfaction is calculated based on the weighted average ranking across the three independent surveys (weighted by the business area’s contribution to NPAT at the beginning of the performance period). Relative customer satisfaction vests at 50% if the weighted average ranking is 2nd and 100% if the weighted average ranking is 1st, with straight line vesting in between. 4. Remuneration governance Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is the governing body for developing, assessing and monitoring remuneration philosophy, framework and policies across the Group for Board approval. The Remuneration Committee met formally 15 times during the 2018 financial year. The Remuneration Committee works closely with the Board’s Risk and Audit Committees, the Group Chief Risk Officer and Executive General Manager Internal Audit to consider risk and reputational matters when determining remuneration outcomes. Information provided to the Board Committees to support their considerations include Executive risk scorecards, details of material risk matters arising during the year and outcomes of internal audit reviews conducted during the year. The following diagram illustrates our remuneration governance framework. CBA Board The Board reviews, challenges, applies judgement and, as appropriate, approves the Remuneration Committee’s recommendations. It approves the remuneration of Executives and of Non-Executive Directors and the policies and processes governing both. Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Board Audit Assists the Board in the Members (as at 30 June 2018) Committee governance of the Group’s Assesses and advises the David Higgins (Chairman) risks. Remuneration Committee, Catherine Livingstone AO Advises the Remuneration Andrew Mohl of any matter relevant to Committee of material risk Mary Padbury financial outcomes that matters which may impact Wendy Stops warrants consideration remuneration outcomes. when it considers variable Role remuneration award outcomes for Executives. Reviews, challenges, applies judgment and, as appropriate, endorses the recommendations made Risk and Remuneration by management and submits for Board approval. Review Committee It oversees the Group’s remuneration framework and Independent (RRRC) assists the Board to ensure the Group’s remuneration Remuneration Management committee strategy and structure are appropriate. Consultant that advises the Group During the 2018 financial Charter Chief Risk Officer on year, the Remuneration accountability for material The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee Committee engaged risk matters which may are outlined in its Charter and reviewed periodically: external advisors to provide impact remuneration www.commbank.com.au/content/dam/commbank/ information to assist in outcomes. about-us/shareholders/pdfs/corporate-profile/ making remuneration remuneration-committee-charter.pdf decisions. It did not seek or receive any remuneration recommendations in the 2018 financial year. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 110 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report 5. Executive statutory remuneration disclosures Executive statutory remuneration The following statutory table details the statutory accounting expense of all remuneration-related items for the Group’s Executives. This includes remuneration costs in relation to both the 2017 and 2018 financial years. The tables are different from the remuneration outcomes table on page 100, which shows the remuneration received in the 2018 financial year rather than Performance the accrual accounting amounts determined in accordance with the Australian Accounting Standards. The tables have been developed and audited against the relevant Australian Accounting Standards. Refer to the footnotes below each table for more overview detail on each remuneration component. Long-term Share-based FR (1) Other short-term benefits benefits payments Total Cash Deferred Deferred Deferred LTVR statutory Base SuperanNonSTVR STVR LongSTVR rights reward Termination remuneration remuneration (2) nuation monetary (3) (at risk) (4) (at risk) (5) Other (6) term (7) (at risk) (5) (at risk) (8) rights benefits (10) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ (at risk) (9) $ $ CEO Corporate Matt Comyn (11) governance 30 Jun 18 1,292,075 23,874 15,726 – – 266,686 198,599 – – 1,162,327 – 2,959,287 30 Jun 17 1,030,750 25,000 14,599 – – 24,802 25,425 – – 1,078,073 – 2,198,649 Current Executives Adam Bennett Directors’ 30 Jun 18 1,024,580 25,000 16,911 225,988 – 21,013 58,981 – 51,962 974,726 – 2,399,161 30 Jun 17 974,600 25,000 15,909 – – (36,560) 24,113 – 145,640 523,671 – 1,672,373 report David Cohen 30 Jun 18 1,175,000 25,000 16,911 261,300 – (40,808) 56,646 – – 1,150,959 – 2,645,008 30 Jun 17 1,175,000 25,000 15,909 – – 44,169 100,122 – – 988,620 – 2,348,820 George Confos (11) 30 Jun 18 133,031 4,178 2,858 103,417 – 7,779 2,401 – 64,612 – – 318,276 Financial Alan Docherty (11) report 30 Jun 18 95,994 2,637 2,270 51,966 – 6,791 4,018 – 23,222 – – 186,898 Coen Jonker (12) (13) 30 Jun 18 845,827 2,967 – 203,710 – 461,814 231,089 – 189,362 95,845 – 2,030,614 Melanie Laing 30 Jun 18 836,900 25,000 16,911 – – 54,274 14,817 – – 938,990 – 1,886,892 30 Jun 17 820,000 25,000 15,909 – – 2,409 22,217 – – 878,734 – 1,764,269 Other Anna Lenahan (11) 30 Jun 18 844,951 20,049 16,911 249,120 – 49,351 6,993 – 533,239 440,478 – 2,161,092 30 Jun 17 497,966 11,555 10,455 – – 18,571 3,292 – 1,158,780 118,307 – 1,818,926 information Paul Newham (11) 30 Jun 18 137,877 4,178 2,612 92,879 – 3,033 1,516 – 50,603 – – 292,698 Angus Sullivan (11) 30 Jun 18 109,224 5,685 3,586 78,641 – 8,480 2,168 – 61,180 – – 268,964 Michael Venter (11) 30 Jun 18 313,381 12,397 6,510 271,702 – 73,009 (9,953) – 179,691 – – 846,737 Former CEO Ian Narev (11)(14) 30 Jun 18 2,028,082 19,315 12,986 – – (26,757) 63,019 – – (3,316,726) 905,169 (314,912) 30 Jun 17 2,625,000 25,000 15,909 – – (33,007) 113,341 – – 2,966,120 – 5,712,363 111 Directors’ report Remuneration report Long-term Share-based FR (1) Other short-term benefits benefits payments Total Cash Deferred Deferred Deferred LTVR statutory Base SuperanNonSTVR STVR LongSTVR rights reward Termination remuneration remuneration (2) nuation monetary (3) (at risk) (4) (at risk) (5) Other (6) term (7) (at risk) (5) (at risk) (8) rights benefits (10) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ (at risk) (9) $ $ Former Executives Kelly Bayer Rosmarin (11)(15) 30 Jun 18 854,198 20,822 14,052 238,853 – (547) 29,288 238,853 – 2,788,243 966,236 5,149,998 30 Jun 17 1,025,600 25,000 15,909 – – 18,037 (52,237) – 70,583 833,943 – 1,936,835 Rob Jesudason (11)(12)(14) 30 Jun 18 937,930 17,412 14,641 – – 215,545 (105,165) – – (1,122,965) 538,770 496,168 30 Jun 17 1,149,030 3,073 – – – 972,349 41,466 – – 987,414 – 3,153,332 Vittoria Shortt (11) 30 Jun 18 497,554 14,863 9,913 97,424 – (37,597) (120,140) 97,424 33,852 2,113,398 – 2,706,691 30 Jun 17 836,900 25,000 15,909 – – 40,010 (41,739) – 129,441 374,761 – 1,380,282 Annabel Spring (11)(15) 30 Jun 18 519,611 12,603 7,639 – – 9,769 (17,886) – – 2,117,192 1,376,076 4,025,004 30 Jun 17 1,030,750 25,000 14,599 – – 13,905 34,003 – – 1,078,073 – 2,196,330 David Whiteing (11)(15) 30 Jun 18 815,845 16,698 12,710 148,817 – 63,524 (47,658) 148,817 – 2,632,434 914,666 4,705,853 30 Jun 17 979,984 19,616 14,599 – – (8,609) 19,620 – 52,634 585,192 – 1,663,036 (1) FR comprises base remuneration and superannuation (post-employment benefit). Superannuation contributions for Rob Jesudason in the 2017 financial year and Coen Jonker in the 2018 financial year are made in line with Hong Kong Mandatory Provident Fund regulations. (2) Total cost of salary including cash salary, short-term compensated absences and any salary sacrificed benefits. (3) Cost of car parking (including associated fringe benefits tax). (4) For the CEO and Group Executives, 50% of the 2018 financial year STVR for performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2018 (payable in September 2018). For the Other Executives, two-thirds of the 2018 financial year STVR for performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2018 (payable in September 2018). (5) The 2017 financial year STVR outcome for the CEO and Group Executives was adjusted downwards to zero, reflecting accountability for the overall reputation and risk matters of the Group. The deferred portion of the 2018 financial year STVR outcome for Kelly Bayer Rosmarin, Vittoria Shortt and David Whiteing is deferred into cash over a two year period. (6) Includes company-funded benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax where applicable) and the net change in accrued annual leave. For Rob Jesudason in the 2017 financial year and Coen Jonker in the 2018 financial year, this includes costs in relation to Hong Kong assignments and relocation to Australia. (7) Long service entitlements accrued during the year as well as the impact of changes to long service leave valuation assumptions, which are determined in line with Australian Accounting Standards. (8) 2018 financial year expense for deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements, as well as sign-on and retention awards received as deferred rights. These equity awards are subject to forfeiture if the Executive ceases to be employed by the Group prior to the vesting date as a result of resignation. Deferred 2018 financial year STVR will be expensed over the vesting period commencing 1 July 2018. (9) 2018 financial year expense for the 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 financial year LTVR awards. (10) The percentage of 2018 financial year remuneration related to performance was: Matt Comyn 39%, Adam Bennett 52%, David Cohen 53%, George Confos 53%, Alan Docherty 40%, Coen Jonker 24%, Melanie Laing 50%, Anna Lenahan 57%, Paul Newham 49%, Angus Sullivan 52%, Michael Venter 53%, Ian Narev 0%, Kelly Bayer Rosmarin 63%, Rob Jesudason 0%, Vittoria Shortt 87%, Annabel Spring 53% and David Whiteing 62%. (11) Remuneration reflects the individual’s time in their respective KMP role(s). (12) For Rob Jesudason, FY17 remuneration and Coen Jonker, FY18 remuneration was paid in Hong Kong dollars and was impacted by movements in exchange rates. For Rob Jesudason, the 2017 financial year values include costs in relation to his Hong Kong assignment and relocation to Australia. On his exit, 50% of his relocation costs were recovered (as reflected in the 2018 financial year value). (13) For Coen Jonker, his long-term benefit represents a portion of a deferred purchase price in connection with the Group’s acquisition of TymeDigital in the 2015 financial year calculated with reference to his continued employment with the Group and paid to a company in which a related party is a shareholder. Coen also participates in a cash-based incentive scheme known as the ‘Excess Return Bonus Scheme’ (ERBS), a scheme in which certain other employees in the TymeDigital business also participate. Coen has participated in the ERBS since the 2015 financial year, following CBA’s acquisition of TymeDigital. The value of the award is determined by reference to Coen’s share in any excess returns generated above a benchmark rate from TymeDigital and certain other branchless digital banking operations established by CBA over a period of up to approximately 20 years (with amounts payable on 30 September 2024 and 30 September 2034, subject to achievement of relevant conditions). Coen’s entitlement to payments under the ERBS may be forfeited, reduced or accelerated in certain circumstances (e.g. forfeiture in circumstances of termination for serious misconduct). It is not possible to reliably estimate Coen’s maximum potential award under the ERBS, noting, that no amounts have been accrued or became payable to Coen since the 2015 financial year. (14) For Ian Narev and Rob Jesudason, LTVR awards were forfeited and the associated expense recognised in prior years has been reversed. (15) The LTVR reward rights value for Kelly Bayer Rosmarin, Annabel Spring and David Whiteing reflects the disclosable accruals for all previously granted LTVR awards that remain unvested following cessation of employment up to the end of each performance period. This means that up to three years of each unvested LTVR award expense has been brought forward and disclosed in total for the 2018 financial year, including those amounts which would otherwise have been included in future year disclosures and that may not vest. These LTVR awards remain on foot and will only vest subject to the achievement of the pre-determined performance conditions and risk and reputation review. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 112 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report Fair value assumptions for equity awards granted in the 2018 financial year In the 2018 financial year a face value allocation approach was used to determine the number of rights granted under the LTVR (refer to page 108). The table below is provided in accordance with statutory requirements. The fair value has been calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation method using the assumptions below. The exercise price is nil across all LTVR awards. The fair value of rights under the trust and reputation and employee engagement performance measures is higher than for the relative TSR performance measure. This is expected because the likelihood of achieving a positive TSR over the performance period Performance is greater than the likelihood of achieving a relative TSR ranking higher than the median. overview Assumptions Performance Expected Dividend Performance Fair value period Expected life volatility Risk free rate yield Equity plan measure Grant date $ end (years) % % % Relative TSR 17 Nov 17 36.94 30 Jun 21 3.62 15 2.12 5.17 Trust and reputation FY18 LTVR Corporate (positive TSR gateway) 17 Nov 17 57.11 30 Jun 21 3.62 15 2.12 5.17 reward rights Employee engagement governance (positive TSR gateway) 17 Nov 17 57.11 30 Jun 21 3.62 15 2.12 5.17 Equity awards received as remuneration The table below details the value and number of all equity awards that were granted, vested, forfeited or lapsed to Executives during their time in a KMP role in 2018 financial year. Due to the change in the LTVR allocation approach from fair to face value, the table below provides the face value of LTVR reward rights granted during the 2018 financial year (previously was disclosed as fair value). It also shows the number of previous years’ awards that vested during the 2018 financial year – some of which relate to past non-KMP roles. Directors’ Granted during 2018 Previous years’ awards vested Forfeited or lapsed during report financial year (1) during 2018 financial year (2) 2018 financial year (3) Class Units $ Units $ Units $ CEO Matt Comyn LTVR reward rights 22,961 1,900,252 16,441 1,529,923 (8,067) (653,185) Current Executives Financial Adam Bennett LTVR reward rights 22,826 1,889,080 – – – – report Deferred rights – – 3,464 280,480 – – David Cohen LTVR reward rights 26,098 2,159,870 14,798 1,377,033 (7,260) (587,842) George Confos Deferred rights – – – – (1,366) (99,349) Alan Docherty Deferred rights – – – – (575) (41,820) Coen Jonker LTVR reward rights 18,658 1,544,136 – – – – Other Deferred rights 2,896 220,762 634 52,470 – – information Melanie Laing LTVR reward rights 18,745 1,551,336 13,565 1,262,296 (6,655) (538,855) Anna Lenahan LTVR reward rights 18,812 1,556,881 – – – – Deferred rights – – 3,463 260,418 – – Paul Newham Deferred rights – – – – (1,077) (78,330) Angus Sullivan Deferred rights – – – – (933) (67,857) Michael Venter Deferred rights – – – – (1,131) (82,258) Former CEO Ian Narev LTVR reward rights – – 42,334 3,983,713 (188,524) (13,882,512) Former Executives Kelly Bayer Rosmarin LTVR reward rights 22,849 1,890,983 8,697 809,302 (4,266) (345,418) Deferred rights – – 2,610 211,332 – – Rob Jesudason LTVR reward rights 23,923 1,979,867 13,565 1,262,296 (96,316) (7,059,900) Vittoria Shortt LTVR reward rights 18,745 1,551,336 – – – – Deferred rights – – 2,681 217,081 – – Annabel Spring LTVR reward rights – – 16,441 1,529,923 (8,067) (653,185) David Whiteing LTVR reward rights 21,739 1,799,120 – – – – Deferred rights – – 1,946 157,568 – – 113 Directors’ report Remuneration report (1) Represents the maximum number of LTVR reward rights and deferred rights that may vest to each executive during their time as KMP. For LTVR reward rights the value represents the face value at grant date being the VWACP of the Group’s ordinary shares over the five trading days up to and including 1 July 2017. Deferred rights represent the deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements, sign-on and retention awards received as rights. For deferred rights the value reflects the fair value at grant date. The fair value is the same as the face value. The minimum potential outcome for LTVR reward rights and deferred rights is zero. (2) Previous years’ awards that vested include the 2014 financial year LTVR award and other deferred equity awards that vested during time in KMP role. The value of the awards vested is calculated using VWACP for the five days preceding the vesting date, and includes the value of dividends accrued over the vesting period. (3) This includes the portion of the 2014 financial year LTVR award (32.92%) that did not meet the performance hurdle and lapsed. The value of the lapsed award is calculated using the VWACP for the five days preceding the lapse date. Also includes portion of deferred rights and/or LTVR reward rights forfeited as a result of individual or collective accountability in relation to the APRA Prudential Inquiry. David Craig’s unvested LTVR reward rights (87,358 units valued at $6,353,547) and Alden Toev’s unvested LTVR reward rights (60,605 units valued at $4,407,802) were forfeited. The value of forfeited awards is calculated using the VWACP for the five days preceding 30 June 2018. Overview of unvested equity awards Performance period Equity plan Grant date Start date End date Performance measures FY16 LTVR CEO: 17 Nov 15 1 Jul 15 30 Jun 19 Each award is split and tested: Executives: 10 Nov 15 • 75% TSR ranking relative to peer group FY17 LTVR 22 Feb 17 1 Jul 16 30 Jun 20 • 25% customer satisfaction average ranking relative to peer group FY18 LTVR 17 Nov 17 1 Jul 17 30 Jun 21 Each award is split and tested: • 75% TSR ranking relative to peer group • 12.5% trust and reputation (relative to a peer group) and 12.5% employee engagement (both measures are subject to a positive TSR gateway) Shares and other securities held by Executives Details of the shareholdings and other securities held by Executives (or close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any entity over which any of the aforementioned hold significant voting power) are set out below relating to time in KMP role. For details of Executive equity plans refer to the Financial Statements Note 10.1 Share-based payments. Previous years’ Acquired/ awards vested granted as during the 2018 Net change Balance Class (1) Balance 1 Jul 17 remuneration financial year (2) other (3) 30 Jun 18 CEO Matt Comyn Ordinary 33,562 – – 16,441 50,003 LTVR reward rights 90,776 22,961 (16,441) (8,067) 89,229 Current Executives Adam Bennett Ordinary 16,361 – – 3,464 19,825 LTVR reward rights 50,937 22,826 – – 73,763 Deferred rights 5,520 – (3,464) – 2,056 David Cohen Ordinary 38,796 – – – 38,796 LTVR reward rights 85,309 26,098 (14,798) (7,260) 89,349 George Confos Ordinary n/a – – 1,685 1,685 Deferred rights n/a – – 12,332 12,332 PERLS n/a – – 330 330 Alan Docherty Ordinary n/a – – 2,192 2,192 Deferred rights n/a – – 5,209 5,209 Coen Jonker Ordinary – – – – – LTVR reward rights – 18,658 – – 18,658 Deferred rights 1,902 2,896 (634) – 4,164 Melanie Laing Ordinary 31,980 – – – 31,980 LTVR reward rights 73,713 18,745 (13,565) (6,655) 72,238 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 114 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report Previous years’ Acquired/ awards vested granted as during the 2018 Net change Balance Class (1) Balance 1 Jul 17 remuneration financial year (2) other (3) 30 Jun 18 Anna Lenahan (4) Ordinary 10,389 – – 3,463 13,852 Performance LTVR reward rights 18,099 18,812 – – 36,911 Deferred rights 12,697 – (3,463) – 9,234 Paul Newham Ordinary n/a – – 4,932 4,932 overview Deferred rights n/a – – 9,729 9,729 Angus Sullivan Ordinary n/a – – 4,316 4,316 Deferred rights n/a – – 8,412 8,412 Michael Venter Ordinary n/a – – – – Deferred rights n/a – – 10,191 10,191 Corporate governance Former CEO Ian Narev Ordinary 131,349 – – 32,065 n/a LTVR reward rights 230,858 – (42,334) (188,524) n/a Former Executives Kelly Bayer Rosmarin Ordinary 21,857 – – 8,904 n/a Directors’ LTVR reward rights 78,799 22,849 (8,697) (4,266) n/a Deferred rights 2,610 – (2,610) – n/a report Rob Jesudason Ordinary – – – 30,265 n/a LTVR reward rights 85,958 23,923 (13,565) (96,316) n/a Vittoria Shortt Ordinary 8,703 – – 2,681 n/a LTVR reward rights 41,428 18,745 – – n/a Deferred rights 4,934 – (2,681) – n/a Annabel Spring Ordinary 29,370 – – 16,441 n/a Financial LTVR reward rights 90,776 – (16,441) (8,067) n/a report David Whiteing Ordinary – – – 1,946 n/a LTVR reward rights 61,788 21,739 – – n/a Deferred rights 1,946 – (1,946) – n/a (1) LTVR reward rights are subject to performance hurdles. Deferred rights represent the deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements, Other sign-on and retention awards received as restricted rights. Both LTVR reward rights and deferred rights are unvested as at 30 June 2018. The maximum potential outcome for LTVR reward rights and deferred rights is subject to CBA share price at time of vesting. information (2) LTVR reward rights and deferred rights become ordinary shares upon vesting. (3) Net change other incorporates changes resulting from purchases, sales, forfeitures during the year and shares or rights held by an Executive prior to their appointment as KMP. Includes portion of deferred rights and/or LTVR reward rights forfeited as a result of individual or collective accountability in relation to the APRA Prudential Inquiry. (4) Anna Lenahan holds 2,000 Capital Notes. 115 Directors’ report Remuneration report Executive employment arrangements The table below provides the employment arrangements for current Executives. Contract term CEO Group Executives Other Executives Contract type (1) Permanent Permanent Permanent Notice period 12 months 6 months 3 months Severance n/a 6 months (2) 3 months (3) • Unless otherwise determined by the Board, Executives who resign or are dismissed are not entitled to an STVR payment and will forfeit the unvested deferred portion of their STVR. • At the Board’s discretion, where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g., retrenchment, retirement or death), the Executive may be entitled to an STVR payment with regard to actual STVR entitlements performance against performance measures (as determined by the Board following the end of the on termination performance period). • Unless otherwise determined by the Board, where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g., retrenchment, retirement or death) unvested deferred STVR awards will remain on foot subject to the original terms and conditions and will vest in the ordinary course, as though the Executive had not ceased employment. In general, unless otherwise determined by the Board: • n/a – Not eligible for LTVR • Executives who resign or are dismissed before the end of the performance period will forfeit all unvested LTVR awards; and LTVR entitlements on termination • Where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g., retrenchment, retirement or death), any unvested LTVR awards continue unchanged with performance measured at the end of the performance period related to each award. (1) Permanent contracts continue until notice is given by either party. (2) Severance applies where the termination is initiated by the Group, other than for misconduct or unsatisfactory performance. (3) Severance applies where the employee is terminated due to redundancy. 6. Non-Executive Director arrangements Non-Executive Director fees Non-Executive Directors receive fees to recognise their contribution to the work of the Board and the associated committees on which they serve. Non-Executive Directors do not receive any performance-related remuneration. The total amount of Non-Executive Directors fees is capped at a maximum fee pool that is approved by shareholders. The current fee pool is $4.75 million, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 17 November 2015. The following table outlines the Non-Executive Directors fees for the Board and the committees as at 30 June 2018. Non-Executive Director base and committee fees for the 2018 financial year were reduced by an amount equal to 20% of their individual 2017 financial year fees to reflect a shared accountability for the overall reputation of the Group and risk matters. Fees are inclusive of base fees and statutory superannuation. The Chairman does not receive separate committee fees. Chairman Member Board/Committee (1) $ $ Board 870,000 242,000 Audit Committee 65,000 32,500 Risk Committee 65,000 32,500 Remuneration Committee 60,000 30,000 Nominations Committee 11,600 11,600 (1) The Board established the Financial Crimes Review Committee (FCRC) in August 2017 to oversee the response to AUSTRAC’s civil proceedings and the Program of Action. The Chairman of the FCRC received a fee of $60,000 pa. The FCRC was dissolved in June 2018. Mandatory shareholding Under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Plan, Non-Executive Directors are required to hold 5,000 or more CBA shares. For those Non-Executive Directors who have holdings below this threshold, 20% of their after-tax base fees are used to purchase CBA shares until a holding of 5,000 shares is reached. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 116 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report Non-Executive Director statutory remuneration The statutory table below details individual statutory remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for both the 2018 and 2017 financial years. Short-term Post-employment Share-based benefits benefits payments Non-Executive Performance Directors’ Share Total statutory overview Cash (1) Superannuation (2) Plan (3) remuneration $ $ $ $ Chairman Catherine Livingstone AO (4) 30 Jun 18 732,290 20,049 – 752,339 30 Jun 17 552,098 19,616 – 571,714 Current Non-Executive Directors Corporate Shirish Apte (5)(6) governance 30 Jun 18 332,013 15,037 – 347,050 30 Jun 17 340,292 10,405 – 350,697 David Higgins (6) 30 Jun 18 246,570 20,049 – 266,619 30 Jun 17 331,286 19,616 – 350,902 Directors’ Brian Long report 30 Jun 18 259,777 20,049 – 279,826 30 Jun 17 331,848 19,616 – 351,464 Andrew Mohl 30 Jun 18 223,073 19,650 – 242,723 30 Jun 17 285,197 19,616 – 304,813 Financial Mary Padbury report 30 Jun 18 225,448 20,049 30,793 276,290 30 Jun 17 231,084 19,239 30,806 281,129 Wendy Stops 30 Jun 18 225,434 19,554 – 244,988 30 Jun 17 252,661 19,616 – 272,277 Other Anne Templeman-Jones (7) information 30 Jun 18 66,861 6,516 8,349 81,726 Robert Whitfield (8) 30 Jun 18 185,476 16,567 26,172 228,215 Former Non-Executive Directors Launa Inman (6)(9) 30 Jun 18 46,542 5,066 5,917 57,525 30 Jun 17 256,128 19,616 28,980 304,724 Harrison Young (6)(9) 30 Jun 18 49,988 6,064 – 56,052 30 Jun 17 310,520 19,616 – 330,136 (1) Cash includes Board and committee fees received as cash, as well as the provision of additional benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax). (2) Superannuation contributions are capped at the superannuation maximum contributions base as described under the Superannuation Guarantee legislation. (3) The values shown in the tables represent the post-tax portion of fees received as shares under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Plan. (4) Catherine Livingstone AO was appointed as Chairman from 1 January 2017. Prior year comparison reflects remuneration in both the Non-Executive Director and Chairman role. (5) For Shirish Apte, 2018 financial year cash fees includes payments in relation to tax advice and health benefits and minor adjustments in relation to prior years. (6) Shirish Apte, David Higgins, Launa Inman and Harrison Young’s 2017 financial year cash has been restated to include the provision of additional benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax). (7) Anne Templeman-Jones was appointed as a Non-Executive Director effective 5 March 2018 and her remuneration reflects time in the role. (8) Robert Whitfield was appointed as a Non-Executive Director effective 4 September 2017 and his remuneration reflects time in the role. (9) Launa Inman and Harrison Young retired from their Non-Executive Director roles effective 16 November 2017 and their remuneration reflects time in the role. 117 Directors’ report Remuneration report Shares and other securities held by Non-Executive Directors All shares were acquired by Non-Executive Directors on normal terms and conditions or through the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Plan. Other securities acquired by Non-Executive Directors were on normal terms and conditions. Balance Net change Balance Class 1 Jul 17 Acquired (1) other (2) 30 Jun 18 Chairman Catherine Livingstone AO Ordinary 5,337 – – 5,337 Current Non-Executive Directors Shirish Apte Ordinary 7,500 – – 7,500 David Higgins Ordinary 10,878 – – 10,878 PERLS (4) 2,620 – (2,470) 150 Brian Long Ordinary 14,797 159 – 14,956 PERLS (4) 6,850 – – 6,850 Andrew Mohl Ordinary 82,234 – – 82,234 Mary Padbury Ordinary 294 540 – 834 PERLS (4) 1,600 – – 1,600 Wendy Stops Ordinary 16,000 – – 16,000 Anne Templeman-Jones Ordinary n/a 358 – 358 Robert Whitfield Ordinary n/a 309 – 309 Former Non-Executive Directors Launa Inman (3) Ordinary 4,653 251 – n/a Harrison Young (3) Ordinary 30,000 – – n/a (1) Incorporates shares and other securities acquired during the year. Non-Executive Directors who hold fewer than 5,000 CBA shares are required to receive 20% of their total after-tax base fees as CBA shares. These shares are subject to a 10-year trading restriction (the shares will be released earlier if the Non-Executive Director leaves the Board). In the 2018 financial year, under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Plan, Mary Padbury received 478 shares, Anne Templeman-Jones received 57 shares, Robert Whitfield received 282 shares and Launa Inman received 171 shares. Mary Padbury and Robert Whitfield also voluntarily sacrificed a portion of their fees to purchase 62 shares and 27 shares respectively in the 2018 financial year. Launa Inman also received 80 shares in relation to the dividend reinvestment plan. (2) Net change other incorporates changes resulting from sales of securities. (3) Launa Inman and Harrison Young retired from the Group on 16 November 2017 and their shareholding balance as at 30 June 2018 is not included. (4) Includes cumulative holdings of all PERLS securities issued by the Group. 7. Loans and other transactions Loans to KMP All loans to KMP (including close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any entity over which any of those family members or entities held significant voting power) have been made in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees including the term of the loan, security required and the interest rate (which may be fixed or variable). No loans were written down during the period. Total loans to KMP 30 Jun 18 $ Opening balance 12,145,179 Closing balance (1) 12,914,040 Interest charged 475,873 (1) The aggregate loan amount at the end of the reporting period includes loans issued to 20 KMP. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 118 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Remuneration report Strategic report Loans to KMP exceeding $100,000 in aggregate during the 2018 financial year Balance Interest Interest not Balance Highest balance 1 Jul 17 charged charged Write-off 30 Jun 18 in period (1) $ $ $ $ $ $ Kelly Bayer Rosmarin (2) 1,643,424 37,024 – – n/a 1,675,615 Performance David Cohen 487,134 20,719 – – 451,026 511,046 overview Matt Comyn 2,360,099 30,743 – – – 2,736,395 Alan Docherty (2) n/a 6,691 – – 1,580,232 1,601,458 Melanie Laing 929,178 11,818 – – 20,198 962,226 Paul Newham (2) n/a 76,545 – – 4,008,128 4,074,273 Mary Padbury 676,992 1,539 – – 256 700,985 Corporate Vittoria Shortt (2) 3,417,879 14,002 – – n/a 3,675,571 Angus Sullivan (2) n/a 60,788 – – 5,639,759 5,691,182 Michael Venter (2) n/a 21,933 – – 1,185,250 1,223,176 governance David Whiteing (2) 2,502,057 192,867 – – n/a 9,721,269 Total 12,016,763 474,669 – – 12,884,849 32,573,196 (1) Represents the sum of highest balances outstanding at any point during the 2018 financial year for each individual loan held by the KMP. (2) The values disclosed relate to their period as KMP. Directors’ report Other transactions of KMP Financial instrument transactions Financial instrument transactions (other than loans and shares disclosed within this report) of KMP occur in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees. Disclosure of financial instrument transactions regularly made as part of normal banking operations is limited to disclosure of such transactions with KMP, their close family members and entities controlled or significantly influenced by them. All such financial instrument transactions that have occurred between entities within the Group and KMP were in the nature of normal personal banking and deposit transactions. Financial report Transactions other than financial instrument transactions All other transactions with KMP, their close family members, related entities and other related parties are conducted in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers. These transactions principally involve the provision of financial and investment services by entities not controlled by the Group. A related party of an Executive was also employed by the Group, and was remunerated in a manner consistent with normal employee arrangements. Other information 119 Directors’ report Remuneration report Non-Audit Services Amounts paid or payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for audit and non-audit services provided during the year, as set out in Note 12.4 to the Financial Statements are as follows: 2018 $’000 Taxation services 2,265 Risk management, compliance and controls related work 8,234 Other 2,787 Total non-audit services (1) 13,286 Total audit and related services 33,780 (1) An additional amount of $3,757,145 was paid to PwC for non-audit services provided to entities not consolidated into the Financial Statements. Auditor’s Independence Declaration We have obtained an independence declaration from our external auditor as presented on the following page. Auditor Independence The Bank has in place an Independent Auditor Services Policy, details of which are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement that can be viewed at www.commbank.com.au/about-us/shareholders/corporate-profile/corporate-governance to assist in ensuring the independence of the Group’s external auditor. The Audit Committee has considered the provision, during the year, of non-audit services by PwC and has concluded that the provision of those services did not compromise the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. The Audit Committee advised the Board accordingly and, after considering the Committee’s advice, the Board of Directors agreed that it was satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services by PwC during the year was compatible with the general standard of independence imposed by the Corporations Act 2001. The Directors are satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services during the year did not compromise the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. The reasons for this are as follows: • The operation of the Independent Auditor Services Policy during the year to restrict the nature of non-audit service engagements, to prohibit certain services and to require Audit Committee pre-approval for all such engagements; and • The relative quantum of fees paid for non-audit services compared to the quantum for audit and audit related services. The above Directors’ statements are in accordance with the advice received from the Audit Committee. Incorporation of Additional Material This Report incorporates the Strategic report (pages 2 to 60) including the Chairman and CEO statement, Performance overview (pages 61 to 80), Corporate governance (pages 81 to 90) and Shareholding information (pages 277 to 282) sections of this Annual Report. Catherine Livingstone AO Chairman 7 August 2018 Matt Comyn Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 7 August 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 120 Annual Report 2018 Directors’ report Auditor’s Independence Declaration Strategic report Performance overview As lead auditor for the audit of Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the year ended 30 June 2018, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and (b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. Corporate This declaration is in respect of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the entities it controlled during the period. governance Matthew Lunn Partner PricewaterhouseCoopers Sydney Directors’ report 7 August 2018 Financial report Other information PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo NSW 2000, GPO Box 2650 Sydney NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 121 Financial Report Commonwealth Bank of Australia 122 Annual Report 2018 Financial Contents report Strategic report Performance overview Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Corporate Income Statements 125 1. Overview 1.1 General Information, Basis of Accounting, governance Statements of Comprehensive Income  126 Future Accounting Developments132 Balance Sheets 127 2. Our Performance Statements of Changes in Equity  128 2.1 Net Interest Income134 Statements of Cash Flows 130 2.2 Average Balances and Related Interest135 2.3 Other Operating Income139 2.4 Operating Expenses141 Directors’ report 2.5 Income Tax Expense143 2.6 Earnings Per Share147 2.7 Financial Reporting by Segments148 3. Our Lending Activities 3.1 Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables152 Financial 3.2 Provisions for Impairment156 report 4. Our Deposits and Funding Activities 4.1 Deposits and Other Public Borrowings160 4.2 Liabilities at Fair Value through Income Statement161 4.3 Debt Issues162 Other 4.4 Securitisation, Covered Bonds and Transferred Assets164 information 5. Investing, Trading and Other Banking Activities 5.1 Cash and Liquid Assets166 5.2 Receivables Due from Other Financial Institutions166 5.3 Assets at Fair Value through Income Statement167 5.4 Derivative Financial Instruments168 5.5 Available-for-Sale Investments174 123 Financial Contents report 6. Other Assets 11. Group Structure 6.1 Property, Plant and Equipment175 11.1 Investments in Subsidiaries and Other Entities243 6.2 Intangible Assets178 11.2 Related Party Disclosures249 6.3 Other Assets180 11.3 Discontinued Operations and Operations under Strategic Review249 11.4 Acquisition of Controlled Entities251 7. Other Liabilities 7.1 Other Provisions181 7.2 Bills Payable and Other Liabilities185 12. Other Information 12.1 Contingent Liabilities, Contingent Assets and Commitments arising from the 8. Our Capital, Equity and Reserves banking business252 8.1 Capital Adequacy186 12.2 Lease Commitments253 8.2 Loan Capital187 12.3 Notes to the Statements of Cash Flows254 8.3 Shareholders’ Equity189 12.4 Remuneration of Auditors255 8.4 Dividends193 12.5 New accounting standards adopted on 1 July 2018256 9. Risk Management 12.6 Subsequent Events263 9.1 Risk Management195 9.2 Credit Risk200 Directors’ Declaration 264 9.3 Market Risk219 9.4 Liquidity and Funding Risk221 9.5 Disclosures about Fair Values225 9.6 Collateral Arrangements231 9.7 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities232 10. Employee Benefits 10.1 Share-Based Payments236 10.2 Retirement Benefit Obligations238 10.3 Key Management Personnel241 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 124 Annual Report 2018 Financial Financial report statements Financial Financial report Statements Strategic report Income Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Group (1) Bank (2) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M $M Interest income 2.1 34,543 33,301 33,819 33,418 33,534 Performance overview Interest expense 2.1 (16,202) (15,758) (16,961) (17,007) (17,764) Net interest income 18,341 17,543 16,858 16,411 15,770 Other banking income 5,390 5,684 4,628 7,365 6,955 Net banking operating income 23,731 23,227 21,486 23,776 22,725 Net funds management operating income 2,099 1,928 1,916 Net insurance operating income 302 231 215 Corporate governance Total net operating income before impairment and 26,132 25,386 23,617 23,776 22,725 operating expenses Loan impairment expense 3.2 (1,079) (1,095) (1,256) (963) (1,040) Operating expenses 2.4 (11,633) (10,626) (9,996) (10,510) (9,560) Net profit before tax 13,420 13,665 12,365 12,303 12,125 Directors’ Corporate tax expense 2.5 (4,026) (3,879) (3,400) (3,293) (3,146) report Net profit after tax from continuing operations 9,394 9,786 8,965 9,010 8,979 Non-controlling interests in continuing operations (19) (20) (20) Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank 9,375 9,766 8,945 9,010 8,979 from continuing operations Net (loss)/profit after tax from discontinued operations (46) 166 278 (135) Financial Non-controlling interests in discontinued operations (4) report Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank 9,329 9,928 9,223 8,875 8,979 The above Income Statements should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity holders of the parent entity during the year: Other Group (3) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 information Cents per share Earnings per share from continuing operations: Basic 536. 9 567. 9 525. 6 Diluted 520. 2 549. 9 513. 3 Earnings per share: Basic 534. 3 577. 3 542. 0 Diluted 517. 7 558. 8 529. 0 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. Discontinued operations include the Group’s life insurance businesses in Australia and New Zealand, its 37.5% equity interest in BoComm Life and TymeDigital. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to note 11.3. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) Basic and diluted earnings per share for all periods presented have been adjusted retrospectively to incorporate the discount element of the dividend reinvestment plan. 125 125 Financial Financial report statements Financial Financial report Statements Statements of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 30 June 2018 Group (1) Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Net profit after income tax for the period from continuing 9,394 9,786 8,965 9,010 8,979 operations Other comprehensive income/(expense): Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit/(loss): Foreign currency translation reserve net of tax 5 (256) 339 53 (11) Gains and (losses) on cash flow hedging instruments net of (53) (577) 210 4 (666) tax Gains and (losses) on available-for-sale investments net of (77) (52) (316) (34) 35 tax Total of items that may be reclassified (125) (885) 233 23 (642) Items that will not be reclassified to profit/(loss): Actuarial gains from defined benefit superannuation plans net 161 175 10 159 175 of tax Losses on liabilities at fair value due to changes in own credit (2) (3) (1) (2) (3) risk net of tax Revaluation of properties net of tax 31 23 1 29 19 Total of items that will not be reclassified 190 195 10 186 191 Other comprehensive income/(expense) net of income tax 65 (690) 243 209 (451) Total comprehensive income for the period from 9,459 9,096 9,208 9,219 8,528 continuing operations Net profit after income tax for the period from discontinued (46) 166 278 (135) operations Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period from (14) (29) 44 discontinued operations net of income tax Total comprehensive income for the period 9,399 9,233 9,530 9,084 8,528 Total comprehensive income for the period is attributable to: Equity holders of the Bank 9,380 9,209 9,510 9,084 8,528 Non-controlling interests 19 24 20 Total comprehensive income net of income tax 9,399 9,233 9,530 9,084 8,528 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. The above Statements of Comprehensive Income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Note Cents per share Dividends per share attributable to shareholders of the Bank: Ordinary shares 8.4 431 429 420 Trust preferred securities 7,994 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 126 Annual Report 2018 126 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Financial report statements Financial Financial Strategic report Statements report Balance Sheets As at 30 June 2018 Group (1) Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Assets Note $M $M $M $M Performance Cash and liquid assets 5.1 36,417 45,850 33,581 42,814 Receivables due from other financial institutions 5.2 9,222 10,037 8,376 8,678 Assets at fair value through Income Statement: overview Trading 5.3 32,254 32,704 29,993 31,127 Insurance 5.3 372 13,669 Other 5.3 258 1,111 796 Derivative assets 5.4 32,133 31,724 30,885 32,094 Available-for-sale investments 5.5 82,240 83,535 77,731 79,019 Corporate Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 3.1 743,365 731,762 656,650 647,503 Bank acceptances of customers 379 463 379 463 Shares in and loans to controlled entities 11.2 118,252 101,337 governance Property, plant and equipment 6.1 2,576 3,873 1,460 1,494 Investment in associates and joint ventures 11.1 2,842 2,778 1,118 1,241 Intangible assets 6.2 9,023 10,024 4,399 4,449 Deferred tax assets (2) 2.5 1,439 906 1,430 1,324 Other assets 6.3 6,991 7,882 6,279 6,457 Assets held for sale 11.3 15,654 19 Directors’ Total assets 975,165 976,318 970,552 958,796 report Liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings 4.1 622,234 626,655 566,200 571,353 Payables due to other financial institutions 20,899 28,432 20,014 28,038 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 4.2 10,247 10,392 9,106 8,989 Derivative liabilities 5.4 28,472 30,330 30,871 32,173 Bank acceptances 379 463 379 463 Due to controlled entities 105,327 91,222 Financial report Current tax liabilities 952 1,450 796 1,278 Deferred tax liabilities 2.5 332 Other provisions 7.1 1,889 1,780 1,590 1,372 Insurance policy liabilities 451 12,018 Debt issues 4.3 172,294 167,571 139,984 134,966 Managed funds units on issue 2,577 Bills payable and other liabilities 7.2 11,596 11,932 10,116 10,909 Other Liabilities held for sale 11.3 14,900 884,313 893,932 884,383 880,763 Loan capital 8.2 22,992 18,726 22,249 17,959 information Total liabilities 907,305 912,658 906,632 898,722 Net assets 67,860 63,660 63,920 60,074 Shareholders' Equity Ordinary share capital 8.3 37,270 34,971 37,533 35,262 Reserves 8.3 1,676 1,869 2,568 2,556 Retained profits (2) 8.3 28,360 26,274 23,819 22,256 Shareholders' Equity attributable to Equity holders of the 67,306 63,114 63,920 60,074 Bank Non-controlling interests 11.1 554 546 Total Shareholders' Equity 67,860 63,660 63,920 60,074 (1) Current period balances have been impacted by the announced sale of the Group’s life Insurance businesses in Australia and New Zealand, the investment in BoComm Life and TymeDigital. (2) Comparatives have been restated following a change in accounting policy to recognise deferred tax on brand names acquired by the Group. Further details on the change are provided in Note 1.1. The above Balance Sheets should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 127 127 Financial Financial report Financial statements Financial report Statements Statements of Changes in Equity For the year ended 30 June 2018 Group Ordinary NonTotal share Retained controlling Shareholders' capital Reserves profits Total interests Equity $M $M $M $M $M $M As at 30 June 2016 33,845 2,734 23,435 60,014 550 60,564 Change in accounting policy (1) (56) (56) (56) Restated opening balance 33,845 2,734 23,379 59,958 550 60,508 Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 9,766 9,766 20 9,786 Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations 162 162 4 166 Net other comprehensive income from continuing operations (862) 172 (690) (690) Net other comprehensive income from discontinued operations (29) (29) (29) Total comprehensive income for the period (891) 10,100 9,209 24 9,233 Transactions with Equity holders in their capacity as Equity holders: (2) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (7,237) (7,237) (7,237) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue 1,143 1,143 1,143 costs) Issue of shares (net of issue costs) (6) (6) (6) Share-based payments 32 32 32 Purchase of treasury shares (92) (92) (92) Sale and vesting of treasury shares 81 81 81 Other changes (6) 32 26 (28) (2) As at 30 June 2017 34,971 1,869 26,274 63,114 546 63,660 Net profit after income tax from continuing 9,375 9,375 19 9,394 operations Net profit after income tax from discontinued (46) (46) (46) operations Net other comprehensive income from (94) 159 65 65 continuing operations Net other comprehensive income from (14) (14) (14) discontinued operations Total comprehensive income for the period (108) 9,488 9,380 19 9,399 Transactions with Equity holders in their capacity as Equity holders: (2) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (7,484) (7,484) (7,484) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue 2,105 2,105 2,105 costs) Issue of shares (net of issue costs) 164 164 164 Share-based payments (19) (19) (19) Purchase of treasury shares (95) (95) (95) Sale and vesting of treasury shares 125 125 125 Other changes (66) 82 16 (11) 5 As at 30 June 2018 37,270 1,676 28,360 67,306 554 67,860 (1) Comparatives have been restated following a change in accounting policy to recognise deferred tax on brand names acquired by the Group. Further details on the change are provided in Note 1.1. (2) Current period and prior periods include discontinued operations. The above Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 128 Annual Report 2018 128 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Financial report statements Financial Financial Strategic report Statements report Statements of Changes in Equity (continued) For the year ended 30 June 2018 Bank Ordinary Other Total Performance share equity Retained Shareholders' capital instruments Reserves profits Equity $M $M $M $M $M overview As at 30 June 2016 34,125 406 3,115 20,430 58,076 Change in accounting policy (1) (56) (56) Restated opening balance 34,125 406 3,115 20,374 58,020 Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 8,979 8,979 Corporate Net other comprehensive income from continuing (623) 172 (451) operations Total comprehensive income for the period (623) 9,151 8,528 governance Transactions with Equity holders in their capacity as Equity holders: Dividends paid on ordinary shares (7,237) (7,237) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) 1,143 1,143 Directors’ Issue of shares (net of issue costs) (6) (6) Share-based payments 32 32 report Redemptions (406) (406) Other changes 32 (32) As at 30 June 2017 35,262 2,556 22,256 60,074 Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 9,010 9,010 Net profit after income tax from (135) (135) discontinued operations Financial Net other comprehensive income from continuing operations 52 157 209 report Total comprehensive income for the 52 9,032 9,084 period Transactions with Equity holders in their capacity as Equity holders: (1) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (7,484) (7,484) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) 2,107 2,107 Issue of shares (net of issue costs) 164 164 Other information Share-based payments (25) (25) Redemptions Other changes (15) 15 As at 30 June 2018 37,533 2,568 23,819 63,920 (1) Comparatives have been restated following a change in accounting policy to recognise deferred tax on brand names acquired by the Group. Further details on the change are provided in Note 1.1. The above Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 129 129 Financial Financial report statements Financial Financial report Statements Statements of Cash Flows (1) (2) For the year ended 30 June 2018 Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M $M Cash flows from operating activities Interest received 35,801 33,536 34,047 34,679 33,807 Interest paid (15,356) (15,006) (16,285) (16,100) (17,057) Other operating income received 6,181 5,556 5,688 4,217 3,959 Expenses paid (10,340) (9,763) (9,981) (8,739) (8,152) Income taxes paid (4,791) (3,976) (3,071) (3,892) (3,163) Net inflows/(outflows) from assets at fair value through Income 5,270 4,220 (2,642) 7,185 2,742 Statement (excluding life insurance) Net inflows/(outflows) from liabilities at fair value through Income Statement: Insurance: Investment income 225 186 (362) Premiums received (3) 3,241 3,366 3,114 Policy payments and commission expense (3) (3,453) (3,854) (3,301) Other liabilities at fair value through Income (208) 156 1,872 12 1,588 Statement Cash flows from operating activities before 16,570 14,421 9,079 17,362 13,724 changes in operating assets and liabilities Changes in operating assets and liabilities arising from cash flow movements Movement in available-for-sale investments: Purchases (51,783) (54,608) (50,233) (50,501) (53,883) Proceeds 52,832 49,392 46,150 51,673 48,750 Net increase in loans, bills discounted and other (16,105) (38,744) (52,825) (10,420) (31,708) receivables Net decrease in receivables due from other financial institutions 884 1,100 803 583 1,121 and regulatory authorities Net decrease/(increase) in securities purchased under 9,258 (13,993) 4,574 9,723 (13,381) agreements to resell Insurance business: Purchase of insurance assets at fair value through Income (1,594) (1,789) (2,020) Statement Proceeds from sale/maturity of insurance assets at fair value 2,671 3,152 4,276 through Income Statement Net increase in other assets (11) (174) (108) (35) (152) Net (decrease)/increase in deposits and other public (876) 39,821 37,783 (4,984) 36,379 borrowings Net (decrease)/increase in payables due to other financial (8,279) 666 (6,323) (8,451) 718 institutions Net (decrease)/increase in securities sold under agreements to (1,574) (853) 4,148 (1,695) (804) repurchase Net (decrease)/increase in other liabilities (884) 802 135 (1,664) (1,947) Changes in operating assets and liabilities (15,461) (15,228) (13,640) (15,771) (14,907) arising from cash flow movements Net cash provided by/(used in) operating 12.3 (a) 1,109 (807) (4,561) 1,591 (1,183) activities (1) It should be noted that the Group does not use these accounting Statements of Cash Flows in the internal management of its liquidity positions. (2) Includes discontinued operations. (3) Represents gross premiums and policy payments before splitting between policyholders and shareholders. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 130 Annual Report 2018 130 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Financial report statements Strategic Financial Financial report report Statements Statements of Cash Flows (1) (2) (continued) For the year ended 30 June 2018 Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M $M Cash flows from investing activities Performance overview Cash inflows/(outflows) from acquisitions 11.4 26 (31) (857) Net proceeds from disposal of entities and businesses (net of cash 1 110 disposals) Dividends received 68 94 78 2,085 1,200 Net amounts received from controlled entities (3) (2,993) 5,500 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 155 381 405 42 50 Corporate Purchases of property, plant and equipment (477) (602) (1,259) (321) (320) Payments for acquisitions of investments in associates/joint (271) governance (25) (15) ventures Net purchase of intangible assets (503) (495) (509) (405) (409) Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities (1,002) (677) (2,032) (1,592) 6,006 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid (excluding Dividend Reinvestment Plan) (5,366) (6,084) (5,827) (5,364) (6,084) Redemption of other equity instruments (net of costs) (939) (406) Proceeds from issuance of debt securities 68,273 94,560 98,958 57,708 77,938 Directors’ Redemption of issued debt securities (67,809) (81,758) (97,740) (56,692) (71,345) report Purchase of treasury shares (95) (92) (108) Sale of treasury shares 55 34 50 Issue of loan capital 4,445 3,757 3,949 4,436 3,379 Redemption of loan capital (464) (1,678) (467) 3 Proceeds from issuance of shares (net of issue costs) (6) 5,022 (6) Financial Other 27 61 (67) 36 30 report Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities (934) 10,472 1,620 (343) 3,509 Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (827) 8,988 (4,973) (344) 8,332 Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 715 (318) 150 746 (292) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 23,117 14,447 19,270 20,949 12,909 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12.3 (b) 23,005 23,117 14,447 21,351 20,949 (1) It should be noted that the Group does not use these accounting Statements of Cash Flows in the internal management of its liquidity positions. Other information (2) Includes discontinued operations. (3) Amounts received from and paid to controlled entities are presented in line with how they are managed and settled. The above Statements of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 131 Financial Notes to the report Financial financial Notes tostatements the report financial statements Overview 1.1 General Information, Basis of Accounting, Future Accounting Development General Information uncertainty of completion of the demerger (potentially greater than 12 months), NewCo is included in continuing operations. The Financial Report of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the Bank) and the Bank and its subsidiaries (the Group) for the year There have been no other significant changes in the nature of the ended 30 June 2018, were approved and authorised for issue by principal activities of the Group during the year-end. the Board of Directors on 7 August 2018. The Directors have the The Financial Statements have five primary statements for the power to amend and reissue the Financial Statements. Group and the Bank, being: The Bank is a for-profit entity incorporated and domiciled in 1. Income Statement; Australia. It is a company limited by shares that are publicly traded 2. Statement of Comprehensive Income; 3. Balance Sheet; on the Australian Securities Exchange. The registered office is 4. Statement of Changes in Equity; and Ground Floor, Tower 1, 201 Sussex Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, 5. Statement of Cash Flows. Australia. Associated notes as required by Australian Accounting Standards The Financial Report includes the consolidated and standalone (the standards) are in the proceeding sections of the Financial financial statements of the Group and the Bank respectively. Statements. Notes accompanying the Financial Statements and the Disclosures have been grouped into the following categories in Independent Auditor’s Report also form part of the Financial order to assist users in their understanding of the Financial Report. Statements: During the 2018 financial year, the Group announced the sale of 1. Overview – contains the principal accounting policies, the 100% of its life insurance businesses in Australia (CommInsure basis of accounting, and future accounting developments. Life) and New Zealand (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA) for 2. Our Performance – includes information on how we generate $3.8 billion. returns, as well as providing information on our operating segments which is consistent with how information is The sale agreement includes a 20-year partnership with AIA for presented internally to key decision makers. the provision of life insurance products to customers in Australia 3. Our Lending Activities – provides information on our primary and New Zealand. The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July business activity. 2018, resulting in a total post-tax gain of $102 million (inclusive of 4. Our Investing, Trading and Other Banking Activities – separation costs and subject to final tax calculations and purchase provides information on assets and activities that cover price adjustments). This has also been reported as a subsequent investing, trading and balance sheet management. event. 5. Our Deposits and Funding Activities – includes information on the diversified funding sources which support our key The sale of CommInsure Life remains subject to certain conditions activities. and regulatory approvals, and is expected to be completed later in 6. Other assets – includes information on assets such as, calendar year 2018. intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. On 23 May 2018 CBA announced the sale of its 37.5% equity 7. Other liabilities – includes disclosures on the nature of other provisions, accruals and payables. interest in BoComm Life Insurance Company Limited (BoComm 8. Our Capital, Equity and Reserves – provides information on Life) to Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd (MSI). Completion of our capital position. the sale is subject to regulatory approvals in China, and is a 9. Risk Management – provides commentary on the exposure condition precedent to completion of the CommInsure Life sale. to different risks through participation in the banking and The CBA Board has approved the sale of Commonwealth Bank of financial services industries, how we manage these risks and the potential impact on our results and balance sheets. South Africa (Holding Company) Limited (“TymeDigital”) to the 10. Employee Benefits – information on cash and equity settled minority shareholder, African Rainbow Capital. The sale is subject share plans, retirement benefit obligations and key to regulatory approval and potential sale price adjustments. As a management personnel. result, the financial effect of the sale currently cannot be reliably 11. Group Structure – provides a summary of the Group’s estimated, however, it is not expected to have a material impact controlled entities and includes disclosures relating to on the Group’s results. transactions which impact the structure of the Group. 12. Other – includes disclosures on commitments, contingencies, Each of these businesses have been treated as discontinued subsequent events, the impact of new accounting standards operations for the 2018 financial year. and auditors remuneration. Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of the continuing operations and are presented as a single line item “net Where applicable for each note, disclosures are further organised profit after tax from discontinued operations” in the Income by: i. Disclosures on balances as required by the Standards and the Statements. Corporations Act 2001; Assets and Liabilities of discontinued operations subject to ii. The Accounting Policy for the transactions and balances, disposal have been presented separately as held for sale on the which provides information to assist in the understanding of Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2018. how the numbers are measured, recognised and disclosed; and On 25 June 2018 CBA announced its intention to demerge its iii. Any critical accounting judgements and estimates applied by wealth management and mortgage broking businesses the Group in determining the numbers. (“NewCo”), and undertake a strategic review of its general insurance business, including a potential sale. Due to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia 132 Annual Report 2018 132 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements Strategic report Overview (continued) 1.1 General Information, Basis of Accounting, Future Accounting Developments Basis of Accounting Change in Accounting Policies The Financial Report: Deferred tax on indefinite useful life Brand Names  is a general purpose financial report; Performance  has been prepared in accordance with the Standards, the Previously, the Bank did not recognise deferred tax on the Australian Accounting interpretations adopted by the Bankwest brand acquired through a business combination in 2008 Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) and (carrying value $186 million at 30 June 2017) due to the brand overview International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRSs) as having an indefinite useful life and its carrying value was expected issued by the International Accounting Standards Board; to be realised through sale.  has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of In November 2016 the IFRS Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) the Corporations Act 2001; published an agenda decision concluding that an entity cannot  is presented in Australian dollars, which is the Bank’s assume that the carrying value of an intangible asset with an functional and presentation currency, with all values Corporate indefinite useful life will be recovered through sale. rounded to the nearest million dollars ($m) in accordance As a result, the expected manner of recovery in relation to the governance with ASIC Corporations Instrument 2016/1991 unless Bankwest brand has changed to being realised through use given otherwise indicated;  includes foreign currency transactions that are translated that there is no planned, expected or potential sale of Bankwest in into the functional currency, using the exchange rates the near future. prevailing at the date of each transaction; Therefore, we have retrospectively changed the accounting policy  has been prepared on a going concern basis using a for the accounting of deferred tax on the Bankwest brand. The historical cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities impact of the change resulted in a decrease in opening retained Directors’ (including derivative instruments) measured at fair value; earnings of $56 million with a corresponding increase in deferred  presents assets and liabilities on the face of the Balance tax liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities have been offset against Sheets in decreasing order of liquidity; deferred tax assets. There was no impact on profit. report  where required, presents restated comparative information Where necessary, comparative information has been restated to for consistency with the current year’s presentation in the conform to presentation in the current period. All changes have Financial Report; been footnoted throughout the financial statements.  contains accounting policies that have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated. Future Accounting Developments Refer to Note 12.5 for information on the adoption of AASB 9 Change in Comparatives ‘Financial Instruments’ and AASB 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts Financial with Customers’ adopted from 1 July 2018. Discontinued Operations report Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of the Other Accounting Developments continuing operations and are presented as a single line item “net profit after tax from discontinued operations” in the Consolidated AASB 16 'Leases' amends the accounting for leases and will Income Statement for the current and prior periods. replace AASB 117 'Leases'. Lessees will be required to bring both operating and finance leases on Balance Sheet as a right of use Assets and Liabilities of discontinued operations subject to asset along with the associated lease liability. Interest expense will disposal have been presented separately as held for sale on the Other be recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest rate Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2018. method, and the right of use asset will be depreciated. Lessor information Resegmentation accounting remains largely unchanged. AASB 16 is not mandatory During the year, refinements have been made to the allocation of until 1 July 2019. customer balances and associated revenue and expenses The potential financial impacts of the above have not yet been between business segments as detailed in Note 2.7. determined. Reclassification of IT expenses by nature Other amendments to existing standards that are not yet effective are not expected to result in significant changes to accounting During the year, staff expenses and IT expense have been policies. restated to more accurately reflect the nature of each underlying line item. The $142 million impact resulted in a decrease in salaries and related costs and an increase in Application maintenance and development expenses for June 2017 and $154 million for June 2016. Other No amendments to Australian Accounting Standards have been adopted during the period that have a material impact on the Group. 133 133 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 2) Our Performance Overview The Group earns its returns from providing a broad range of banking and insurance products and services to retail and wholesale customers in Australia, New Zealand and other jurisdictions. Lending and deposit taking are the Group’s primary business activities with net interest income being the main contributor to the Group’s results. Net interest income is derived as the difference between interest earned on lending and investment assets and interest incurred on customer deposits and wholesale debt raised to fund these assets. The Group further generates income from lending fees and commissions, funds management services, insurance products and trading activities. It also incurs costs associated with running the business such as staff, occupancy, technology and related expenses. The Performance section provides details of the main contributors to the Group’s returns and analysis of its financial performance by business segments, geographical regions and on an earnings per share basis. 2.1 Net Interest Income Group (1) Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Interest Income Loans and bills discounted 31,714 30,734 30,969 28,283 27,214 Other financial institutions 140 149 136 121 133 Cash and liquid assets 459 321 291 427 291 Assets at fair value through Income Statement 501 490 576 465 467 Available-for-sale investments 1,729 1,607 1,847 1,639 1,510 Controlled entities 2,483 3,919 Total interest income 34,543 33,301 33,819 33,418 33,534 Interest Expense Deposits 10,243 10,518 11,764 8,802 9,039 Other financial institutions 418 300 277 379 274 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 167 102 211 142 58 Debt issues 4,169 4,159 4,125 3,286 3,326 Loan capital 836 679 584 801 650 Bank levy 369 369 Controlled entities 3,228 4,417 Total interest expense 16,202 15,758 16,961 17,007 17,764 Net interest income 18,341 17,543 16,858 16,411 15,770 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. Interest recognised on financial instruments measures at amortised cost Total interest income for financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss is $33,783 million (2017: $32,419 million, 2016: $32,657 million) for the Group and $32,694 million (2017: $32,675 million) for the Bank. Total interest expense for financial liabilities that are not fair value through profit or loss is $16,035 million (2017: $15,656 million, 2016: $16,750) for the Group and $16,865 million (2017: 17,706 million) for the Bank. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 134 Annual Report 2018 134 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report Accounting Policies Interest income and interest expense on financial assets and liabilities are measured using the effective interest rate method. The effective interest rate method calculates the amortised cost of a financial instrument, such as a loan, deposit or issued debt instrument, and allocates the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the financial instrument. Fees, transaction costs and issue costs integral to the financial assets and liabilities are capitalised and included in the interest recognised over the expected life of the instrument. Performance overview Interest income on finance leases is recognised progressively over the life of the lease, consistent with the outstanding investment and unearned income balance. Interest expense also includes payments made under a liquidity facility arrangement with the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Major Bank Levy (Bank Levy) expense and other financing charges. 2.2 Average Balances and Related Interest The following tables have been produced using statutory Balance Sheet and Income Statement categories. The tables list the major Corporate categories of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities of the Group together with the respective interest earned or paid and the average interest rate (predominantly daily averages). Where assets or liabilities are hedged, the amounts are shown net of the hedge, however individual items not separately hedged may be governance affected by movements in exchange rates. The overseas component comprises overseas branches of the Bank and overseas domiciled controlled entities. Non-accrual loans are included in interest earning assets under Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables. The official cash rate in Australia and New Zealand, which is reflected in overseas, did not change during the financial year 2018 (2017: 25 basis points decrease for Australia, and 50 basis points decrease for New Zealand). Group Directors’ 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Average Average Average Average Average Average report Interest earning Balance Interest Rate Balance Interest Rate Balance Interest Rate assets (1) $M $M % $M $M % $M $M % Cash and liquid assets Australia 19,087 313 1. 6 17,734 271 1. 5 11,536 186 1. 6 Overseas 18,898 146 0. 8 19,626 47 0. 2 20,183 104 0. 5 Receivables due from Financial report other financial institutions Australia 2,290 50 2. 2 2,266 20 0. 9 3,387 26 0. 8 Overseas 5,997 90 1. 5 8,850 132 1. 5 8,986 111 1. 2 Assets at fair value through Income Statement Trading and Other Australia 20,761 444 2. 1 21,731 422 1. 9 19,354 500 2. 6 Overseas 4,070 57 1. 4 3,895 68 1. 7 3,090 76 2. 5 Other Available-for-sale information investments Australia 66,241 1,479 2. 2 66,615 1,458 2. 2 66,543 1,662 2. 5 Overseas 17,011 250 1. 5 13,870 149 1. 1 12,770 185 1. 4 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables (2) Australia (3) 597,343 27,110 4. 5 581,093 26,266 4. 5 554,206 26,620 4. 8 Overseas 102,566 4,604 4. 5 99,061 4,468 4. 5 90,541 4,349 4. 8 Total interest earning assets and interest 854,264 34,543 4. 0 834,741 33,301 4. 0 790,596 33,819 4. 3 income (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables include bank acceptances. (3) Net of average mortgage offset balances that are included in Non-interest earning assets. Gross Australian loan balance is $638,167 million (2017: $616,418 million, 2016: $581,067 million). 135 135 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 2.2 Average Balances and Related Interest (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Average Average Average Balance Balance Balance Non-interest earning assets $M $M $M Assets at fair value through Income Statement Insurance Australia 12,105 11,819 Overseas 377 2,477 2,502 Property, plant and equipment Australia 2,940 3,743 2,827 Overseas 252 289 266 Other assets Australia (1) (2) 94,925 108,931 97,012 Overseas 11,924 13,774 14,889 Provisions for impairment Australia (3,203) (3,303) (3,272) Overseas (466) (424) (375) Total non-interest earning assets 106,749 137,592 125,668 Assets held for sale (3) Australia 13,046 Overseas 2,228 Total assets 976,287 972,333 916,264 Percentage of total assets applicable to overseas operations (%) 16. 7 16. 6 16. 7 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) Includes average mortgage offset balances. (3) On 21 September 2017 CBA announced the sale of 100% of its life insurance businesses CommInsure Life and Sovereign to AIA Group Limited (AIA) and its 37.5% equity stake in BoComm Life. For 30 June 2018, $79 million of Non-lending interest earning assets and $15,177 million of other assets have been reclassified to Assets held for sale. Assets held for sale also includes $18 million of assets that reside outside the Group’s life insurance business as at 30 June 2018. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 136 Annual Report 2018 136 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 2.2 Average Balances and Related Interest (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Average Average Average Average Average Average Interest bearing Balance Interest Rate Balance Interest Rate Balance Interest Rate Performance liabilities (1) $M $M % $M $M % $M $M % Time deposits overview Australia (2) 203,694 5,438 2. 7 207,501 5,645 2. 7 196,883 5,926 3. 0 Overseas 51,291 1,652 3. 2 48,461 1,554 3. 2 41,541 1,417 3. 4 Savings deposits Australia (2) 143,462 1,767 1. 2 144,631 2,005 1. 4 156,648 2,844 1. 8 Overseas 14,414 122 0. 8 16,136 172 1. 1 16,688 293 1. 8 Other demand deposits Australia 115,079 1,165 1. 0 106,267 1,041 1. 0 94,904 1,156 1. 2 Corporate Overseas 8,136 99 1. 2 8,154 101 1. 2 7,288 128 1. 8 Payables due to other financial institutions governance Australia 10,292 196 1. 9 11,098 158 1. 4 14,367 154 1. 1 Overseas 16,648 222 1. 3 19,235 142 0. 7 22,664 123 0. 5 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement Australia 7,557 141 1. 9 7,049 63 0. 9 4,516 95 2. 1 Overseas 1,332 26 2. 0 1,467 39 2. 7 2,349 116 4. 9 Debt issues (3) Directors’ Australia 138,666 3,463 2. 5 136,614 3,323 2. 4 136,453 3,469 2. 5 report Overseas 28,450 706 2. 5 32,307 836 2. 6 25,564 656 2. 6 Loan capital Australia 13,788 556 4. 0 11,239 447 4. 0 9,442 388 4. 1 Overseas 6,774 280 4. 1 5,453 232 4. 3 4,447 196 4. 4 Bank levy Australia 369 Overseas Financial Total interest bearing liabilities and interest 759,583 16,202 2. 1 755,612 15,758 2. 1 733,754 16,961 2. 3 report expense (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Net of average mortgage offset balances that are included in Non-interest bearing liabilities. Debt issues include bank acceptances. Group Other 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Average Average Average information Balance Balance Balance Non-interest bearing liabilities $M $M $M Deposits not bearing interest Australia (1) 83,949 72,303 47,182 Overseas 4,193 3,671 3,035 Insurance policy liabilities Australia 11,190 11,482 Overseas 466 1,368 1,406 Other liabilities Australia 37,250 53,418 48,604 Overseas 10,255 12,796 13,178 Total non-interest bearing liabilities 136,113 154,746 124,887 Liabilities held for sale (2) Australia 13,413 Overseas 1,308 Total liabilities 910,417 910,358 858,641 Shareholders' Equity (3) 65,870 61,975 57,623 Total liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 976,287 972,333 916,264 Total liabilities applicable to overseas operations (%) 15. 7 16. 4 16. 1 (1) Includes average mortgage offset balance. (2) On 21 September 2018 CBA announced the sale of 100% of its life insurance businesses CommInsure Life and Sovereign to AIA Group Limited (AIA). For 30 June 2018, $867 million of Other demand deposits and $13,854 million of Other non-interest bearing liabilities have been reclassified to Liabilities held for sale. (3) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 137 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 2.2 Average Balances and Related Interest (continued) Changes in Net Interest Income: Volume and Rate Analysis The following tables show the movement in interest income and expense due to changes in volume and interest rates. Volume variances reflect the change in interest from the prior year due to movement in the average balance. Rate variances reflect the change in interest from the prior year due to changes in interest rates. Volume and rate variance for total interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities have been calculated separately (rather than being the sum of the individual categories). June 2018 vs June 2017 June 2017 vs June 2016 Changes in net interest income: Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Volume and rate analysis (1) $M $M $M $M $M $M Interest Earning Assets Cash and liquid assets Australia 21 21 42 97 (12) 85 Overseas (4) 103 99 (2) (55) (57) Receivables due from other financial institutions Australia 30 30 (9) 3 (6) Overseas (43) 1 (42) (2) 23 21 Assets at fair value through Income Statement Trading and Other Australia (20) 42 22 54 (132) (78) Overseas 3 (14) (11) 17 (25) (8) Available-for-sale investments Australia (8) 29 21 2 (206) (204) Overseas 40 61 101 14 (50) (36) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Australia 736 108 844 1,253 (1,607) (354) Overseas 158 (22) 136 397 (278) 119 Changes in interest income 784 458 1,242 1,825 (2,343) (518) Interest Bearing Liabilities and Loan Capital Time deposits Australia (103) (104) (207) 304 (585) (281) Overseas 91 7 98 229 (92) 137 Savings deposits Australia (15) (223) (238) (192) (647) (839) Overseas (16) (34) (50) (8) (113) (121) Other demand deposits Australia 88 36 124 125 (240) (115) Overseas (2) (2) 13 (40) (27) Payables due to other financial institutions Australia (13) 51 38 (41) 45 4 Overseas (27) 107 80 (22) 41 19 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement Australia 7 71 78 38 (70) (32) Overseas (3) (10) (13) (34) (43) (77) Debt issues Australia 51 89 140 4 (150) (146) Overseas (98) (32) (130) 174 6 180 Loan capital Australia 102 7 109 73 (14) 59 Overseas 55 (7) 48 44 (8) 36 Bank levy Australia 369 369 Overseas Changes in interest expense 84 360 444 481 (1,684) (1,203) Changes in net interest income 415 383 798 935 (250) 685 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 138 Annual Report 2018 138 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 2.3 Other Operating Income Group (1) Bank (2) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Other Operating Income Lending fees 1,109 1,078 1,010 1,032 1,002 Performance overview Commissions (3) 2,670 2,561 2,289 2,363 2,092 Trading income 1,025 1,149 1,087 916 1,043 Net gain/(loss) on non-trading financial instruments (4) 62 433 (27) 71 453 Net gain/(loss) on sale of property, plant and (17) 6 (21) (17) (3) equipment Net hedging ineffectiveness 12 62 (72) 30 Corporate Dividends Controlled entities 2,029 1,105 Dividends Other 10 10 12 56 95 governance Net funds management operating income 2,099 1,928 1,916 Insurance contracts income 302 231 215 Share of profit from associates and joint ventures net of 323 273 270 (7) (5) impairment (5) Directors’ Other (3) (6) 196 112 80 922 1,143 report Total other operating income 7,791 7,843 6,759 7,365 6,955 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) The year ended 30 June 2018 includes $228 million in income from the consolidation of AHL Holdings Pty Ltd (AHL) as the Group acquired the remaining 20% share on 25th August 2017 and an increase of $4 million in commissions from the acquisition of eChoice. (4) The prior year included a $397 million gain on sale of the Group’s remaining investment in VISA Inc. (5) 2018 includes the gain recognised on acquisition of AHL ($58 million) and a loss due to the dilution of the Bank’s interest in Qilu Bank Co. Ltd ($4 million). Financial (6) Includes depreciation of $74 million (2017: $88 million, 2016: $107 million) and impairment of nil (2017: $6 million, 2016: $69 million) in relation to assets held for lease by the Group. Includes depreciation of $9 million (2017: $13 million) and impairment of nil (2017: $2 million) in relation to assets held for lease by the Bank. report Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Net hedging ineffectiveness comprises: Other Gain/(loss) on fair value hedges: information Hedging instruments (757) 841 (709) (759) 1,862 Hedged items 765 (799) 642 763 (1,829) Cash flow and net investment hedge ineffectiveness 4 20 (5) (4) (3) Accounting Policies Lending Fees and commission income include:  Facility fees earned for managing and administering credit and other facilities for customers, which are recognised over the service period;  Commitment fees to originate a loan that is unlikely to be drawn down are recognised when the commitment is issued; and  Fee income earned for providing advisory or arrangement services, placement and underwriting services, which are recognised when the related service is completed. Trading income represents both realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in the fair value of trading assets, liabilities and derivatives, which are recognised in the period in which they arise. 139 139 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 2.3 Other Operating Income (continued) Accounting Policies (continued) Net gain/(loss) on non-trading financial instruments includes realised gains and losses from non-trading financial assets and liabilities (i.e. available-for-sale investments), as well as realised and unrealised gains and losses on non-trading derivatives that are held for risk management purposes. Net gain/(loss) on the sale of property, plant and equipment is the difference between proceeds received and its carrying value. Net hedging ineffectiveness is measured on fair value, cash flow and net investment hedges. Dividends received on non-trading equity investments (including controlled entities) are recognised either on the ex-dividend date or when the right to receive payment is established. Net funds management operating income includes fees earned where the Group acts as the Responsible Entity, Trustee or Manager for a number of wholesale, superannuation, and investment funds or trusts. Management fees are recognised over the service period. Performance fees are recognised when it is probable that the revenue will be received. General insurance premiums received and receivable are recognised as revenue when they are earned, based on actuarial assessment of the likely pattern in which risk will emerge. The portion not yet earned based on the pattern assessment is recognised as unearned premium liability. Claims are recognised as an expense when the liability is established. The Group recognises its share of the profits or losses from associate or joint venture investments, less any dividends received or impairment recognised. Other income includes rental income on operating leases which are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. This is offset by depreciation and impairment expense on the associated operating lease assets held by the Group. For the Bank, this includes management fee income for services provided to subsidiaries. Other income also includes the impact of foreign currency revaluations for foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities. These assets and liabilities are retranslated at the spot rate at balance date. Exchange differences arising upon settling or translating monetary items at different rates to those at which they were initially recognised or previously reported, are recognised in the Income Statement. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 140 Annual Report 2018 140 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 2.4 Operating Expenses Group (1) Bank (2) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Staff Expenses Performance Salaries and related on-costs (3) 5,441 5,264 5,274 4,587 4,521 Share-based compensation 77 120 86 91 118 overview Superannuation 421 481 394 400 461 Total staff expenses 5,939 5,865 5,754 5,078 5,100 Occupancy and Equipment Expenses Operating lease rentals 660 646 632 591 572 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 289 278 259 245 237 Other occupancy expenses 222 186 218 185 155 Total occupancy and equipment expenses 1,171 1,110 1,109 1,021 964 Corporate governance Information Technology Services Application maintenance and development (3) 709 586 578 724 597 Data processing 197 200 197 198 209 Desktop 154 184 136 140 173 Communications 173 184 197 155 173 Amortisation of software assets (4) 427 762 367 381 724 Software write-offs 71 6 71 6 Directors’ report IT equipment depreciation 68 49 51 67 51 Total information technology services 1,799 1,971 1,526 1,736 1,933 Other Expenses Postage and stationery 177 183 187 163 168 Transaction processing and market data 181 185 179 120 130 Fees and commissions: Financial Professional fees 677 386 234 651 367 Other 135 74 90 5 58 Advertising, marketing and loyalty 482 429 479 400 380 report Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding software and 13 11 12 merger related amortisation) Non-lending losses (5) 839 124 103 829 115 Impairment on investments in subsidiaries 231 40 Other 186 284 284 242 301 Total other expenses 2,690 1,676 1,568 2,641 1,559 Total operating expenses (6) 11,599 10,622 9,957 10,476 9,556 Other Investment and Restructuring information Integration expenses 30 30 Merger related amortisation (7) 4 4 39 4 4 Total investment and restructuring 34 4 39 34 4 Total operating expenses 11,633 10,626 9,996 10,510 9,560 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) During the year, the group restated staff expenses and IT expenses to more accurately reflect the underlying nature of each line item. The impact was a decrease in salaries and related on-costs and an increase in application maintenance and development expenses of $142 million for June 2017 and $154 million for June 2016. (4) The year ended 30 June 2017 includes a $393 million one-off expense for acceleration of amortisation on certain software assets. (5) The year ended 30 June 2018 includes $700 million for the AUSTRAC civil penalty. See Note 7.1 for further information. (6) The year ended 30 June 2018 includes a $190 million expense following the consolidation of AHL Holdings Pty Ltd (trading as Aussie Home Loans) as the Group acquired the remaining 20% share on 25 August 2017 and a $7 million expense following the acquisition of eChoice. (7) Merger related amortisation relates to Bankwest core deposits and customer lists. 141 141 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 2.4 Operating Expenses (continued) Accounting Policies Salaries and related on-costs include annual leave, long service leave, employee incentives and relevant taxes. Staff expenses are recognised over the period the employee renders the service. Long service leave is discounted to present value using assumptions relating to staff departures, leave utilisation and future salary. Share-based compensation includes both payments which may be cash or equity settled. Cash settled share-based remuneration is recognised as a liability and re-measured to fair value until settled. The changes in fair value are recognised as staff expenses. Equity settled remuneration is fair valued at the grant date and amortised to staff expenses over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in the employee compensation reserve. Superannuation expense includes expenses relating to defined contribution and defined benefit superannuation plans. Defined contribution expense is recognised in the period the service is provided, whilst the defined benefit expense, which measures current and past service costs is determined by an actuarial calculation. Occupancy and equipment expenses include depreciation which is calculated using the straight line method over the asset’s estimated useful life and operating lease rentals which are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. IT services expenses are recognised as incurred unless they qualify for capitalisation as computer software due to the expenditure generating probable future economic benefits. If capitalised, the computer software is subsequently amortised over its estimated useful life. The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date useful lives and residual values and whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. If an asset’s carrying value is greater than its recoverable amount, the carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount. Other expenses are recognised as the relevant service is rendered or once a liability is incurred. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Group’s Defined Benefit Superannuation Plans Actuarial valuations of the plans’ obligations are dependent on a series of assumptions set out in Note 10.2 including inflation rates, discount rates and salary growth rates. Changes in these assumptions impact the fair value of the plans’ obligations, assets, superannuation expense and actuarial gains and losses recognised in Other Comprehensive Income. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 142 Annual Report 2018 142 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 2.5 Income Tax Expense The income tax expense for the year is determined from the profit before income tax as follows: Group (1) Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Performance overview Profit before income tax 13,420 13,665 12,365 12,303 12,125 Prima facie income tax at 30% 4,026 4,100 3,710 3,691 3,638 Effect of amounts which are nondeductible/(assessable) in calculating taxable income: Taxation offsets and other dividend adjustments (7) (11) (4) (612) (369) Corporate Tax losses not previously brought to account (56) (5) (56) Offshore tax rate differential (66) (75) (76) (9) (15) governance Offshore banking unit (39) (42) (33) (38) (40) Effect of changes in tax rates 15 4 1 15 (1) Income tax (over)/under provided in previous years (79) (65) (177) (69) (53) Non-deductible expense provision (2) 210 210 Other (34) 24 (16) 105 42 Directors’ Total income tax expense 4,026 3,879 3,400 3,293 3,146 report Effective tax rate (%) 30. 0 28. 4 27. 5 26. 8 26. 0 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Due to the $700 million expense relating to the AUSTRAC civil penalty, which is non-deductible for tax purposes. Financial Group Bank Income tax expense attributable to profit from 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 report ordinary activities $M $M $M $M $M Australia Current tax expense 3,956 3,737 2,827 3,370 3,453 Deferred tax expense/(benefit) (416) (292) 114 (157) (341) Other Total Australia 3,540 3,445 2,941 3,213 3,112 Overseas information Current tax expense 969 404 465 77 68 Deferred tax expense/(benefit) (483) 30 (6) 3 (34) Total overseas 486 434 459 80 34 Income Tax Expense attributable to profit from 4,026 3,879 3,400 3,293 3,146 ordinary activities 143 143 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 2.5 Income Tax Expense (continued) Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Deferred tax asset balances comprise temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Income Statement: Provision for employee benefits 452 493 501 391 387 Provisions for impairment on loans, bills discounted and 991 1,032 1,051 913 946 other receivables Other provisions not tax deductible until expense 221 201 216 154 129 incurred Financial instruments (1) 1 56 (1) Defined benefit superannuation plan 339 320 310 339 320 Unearned income 267 228 101 267 228 Other 297 224 126 274 165 Total amount recognised in the Income Statement 2,566 2,499 2,361 2,337 2,175 Amounts recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income: Cash flow hedge reserve 114 123 161 11 13 Other reserves 22 12 16 28 17 Total amount recognised directly in Other 136 135 177 39 30 Comprehensive Income Total deferred tax assets (before set off) 2,702 2,634 2,538 2,376 2,205 Set off to tax (1,263) (1,728) (2,205) (946) (881) Net deferred tax assets 1,439 906 333 1,430 1,324 Deferred tax liability balances comprise temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Income Statement: Lease financing 200 235 282 100 96 Intangible assets 56 64 205 56 64 Financial instruments 30 179 196 10 14 Insurance 485 510 Investments in associates 131 122 95 Other 83 246 233 39 25 Total amount recognised in the Income Statement 500 1,331 1,521 205 199 Amounts recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income: Revaluation of properties 81 76 74 80 76 Foreign currency translation reserve 18 8 26 Cash flow hedge reserve 48 70 416 45 37 Defined benefit superannuation plan 498 445 376 498 445 Available-for-sale investments reserve 118 130 132 118 124 Total amount recognised directly in Other 763 729 1,024 741 682 Comprehensive Income Total deferred tax liabilities (before set off) 1,263 2,060 2,545 946 881 Set off to tax (1,263) (1,728) (2,205) (946) (881) Net deferred tax liabilities 332 340 (1) Comparative information Commonwealth Bank ofhas been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. Australia 144 Annual Report 2018 144 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 2.5 Income Tax Expense (continued) Group (1) (2) Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Deferred tax assets opening balance: 906 333 498 1,324 793 Movement in temporary differences during the year: Performance overview Provisions for employee benefits (41) (8) 5 4 2 Provisions for impairment on loans, bills discounted and (41) (19) 43 (33) (15) other receivables Other provisions not tax deductible until expense 20 (15) (67) 25 4 incurred Financial instruments (1) (97) 36 8 Defined benefit superannuation plan 19 10 17 19 10 Corporate Unearned Income 39 127 3 39 127 governance Other 73 98 17 109 84 Set off to tax 465 477 (219) (65) 319 Deferred tax assets closing balance 1,439 906 333 1,430 1,324 Deferred tax liabilities opening balance: 332 340 351 Directors’ Movement in temporary differences during the year: report Lease financing (35) (47) (59) 4 (12) Defined benefit superannuation plan 53 69 11 53 69 Intangible assets (8) (141) 82 (8) (82) Financial instruments (173) (383) (62) (2) (272) Insurance (485) (25) 85 Financial Investments in associates 9 27 17 report Other (158) 15 134 18 (22) Set off to tax 465 477 (219) (65) 319 Deferred tax liabilities closing balance 332 340 Other (1) Comparative information has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. (2) During the year deferred tax assets of $46 million, included in ‘Other’, and deferred tax liabilities of $809 million, included in financial instruments ($129 million), information insurance ($484 million) and Other ($196 million) were reclassified as held for sale. The above table includes the impact of these transfers. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not considered probable that future taxable profit will be available against which they can be realised: Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Deferred tax assets not taken to account $M $M $M $M $M Tax losses and other temporary differences on revenue account that: Expire under current legislation 52 124 47 Do not expire under current legislation 47 29 7 Total 47 81 131 47 Tax Consolidation The Bank has recognised a tax consolidation contribution to the wholly-owned tax consolidated entity of $98 million (2017: $97 million). The amount receivable by the Bank under the tax funding agreement was $283 million as at 30 June 2018 (2017: $302 million receivable). This balance is included in ‘Other assets’ in the Bank’s separate Balance Sheet. 145 145 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 2.5 Income Tax Expense (continued) Accounting Policies Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is calculated using the Balance Sheet method where temporary differences are identified by comparing the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes to their tax bases. The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities (i.e. through use or through sale), using tax rates which are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available for it to be used against. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where they relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within the same taxable group. The Bank and its wholly owned Australian Subsidiaries elected to be treated as a single entity “the tax consolidated group” under the tax consolidation regime from 1 July 2002. The members of the tax consolidated group have entered into tax funding and tax sharing agreements, which set out the funding obligations and members. Any current tax liabilities / assets and deferred tax assets from unused tax losses from subsidiaries in the tax consolidated group are recognised by the Bank legal entity and funded in line with the tax funding arrangement. The measurement and disclosure of deferred tax assets and liabilities have been performed on a modified stand-alone basis under UIG 1052 ‘Tax Consolidation Accounting’. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Provisions for taxation require significant judgement with respect to outcomes that are uncertain. For such uncertainties, the Group has estimated the tax provisions based on the expected outcomes. The accounting policy on measuring and recognising deferred tax on indefinite useful life brand names changed during the period to reflect that the carrying value of the brand name will be recovered through use, resulting in the Bank recognising a deferred tax liability. The financial impact of the change is outlined in Note 1.1. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 146 Annual Report 2018 146 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 2.6 Earnings per Share Group (3) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Earnings per ordinary share (1) (2) Cents per Share Earnings per share from continuing operations: Performance Basic 536. 9 567. 9 525. 6 Diluted 520. 2 549. 9 513. 3 Earnings per share: overview Basic 534. 3 577. 3 542. 0 Diluted 517. 7 558. 8 529. 0 (1) EPS calculations are based on actual amounts prior to rounding to the nearest million. Corporate (2) The difference between earnings per share from continuing operations and earnings per share represents earnings per share from discontinued operations. (3) Basic and diluted earnings per share for all periods presented have been adjusted retrospectively to incorporate the discount element of the dividend reinvestment plan. Group governance Reconciliation of earnings from continuing operations used in calculation of 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 earnings per share $M $M $M Profit after income tax from continuing operations (1) 9,394 9,786 8,965 Less: Other equity instrument dividends (50) Less: Non-controlling interests (19) (20) (20) Directors’ Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 9,375 9,766 8,895 report Add: Profit impact of assumed conversions of loan capital 267 218 195 Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of fully diluted earnings per share 9,642 9,984 9,090 Reconciliation of earnings used in calculation of earnings per share Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 9,375 9,766 8,895 Financial Discontinued operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share (46) 162 278 report Earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 9,329 9,928 9,173 Add: Profit impact of assumed conversions of loan capital 267 218 195 Earnings used in calculation of fully diluted earnings per share 9,596 10,146 9,368 (1) Comparative information has been restated to reflect the impact of discontinued operations. Number of Shares 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Other M M M Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per 1,746 1,720 1,692 information share Effect of dilutive securities executive share plans and convertible loan capital instruments 106 96 79 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of fully diluted earnings 1,852 1,816 1,771 per share Accounting Policies Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank by the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue during the year, adjusted for any bonus element included in ordinary shares issued and excluding treasury shares held. Diluted EPS is basic EPS adjusted for the impact of all securities on issue that can convert to CBA shares and would dilute basic EPS on conversion. It is calculated by dividing net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank (after adding back interest on the convertible redeemable loan capital instruments) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year (as calculated under basic earnings per share adjusted for the effects of dilutive convertible non-cumulative redeemable loan capital instruments and shares issuable under executive share plans). 147 147 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 2.7 Financial Reporting by Segments The principal activities of the Group are carried out in the (iii) Institutional Banking and Markets business segments below. These segments are based on the Institutional Banking and Markets services the Group’s major distribution channels through which the customer relationship is corporate, institutional and government clients using a being managed. relationship management model based on industry expertise and insights. The client offering includes debt raising, financial During the year, the Group announced the sale of its life and commodities price risk management and transactional Insurance businesses in Australia and New Zealand, the banking capabilities. Institutional Banking and Markets has investment in BoCommLife and that it is currently exploring international operations in London, New York, Houston, Japan, options for the most suitable long-term outcome for TymeDigital. Singapore, Malta, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Beijing and The Group’s business segment performance has been updated Shanghai. and presented on a continuing operations basis to exclude these businesses, which are disclosed as discontinued (iv) Wealth Management operations. In addition, refinements have been made to the Wealth Management includes Global Asset Management allocation of customer balances and associated revenue and (including operations in Asia and Europe), Platform expenses between business segments, including updated Administration and Financial Advice and Life and General transfer pricing allocations. These include the impact of the Insurance businesses of the Australian operations. The life announced migration of relationship managed customers Insurance business has been presented as a discontinued outside Western Australia from Bankwest to Business and operation. Private Banking. These changes have not impacted the Group’s (v) New Zealand cash net profit, but have resulted in changes to the presentation of the Income Statement and the Balance Sheet of the affected New Zealand includes the Banking, Funds Management and segments. Insurance businesses operating in New Zealand (excluding The primary sources of revenue are interest and fee income Institutional Banking and Markets). The Insurance business has (Retail Banking Services, Institutional Banking and Markets, been presented as a discontinued operation. Business and Private Banking, Bankwest, New Zealand, IFS (vi) Bankwest and Other Divisions) and insurance premium and funds Bankwest is active in all domestic retail market segments, with management income (Wealth Management, New Zealand, IFS lending diversified between housing and personal markets, and Other Divisions). including a full range of deposit products. Bankwest also provide Revenues and expenses occurring between segments are business and rural relationship managed products and services subject to transfer pricing arrangements. All intra-group to Western Australia based customers. transactions are eliminated on consolidation. (vii) IFS and Other Divisions Business segments are managed on the basis of net profit after The following parts of the business are included in IFS and income tax (“cash basis”). Management uses “cash basis” to assess performance and it provides the basis for the Other Divisions: determination of the Bank’s dividends. The “cash basis”  International Financial Services incorporates the Asian presents the Group’s underlying operating results, excluding a retail and business banking operations (Indonesia, China, number of items that introduce volatility and/or one-off Vietnam, India and South Africa), associate investments in distortions of the Group’s current period performance. These China and Vietnam, the life insurance operations in items, such as hedging and IFRS volatility, are calculated Indonesia. TymeDigital has been presented as a consistently year on year and do not discriminate between discontinued operation. It does not include the Business positive and negative adjustments. and Private Banking, Institutional Banking and Markets and Colonial First State Global Asset Management (i) Retail Banking Services businesses in Asia; Retail Banking Services provides home loan, consumer finance  Corporate Centre includes the results of unallocated and retail deposit products and servicing to all Retail bank Group support functions such as Investor Relations, Group customers and non-relationship managed small business Strategy, Marketing, Secretariat and Treasury; and customers.  Group wide elimination entries arising on consolidation, (ii) Business and Private Banking centrally raised provisions and other unallocated revenue Business and Private Banking provides specialised banking and expenses. services to relationship managed business and Agribusiness customers, private banking to high net worth individuals and margin lending and trading through CommSec. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 148 Annual Report 2018 148 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report Financial financial Notes to thestatements report financial statements 2.7 Financial Reporting by Segments (continued) 30 Jun 18 (1) Retail Business Institutional Banking and Private Banking and Wealth New IFS and Services Banking Markets Management Zealand Bankwest Other Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Net interest income 9,791 3,392 1,444 1,760 1,561 393 18,341 Other banking income 2,086 1,033 1,229 373 215 246 5,182 Total banking income 11,877 4,425 2,673 2,133 1,776 639 23,523 Funds management income 1,978 105 8 2,091 Insurance income 183 110 293 Total operating income 11,877 4,425 2,673 2,161 2,238 1,776 757 25,907 Investment experience (2) 26 (9) 17 Total net operating income before impairment and operating expenses 11,877 4,425 2,673 2,187 2,238 1,776 748 25,924 Operating expenses (3,745) (1,596) (1,142) (1,440) (811) (748) (2,117) (11,599) Loan impairment expense (716) (129) (80) (74) (54) (26) (1,079) Net profit before income tax 7,416 2,700 1,451 747 1,353 974 (1,395) 13,246 Corporate tax (expense)/benefit (2,223) (812) (330) (184) (378) (293) 226 (3,994) Non-controlling interests (19) (19) Net profit after tax from continuing operations cash basis 5,193 1,888 1,121 563 975 681 (1,188) 9,233 Net profit after tax from discontinued operations 160 96 (77) 179 Net profit after tax cash basis (3) 5,193 1,888 1,121 723 1,071 681 (1,265) 9,412 (Loss)/gain on disposal and acquisition of entities net of transaction costs 58 (241) (183) Hedging and IFRS volatility 87 14 101 Other non-cash items 2 (3) (1) Net profit after tax statutory basis 5,251 1,888 1,121 725 1,158 678 (1,492) 9,329 Additional information Amortisation and depreciation (239) (113) (118) (29) (78) (26) (198) (801) Balance Sheet Total assets 368,272 117,785 162,716 20,466 89,696 80,819 135,411 975,165 Total liabilities 260,508 89,745 153,895 25,202 82,976 53,775 241,204 907,305 (1) Information has been presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Investment experience is presented on a pre-tax basis. (3) This balance excludes non-cash items, including unrealised gains and losses relating to hedging and IFRS volatility ($101 million gain), transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of CommInsure Life and Sovereign ($136 million), and impairment due to the reclassification of TymeDigital as a discontinued operation ($91 million), demerger costs for NewCo ($21 million), a gain recognised on acquisition of AHL ($58 million), a gain on sale of County Banks ($11 million), a loss due to the dilution of the Bank’s interest in Qilu Bank Co. Ltd ($4 million), Bankwest non-cash items ($3 million expense) and treasury shares valuation adjustment ($2 million gain). 149 Other Financial Directors’ Corporate Performance Strategic information report report governance overview report 150 Financial Notes to the Financial report Notes financial to thestatements report financial statements Commonwealth Bank of Australia 2.7 Financial Reporting by Segments (continued) 30 Jun 17 (1) Retail Business Institutional Banking and Private Banking and Wealth New IFS and Services Banking Markets Management Zealand Bankwest Other Total Annual Report 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Net interest income 9,208 3,246 1,523 1,642 1,473 451 17,543 Other banking income (2) 1,997 976 1,348 331 204 722 5,578 Total banking income 11,205 4,222 2,871 1,973 1,677 1,173 23,121 Funds management income 1,820 92 1 1,913 Insurance income 121 102 223 Total operating income 11,205 4,222 2,871 1,941 2,065 1,677 1,276 25,257 Investment experience (3) 26 (3) 23 Total net operating income before impairment and operating expenses 11,205 4,222 2,871 1,967 2,065 1,677 1,273 25,280 Operating expenses (4) (3,473) (1,574) (1,083) (1,403) (795) (754) (1,540) (10,622) Loan impairment expense (702) (62) (64) (65) (99) (103) (1,095) Net profit before income tax 7,030 2,586 1,724 564 1,205 824 (370) 13,563 Corporate tax (expense)/benefit (2,097) (778) (413) (142) (336) (248) 167 (3,847) Non-controlling interests (20) (20) Net profit after tax from continuing operations 4,933 1,808 1,311 422 869 576 (223) 9,696 cash basis Net profit after tax from discontinued operations 130 96 (41) 185 Net profit after tax cash basis (5) 4,933 1,808 1,311 552 965 576 (264) 9,881 Hedging and IFRS volatility 27 46 73 Other non-cash items (23) (3) (26) Net profit after tax statutory basis 4,933 1,808 1,311 529 992 573 (218) 9,928 Additional information Amortisation and depreciation (220) (114) (109) (13) (78) (27) (543) (1,104) Balance Sheet Total assets 355,360 116,294 173,111 22,014 86,784 78,120 144,635 976,318 Total liabilities 252,308 84,925 162,112 27,455 80,625 55,482 249,751 912,658 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current period. (2) IFS and Other includes a $397 million gain on sale of the Group’s remaining investment in Visa Inc. (3) Investment experience is presented on a pre-tax basis. (4) IFS and Other includes a $393 million one-off expense for acceleration of amortisation of certain software assets. (5) This balance excludes non-cash items, including gains and losses relating to hedging and IFRS volatility ($73 million gain), Bankwest non-cash items ($3 million expense) and treasury shares valuation adjustment ($23 million expense). Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 2.7 Financial Reporting by Segments (continued) Group (1) Year Ended 30 June 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Financial performance and position $M % $M % $M % Performance Income overview Australia 22,161 84. 8 21,625 85. 2 19,796 83. 8 New Zealand 2,297 8. 8 2,191 8. 6 2,097 8. 9 Other locations (2) 1,674 6. 4 1,570 6. 2 1,724 7. 3 Total Income 26,132 100. 0 25,386 100. 0 23,617 100. 0 Corporate Non-Current Assets Australia 13,473 93. 3 15,301 91. 8 15,687 91. 7 governance New Zealand 581 4. 0 1,045 6. 2 1,087 6. 4 Other locations (2) 387 2. 7 329 2. 0 326 1. 9 Total non-current assets (3) 14,441 100. 0 16,675 100. 0 17,100 100. 0 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. Discontinued operations include the Group’s life insurance businesses in Australia and New Zealand, the investment in BoCommLife and TymeDigital. Directors’ (2) Other locations include: United Kingdom, United States, Japan, Singapore, Malta, Hong Kong, Indonesia, China, Vietnam and South Africa. (3) Non-current assets include Property, plant and equipment, Investments in associates and joint ventures, and Intangibles. report The geographical segment represents the location in which the transaction was recognised. Accounting Policies Operating segments are reported based on the Group’s organisational and management structures. Senior management review the Financial Group’s internal reporting based around these segments, in order to assess performance and allocate resources. report All transactions between segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis, with inter-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in “Other”. Other information 151 151 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 3. Our Lending Activities Overview Lending is the Group’s primary business activity, generating most of its net interest income and lending fees. The Group satisfies customers’ needs for borrowed funds by providing a broad range of lending products in Australia, New Zealand and other jurisdictions. This section provides details of the Group’s lending portfolio by type of product and geographical regions. 3.1 Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M Australia Overdrafts 25,217 24,385 25,217 24,385 Home loans (1) (3) 451,367 436,184 444,186 430,056 Credit card outstandings 11,877 12,073 11,877 12,073 Lease financing 4,318 4,302 3,268 3,161 Bills discounted (2) 4,280 7,486 4,280 7,486 Term loans and other lending 147,028 149,506 147,009 149,294 Total Australia 644,087 633,936 635,837 626,455 Overseas Overdrafts 1,657 1,545 281 277 Home loans (1) 50,298 49,673 397 519 Credit card outstandings 993 960 Lease financing 25 36 4 9 Term loans and other lending 50,969 50,389 24,348 24,533 Total overseas 103,942 102,603 25,030 25,338 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 748,029 736,539 660,867 651,793 Less Provisions for Loan Impairment: 3.2 Collective provision (2,735) (2,722) (2,482) (2,457) Individually assessed provisions (870) (971) (779) (888) Unearned income: Term loans (692) (681) (692) (680) Lease financing (367) (403) (264) (265) (4,664) (4,777) (4,217) (4,290) Net loans, bills discounted and other receivables 743,365 731,762 656,650 647,503 (1) Home loans balance includes residential mortgages that have been assigned to securitisation vehicles and covered bond trusts. Further detail on these residential mortgages is disclosed in Note 4.4. (2) The Group measures bills discounted intended to be sold into the market at fair value and includes these within Loans, bills discounted and other receivables to reflect the nature of the lending arrangement. (3) These balances are presented gross of mortgage offset balances as required under accounting standards. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 152 Annual Report 2018 152 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 3.1 Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables (continued) Based on behavioural terms and current market conditions, the amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date are $175,826 million (2017: $177,267 million) for the Group, and $159,688 million (2017: $161,734 million) for the Bank. The maturity tables below are based on contractual terms. Performance Finance Lease Receivables The Group and the Bank provide finance leases to a broad range of clients to support financing needs in acquiring transportation assets such as trains, aircraft, ships and major production and manufacturing equipment. overview Finance lease receivables are included within Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables to customers. Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Gross Present Value Gross Present Value Investment in of Minimum Investment in of Minimum Finance Lease Unearned Lease Payment Finance Lease Unearned Lease Payment Corporate Receivable Income Receivable Receivable Income Receivable $M $M $M $M $M $M governance Not later than one 1,706 (162) 1,544 1,439 (151) 1,288 year One year to five years 2,455 (190) 2,265 2,651 (187) 2,464 Over five years 182 (15) 167 248 (65) 183 Directors’ 4,343 (367) 3,976 4,338 (403) 3,935 report Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Gross Present Value Gross Present Value Investment in of Minimum Investment in of Minimum Finance Lease Unearned Lease Payment Finance Lease Unearned Lease Payment Receivable Income Receivable Receivable Income Receivable $M $M $M $M $M $M Financial Not later than one year 1,248 (116) 1,132 1,166 (95) 1,071 report One year to five years 1,864 (135) 1,729 1,797 (108) 1,689 Over five years 160 (13) 147 207 (62) 145 3,272 (264) 3,008 3,170 (265) 2,905 Other Accounting Policy information Loans, bills discounted and other receivables are financial assets, with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans, bills discounted and other receivables include overdrafts, home loans, credit card and other personal lending, term loans, discounted bills and finance leases. Loans and receivables are recognised on settlement date, when funding is advanced to the borrowers. The loans and receivables are initially recognised at their fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs such as broker fees. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and are presented net of provisions for impairment. For the accounting policy on provisions for impairment, please refer to section 3.2. For information on the Group’s management of credit risk during the year, refer to section 9.2. Discounted bills are included in this category due to their financing nature, however they meet the definition of a trading asset. They are measured at fair value through the Income Statement with directly attributable transaction costs expensed. Finance leases, where the Group acts as lessor, are also included in Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables. Finance leases are those where substantially all the risks and rewards of the lease asset have been transferred to the lessee. Lease receivables are recognised at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance lease income reflects a constant periodic return on this net investment and is recognised within interest income in the Income Statement. Critical accounting judgements and estimates When applying this effective interest method the Group has estimated the behavioural term of each loan portfolio by reference to historical prepayment rates and the contractual maturity. 153 153 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 3.1 Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables (continued) Contractual Maturity Tables Group Maturity Period at 30 June 2018 Maturing 1 Maturing Maturing Year Between 1 After or Less and 5 Years 5 Years Total Industry (1) $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign 13,745 2,490 588 16,823 Agriculture 3,589 5,078 331 8,998 Bank and other financial 6,805 5,818 328 12,951 Home loans 9,861 41,930 399,576 451,367 Construction 1,223 1,465 340 3,028 Other personal 7,663 13,976 2,019 23,658 Asset financing 3,188 5,263 130 8,581 Other commercial and industrial 42,482 65,382 10,817 118,681 Total Australia 88,556 141,402 414,129 644,087 Overseas Sovereign 1,023 466 82 1,571 Agriculture 2,533 5,371 2,026 9,930 Bank and other financial 3,684 3,206 185 7,075 Home loans 3,202 657 46,439 50,298 Construction 273 148 217 638 Other personal 1,190 333 321 1,844 Asset financing 23 173 261 457 Other commercial and industrial 7,954 17,153 7,022 32,129 Total overseas 19,882 27,507 56,553 103,942 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 108,438 168,909 470,682 748,029 (1) The industry split has been prepared in line with industry exposures in Note 9.2 Maturing 1 Maturing Maturing Year Between 1 After or Less and 5 Years 5 Years Total Interest rate $M $M $M $M Australia 73,612 122,146 328,864 524,622 Overseas 18,035 22,730 13,235 54,000 Total variable interest rates 91,647 144,876 342,099 578,622 Australia 14,944 19,256 85,265 119,465 Overseas 1,847 4,777 43,318 49,942 Total fixed interest rates 16,791 24,033 128,583 169,407 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 108,438 168,909 470,682 748,029 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 154 Annual Report 2018 154 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 3.1 Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables (continued) Group Maturity Period at 30 June 2017 Maturing 1 Maturing Maturing Year Between 1 After Performance or Less and 5 Years 5 Years Total Industry (1) $M $M $M $M Australia overview Sovereign 17,128 772 185 18,085 Agriculture 3,597 4,595 592 8,784 Bank and other financial 8,841 6,141 443 15,425 Home loans 8,548 37,784 389,852 436,184 Corporate Construction 1,158 2,176 431 3,765 Other personal 7,873 13,268 2,042 23,183 governance Asset financing 2,903 4,842 127 7,872 Other commercial and industrial 41,567 68,581 10,490 120,638 Total Australia 91,615 138,159 404,162 633,936 Overseas (2) Directors’ Sovereign 1,677 197 26 1,900 report Agriculture 2,211 4,321 3,316 9,848 Bank and other financial 2,603 2,990 182 5,775 Home loans 3,383 642 45,648 49,673 Construction 237 171 226 634 Financial Other personal 1,166 329 218 1,713 report Asset financing 85 239 140 464 Other commercial and industrial 7,310 16,487 8,799 32,596 Total overseas 18,672 25,376 58,555 102,603 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 110,287 163,535 462,717 736,539 Other Maturing 1 Maturing Maturing Year Between 1 After information or Less and 5 Years 5 Years Total Interest rate $M $M $M $M Australia 73,530 120,749 338,035 532,314 Overseas (2) 16,283 20,036 14,485 50,804 Total variable interest rates 89,813 140,785 352,520 583,118 Australia 18,085 17,410 66,127 101,622 Overseas (2) 2,389 5,340 44,070 51,799 Total fixed interest rates 20,474 22,750 110,197 153,421 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 110,287 163,535 462,717 736,539 (1) The industry split has been prepared in line with industry exposures in Note 9.2. (2) Comparative information has been reclassified to conform to contractual presentation in the current year. 155 155 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 3.2 Provisions for Impairment Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Provisions for impairment losses $M $M $M $M $M Collective provision Opening balance 2,747 2,818 2,762 2,482 2,545 Net collective provision funding 716 617 664 646 621 Impairment losses written off (871) (894) (846) (789) (871) Impairment losses recovered 201 210 225 182 186 Other (30) (4) 13 (11) 1 Closing balance 2,763 2,747 2,818 2,510 2,482 Individually assessed provisions Opening balance 980 944 887 897 864 Net new and increased individual provisioning 625 670 788 559 585 Write-back of provisions no longer required (262) (192) (196) (242) (166) Discount unwind to interest income (25) (31) (27) (25) (31) Impairment losses written off (548) (454) (571) (473) (399) Other 100 43 63 63 44 Closing balance 870 980 944 779 897 Total provisions for impairment losses 3,633 3,727 3,762 3,289 3,379 Less: Provision for Off Balance Sheet exposures (28) (34) (44) (28) (34) Total provisions for loan impairment 3,605 3,693 3,718 3,261 3,345 Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Provision ratios % % % % % Total provisions for impaired assets as a % of gross 33. 60 36. 05 36. 17 37. 18 39. 51 impaired assets Total provisions for impairment losses as a % of gross 0. 49 0. 51 0. 54 0. 50 0. 52 loans and acceptances Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Loan impairment expense $M $M $M $M $M Net collective provision funding 716 617 664 646 621 Net new and increased individual provisioning 625 670 788 559 585 Write-back of individually assessed provisions (262) (192) (196) (242) (166) Total loan impairment expense 1,079 1,095 1,256 963 1,040 Accounting Policy By providing loans to customers, the Group bears the risk that the future circumstances of customers might change, including their ability to repay their loans in part or in full. While the Group’s credit and responsible lending policies aim to minimise this risk, there will always be instances where the Group will not receive the full amount owed and hence a provision for impaired loans will be necessary. Credit losses arise primarily from loans, but also from other credit instruments such as bank acceptances, contingent liabilities and other financial instruments. The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and other receivables has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred), discounted at the financial asset's original effective interest rate. Short-term balances are not discounted. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 156 Annual Report 2018 156 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 3.2 Provisions for Impairment (continued) Accounting Policy (continued) Loans and other receivables are presented net of provisions for loan impairment. Guarantees and other contingent liabilities are accounted for as off Balance Sheet items. Provisioning for these exposures is calculated under AASB 137 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’. Performance overview Loan assets under committed lending facilities are not recognised until the facilities are drawn upon. However, the Group has determined that it is appropriate to establish provisions in relation to such facilities where a customer has been downgraded. These provisions are disclosed as other liabilities in the Balance Sheets. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Provisions for impairment of financial assets are raised to cover assessed credit related losses where there is objective evidence of impairment (i.e. where the Group does not expect to receive all of the cash flows contractually due). Individually assessed provisions Corporate against loans are subject to change as new information becomes available to reassess the level of impairment against a loan. Loans and receivables that do not have an individually assessed provision are assessed collectively for impairment. The collective provision governance is maintained to reduce the carrying amount of portfolios of similar loans and receivables to their estimated recoverable amounts at the Balance Sheet date. The evaluation process is subject to a series of estimates and judgements. Estimates applied include the loss history and the diversity of borrowers within a cohort or similar loan portfolio. Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on the level of provision determined. Increases or decreases in the provision amount are recognised in the Income Statement. Group Directors’ report Individually assessed provisions by 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 industry classification $M $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign Agriculture 56 47 42 133 123 Bank and other financial 16 27 29 36 68 Financial Home loans 236 249 193 148 151 report Construction 21 25 25 20 29 Other personal 6 9 7 10 14 Asset financing 16 18 28 28 30 Other commercial and industrial 343 442 483 400 620 Total Australia 694 817 807 775 1,035 Other information Overseas Sovereign Agriculture 25 25 23 14 3 Bank and other financial 4 15 Home loans 5 4 6 10 11 Construction 1 1 8 1 1 Other personal 1 Asset financing 10 10 10 Other commercial and industrial 145 123 85 77 62 Total overseas 176 163 137 112 92 Total individually assessed provisions 870 980 944 887 1,127 157 157 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 3.2 Provisions for Impairment (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Loans written off by industry classification $M $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign Agriculture 28 17 84 65 138 Bank and other financial 3 1 10 36 122 Home loans 126 115 82 72 113 Construction 13 16 11 14 52 Other personal 764 792 747 686 677 Asset financing 23 41 54 45 37 Other commercial and industrial 179 210 249 404 568 Total Australia 1,136 1,192 1,237 1,322 1,707 Overseas Sovereign Agriculture 3 15 7 3 3 Bank and other financial 5 5 69 Home loans 2 4 7 8 13 Construction 1 8 Other personal 65 60 54 42 30 Asset financing Other commercial and industrial 207 64 112 35 60 Total overseas 283 156 180 157 106 Gross loans written off 1,419 1,348 1,417 1,479 1,813 Less recovery of amounts previously written off: Australia 187 194 211 165 148 Overseas 14 16 14 11 17 Total amounts recovered 201 210 225 176 165 Net loans written off 1,218 1,138 1,192 1,303 1,648 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 158 Annual Report 2018 158 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 3.2 Provisions for Impairment (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Loans recovered by industry classification $M $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign Performance overview Agriculture 1 Bank and other financial 1 1 27 9 6 Home loans 2 3 3 3 4 Construction 1 1 Other personal 165 170 154 125 106 Asset financing 5 7 4 4 5 Corporate Other commercial and industrial 14 12 21 24 27 governance Total Australia 187 194 211 165 148 Overseas Sovereign Agriculture 3 Directors’ Bank and other financial 1 3 report Home loans 1 1 1 1 1 Construction 1 1 Other personal 10 11 10 10 8 Asset financing Other commercial and industrial 2 3 2 2 Financial report Total overseas 14 16 14 11 17 Total loans recovered 201 210 225 176 165 Other information 159 159 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 4. Our Deposits and Funding Activities Overview Stable and well diversified funding sources are critical to the Group’s ability to fund its lending and investing activities to support business growth. Our main sources of funding include customer deposits and term funds raised in domestic and offshore wholesale markets. The Group also uses repurchase agreements as a source of short-term wholesale funding. Refer to Note 9.4 for the Group’s management of liquidity and funding risk. 4.1 Deposits and Other Public Borrowings Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Australia Certificates of deposit 31,405 39,854 33,496 41,856 Term deposits 149,924 158,453 150,086 158,691 On-demand and short-term deposits 300,607 293,579 300,768 292,819 Deposits not bearing interest 46,082 41,787 46,058 41,764 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 14,696 16,175 14,806 16,406 Total Australia 542,714 549,848 545,214 551,536 Overseas Certificates of deposit 8,509 12,496 6,069 10,021 Term deposits 43,896 36,308 13,707 8,047 On-demand and short term deposits 22,640 24,012 1,154 1,605 Deposits not bearing interest 4,475 3,896 56 49 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 95 95 Total overseas 79,520 76,807 20,986 19,817 Total external deposits and other public borrowings 622,234 626,655 566,200 571,353 The majority of the amounts are due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. The contractual maturity profile of Certificates of deposit and Term deposits are shown in the table below: Group At 30 June 2018 Maturing Maturing Maturing Maturing Three Between Between Six after Months or Three and and Twelve Twelve Less Six Months Months Months Total $M $M $M $M $M Australia Certificates of deposit (1) 15,321 9,286 2,351 4,447 31,405 Term deposits 83,431 25,576 32,222 8,695 149,924 Total Australia 98,752 34,862 34,573 13,142 181,329 Overseas Certificates of deposit (1) 3,425 2,441 2,601 42 8,509 Term deposits 22,758 10,033 7,901 3,204 43,896 Total overseas 26,183 12,474 10,502 3,246 52,405 Total certificates of deposits and term 124,935 47,336 45,075 16,388 233,734 deposits (1) All certificates of deposit issued by the Group are for amounts greater than $100,000 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 160 Annual Report 2018 160 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 4.1 Deposits and Other Public Borrowings (continued) Group At 30 June 2017 Maturing Maturing Maturing Maturing Three Between Between Six after Performance Months or Three and and Twelve Twelve Less Six Months Months Months Total overview $M $M $M $M $M Australia Certificates of deposit (1) 18,384 12,417 2,908 6,145 39,854 Term deposits 97,878 22,869 29,164 8,542 158,453 Total Australia 116,262 35,286 32,072 14,687 198,307 Overseas Corporate governance Certificates of deposit (1) 4,749 1,750 5,957 40 12,496 Term deposits 18,906 10,234 4,779 2,389 36,308 Total overseas 23,655 11,984 10,736 2,429 48,804 Total certificates of deposits and term 139,917 47,270 42,808 17,116 247,111 deposits Directors’ (1) All certificates of deposit issued by the Group are for amounts greater than $100,000. report Accounting Policy Deposits from customers include certificates of deposit, term deposits, savings deposits, other demand deposits and debentures. Deposits are initially recognised at their fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost. Interest incurred is recognised within Net Interest Income using the effective interest method. Securities sold under repurchase agreements are retained in the Financial Statements where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the Group. A liability for the agreed repurchase amount from the counterparty is recognised within deposits and other public borrowings. Financial report 4.2 Liabilities at Fair Value through Income Statement Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Deposits and other borrowings (1) 8,124 7,212 7,118 6,197 Debt instruments (1) 399 655 264 267 Other information Trading liabilities 1,724 2,525 1,724 2,525 Total liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 10,247 10,392 9,106 8,989 (1) These liabilities have been initially designated at fair value through the Income Statement. For the Group and Bank, the majority of liabilities at fair value through the Income Statement are expected to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. The amount that would be contractually required to be paid at maturity to the holders of the financial liabilities designated at fair value through Income Statement for the Group is $8,369 million (2017: $7,878 million) and for the Bank is $7,225 million (2017: $6,437 million). Accounting Policy The Group designates certain liabilities at fair value through the Income Statement on origination where those liabilities are managed on a fair value basis, where the liabilities eliminate an accounting mismatch, or where they contain embedded derivatives. Trading liabilities are incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing or settling in the near term. Subsequent to initial recognition, these liabilities are measured at fair value. Changes in fair value (except those due to changes in credit risk) are recognised in Other Banking Income. Changes in fair value relating to the Group’s own credit risk are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income. Interest incurred is recognised within Net Interest Income using the effective interest method. 161 161 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 4.3 Debt Issues Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M Medium-term notes 99,579 96,016 87,474 83,637 Commercial paper 26,868 28,800 23,922 26,685 Securitisation notes 4.4 13,089 13,771 Covered bonds 4.4 32,758 28,984 28,588 24,644 Total debt issues (1) 172,294 167,571 139,984 134,966 Short Term Debt Issues by currency USD 27,008 29,856 24,061 27,314 AUD 1,009 1,858 1,009 1,858 GBP 2,949 5,687 2,949 5,687 Other currencies 335 769 335 769 Total short term debt issues 31,301 38,170 28,354 35,628 Long Term Debt Issues by currency (2) USD 51,472 45,343 48,017 44,120 EUR 33,057 28,109 26,842 22,241 AUD 35,066 32,405 20,875 16,883 GBP 4,701 6,059 3,614 4,075 NZD 3,954 5,129 1,028 1,079 JPY 3,505 3,790 3,390 3,680 Other currencies 9,175 8,158 7,801 6,852 Offshore loans (all JPY) 63 408 63 408 Total long term debt issues 140,993 129,401 111,630 99,338 Maturity Distribution of Debt Issues (3) Less than twelve months 59,980 57,640 50,994 47,976 Greater than twelve months 112,314 109,931 88,990 86,990 Total debt issues 172,294 167,571 139,984 134,966 (1) Debt issues include unrealised movements of $4,259 million in 2018 predominantly due to foreign exchange gains and losses. (2) Long-term debt disclosed relates to debt issues which have a maturity at inception of greater than 12 months. (3) Represents the remaining contractual maturity of the underlying instrument. The Bank’s long-term debt issues include notes issued under the: USD70 billion Euro Medium Term Note Program; the USD50 billion US Medium Term Note Program; the USD30 billion Covered Bond Program; Unlimited Domestic Debt Program; Unlimited ASB Domestic Medium Term Note Program; the USD25 billion CBA New York Branch Medium Term Note Program; EUR7 billion ASB Covered Bond Program and other applicable debt documentation. Notes issued under debt programs are both fixed and variable rate. Interest rate risk associated with the notes is incorporated within the Bank’s interest rate risk framework. The Bank, from time to time, as part of its balance sheet management, may consider opportunities to repurchase outstanding long-term debt pursuant to open-market purchases or other means. Such repurchases help manage the Bank’s debt maturity profile, overall funding costs and assist in meeting regulatory changes and requirements. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 162 Annual Report 2018 162 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 4.3 Debt Issues (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Short term borrowings by Commercial paper program (1) $M (except where indicated) Total Performance overview Outstanding at year-end (2) 26,868 28,800 29,033 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 32,336 33,779 41,453 Average amount outstanding 30,007 29,226 37,368 US Commercial Paper Program Corporate Outstanding at year-end (2) 26,792 28,393 27,117 governance Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 32,127 31,460 38,528 Average amount outstanding 29,887 27,593 35,208 Weighted average interest rate on: Average amount outstanding 1. 8% 1. 2% 0. 5% Outstanding at year end 2. 3% 1. 5% 0. 8% Directors’ Euro Commercial Paper Program report Outstanding at year-end (2) 76 407 1,916 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 219 2,789 2,925 Average amount outstanding 120 1,633 2,160 Weighted average interest rate on: Average amount outstanding 1. 5% 1. 0% 0. 7% Financial report Outstanding at year end 2. 2% 1. 2% 0. 9% (1) Short-term borrowings include callable medium term notes of $4,433 million (2017:$9,370 million) which have been excluded from the table above. (2) The amount outstanding at year-end is measured at amortised cost. As At As At Exchange rates utilised (1) Currency 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Other AUD 1.00 = USD 0. 7387 0. 7684 information EUR 0. 6350 0. 6720 GBP 0. 5635 0. 5903 NZD 1. 0909 1. 0493 JPY 81. 7215 86. 1110 (1) End of day, Sydney time. Guarantee Arrangement Guarantee under the Commonwealth Bank Sale Act Historically, the due payment of all monies payable by the Bank was guaranteed by the Commonwealth of Australia under section 117 of the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959 (as amended) at 30 June 1996. With the sale of the Commonwealth’s shareholding in the Bank this guarantee has been progressively phased out under transitional arrangements found in the Commonwealth Bank Sale Act 1995. Demand deposits are no longer guaranteed by the Commonwealth under this guarantee. However, debt issues payable by the Bank under a contract entered into prior to 19 July 1996 remain guaranteed until maturity. 163 163 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 4.3 Debt Issues (continued) Accounting Policy Debt issues includes short and long-term debt issues of the Group and consists of commercial paper, securitisation notes, covered bonds and medium term notes. Debt issues are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Premiums, discounts and associated issue expenses are recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method from the date of issue, to ensure the carrying value of securities equals their redemption value by maturity date. Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method. Any profits or losses arising from redemption prior to maturity are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which they are realised. The Group hedges interest rate and foreign currency rate risk on certain debt issues. When fair value hedge accounting is applied to fixed rate debt issues, the carrying values are adjusted for changes in fair value related to the hedged risks. 4.4 Securitisation, Covered Bonds and Transferred Assets The Group enters into transactions in the normal course of business that transfers financial assets to counterparties or to Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). Transferred financial assets that do not qualify for de-recognition are typically associated with repurchase agreements and our covered bonds and securitisation programs. The underlying assets remain on the Group’s Balance Sheet. At the Balance Sheet date, transferred financial assets that did not qualify for de-recognition and their associated liabilities are as follows: Group Repurchase Agreements Covered Bonds Securitisation (1) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M $M Carrying amount of transferred assets 14,696 16,270 37,012 31,796 14,661 15,108 Carrying amount of associated liabilities 14,696 16,270 32,758 28,984 13,089 13,771 For those liabilities that have recourse only to the transferred assets: Fair value of transferred assets 14,667 15,116 Fair value of associated liabilities 13,089 13,771 Net position 1,578 1,345 Bank Repurchase Agreements Covered Bonds Securitisation 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M $M Carrying amount of transferred assets 14,806 16,501 32,210 26,414 71,136 59,985 Carrying amount of associated liabilities (2) 14,806 16,501 28,588 24,644 70,484 59,985 For those liabilities that have recourse only to the transferred assets: Fair value of transferred assets 71,155 60,020 Fair value of associated liabilities 70,484 59,985 Net position 671 35 (1) Securitisation liabilities of the Group include RMBS notes issued by securitisation SPVs and held by external investors. (2) Securitisation liabilities of the Bank include borrowings from securitisation SPVs, including the SPVs that issue only internally held notes for repurchase with central banks, recognised on transfer of residential mortgages by the Bank. The carrying amount of associated liabilities from securitisation SPVs is recorded under loans due to controlled entities. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 164 Annual Report 2018 164 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 4.4 Securitisation, Covered Bonds and Transferred Assets (continued) Accounting Policy Repurchase Agreements Performance Securities sold under agreement to repurchase are retained on the Balance Sheet when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the Group, and the counterparty liability is included separately on the Balance Sheet when cash consideration is overview received. Securitisation Programs The Group pools and equitably assigns residential mortgages as securities to investors through a series of wholly controlled securitisation vehicles. Where the Bank and ASB retain substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with the mortgages, the Bank and ASB continue to recognise the mortgages on their Balance Sheets. The Group is entitled to any residual income of the securitisation programs after all payments due to investors have been met. The investors have recourse only to the pool of mortgages Corporate in the SPV they have invested in. governance Covered Bonds Programs To complement existing wholesale funding sources, the Group has established two global covered bond programs for the Bank and ASB. Certain residential mortgages have been assigned to an SPV associated with covered bond programs to provide security on the payments to investors. Similarly to securitisation programs, the Group is entitled to any residual income after all payments due to covered bond investors have been met. As the Bank and ASB retain substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with the mortgages, the Bank and ASB continue to recognise the mortgages on their Balance Sheets. The covered investors have dual recourse to the Bank Directors’ report and the covered pool assets. Critical accounting judgements and estimates The Group exercises judgement at inception and periodically thereafter, to assess whether a structured entity should be consolidated based on the Bank’s power over the relevant activities of the entity and the significance of its exposure to variable returns of the structured entity. Such assessments are predominantly required for the Group’s securitisation programs, and structure transactions such as covered bond programs. Financial report Other information 165 165 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 5. Our Investing, Trading and Other Banking activities Overview In addition to loans, the Group holds other assets to support its activities. Cash and liquid assets, receivables due from other financial institutions, trading assets and available for sale securities are held for liquidity purposes, to generate returns and to meet customer demand. The mix and nature of assets is driven by multiple factors including the Board’s Risk appetite, regulatory requirements, customer demand and the generation of shareholder returns. The Group also transacts derivatives to meet customer demand and to manage its financial risks (interest rate, foreign currency, commodity and credit risks). Refer to Note 9.1 for additional information relating to the Group’s approach to managing financial risks through the use of derivatives. 5.1 Cash and Liquid Assets Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Notes, coins and cash at banks (1) 17,002 14,836 15,586 12,782 Money at short call 5,895 8,281 5,765 8,167 Securities purchased under agreements to resell 13,520 22,733 12,230 21,865 Total cash and liquid assets 36,417 45,850 33,581 42,814 (1) Comparatives have been restated to align to presentation in the current period. Accounting Policy Cash and liquid assets include cash at branches, cash at banks, nostro balances, money at call with an original maturity of three months or less and securities held under reverse repurchase agreements. Cash and other assets are initially measured at fair value then subsequently at amortised cost. Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method. Securities, including bonds and equities, purchased under agreements to resell are not recognised in the Financial Statements where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the counterparty. An asset for the agreed resale amount by the counterparty is recognised within cash and liquid assets. 5.2 Receivables Due from Other Financial Institutions Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Placements with and loans to other financial institutions 9,012 9,815 8,302 8,641 Deposits with regulatory authorities (1) 210 222 74 37 Total receivables due from other financial institutions 9,222 10,037 8,376 8,678 (1) Required by law for the Group to operate in certain regions. The majority of the above amounts are expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Accounting Policy Receivables due from other financial institutions includes loans, deposits with regulatory authorities and settlement account balances due from other banks. Receivables are initially recognised at fair value, then subsequently measured at amortised cost. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 166 Annual Report 2018 166 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 5.3 Assets at Fair Value through Income Statement Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Assets at Fair Value through Income Statement $M $M $M $M Trading Performance Government bonds, notes and securities 18,078 20,370 16,923 19,879 Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes and securities 6,108 4,640 5,112 3,873 overview Shares and equity investments 116 922 6 603 Commodities 7,952 6,772 7,952 6,772 Total trading assets 32,254 32,704 29,993 31,127 Insurance (1) Corporate Investments backing life risk contracts 21 4,206 governance Investments backing life investment contracts 351 9,463 Total life insurance investment assets 372 13,669 Other Government securities 49 51 Directors’ Receivables due from other corporate/financial institutions 209 264 report Other lending 796 796 Total other assets at fair value through Income Statement 258 1,111 796 Total assets at fair value through Income Statement (2) 32,884 47,484 29,993 31,923 Maturity Distribution of assets at fair value through income Financial report statement Less than twelve months 32,247 35,951 29,724 31,923 More than twelve months 637 11,533 269 Total assets at fair value through Income Statement 32,884 47,484 29,993 31,923 (1) Certain life insurance assets have been reclassified to assets held for sale following the announced disposal of the Group’s life Insurance businesses. Other (2) In addition to the assets above, the Group also measures bills discounted that are intended to be sold into the market at fair value. These are classified within Loans, bills discounted and other receivables (refer to Note 3.1). information Accounting Policy These assets are categorised as assets held for trading, insurance assets and other investments. Trading assets are those acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term. Insurance assets are investments that back life insurance and life investment contracts. Other assets are those that are designated at fair value through Income Statement at inception. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in Other Banking Income. 167 167 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 5.4 Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives are classified as “Held for Trading” or “Held for Hedging”. Held for Trading derivatives are contracts entered into in order to meet customers’ needs, to undertake market making and positioning activities, or for risk management purposes that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Held for Hedging derivatives are instruments held for risk management purposes, which meet the criteria for hedge accounting. Derivative financial instruments are contracts whose values are derived from one or more underlying prices, indexes or other variables. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is set out in the following tables: Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives assets and liabilities $M $M $M $M Held for trading Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Forwards 8,118 (7,961) 5,735 (6,058) Swaps 7,457 (8,505) 7,556 (8,473) Options 462 (415) 785 (832) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 16,037 (16,881) 14,076 (15,363) Interest rate related contracts: Swaps 4,834 (3,458) 6,232 (4,654) Futures 6 (57) 64 (192) Options 531 (736) 918 (1,048) Total interest rate related contracts 5,371 (4,251) 7,214 (5,894) Credit related swaps 46 (65) 42 (72) Equity related contracts: Swaps 12 (40) 18 (85) Options 1 (5) 2 (9) Total equity related contracts 13 (45) 20 (94) Commodity related contracts: Swaps 397 (386) 452 (284) Options 146 (85) 16 (35) Total commodity related contracts 543 (471) 468 (319) Identified embedded derivatives 229 (58) 190 (131) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 22,239 (21,771) 22,010 (21,873) Held for trading derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 168 Annual Report 2018 168 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 5.4 Derivative Financial Instruments (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Performance Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability overview $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Foreign exchange rate related swaps 6,538 (3,783) 5,242 (4,184) Interest rate related swaps 278 (1,672) 451 (2,096) Total fair value hedges 6,816 (5,455) 5,693 (6,280) Corporate Cash flow hedges governance Foreign exchange rate related swaps 2,331 (679) 2,615 (1,371) Interest rate related swaps 734 (493) 1,402 (794) Equity related swaps 4 (65) Total cash flow hedges 3,069 (1,237) 4,017 (2,165) Directors’ Net investment hedges report Foreign exchange rate related forwards 9 (9) 4 (12) Total net investment hedges 9 (9) 4 (12) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for hedging 9,894 (6,701) 9,714 (8,457) Financial The majority of hedging derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled more than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. report Other information 169 169 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 5.4 Derivative Financial Instruments (continued) Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives assets and liabilities $M $M $M $M Held for trading Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Forwards 8,081 (7,937) 5,706 (6,014) Swaps 8,291 (9,197) 8,356 (9,181) Options 460 (413) 785 (830) Derivatives held with controlled entities 16 (1,734) 688 (1,998) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 16,848 (19,281) 15,535 (18,023) Interest rate related contracts: Swaps 4,610 (3,226) 5,963 (4,357) Futures 6 (57) 55 (191) Options 531 (736) 917 (1,047) Derivatives held with controlled entities 73 (87) 110 (139) Total interest rate related contracts 5,220 (4,106) 7,045 (5,734) Credit related swaps 46 (65) 42 (72) Equity related contracts: Swaps 12 (40) 18 (85) Options 1 (5) 2 (9) Total equity related contracts 13 (45) 20 (94) Commodity related contracts: Swaps 397 (386) 452 (285) Options 146 (85) 16 (34) Total commodity related contracts 543 (471) 468 (319) Identified embedded derivatives 229 (58) 190 (131) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 22,899 (24,026) 23,300 (24,373) Held for trading derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 170 Annual Report 2018 170 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 5.4 Derivative Financial Instruments (continued) Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability $M $M $M $M Performance overview Fair value hedges Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Swaps 5,087 (3,052) 4,337 (3,504) Derivatives held with controlled entities 35 (1,365) 349 (789) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 5,122 (4,417) 4,686 (4,293) Corporate Interest rate related contracts: governance Swaps 213 (1,477) 364 (1,895) Derivatives held with controlled entities 13 (27) 2 (56) Total interest rate related contracts 226 (1,504) 366 (1,951) Total fair value hedges 5,348 (5,921) 5,052 (6,244) Directors’ Cash flow hedges report Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Swaps 2,007 (521) 2,444 (948) Derivatives held with controlled entities 16 (30) 11 (81) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 2,023 (551) 2,455 (1,029) Financial Interest rate related contracts: report Swaps 602 (299) 1,253 (511) Derivatives held with controlled entities 30 (4) Total interest rate related contracts 602 (299) 1,283 (515) Equity related swaps 4 (65) Other Total cash flow hedges 2,629 (915) 3,738 (1,544) information Net investment hedges Foreign exchange rate related forward contracts 9 (9) 4 (12) Total net investment hedges 9 (9) 4 (12) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for hedging 7,986 (6,845) 8,794 (7,800) The majority of hedging derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled more than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. 171 171 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 5.4 Derivative Financial Instruments (continued) The table below shows the deferred gains and losses, which are expected to be transferred to the Income Statement in the period which the hedge forecast transaction takes place: Group Bank Total Total 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Within 6 months (39) (72) (33) 3 6 months 1 year 29 (26) 38 15 1 2 years 16 133 68 131 2 5 years (131) (168) (25) (34) After 5 years (95) (45) 57 (24) Net deferred (losses)/gains (220) (178) 105 91 Accounting Policy Derivatives Transacted for Hedging Purposes Derivatives are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, gains or losses on derivatives are recognised in the Income Statement, unless they are entered into for hedging purposes and designated into a cash flow hedge. Fair Value Hedges Fair value hedges are used by the Group to manage exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or unrecognised firm commitment. Changes in fair values can arise from fluctuations in interest or foreign exchange rates. The Group principally uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and futures to protect against such fluctuations. Changes in the value of fair value hedges are recognised in the Income Statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. All gains and losses associated with the ineffective portion of fair value hedge relationships are recognised immediately as ‘Other Banking Income’ in the Income Statement. If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, it is discontinued. For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the Income Statement from the date of discontinuation over the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge relationship using the effective interest method. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Cash Flow Hedges Cash flow hedges are used by the Group to manage exposure to variability in future cash flows, which could affect profit or loss and may result from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates or in commodity prices on financial assets, financial liabilities or highly probable forecast transactions. The Group principally uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, futures and equity related swaps to protect against such fluctuations. Changes in fair value associated with the effective portion of a cash flow hedge are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve within equity. Ineffective portions are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the period in which the hedged forecast transaction takes place. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is recycled immediately to the Income Statement. Where it is appropriate, non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are also designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedge relationships. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 172 Annual Report 2018 172 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 5.4 Derivative Financial Instruments (continued) Accounting Policy (continued) Performance Derivatives Transacted for Hedging Purposes Net Investment Hedges Gains and losses on derivative contracts relating to the effective portion of the net investment hedge are recognised in the foreign overview currency translation reserve in equity. Ineffective portions are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign subsidiary or branch is disposed of. Embedded Derivatives In certain instances, a derivative may be embedded within a host contract. It is accounted for separately as a stand-alone derivative at Corporate fair value, where:  the host contract is not carried at fair value through the Income Statement; and  the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the host contract. governance Directors’ report Financial report Other information 173 173 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 5.5 Available-for-Sale Investments Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Government bonds, notes and securities 46,363 48,257 44,701 46,424 Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes and securities 21,372 22,129 20,356 21,199 Shares and equity investments 298 295 45 37 Covered bonds, mortgage backed securities and SSA (1) 14,207 12,854 12,629 11,359 Total available-for-sale investments 82,240 83,535 77,731 79,019 (1) Supranational, Sovereign and Agency Securities (SSA). The amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date are $14,772 million (2017: $20,162 million) for the Group and $13,478 million (2017: $19,009 million) for the Bank. Comparative amounts have been restated to conform to presentation in the current period. Maturity Distribution and Weighted Average Yield Group Maturity Period at 30 June 2018 10 or Non0 to 1 Year 1 to 5 Years 5 to 10 Years more Years Maturing Total $M % $M % $M % $M % $M $M Government bonds, notes 4,774 0. 85 15,424 2. 11 21,330 2. 59 4,835 2. 97 46,363 and securities Corporate/financial institution 6,902 1. 81 14,442 2. 86 28 3. 96 21,372 bonds, notes and securities Shares and equity 298 298 investments Covered bonds, mortgage 1,099 3. 05 4,799 2. 47 1,542 3. 51 6,767 2. 98 14,207 backed securities and SSA Total available-for sale 12,775 34,665 22,900 11,602 298 82,240 investments The maturity table is based on contractual terms. Accounting Policy Available-for-sale (AFS) investments are non-derivative financial assets that are not classified at fair value through the Income Statement or as loans and receivables. They primarily include public debt securities held as part of the Group’s liquidity portfolio. Subsequent to initial recognition, AFS investments are measured at fair value with unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in the AFS investment reserve within equity, net of applicable income taxes until such investments are sold, collected, otherwise disposed of, or become impaired. Interest, premiums and dividends are recognised in the Income Statement when earned. Foreign exchange gains and losses on AFS equity instruments are recognised directly in equity. The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date, whether there is any objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events which have an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the AFS investments that can be reliably estimated. For equity securities classified as an AFS investment, the main indicators of impairment are significant changes in the market, economic or legal environment and a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost. If any such evidence exists for AFS investments, cumulative losses are removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of an AFS debt security increases and the increase can be linked objectively to an event occurring after the impairment event, the impairment is reversed through the Income Statement. Impairment losses on AFS equity securities are not reversed. Upon disposal, the accumulated change in fair value within the AFS investments reserve is transferred to the Income Statement and reported within Other Banking Income. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 174 Annual Report 2018 174 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 6) Other Assets Overview The Group’s other assets comprise assets not included in its lending, investing, trading and other banking activities. Other Assets Performance include property, plant and equipment held for use and for lease through our asset finance businesses. Other assets also include software, brand names and goodwill. These assets support the Group’s business activities. overview 6.1 Property, Plant and Equipment Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Land and Buildings (1) Corporate governance At 30 June valuation 440 471 397 426 Total land and buildings 440 471 397 426 Leasehold Improvements At cost 1,580 1,589 1,357 1,339 Directors’ Accumulated depreciation (1,043) (1,024) (913) (885) report Closing balance 537 565 444 454 Equipment At cost 2,164 2,044 1,773 1,652 Accumulated depreciation (1,633) (1,496) (1,316) (1,188) Closing balance 531 548 457 464 Financial Total property, plant and equipment held for own use 1,508 1,584 1,298 1,344 report Assets Held for Lease At cost 1,360 1,437 193 212 Accumulated depreciation (292) (319) (31) (62) Closing balance 1,068 1,118 162 150 Other information Other Property, Plant and Equipment (2) At cost 1,189 Accumulated depreciation (18) Closing balance 1,171 Total property, plant and equipment 2,576 3,873 1,460 1,494 (1) Had land and buildings been measured using the cost model rather than fair value, the carrying value would have been $229 million (2017: $243 million) for Group and $217 million (2017: $231 million) for Bank. (2) Relates to property, plant and equipment held via a partly owned fund within the Group’s life insurance businesses. The investment in the fund is used to back life insurance policy liabilities. As a result of the sale of the life insurance businesses this amount has been transferred to Assets Held for Sale. See Note 11.3. The majority of the above items of Property, Plant and Equipment have expected useful lives longer than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. There are no significant items of property, plant and equipment that are currently under construction. 175 175 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 6.1 Property, Plant and Equipment (continued) Reconciliation of the carrying amounts of Property, Plant and Equipment is set out below: Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Land and Buildings Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 471 496 426 446 Additions 10 6 10 5 Disposals (40) (31) (40) (22) Net revaluations 34 32 33 28 Depreciation (34) (32) (32) (31) Foreign currency translation adjustment (1) Carrying amount at the end of the year 440 471 397 426 Leasehold Improvements Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 565 605 454 490 Additions 138 107 116 85 Disposals (18) (9) (14) (6) Depreciation (133) (135) (113) (113) Reclassification to assets held for sale (13) Foreign currency translation adjustment (2) (3) 1 (2) Carrying amount at the end of the year 537 565 444 454 Equipment Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 548 485 464 396 Additions 188 259 167 225 Disposals (11) (22) (10) (13) Depreciation (190) (174) (164) (144) Reclassification to assets held for sale (1) Foreign currency translation adjustment (3) Carrying amount at the end of the year 531 548 457 464 Assets Held for Lease Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 1,118 1,287 150 171 Additions 164 229 46 6 Disposals (140) (304) (24) (12) Impairment losses (6) (2) Depreciation (74) (88) (10) (13) Foreign currency translation adjustment Carrying amount at the end of the year 1,068 1,118 162 150 Other Property, Plant and Equipment Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 1,171 1,067 Acquisitions attributed to business combinations 120 Additions 34 Disposals Depreciation (18) Reclassification to assets held for sale (1) (1,211) Foreign currency translation adjustment 6 2 Carrying amount at the end of the year 1,171 (1) Relates to property, plant and equipment held via a partly owned fund within the Group’s life insurance businesses. The investment in the fund is used to back life insurance policy liabilities. As a result of the sale of the life insurance businesses this amount has been transferred to Assets Held for Sale. See Note 11.3. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 176 Annual Report 2018 176 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 6.1 Property, Plant and Equipment (continued) Accounting Policy The Group measures its land and buildings at fair value, based on annual independent market valuations. Revaluation adjustments are Performance reflected in the asset revaluation reserve, except to the extent they reverse a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in the Income Statement. Upon disposal, realised amounts in the asset revaluation reserve are transferred to retained profits. Other property, plant and equipment assets are stated at cost, including direct and incremental acquisition costs less accumulated overview depreciation and impairment if required. Subsequent costs are capitalised where it enhances the asset. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the asset’s estimated useful economic life. The useful lives of major depreciable asset categories are as follows: Land Indefinitenot depreciated Buildings Up to 30 years Equipment 3 – 8 years Corporate governance Leasehold improvements Lesser of unexpired lease term or lives as above Assets held for lease Aircraft 25 years Rail 35 – 40 years Ships 25 – 40 years Land and buildings are carried at fair value based on independent valuations performed during the year. These fair values fall under the Level 3 category of the fair value hierarchy as defined in Note 9.5. Directors’ report Critical accounting judgements and estimates The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date useful lives and residual values and whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. If an asset’s carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount, the carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount. Financial report Other information 177 177 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 6.2 Intangible Assets Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Goodwill Purchased goodwill at cost 6,941 7,872 2,522 2,522 Closing balance 6,941 7,872 2,522 2,522 Computer Software Costs Cost 4,633 4,329 4,122 3,792 Accumulated amortisation (2,814) (2,395) (2,440) (2,057) Closing balance 1,819 1,934 1,682 1,735 Brand Names (1) Cost 206 190 186 186 Accumulated amortisation (1) (1) Closing balance 205 189 186 186 Other Intangibles (2) Cost 195 154 45 38 Accumulated amortisation (137) (125) (36) (32) Closing balance 58 29 9 6 Total Intangible assets 9,023 10,024 4,399 4,449 (1) Brand names predominantly represent the value of royalty costs foregone by the Group through acquiring the Bankwest brand name. The royalty costs that would have been incurred by an entity using the Bankwest brand name are based on an annual percentage of income generated by Bankwest. The Bankwest brand name has an indefinite useful life as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brand name is expected to generate cash flows. This balance also includes the Aussie brand name ($16 million) which has an indefinite useful life. They are not subject to amortisation, but require annual impairment testing. No impairment was required this period. The Count Financial brand name ($4 million) is also included and amortised over the estimated useful life of 20 years. (2) Other intangibles include the value of customer and credit card relationships acquired from Bankwest, Aussie and Count Financial franchise relationships. This value represents future net income generated from the relationships that existed at Balance Sheet date. The assets have a useful life of between 6 and 10 years based on the attrition rates of customers. Impairment Tests for Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Lives To assess whether goodwill and other assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired, the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units are compared to the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is determined based on fair value less cost to sell, using an earnings multiple applicable to that type of business. The category of this fair value is Level 3 as defined in Note 9.5. Earnings multiples relating to the Group‘s Banking, Wealth Management and IFS cash-generating units are sourced from publicly available data associated with Australian businesses displaying similar characteristics to those cash-generating units, and are applied to current earnings. The key assumption is the Price-Earnings (P/E) multiple observed for these businesses, which for the Banking businesses (excluding IFS) were in the range of 10.9 11.2 (2017: 12.4 – 12.8), for the IFS businesses 6.3 13.0 (2017: 5.9 – 14.5) and for Wealth Management businesses were in the range of 11.0 19.0 (2017: 12.0 – 18.4). Goodwill allocation to cash generating units Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M Retail Banking Services 4,596 4,149 Business and Private Banking 297 297 Wealth Management 1,770 2,678 New Zealand 258 697 IFS and Other 20 51 Total 6,941 7,872 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 178 Annual Report 2018 178 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 6.2 Intangible Assets (continued) Goodwill Allocation to Cash-Generating Units Reconciliation of the carrying amounts of Intangible Assets is set out below: Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Performance $M $M $M $M Goodwill overview Opening balance 7,872 7,925 2,522 2,522 Additions 446 16 Transfers/disposals/other adjustments (1) (1,377) (69) Corporate Closing balance 6,941 7,872 2,522 2,522 Computer Software Costs governance Opening balance 1,934 2,228 1,735 2,061 Additions (1) (2) 438 491 399 404 Amortisation and write-offs (3) (553) (785) (452) (730) Closing balance 1,819 1,934 1,682 1,735 Directors’ Brand Names report Opening balance 189 189 186 186 Additions 16 Closing balance 205 189 186 186 Other Intangibles Financial Opening balance 29 42 6 9 report Additions 46 2 7 Amortisation (17) (15) (4) (3) Closing balance 58 29 9 6 (1) Includes reclassifications to assets held for sale and foreign currency revaluation. (2) Primarily relates to internal development costs. Other (3) Includes amounts associated with discontinued operations. information Accounting Policy Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance. They are recognised only if it is probable the asset will generate future benefits for the Group. Those assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually. All intangible assets must be tested for impairment when there is an indication that its carrying amount may be greater than its recoverable amount. Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of an entity and represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually through allocation to a group of Cash Generating Units (CGUs). The CGUs’ recoverable amount is then compared to the carrying amount of goodwill and an impairment is recognised for any excess carrying value. Computer Software Costs Certain internal and external costs directly incurred in acquiring and developing software, net of specific project related grants, are capitalised and amortised over the estimated useful life. The majority of software projects are amortised over two to five years. The Group’s core banking software is amortised over ten years. Software maintenance is expensed as incurred. 179 179 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 6.2 Intangible Assets (continued) Accounting Policy (continued) Brand Names Brand names acquired in a business combination include Aussie, Bankwest and Count Financial Limited and these are initially recognised at fair value. The Aussie and Bankwest brand names are assessed as having an indefinite useful life as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brand names are expected to generate cash flows. The remaining brand names are amortised over their useful life. Other Intangibles Other intangibles predominantly comprise customer relationships. Customer relationships acquired as part of a business combination are initially measured at fair value. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated based on the timing of projected cash flows of the relationships over their estimated useful lives. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Goodwill is allocated to CGUs whose recoverable amount is calculated for the purpose of impairment testing. The recoverable amount calculation relies primarily on publicly available earnings multiples, which are disclosed on page 178. 6.3 Other Assets Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M Accrued interest receivable 2,377 2,326 3,114 3,097 Accrued fees/reimbursements receivable 1,255 1,348 205 137 Securities sold not delivered 1,823 2,352 1,398 1,833 Intragroup current tax receivable 283 302 Current tax assets 24 23 3 Prepayments 320 257 210 182 Life insurance other assets 11 524 Defined benefit superannuation plan surplus 10.2 581 426 581 426 Other 600 626 485 480 Total other assets 6,991 7,882 6,279 6,457 Except for the defined benefits superannuation plan surplus, the majority of the above amounts are expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Accounting Policy Other assets include interest and fee receivables, current tax assets, prepayments receivables on unsettled trades and the surplus within defined benefit plans. Interest receivables are recognised on an accruals basis, fees and reimbursements receivable are recognised once the service is provided and trade date accounted securities sold not delivered are recognised between trade execution and final settlement. The remaining other assets are recognised on an accruals or service performed basis and amortised over the period in which the economic benefits from these assets are received. Further defined benefit plan details are provided in Note 10.2. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 180 Annual Report 2018 180 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements Strategic report 7) Other Liabilities Overview Performance Other liabilities primarily represent provisions recognised, interest payable, fees and bills payable and unsettled trades. Other provisions principally cover annual leave and long service leave employee entitlements as well as general insurance claims, potential overview penalties, committed compliance costs and certain costs related to litigation investigations and reviews. They do not relate to individually assessed provisions or collective provisions recognised on impaired financial assets of the Group (such as impaired home loans). Certain provisions involve significant judgement to determine the likely outcome of events as well as a reliable estimate of the outflow. Where future events are uncertain or where the outflow cannot be reliably determined, these are disclosed as contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the Group’s Balance Sheet but disclosed in Note 12.1. Corporate Commentary on certain provisions are given in Note 7.1. governance 7.1 Other Provisions Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M Employee entitlements 815 847 774 757 Directors’ General insurance claims 219 273 report Self insurance and non-lending losses 192 232 164 224 Dividends 8.4 113 100 113 100 Compliance, programs and regulation 283 69 283 69 Restructuring costs 14 52 11 50 Other 253 207 245 172 Financial Total other provisions 1,889 1,780 1,590 1,372 report Maturity Distribution of Other Provisions Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Less than twelve months 1,635 1,441 1,381 1,089 Other More than twelve months 254 339 209 283 Total other provisions 1,889 1,780 1,590 1,372 information 181 181 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 7.1 Other Provisions (continued) Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Reconciliation $M $M $M $M General insurance claims: Opening balance 273 260 Additional provisions 530 548 Amounts utilised during the year (584) (535) Closing balance 219 273 Self insurance and non-lending losses: Opening balance 232 196 224 162 Additional provisions 162 73 135 73 Amounts utilised during the year (157) (37) (162) (11) Release of provision (45) (33) Closing balance 192 232 164 224 Compliance, programs and regulation: Opening balance 69 78 69 78 Additional provisions (1) 389 79 389 78 Amounts utilised during the year (175) (88) (175) (87) Closing balance 283 69 283 69 Restructuring: Opening balance 52 28 50 27 Additional provisions 15 28 11 27 Amounts utilised during the year (30) (4) (27) (4) Release of provision (23) (23) Closing balance 14 52 11 50 Other: Opening balance 207 181 172 162 Additional provisions 217 127 179 93 Amounts utilised during the year (101) (76) (86) (60) Release of provision (33) (25) (20) (23) Reclassification to liabilities held for sale (37) Closing balance 253 207 245 172 (1) Compliance, programs and regulation include additional provisions for the year ended 30 June 2018 for Financial Crimes Compliance Program of Action, Royal Commission, ASIC investigation, APRA review, AUSTRAC proceedings and class action. Accounting Policy Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising from past events where a payment to settle the obligation is probable and can be reliably estimated. When payments to settle amounts are expected to be greater than one year in the future, they are then discounted using a market observable rate. General Insurance Claims This provision is to cover future claims on general insurance contracts that have been incurred but not reported. The provision will be realised upon settlement of claims whose maturities were uncertain at the reporting date. Self Insurance and Non-Lending Losses Self insurance provision relates to non-transferred insurance risks on lending products the Group originates. The self insurance provision is reassessed annually in accordance with actuarial advice. This provision covers certain non-lending losses, including customer remediation, and represents losses that have not arisen as a consequence of an impaired credit decision. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 182 Annual Report 2018 182 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 7.1 Other Provisions (continued) Accounting Policy (continued) Compliance, Programs and Regulation This provision relates to project and other administrative costs associated with certain compliance and regulatory programs of the Group. Restructuring Performance overview Provisions are recognised for restructuring activities when a detailed plan has been developed and a valid expectation that the plan will be carried out is held by those affected by it. The majority of the provision is expected to be used within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Provisions for employee entitlements (such as long service leave, annual leave and other employee benefits) This provision is calculated based on expected payments. Where the payments are expected to be more than one year in the future, these factor in the expected period of service by employees, as well as salary increases. These future obligations are discounted using a market observable rate. Corporate Critical accounting judgements and estimates Provisions are held in respect of a range of future obligations, some of which involve significant judgement about the likely outcome of governance various events and estimated future cash flows. Litigation, investigations and reviews The Group is party to legal proceedings and the subject of investigations and reviews, these include the matters outlined below as at 30 June 2018. Provisions have been raised where indicated in line with the principles outlined in the accounting policy section of this Directors’ report note. Litigation AUSTRAC Civil Proceedings On 3 August 2017, the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) commenced civil penalty proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia against CBA. The AUSTRAC statement of claim alleged past and ongoing contraventions of four provisions of the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth) (AML/CTF Act). On 4 June 2018 CBA announced that it had entered into an agreement with AUSTRAC to resolve the civil proceedings. The agreement Financial followed the Court-ordered mediation between CBA and AUSTRAC. As part of the agreement: report  CBA agreed to pay a civil penalty of $700 million together with AUSTRAC’s legal costs.  AUSTRAC’s civil proceedings otherwise be dismissed. The proposed settlement was approved on 20 June 2018 by the Federal Court. Accordingly, CBA recognised a $700 million expense during the year. CBA is committed to build on the significant changes made in recent years as part of a comprehensive program to improve operational risk management and compliance at the bank. CBA continues to make significant investment in AML/CTF compliance, including Other upgrading and enhancing its AML/CTF technology, updating its process documentation, investing in further resourcing and strengthening training of its personnel. CBA has acted to strengthen financial crime capabilities, and has invested significantly recognising the crucial role that it plays, including information through its Program of Action with coverage across all aspects of financial crime (including AML/CTF, sanctions and anti-bribery and corruption) and all business units. The Program of Action is uplifting the Bank’s processes for monitoring, managing, reporting and controlling financial crime across all of its operations, including how the Bank engages with and informs AUSTRAC and other regulators, and the operating model of the Bank which relates specifically to financial crime to ensure increased confidence in managing this area of risk. The Group has provided for certain costs of running the Program of Action. ASIC’s investigation On 11 August 2017, following the commencement of the civil proceedings against CBA by AUSTRAC, ASIC confirmed it would investigate the Group’s disclosure in respect of the allegations raised in connection with the AUSTRAC proceedings. ASIC is investigating, among other things, whether the officers and Directors at CBA complied with their continuous disclosure obligations under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). CBA continues to engage with ASIC in respect of the investigation and respond to requests made by ASIC. It is currently not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of this investigation, if any, on the Group. The Group has provided for the legal costs expected to be incurred in relation to this investigation. Shareholder Class Actions In October 2017 CBA was served with a shareholder class action proceeding filed in the Federal Court of Australia alleging breaches of CBA’s continuous disclosure obligations and misleading and deceptive conduct in relation to the subject matter of the AUSTRAC civil proceedings. It is alleged that CBA shareholders who acquired an interest in CBA shares between 1 July 2015 and 3 August 2017 suffered loss caused by the alleged conduct. In July 2018 a similar second shareholder class action in relation to the subject matter of the AUSTRAC civil proceedings was served on CBA on behalf of certain CBA shareholders who acquired an interest in CBA shares between 16 June 2014 and 3 August 2017. 183 183 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 7.1 Other Provisions (continued) Litigation, investigations and reviews Litigation Shareholder Class Actions (continued) It is currently not possible to determine the ultimate impact of these claims, if any, on the Group. The Group denies the allegations and intends to vigorously defend both claims. The Group has provided for legal costs expected to be incurred to defend these claims. ASIC Bank Bill Swap Rate On 30 January 2018, as part of the industry wide review into the trading activities of participants in the bank bill market, ASIC filed a claim against CBA alleging that on six occasions between 31 January 2012 and 31 October 2012, CBA’s bills traders had engaged in market manipulation and unconscionable conduct. On 9 May 2018, CBA and ASIC agreed to settle the proceedings. The terms of settlement included an admission by CBA that its traders had attempted to engage in unconscionable conduct on 5 occasions in 2012 and that CBA’s systems, training, policies and controls were inadequate to prevent the conduct from occurring. CBA agreed to a civil penalty of $5 million (which required the approval of the Federal Court) and to pay ASIC’s costs of the investigation and legal costs in a combined amount of $5 million, and to make a community benefit payment of $15 million to Financial Literacy Australia. The agreed settlement was approved on 21 June 2018 by the Federal Court. CBA has also entered into an Enforceable Undertaking with ASIC to ensure that CBA’s systems, training, policies and controls are strengthened to prevent a recurrence of the conduct. The Group recognised an expense during the year for the settlement. Investigations and reviews APRA’s Prudential Inquiry into CBA On 28 August 2017, APRA announced it would establish an independent prudential inquiry (the “Inquiry”) into the Group with the goal of identifying shortcomings in the governance, culture and accountability frameworks. The Inquiry considered, amongst other things, whether the Group’s organisational structure, governance, financial objectives, remuneration and accountability frameworks conflicted with sound risk management and compliance outcomes. A Panel was appointed on 8 September 2017 to conduct the Inquiry, comprising of Dr John Laker AO, Jillian Broadbent AO and Professor Graeme Samuel AC (the “Panel”). The Panel published a progress report on 1 February 2018 and its final report on 1 May 2018 (“Final Report”). The Final Report makes a number of findings regarding the complex interplay of organisational and cultural factors within the Group and the need for enhanced management of non-financial risks. In response to the Final Report, the Group has acknowledged that it will implement all of the recommendations and has agreed to adjust its minimum operational risk capital requirements by an additional $1 billion (risk weighted assets $12.5 billion) until such time as the recommendations are implemented to APRA’s satisfaction. CBA has entered into an Enforceable Undertaking under which CBA’s remedial action in response to the Final Report would be agreed and monitored regularly by APRA. On 29 June 2018 CBA announced that APRA had endorsed CBA’s Remedial Action Plan, which details CBA’s response to the 35 recommendations of the Prudential Inquiry, released on 1 May 2018. The Remedial Action Plan provides a detailed program of change outlining how CBA will improve the way it runs its business, manages risk, and works with regulators. The Remedial Action Plan provides a comprehensive assurance framework, with Promontory Financial Group having been appointed as the independent reviewer. The Group has provided for costs expected to be incurred in relation to the conduct of the Inquiry. The Royal Commission On 30 November 2017, the Australian Government announced the establishment of the Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Banking, Superannuation and Financial Services Industry. The former High Court Judge, the Honourable Kenneth Hayne AC QC was appointed as the Commissioner. The purpose of the Royal Commission is to inquire into the conduct of banks, insurers, superannuation funds and other financial services institutions, and to assess the effectiveness of existing regulatory frameworks and mechanisms for customer redress. A final report is due by 1 February 2019, with an interim report due by 30 September 2018. The Commissioner’s report is expected to outline his findings and recommendations, which may form the basis of regulatory changes. The Royal Commission is conducting rounds of public hearings, focusing on key elements of the financial services industry, including consumer lending, financial advice, lending to small and medium enterprises, superannuation, general and life insurance, and experiences with financial services entities in regional and remote communities. The Royal Commission is playing an important role in highlighting misconduct and conduct below community standards and expectations, demonstrating that the industry hasn’t always done the right thing by customers, and it will continue to highlight cases where we have made mistakes. The Group is engaging openly and transparently with the Royal Commission and carefully considering the issues specific to the Group and the broader issues the Royal Commission, customers, regulators and other stakeholders are raising around how the financial services industry operates. The Group’s Royal Commission Project team leads our engagement with the Royal Commission and manages the various requirements, including providing requested documents, supporting our witnesses, attending hearings, and preparing submissions. As at 30 June 2018, the Group had responded to 106 notices to produce documents from the Royal Commission, provided 47 witness statements and 10 submissions. In addition, Group executives had provided in-hearing evidence to the Royal Commission on 12 occasions. The Group provided for costs expected to be incurred in relation to the conduct of the Royal Commission. 184 184 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 7.2 Bills Payable and Other Liabilities Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M Bills payable 931 1,495 827 1,431 Accrued interest payable 2,745 2,633 2,163 1,920 Performance overview Accrued fees, employee incentives and other items payable (1) 3,165 2,586 2,494 1,693 Defined benefit superannuation plan deficit 10.2 11 11 Securities purchased not delivered 2,456 2,771 1,942 2,297 Unearned income 1,389 1,430 968 1,007 Life insurance other liabilities and claims payable 297 Other 910 709 1,722 2,550 Corporate Total bills payable and other liabilities 11,596 11,932 10,116 10,909 governance (1) Includes payable for AUSTRAC civil penalty of $700 million, Other than the defined benefit superannuation plan deficit, the majority of the amounts are expected to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Directors’ Accounting Policy report Bills Payable and Other Liabilities include accrued interest payable, accrued incentives payable, accrued fees payable and unearned income. Bills Payable and Other Liabilities are measured at the contractual amount payable. As most payables are short-term in nature, the contractual amount payable approximates fair value. Financial report Other information 185 185 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 8) Our Capital, Equity and Reserves Overview The Group maintains a strong capital position in order to satisfy regulatory capital requirements, provide financial security to its depositors and creditors and adequate return to its shareholders. The Group’s Shareholders’ Equity includes issued ordinary shares, retained earnings and reserves. This section provides analysis of the Group’s Shareholder’s Equity including changes during the period. 8.1 Capital Adequacy The Bank is an Authorised Deposit-taking Institution (ADI) and provides for fully discretionary capital distributions. Tier 1 regulated by APRA under the authority of the Banking Act 1959. capital is the aggregate of CET1 and Additional Tier 1 capital. APRA has set minimum regulatory capital requirements for Tier 2 Capital is hybrid and debt instruments that fall short of banks based on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision necessary conditions to qualify as Additional Tier 1 to APRA. (BCBS) guidelines. Total Capital is the aggregate of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital. The Basel III measurement and monitoring of capital has been The tangible component of the investment in the insurance and effective from 1 January 2013. APRA has adopted a more funds management operations are deducted 100% from CET1. conservative approach than the minimum standards published Capital adequacy is measured by means of risk based capital by the BCBS and also adopted an accelerated timetable for ratios. The capital ratios reflect capital (CET1, Additional Tier 1, implementation. The requirements define what is acceptable as Tier 2 and Total Capital) as a percentage of total Risk Weighted capital and provide methods of measuring the risks incurred by Assets (RWA). RWA represents an allocation of risks associated the Bank. with the Group’s assets and other related exposures. The regulatory capital requirements are measured for the The Group has a range of instruments and methodologies Extended Licenced Entity Group (known as “Level 1”, comprising available to effectively manage capital. These include share the Bank and APRA approved subsidiaries) and for the Bank and issues and buybacks, dividend and DRP policies, hybrid capital all of its banking subsidiaries, which includes ASB Bank (known raising and dated and undated subordinated loan capital issues. as “Level 2” or the “Group”). All major capital related initiatives require approval of the Board. All entities which are consolidated for accounting purposes are The Group’s capital position is monitored on a continuous basis included within the Group capital adequacy calculations except and reported monthly to the Executive Leadership Team and at for: regular intervals throughout the year to the Board Risk  The insurance and funds management operating Committee. Three-year capital forecasts are conducted on a subsidiaries; and quarterly basis with a detailed capital and strategic plan  The entities through which securitisation of Group assets presented to the Board annually. are conducted. The Group’s capital ratios throughout the 2016, 2017 and 2018 Regulatory capital is divided into Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1), financial years were in compliance with both APRA minimum Additional Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital. CET1 primarily capital adequacy requirements and the Board approved consists of Shareholders’ Equity, less goodwill and other minimums. The Group is required to inform APRA immediately of prescribed adjustments. Additional Tier 1 Capital is comprised of any breach or potential breach of its minimum prudential capital high quality capital providing a permanent and unrestricted adequacy requirements, including details of remedial action commitment of funds, is freely available to absorb losses, ranks taken or planned to be taken. behind the claims of depositors and other more senior creditors Commonwealth Bank of Australia 186 Annual Report 2018 186 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 8.2 Loan Capital Group Bank Currency 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Amount (M) Endnotes $M $M $M $M Tier 1 Loan Capital Undated FRN USD 100 135 130 135 130 Performance (1) overview Undated PERLS VI AUD 2,000 (2) 1,999 1,994 1,999 1,994 Undated PERLS VII AUD 3,000 (2) 2,978 2,979 2,978 2,979 Undated PERLS VIII AUD 1,450 (2) 1,436 1,435 1,436 1,435 Undated PERLS IX AUD 1,640 (2) 1,622 1,622 1,622 1,622 Undated PERLS X AUD 1,365 (2) 1,356 1,352 Corporate Total Tier 1 Loan Capital 9,526 8,160 9,522 8,160 governance Tier 2 Loan Capital AUD denominated (3) 1,773 1,773 1,773 1,773 USD denominated (4) 4,380 3,047 4,380 3,047 JPY denominated (5) 896 850 896 850 GBP denominated (6) 266 254 266 254 Directors’ NZD denominated (7) 729 755 EUR denominated (8) 5,107 3,338 5,107 3,338 report Other currencies denominated (9) 309 293 309 293 Total Tier 2 Loan Capital 13,460 10,310 12,731 9,555 Fair value hedge adjustments 6 256 (4) 244 Total Loan Capital (1) 22,992 18,726 22,249 17,959 (1) Loan Capital includes unrealised movements of $776 million in 2018 predominantly due to foreign exchange gains and losses. Financial report As at the reporting date there are no securities of the Group and the Bank that are contractually due for redemption in the next 12 months (note the Group has the right to call some securities earlier than the contractual maturity date). (1) USD100 million Floating Rate Notes CommBank PERLS X Capital Notes (PERLS X). PERLS VI, On 15 October 1986, the State Bank of Victoria issued PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX and PERLS X are USD125 million of floating rate notes, the current outstanding subordinated, unsecured notes. balance is USD100 million. The floating rate notes are perpetual PERLS VI, PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX and PERLS X are Other but were able to be redeemed from October 1991. They were listed on the ASX and are subject to New South Wales law. They assigned to the Bank on 1 January 1991. qualify as Additional Tier 1 Capital of the Bank under Basel III as information The Bank entered into an agreement with the Commonwealth of implemented by APRA. Australia on 31 December 1991 which provides that, if certain (3) AUD denominated Tier 2 Loan Capital issuances events occur, the Bank may either issue CBA ordinary shares to  $25 million subordinated floating rate notes, issued the Commonwealth of Australia, or (with the consent of the April 1999, due April 2029; Commonwealth of Australia) conduct a renounceable rights issue for CBA ordinary shares to all shareholders. The capital  $1,000 million subordinated notes issued raised must be used to pay any amounts due and payable on the November 2014, due November 2024; and floating rate notes.  $750 million subordinated notes issued June 2016, The floating rate notes were issued into the international markets due June 2026. and are subject to English law. They qualify as Additional Tier 1 Capital of the Bank under the Basel III transitional arrangements for capital instruments as implemented by APRA. 2) PERLS VI, PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX and PERLS X On 17 October 2012, the Bank issued $2,000 million of Perpetual Exchangeable Resaleable Listed Securities (PERLS VI). On 1 October 2014, the Bank issued $3,000 million of CommBank PERLS VII Capital Notes. (PERLS VII). On 30 March 2016, the Bank issued $1,450 million of CommBank PERLS VIII Capital Notes (PERLS VIII). On 31 March 2017, the Bank issued $1,640 million of CommBank PERLS IX Capital Notes (PERLS IX). On 6 April 2018, the Bank issued $1,365 million of 187 187 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 8.2 Loan Capital (continued) (4) USD denominated Tier 2 Loan Capital issuances ASB Notes and ASB Notes 2 are listed on the New Zealand  USD350 million subordinated fixed rate notes, issued Stock Exchange (NZX) debt market and are subject to New June 2003, and redeemed in June 2018; South Wales and New Zealand law. They qualify as Tier 2  USD1,250 million subordinated notes issued Capital of the Bank and ASB under Basel III as implemented by December 2015, due December 2025; APRA and the RBNZ.  USD750 million subordinated EMTN (Euro Medium (8) EUR denominated Tier 2 Loan Capital Issuances Term Notes) issued October 2016, due October 2026;  EUR1,000 million subordinated notes, issued and August 2009, due August 2019;  USD 1,250 million subordinated notes issued January  EUR1,250 million subordinated notes issued 2018, due in January 2048; April 2015, due April 2027; and (5) JPY denominated Tier 2 Loan Capital issuances  EUR 1,000 million subordinated EMTN, issued  JPY20 billion perpetual subordinated EMTN, issued October 2017, due October 2029. February 1999; (9) Other foreign currency denominated Tier 2 Loan Capital  JPY40 billion subordinated EMTNs issued December Issuances 2016 (three tranches JPY20 billion, JPY10 billion and  CNY1,000 million subordinated notes issued JPY10 billion), due December 2026; and March 2015, due March 2025; and  JPY13.3 billion subordinated EMTN issued March  HKD608 million subordinated EMTN issued March 2017, due March 2027. 2017, due March 2027. (6) GBP denominated Tier 2 Loan Capital issuances All Tier 2 Capital securities issued prior to 1 January 2013 qualify as Tier 2 Capital of the Bank under the Basel III  GBP150 million subordinated EMTN, issued transitional arrangements for capital instruments as June 2003, due December 2023. implemented by APRA. All Tier 2 Capital securities issued after (7) NZD denominated Tier 2 Loan Capital issuances 1 January 2013 qualify as Tier 2 Capital of the Bank under Basel  NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes, III as implemented by APRA. issued April 2014, due June 2024: PERLS VI, PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX and PERLS X, On 17 April 2014, a wholly owned entity of the Bank and all Tier 2 Capital securities issued after 1 January 2013, are (ASB Bank Limited) issued NZD400 million subject to Basel III, under which these securities must be subordinated, unsecured notes (ASB Notes) with a exchanged for a variable number of CBA ordinary shares or face value of NZD1 each; and written down if a capital trigger event (PERLS VI, PERLS VII,  NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX and PERLS X only) or a non-viability issued November 2016, due December 2026: trigger event (all securities) occurs. Any exchange will occur as described in the terms of the applicable instrument On 30 November 2016, ASB Bank Limited issued documentation. NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes (ASB Notes 2) with a face value of NZD1 each. Accounting Policy Loan capital are instruments issued by the Group, which qualify as regulatory capital under the Prudential Standards set by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ). Loan capital is initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Interest expense incurred is recognised in net interest income. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 188 188 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 8.3 Shareholder’s Equity Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Ordinary Share Capital Shares on issue: Performance Opening balance 35,266 34,129 35,262 34,125 Issue of shares (net of issue costs) (1) 164 (6) 164 (6) overview Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) (2) 2,105 1,143 2,107 1,143 37,535 35,266 37,533 35,262 Less treasury shares: Opening balance (295) (284) Corporate Purchase of treasury shares (3) (95) (92) Sale and vesting of treasury shares (3) 125 81 (265) (295) governance Closing balance 37,270 34,971 37,533 35,262 (1) During the year shares issued relate to the acquisition of the remaining 20% interest in AHL Holding Pty Limited. (2) The determined dividend includes an amount attributable to the dividend reinvestment plan of $536 million (interim 2017/2018), $1,573 million (final 2016/2017), $558 million (interim 2016/2017) and $586 million (final 2015/2016). The value of shares issued under plans rules net of issue costs for the respective periods was $533 million, $1,572 million, $557 million and $586 million. Directors’ (3) The movement in treasury shares relate to amounts held within life Insurance Statutory Funds, and 1,132,108 shares acquired at an average price of $77.11 for satisfying the Company’s obligations under various equity settled share plans. Other than shares purchased as part of the Non-Executive Director fee sacrifice arrangements disclosed in Note 10.3, shares purchased were not on behalf of or initially allocated to a director. report Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Number of shares on issue Shares Shares Shares Shares Opening balance (excluding treasury shares 1,729,868,161 1,715,142,177 1,729,868,161 1,715,142,177 deduction) Issue of shares (1) 2,087,604 2,087,604 Financial Dividend reinvestment plan issues: 2015/2016 Final dividend fully paid ordinary report 8,036,332 8,036,332 shares $72.95 2016/2017 Interim dividend fully paid ordinary 6,689,652 6,689,652 shares $83.21 2016/2017 Final dividend fully paid ordinary 20,772,433 20,772,433 shares $75.73 2017/2018 Interim dividend fully paid ordinary 7,114,732 7,114,732 Other shares $75.38 Closing balance (excluding treasury shares 1,759,842,930 1,729,868,161 1,759,842,930 1,729,868,161 information deduction) Less: treasury shares (2) (3,225,310) (3,854,763) Closing balance 1,756,617,620 1,726,013,398 1,759,842,930 1,729,868,161 (1) During the period, the number of shares issued relates to the acquisition of the remaining 20% interest in AHL Holdings Pty Limited. (2) Relates to Treasury shares held within the life Insurance statutory funds and the employees share scheme trust. Ordinary shares have no par value and the Company does not have a limited amount of share capital. Ordinary shares entitle holders to receive dividends payable to ordinary shareholders and to participate in the proceeds available to ordinary shareholders on winding up of the Company in proportion to the number of fully paid ordinary shares held. On a show of hands every holder of fully paid ordinary shares present at a meeting in person or by proxy is entitled to one vote, and upon a poll one vote for each share held. 189 189 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 8.3 Shareholder’s Equity (continued) Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Retained Profits $M $M $M $M Opening balance (1) 26,274 23,379 22,256 20,374 Actuarial gains from defined benefit superannuation plans 161 175 159 175 Losses on liabilities at fair value due to changes in own credit risk (2) (3) (2) (3) Realised gains and dividend income on treasury shares 16 26 Operating profit attributable to Equity holders of the Bank 9,329 9,928 8,875 8,979 Total available for appropriation 35,778 33,505 31,288 29,525 Transfers from/(to) general reserve 47 33 (4) (2) Transfers from asset revaluation reserve 19 (27) 19 (30) Interim dividend cash component (2,969) (2,871) (2,969) (2,871) Interim dividend Dividend Reinvestment Plan (536) (558) (536) (558) Final dividend cash component (2,406) (3,222) (2,406) (3,222) Final dividend Dividend Reinvestment Plan (1,573) (586) (1,573) (586) Closing balance 28,360 26,274 23,819 22,256 (1) Comparative information has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy to recognise deferred tax on brand names with indefinite useful lives acquired by the Group detailed in Note 1.1. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 190 Annual Report 2018 190 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements Strategic report 8.3 Shareholders’ Equity (continued) Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Reserves $M $M $M $M General Reserve Opening balance 906 939 580 578 Performance overview Appropriation (to)/from retained profits (47) (33) 4 2 Closing balance 859 906 584 580 Capital Reserve Opening balance 1,254 1,254 Closing balance 1,254 1,254 Corporate Asset Revaluation Reserve Opening balance 223 173 196 147 Revaluation of properties 35 32 33 28 governance Transfer to retained profits (19) 27 (19) 30 Income tax effect (4) (9) (4) (9) Closing balance 235 223 206 196 Foreign Currency Translation Reserve Directors’ Opening balance 457 739 35 46 report Currency translation adjustments of foreign operations (9) (315) 39 (23) Currency translation on net investment hedge 15 14 14 12 Income tax effect (15) 19 Closing balance 448 457 88 35 Cash Flow Hedge Reserve Opening balance (107) 473 66 732 Gains and losses on cash flow hedging instruments: Financial Recognised in other comprehensive income (260) (1,282) 6 (987) report Transferred to Income Statement: Interest income (960) (1,241) (975) (1,226) Interest expense 1,160 1,684 985 1,258 Income tax effect 7 259 (12) 289 Closing balance (160) (107) 70 66 Employee Compensation Reserve Other information Opening balance 164 132 164 132 Current period movement (19) 32 (25) 32 Closing balance 145 164 139 164 Available-for-Sale Investments Reserve Opening balance 226 278 261 226 Net gains and (losses) on revaluation of available-for-sale investments (185) 414 (135) 494 Net (gains) and losses on available-for-sale investments transferred to 87 (464) 87 (447) Income Statement on disposal Income tax effect 21 (2) 14 (12) Closing balance 149 226 227 261 Total Reserves 1,676 1,869 2,568 2,556 191 191 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 8.3 Shareholder’s Equity (continued) Accounting Policy Shareholder’s equity includes ordinary share capital, retained profits and reserves. Policies for each component are set out below: Ordinary Share Capital: Ordinary shares are recognised at the amount paid up per ordinary share, net of directly attributable issue costs. Where the Bank or entities within the Group purchase shares in the Bank, the consideration paid is deducted from total Shareholders’ Equity and the shares are treated as treasury shares until they are subsequently sold, reissued or cancelled. Where such shares are sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in Shareholders’ Equity. Retained Profits: Retained profits includes the accumulated profits for the Group including certain amounts recognised directly in retained profits less dividends paid. Reserves: General Reserve The general reserve is derived from revenue profits and is available for dividend payments except for undistributable profits in respect of the Group’s life insurance business. Capital Reserve The capital reserve held by the Bank relates to historic internal Group restructuring performed at fair value. The capital reserve is eliminated on consolidation. Asset Revaluation Reserve The asset revaluation reserve is used to record revaluation adjustments on the Group’s property assets. Where an asset is sold or disposed of any balance in the reserve in relation to the asset is transferred directly to retained profits. Foreign Currency Translation Reserve Exchange differences arising on translation of the Group’s foreign operations are accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve. Specifically assets and liabilities are translated at the prevailing exchange rate at Balance Sheet date; revenue and expenses are translated at the transaction date; and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, exchange differences are recycled out of the reserve and recognised in the Income Statement. Cash Flow Hedge Reserve The cash flow hedge reserve is used to record fair value gains or losses associated with the effective portion of designated cash flow hedging instruments. Amounts are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged transaction impacts profit or loss. Employee Compensation Reserve The employee compensation reserve is used to recognise the fair value of shares and other equity instruments issued to employees under the employee share plans and bonus schemes. Available-for-Sale Investment Reserve The available-for-sale investment reserve includes changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets. These changes are transferred to profit or loss when the asset is derecognised or impaired. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 192 192 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 8.4 Dividends Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note $M $M $M $M $M Ordinary Shares Interim ordinary dividend (fully franked) (2018: 200 Performance overview cents; 2017: 199 cents; 2016: 198 cents) Interim ordinary dividend paid cash component 2,969 2,871 2,829 2,969 2,871 only Interim ordinary dividend paid Dividend 536 558 552 536 558 Reinvestment Plan Total dividend paid 3,505 3,429 3,381 3,505 3,429 Other Equity Instruments Corporate governance Dividend paid 56 Total dividend provided for, reserved or paid 3,505 3,429 3,437 3,505 3,429 Other provision carried 113 100 90 113 100 Dividend proposed and not recognised as a liability (fully franked) (2018: 231 cents; 2017: 230 cents; 2016: 222 cents) (1) 4,065 3,979 3,808 4,065 3,979 Directors’ Provision for dividends report Opening balance 100 90 82 100 90 Provision made during the year 7,484 7,237 6,994 7,484 7,237 Provision used during the year (7,471) (7,227) (6,986) (7,471) (7,227) Closing balance 7.1 113 100 90 113 100 (1) The 2018 final dividend will be satisfied by cash disbursements with the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) anticipated to be satisfied by the issue of shares of Financial approximately $622 million. The 2017 final dividend was satisfied by cash disbursements of $2,406 million and $1,573 million being reinvested by the participants through the DRP. The 2016 final dividend was satisfied by cash disbursements $3,222 million and $586 million being reinvested by the participants through the report DRP. Final Dividend The Directors have declared a franked final dividend of 231 cents per share amounting to $4,065 million. The dividend will be payable on 28 September 2018 to shareholders on the register at 5pm AEST on 16 August 2018. The ex-dividend date is 15 August 2018. The Board determines the dividends based on the Group’s net profit after tax (“cash basis”) per share, having regard to a range of factors including:  Current and expected rates of business growth and the mix of business; Other information  Capital needs to support economic, regulatory and credit ratings requirements;  Investments and/or divestments to support business development;  Competitors comparison and market expectations; and  Earnings per share growth. Dividend Franking Account After fully franking the final dividend to be paid for the year, the amount of credits available, at the 30% tax rate as at 30 June 2018 to frank dividends for subsequent financial years, is $1,464 million (2017: $1,067 million). This figure is based on the franking accounts of the Bank at 30 June 2018, adjusted for franking credits that will arise from the payment of income tax payable on profits for the year, franking debits that will arise from the payment of dividends proposed, and franking credits that the Bank may be prevented from distributing in subsequent financial periods. The Bank expects that future tax payments will generate sufficient franking credits for the Bank to be able to continue to fully frank future dividend payments. These calculations have been based on the taxation law as at 30 June 2018. 193 193 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 8.4 Dividends (continued) Dividend History Half-year Full Year DRP Payout Payout DRP Participation Cents Per Ratio (1) Ratio (1) Price Rate (2) Half year ended Share Payment Date % % $ % 31 December 2015 198 31/03/2016 73. 6 72. 68 16. 3 30 June 2016 222 29/09/2016 83. 1 78. 4 72. 95 15. 4 31 December 2016 199 04/04/2017 70. 1 83. 21 16. 3 30 June 2017 230 29/09/2017 79. 0 74. 6 75. 73 39. 5 31 December 2017 200 28/03/2018 71. 4 75. 38 15. 3 30 June 2018 231 28/09/2018 91. 9 81. 2 (1) Dividend Payout Ratio: dividends divided by statutory earnings (earnings are net of dividends on other equity instruments). (2) DRP Participation Rate: the percentage of total issued share capital participating in the DRP. Accounting Policy Dividends represent a distribution of profits that holders of ordinary shares receive from time to time. Dividends are not accrued as a liability until a dividend declaration is made by the Board of the Bank. The liability is reduced when the dividend is paid. The Board takes into consideration factors including the Group’s relative capital strength and the Group’s existing dividend payout ratio guidelines in determining the amount of dividends to be paid. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 194 194 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 9) Risk Management Overview The Group is exposed to both financial and non-financial risks arising from its operations. The Group manages these risks through its Risk Management Framework (Framework) that evolves with emerging risks arising from the changing business environment, better practice approaches and regulatory and community expectations. The components of the Framework are illustrated below. Performance overview Following the publication in April of the Prudential Inquiry Panel report to APRA, the Group has committed to implement all of its recommendations. A number of the resulting actions will strengthen the Framework, particularly for the Operational and Compliance risk types. The Action Plan to deliver these changes has been endorsed by APRA and the changes will be embedded into the framework on the basis agreed. Corporate governance Directors’ report Financial report Further details on each of the material risks, and how the Group manages them are outlined in this note. 9.1 Risk Management Framework The Group’s embedded Framework enables the appropriate Other development and implementation of strategies, policies and The Framework is underpinned by key foundational procedures to manage its risks. The Framework incorporates components, in particular: the requirements of APRA’s prudential standard for risk information management (CPS 220), and is supported by the three key Risk Culture and Conduct Risk documentary components: Risk Culture is the collection of values, ideas, skills and habits  The Group Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) articulates that equip Group employees and Directors to see and talk about the type and degree of risk the Board is prepared to risks, and make sound judgments in the absence of definitive accept (Risk Appetite) and the maximum level of risk rules, regulations or market signals. Culture is a key driver of that the institution must operate within (Risk conduct. The RAS requires business practices that are fair to Tolerances). the Group’s customers and protects the fair and efficient  The Group Risk Management Approach (RMA) operation of the market. This defines the Group’s standard of describes how the Group ensures the comprehensive good conduct. The Group’s risk culture emphasises doing what management of risks across the Group in support of is right, accountability, service, excellence and getting things achieving its strategic goals. done. APRA requires the CBA Board to form a view regarding  The Group Business Plan (Plan) summarises the the effectiveness of the institution’s risk culture in keeping risk Group’s approach to the implementation of its strategic taking within appetite, and to take any corrective action that may objectives. The Plan has a rolling three year duration be appropriate. The Board discusses culture and values on a and reflects material risks arising from its continuous basis, and takes action whenever necessary. implementation. 195 195 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.1 Risk Management Framework (continued) Trust and Reputation owners as accountable for decision making and risk The reputation of the Group and trust of stakeholders are management). significant assets. Damage to the Group’s reputation arises from Line 3 Audit provides independent assurance to the Board, negative perception on the part of customers, counterparties, regulators and other stakeholders of the effectiveness of risk shareholders, investors, debt holders, market analysts, management, internal controls and governance. This model regulators and other relevant stakeholders of the Group. The recognises that the business is best positioned to make optimal Group’s purpose and values combined with the organisational long-term risk-reward decisions that consider the full end-to-end culture and our conduct as an organisation and as individuals value chain. form the framework which protects this asset. Potential adverse reputational impacts are managed as an outcome of the Group’s Risk Policies & Procedures material risks. In addition the Group has a corporate Risk Policies and Procedures provide guidance to the business responsibility plan focused on driving positive change through on the management of each material risk. They support the education, innovation and good business practice. Framework by:  Summarising the principles and practices to be used by the Group in identifying and assessing its material risks; The four key elements that operationalise the Framework are:  Quantifying the financial operating tolerances for material risks; and Risk Governance  Clearly stating the types of risk outcomes to which the The Group is committed to ensuring that its risk management Group is intolerant. practices reflect a high standard of governance. This enables Management to undertake, in an effective manner, prudent risktaking activities. Risk Reporting The Board operates as the highest level of the Group’s risk Regular management information is produced which allows governance as specified in its Charter. In addition, an annual financial and risk positions to be monitored against approved declaration is made by the chairs of the Board and Risk Risk Appetite and policy limits. At Board level, the majority of Committee to APRA on Risk Management as set out in the risk reporting is provided to the Board Risk Committee although prudential standard (CPS220). select matters (e.g. regulatory relationships, strategic risk and reputational matters, capital, liquidity risk) are reported directly The Risk Committee oversees the Framework and helps to the Board. Controls reporting is provided to the Audit formulate the Group’s risk appetite for consideration by the Committee. The Chairs of the Board Risk and Audit Committees Board. In particular it: report to the Board following each Committee meeting.  Monitors the Group’s risk profile (including identification of emerging risks); Risk Management Infrastructure  Reviews regular reports from Management on the The Framework is supported by systems and processes that measurement of risk and the adequacy and together provide the infrastructure for the management of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and Group’s material risk types. The key risk management systems internal controls systems; and processes in place include:  Monitors the health of the Group’s risk culture (via both  A Management Information System to measure and formal reports and through its dialogues with the risk aggregate risks across the Group; leadership team and executive management) and reports any significant issues to the Board; and  A Risk-Adjusted-Performance Measurement (RAPM) process which is a means of assessing the performance  Forms a view on the independence of the risk function of a business after adjustment for its risks and is used by meeting with the Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO) at as a basis for executive incentives; and the will of the Risk Committee or the CRO.  An Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process The Group is rolling out a new Three Lines of Accountability (ICAAP) used in combination with other risk (3LoA) model which places accountability for risk ownership with management practices (including stress testing), to Line 1 Business Units (BUs) while focussing the mandate of Line understand, manage and quantify the Group’s risks, the 2 Risk Teams on appetite and framework, oversight, assurance, outcomes of which are used to inform risk decisions, set challenge and advice (and elevates Line 1 Profit and Loss capital buffers and assist strategic planning. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 196 196 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.1 Risk Management (continued) Material Risks A description of the material risk classes and the Group’s approach to managing them is summarised in the following table: Risk Type Description Governing Policies and Key Key Limits, Standards and Management Committees Measurement Approaches Performance Credit Risk Credit risk is the potential for loss Governing Policies: The following credit concentration overview (refer to Note 9.2) arising from the failure of a  Group Credit Risk frameworks set credit portfolio counterparty to meet their contractual Principles, Framework and concentration limits: obligations to the Group. At a Governance  Large Credit Exposure Policy; portfolio level, credit risk includes  Group and Business Unit  Country Risk Exposure Policy; concentration risk arising from Credit Risk Policies and interdependencies between  Industry Sector Concentration customers, and concentrations of Policy. exposures to geographical regions Key Management Committee: Executive Risk Committee Credit quality metrics with associated and industry sectors limits are set in the Group RAS for corporate and retail exposures and Corporate cascaded to BUs. Group and BU Credit governance Risk Policies cover the credit risk exposure cycle. The measurement of credit risk is primarily based on the APRA accredited Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) approach. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that market Governing Policies: The Group Market Risk Policy sets Directors’ (including Equity rates and prices will change and that  The Group Market Risk limits and standards with respect to the Risk) this may have an adverse effect on Policy following: report (refer to Note 9.3) the profitability and/or net worth of  Traded Market Risk; the Group. This includes changes in  Interest Rates Risk in the Banking Key Management Committee: interest rates, foreign exchange Book (IRRBB); rates, equity and commodity prices, Asset and Liability Committee  Residual Value Risk; credit spreads, and the resale value  Non-traded Equity Risk; and of operating leased assets at maturity (lease residual value risk).  Market Risk in Insurance Businesses. The respective measurement approaches for these risks include: Financial  Value at Risk, Stress Testing;  Market Value Sensitivity, Net report Interest Earnings at Risk;  Aggregate Residual Value Risk Weighted Exposure, Aggregate Residual Value Risk Margin;  Aggregate Portfolio Limit; and  Value at Risk. Liquidity and Liquidity risk is the combined risks of Governing Policies: The Group Liquidity Risk Management Funding Risk not being able to meet financial  Group Liquidity Risk Policy and Strategy sets limits and Other (refer to Note 9.4) obligations as they fall due (funding Management Policy standards with respect to the following: information liquidity risk), and that liquidity in  The Liquidity Coverage Ratio, financial markets, such as the market which requires liquid assets for debt securities, may reduce Key Management Committee: exceed modelled 30 day stress significantly (market liquidity risk). Asset and Liability Committee outflows;  The Net Stable Funding Ratio, which encourages stable funding of core assets;  Market and idiosyncratic stress test scenarios; and  Limits that set tolerances for the sources and tenor of funding. The measurement of liquidity risk uses scenario analysis, covering both adverse and ordinary operating circumstances. 197 197 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.1 Risk Management (continued) Risk Type Description Governing Policies and Key Key Limits, Standards and Measurement Management Committees Approaches Operational Operational risk is the risk of loss Governing Policies:  Group Risk Appetite StatementOperational Risk resulting from inadequate or failed  Operational Risk Risk metric in respect of: internal processes, people and systems Management Framework  Losses; or from external events. (ORMF)  Residual Risk;  Group and Business Unit  Internal Control environment; and Operational Risk Policies  Issues.  The measurement of operational risk capital is based on an APRA accredited Advanced Key Management Committee: Measurement Approach. The approach Executive Leadership Team combines internal and external loss NonFinancial Risk Committee. experience and business judgements captured through scenario analysis. Compliance Compliance risk is the risk of sanctions, Governing Policies: The CRMF sets the standards on how the Group Risk financial loss, or reputational damage  Group Compliance Risk identifies, assesses, manages, monitors and we may suffer as a result of the Group’s Management Framework reports on Compliance Risk. failure to comply with laws, regulations, (CRMF) rules, statements of regulatory policy,  Group and Business Unit The CRMF is supported by a number of key and codes of conduct applicable to its Compliance Policies policies which are set out in the Group Risk business activities (not including Management Approach (RMA). operational risk failures) and includes Key Management Committee: societal expectations. Compliance Risk Measures are included in the Executive Leadership Team Group RAS. Financial crime represents a subNonFinancial Risk Committee. component of Compliance Risk and covers risks including Anti Money Laundering, Counter Terrorism Financing, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, and sanctions. Insurance Insurance risk is the risk of loss due to Governing Policies: The key limits and standards with respect to Risk increases in policy benefits arising from  Product Management insurance risk are set via the end-to-end policies of variations in the incidence or severity of Policy insurance writing businesses. The major methods insured events.  Underwriting Policy include:  Claims Management  Sound product design and pricing to ensure In the life insurance business this arises Policy that customers understand the extent of their primarily through mortality (death) or cover and that premiums are sufficient to  Reinsurance Management morbidity (illness or injury) claims being cover the risk involved; Policy greater than expected. In the general  Regular review of insurance experience, so insurance business, variability arises that product design, policy liabilities and mainly through weather related Key Management Committee: pricing remains sound; incidents and similar events, as well as Executive Committees of  Claims management to ensure that claims general variability in home, motor and insurance writing businesses are paid within the agreed policy terms and travel insurance claim amounts. that genuine claims are paid as soon as possible after documentation is received and Insurance risk also covers inadequacy reasonable investigations are undertaken; in product design, pricing, underwriting, and claims management and reinsurance  Transferring a proportion of insurance risk to management, as well as variations in reinsurers to keep within risk appetite. policy lapses, servicing expenses, and option take up rates. Insurance risk is measured using actuarial techniques which are used to establish the likelihood and severity of possible insurance claims. Insurance risk is further monitored with key financial and performance metrics, such as loss ratios, new business volumes and lapse rates. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 198 Annual Report 2018 198 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the Financial report Notes to thestatements financial report Financial Statements Strategic report 9.1 Risk Management (continued) Risk Type Description Governing Policies and Key Key Limits, Standards and Measurement Management Committees Approaches Performance Strategic Strategic Risk is the risk of material Governing Policies: Strategic risks are overseen by the Board. The Risk value destruction or less than planned  The management of Group’s approach to managing Strategic Risks is value creation arising from changes in Strategic Risks is to select a strategy that is expected to maximise overview the business environment (caused by intrinsically interconnected long-term value for shareholders. While macro-economic conditions, with business management considering Group and BU strategic plans, the competitive forces at work, technology, and is driven by the Board considers the most significant risks (current regulatory, political and social trends, Group’s Strategic Planning and emerging) arising from these plans. Strategic customer preference and the Cycle. risk is assessed by using scenario analysis and environment or internal weaknesses, Key Management Committee: stress testing to understand the potential impacts such as a poorly implemented or flawed of changes in the external operating environment. Executive Leadership Team strategy). The findings from these assessments are used to inform mitigating actions, including incorporating Corporate contingency (where appropriate) into the strategic and financial plans. Potential adverse climate change impacts are governance measured and managed as an outcome of all other material risks. In support of our commitment to limiting climate change in line with the Paris Agreement and the responsible global transition to net zero emissions by 2050 we:  Develop scenario analyses to understand the impacts of both transition and physical climate-related risks in our business and the implications for strategic and tactical Directors’ portfolio decisions; and  Have developed strong policy frameworks report which consider Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues, including climate change impacts in assessing our relationships with customers and suppliers. In addition, Corporate Responsibility programs:  Outline our objectives for safeguarding the environment, whilst supporting economic growth and development; and  Provide guidelines in monitoring and Financial reducing our own greenhouse gas emissions and energy use. report Other information 199 199 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.2 Credit Risk Credit Risk Management Principles and Portfolio judgement is used where the complexity of the transaction Standards and/or the counterparty is such that it is inappropriate to rely The Group has clearly defined credit policies for the approval completely on a statistical model. External ratings may be and management of credit risk. Credit policies apply to all used for benchmarking in the expert judgement assessment. credit risks, with specific portfolio standards applying to all The CRR is designed to: major lending areas. These set the minimum requirements in  Aid in assessing changes to counterparty credit quality; assessing the integrity and ability of counterparties to meet  Influence decisions on approval, management and their contracted financial obligations for repayment, pricing of individual credit facilities; and acceptable forms of collateral and security and the frequency of credit reviews.  Provide the basis for reporting details of the Group's The Group’s credit policies and frameworks include credit portfolio. concentration limits which are designed to achieve portfolio Credit risk-rated exposures are generally reviewed on an outcomes that are consistent with the Group’s risk appetite individual basis, at least annually, and fall within the following and risk/return expectations. categories: The Credit Portfolio Assurance unit, part of Group Audit and  “Pass” – these credit facilities qualify for approval of new Assurance, reviews credit portfolios and business unit or increased exposure on normal commercial terms; compliance with credit policies, frameworks, application of and credit risk ratings and other key practices on a regular basis.  “Troublesome or Impaired Assets (TIAs)” – these credit The credit risk portfolio has two major segments: facilities are not eligible for new or increased exposure, unless it will protect or improve the Group’s position (i) Retail Managed Segment (maximising recovery prospects) or facilitate This segment has sub-segments covering housing loans, rehabilitation to “pass grade”. Where a counterparty is credit cards, personal loans, some leasing products, some in default but the facility is well secured, the facility may unsecured commercial lending and most secured commercial be classed as troublesome but not impaired. Where a lending up to $1 million. counterparty’s facility is not well secured and a loss is Auto-decisioning is used to approve credit applications for expected, the facility is classed as impaired. eligible counterparties in this segment. Auto-decisioning uses Restructured facilities, where the original contractual a scorecard approach based on the Group’s historical arrangements have been modified to provide experience on similar applications, information from a credit concessions for the customer’s financial difficulties, are reference bureau and the Group’s existing knowledge of a classified as impaired. counterparties behaviour and updated information provided Default is usually consistent with one or more of the following: by the counterparty.  The customer is 90 days or more overdue on a Loan applications that do not meet scorecard Autoscheduled credit repayment; or decisioning requirements may be referred to a Personal Credit  The customer is unlikely to repay their credit obligation Approval Authority (PCAA) for manual decisioning. to the Group in full without taking action, such as After loan origination, these portfolios are managed using realising on available security. behavioural scoring systems and a delinquency band Credit Risk Measurement approach, e.g. actions taken when loan payments are greater than 30 days past due differ from actions when payments are The measurement of credit risk uses analytical tools to greater than 60 days past due. Loans past due are reviewed calculate both: (i) Expected, and (ii) Unexpected Loss by the relevant Risk Management/ Business Unit Arrears probabilities for the credit portfolio. The use of analytical tools Management or Financial Assistance Team. is governed by the Credit Rating Governance Committee. (ii) Risk-Rated Segment (i) Expected Loss This segment comprises commercial exposures, including Expected Loss (EL) is the product of: bank and sovereign exposures. Each exposure is assigned an  PD; internal Credit Risk-Rating (CRR) based on Probability of  Exposure at Default (EAD); and Default (PD) and Loss Given Default (LGD).  LGD. Either a PD Rating Tool or expert judgement is used to The PD, expressed as a percentage, is the estimate of the determine the PD for customers in this segment. Expert probability that a client will default within the next 12 months. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 200 200 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Cash and Liquid Assets Collateral is not usually sought on the majority of cash and Credit Risk Measurement (continued) liquid asset balances as these types of exposures are EAD is the estimate of the amount of a facility that will be generally considered low risk. However, securities purchased outstanding under a facility in the event of default. Estimates under agreement to resell are collateralised by highly liquid are based on a downturn in economic conditions. The estimate Performance debt securities. The collateral related to agreements to resell is based on the actual amount outstanding, plus the undrawn has been legally transferred to the Group subject to an amount multiplied by a credit conversion factor (CCF). The overview agreement to return them for a fixed price. CCF represents the potential rate of conversion from undrawn The Group’s cash and liquid asset balance included $21,148 12 months prior to default to drawn at default. For most million (2017: $20,307 million) deposited with central banks committed facilities, the Group applies a CFF of 100% to the and is considered to carry less credit risk. undrawn amount. Receivables Due from Other Financial Institutions For uncommitted facilities the EAD will generally be the drawn balance only. For defaulted facilities it is the actual amount Collateral is usually not sought on these balances as Corporate outstanding at default. For retail exposures, a modelling exposures are generally considered to be of low risk. The exposures are mainly short term and to investment grade approach can be used based on factors including limit usage, governance arrears and loan type to segment accounts into homogeneous banks. pools to calculate EAD. Trading Assets at Fair Value through Income Statement and Available-for-Sale (AFS) Investments LGD expressed as a percentage, is the estimated proportion of a facility likely to be lost in the event of default. LGD is These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the impacted by credit risk. Collateral is not generally sought from the issuer or  Type and level of any collateral held; counterparty however collateral may be implicit in the terms of the instrument (e.g. asset-backed security).  Liquidity and volatility of collateral; Directors’ Insurance Assets report  Carrying costs (effectively the costs of providing a facility that is not generating an interest return); and These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the credit risk. Collateral is not generally sought or provided on  Realisation costs. these types of assets, other than a fixed charge over properties Various factors are considered when calculating PD, EAD and backing Australian mortgage investments. In most cases the LGD. Considerations include the potential for default by a credit risk of insurance assets is borne by policyholders. borrower due to economic, management, industry and other However, on certain insurance contracts the Group retains risks, and the mitigating benefits of any collateral held as exposure to credit risk. security. Financial Other Assets at Fair Value through Income Statement (ii) Unexpected Loss These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the report In addition to EL, a more stressed loss amount is calculated. credit risk. This Unexpected Loss estimate directly affects the calculation Derivative Assets of regulatory and internal economic capital requirements. Refer to the Performance Overview section and Note 8.1 for The Group’s use of derivative contracts is outlined in Note 5.4. information relating to regulatory capital. The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk on derivative contracts. The counterparty credit risk is affected by the nature Credit Risk Mitigation, Collateral and Other Credit of the trades, the counterparty, netting, and collateral Other Enhancements arrangements. Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where The Group has policies and procedures in place setting out the information possible (typically for financial institutions counterparties, but circumstances where acceptable and appropriate collateral is less frequently for corporate or government counterparties) to be taken to mitigate credit risk. These include valuation through netting agreements, whereby derivative assets and parameters, review frequency and independence of valuation. liabilities with the same counterparty can be offset and cleared The general nature of collateral that may be taken, and the with Central Counterparties (CCPs). The International Swaps balances held, are summarised below by financial asset and Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreement (or classes. other derivative agreements) are used by the Group as an agreement for documenting Over-the-Counter (OTC) derivatives. The fair value of collateral held and the potential effect of offset obtained by applying master netting agreements are disclosed in Note 9.7. 201 201 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Due from Controlled Entities  Mortgages over residential and commercial real estate; Collateral is not generally taken on these intergroup balances. and Credit Commitments and Contingent Liabilities  Charges over business assets such as cash, shares, inventory, fixed assets and accounts receivables. The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies for off Balance Sheet risks as it does for its on Collateral security is generally taken except for government, Balance Sheet risks. Collateral may be sought depending on bank and corporate counterparties that are often externally the strength of the counterparty and the nature of the risk-rated and of strong financial standing. Longer term transaction. Of the Group’s off Balance Sheet exposures, consumer finance, such as housing loans, are generally $100,110 million (2017: $100,078 million) are secured. secured against real estate, while short term revolving Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables consumer credit is generally not secured by formal collateral. The collateral mitigating credit risk of the key lending portfolios The principal collateral types for loans and receivable balances are: is addressed in the table ‘Collateral held against Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables’ within this note. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 202 Annual Report 2018 202 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Financial report Financial Notestoto financial Notes the statements the Strategic report 9.2 financial Credit Risk (continued) statements report report financial statements 9.2Credit 9.2 Credit Maximum Risk Exposure Risk (continued) to Credit Risk by Industry and Asset Class before Collateral Held or Other Credit Enhancements (continued) Group MaximumExposure Maximum Exposureto to Credit Credit Risk Risk by by Industry andand Industry Asset Asset Class Class before before Collateral Collateral Held Held or Other Credit Credit or Other Enhancements Enhancements At 30 June 2018 Group Group Bank and Asset Other AgriOther Home ConstrOther FinancComm and At 30 June 30 June 2018 At2018 Sovereign culture Bank Bank and and Financial Loans uction Personal Asset Asset ing Other Other Other Indust. Total Performance $M AgriAgri$M Other $M HomeHome Other Constr$MConstr$M Financ-FinancOther Other $M $M Comm andComm $M and $M $M Australia Sovereign culture Sovereign culture Financial Personal ing Financial LoansLoansuctionuctionPersonal ing Indust. Indust. Other Other Total Total overview $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M$M $M $M Credit risk exposures relating to on$M Balance Sheet assets: $M $M Australia Australia Cash and liquid assets 4,461 10,974 15,435 Creditrisk Credit risk exposures exposures relating to on relating Balance to on Sheet Balance assets: Sheet assets: Receivables due from other Cash and liquid assets 4,461 10,974 15,435 Cash andinstitutions financial liquid assets 4,461-10,974 2,644 15,435 2,644 Receivables due from other at fair due Receivables Assets valuefrom throughother financial institutions 2,644 2,644 financialStatement: Income institutions 2,644 2,644 Assets at fair value through Assets at fair value through Corporate Trading 15,917 2,780 10,223 28,920 Income Statement: Income Other Statement: 49 209 258 Trading 15,917 2,780 10,223 28,920 governance Trading assets Derivative 15,917 1,371 45 2,780 20,865 4 10,223 1,736 28,920 24,021 Other 49 209 258 Other Available-for-sale Derivative assets 1,371 49 45 20,865 209 4 1,736 298 258 39,906 26,525 24,02166,729 investments Derivative assets 1,371 45 20,865 4 1,736 24,021 Available-for-sale Loans, bills discounted 39,906 26,525 298 66,729 investments Available-for-sale (1) 39,906 26,525 298 66,729 investments and other receivables Loans, bills discounted 16,823 8,998 12,951 451,367 3,028 23,658 8,581 118,681 644,087 Bank Loans, and acceptances otherbills discounted receivables (1) 16,823 8,998 2 12,951 451,367 3,028 2 23,658 8,581 118,681 35 644,087 39 (2) Other Bank assets other and acceptances receivables (1) 1,030 16,823 2 4 8,998 4,272 12,951 451,367 1 2 3,028 7 23,658 8,581 237 35 118,681 -15,100 3920,651 644,087 Directors’ Assets held for sale Bankassets acceptances Other (2) 1,521 1,030 4 -2 4,585 4,272 1 -2 7 237 4,172 35 3,136 15,100 -20,65113,414 39 Total Other on Assets held assets sale Sheet Balance for (2) 1,521 1,030 4,5854,272 4,172 3,136 15,10013,414 9,0494 451,367 3,035 1 23,665 7 8,581 135,382237 18,236 20,651 report 81,078 85,805 816,198 Australia Total on held Balance Sheet Assets for sale 1,521 81,078 9,049 85,805 4,585451,367 -3,035 23,665 8,581 135,382 4,172 18,236 3,136 816,198 13,414 Australia Total on Balance Sheet Credit risk exposures relating to81,078 9,049assets: 85,805 off Balance Sheet 451,367 3,035 23,665 8,581 135,382 18,236 816,198 Australia Credit risk exposures relating to off Balance Guarantees 44 Sheet18 assets: 991 6 307 3,059 4,425 Guarantees Loan Credit risk exposures relating to44 commitments off 18 907Balance1,750 991 Sheet assets:7,837 6 66,483 307 2,439 21,783 3,05934,995 4,425 136,194 Loan commitments Other commitments 90754 1,750 22 7,837736 66,483 1 2,439 1,357 21,783 10 34,995 3,021 136,194 5,201 Guarantees 44 18 991 6 307 3,059 4,425 Other Totalcommitments Australia 54 82,083 22 10,839 736 95,369 1 517,857 1,357 7,138 45,448 108,591 3,021 176,457 -18,236 5,201 962,018 Loan commitments 907 1,750 7,837 66,483 2,439 21,783 34,995 136,194 Financial Total Australia 82,083 10,839 95,369 517,857 7,138 45,448 8,591 176,457 18,236 962,018 Other commitments 54 22 736 1 1,357 10 3,021 5,201 Overseas report Total Australia Overseas 82,083 10,839 95,369 517,857 7,138 45,448 8,591 176,457 18,236 962,018 Credit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: Credit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: Cash and liquid assets 16,688 4,294 20,982 Overseas Cash and liquid assets 16,688 4,294 20,982 Receivables due from other Credit risk exposures Receivables due from other relating to on Balance Sheet assets: financial institutions 6,578 6,578 Cash and financial liquid assets institutions 16,688 6,5784,294 6,578 20,982 Assets at fair value through Receivables Assets due from at fair value other through Income Statement: financial Income institutions Statement: 6,578 6,578 Trading 2,161 1,085 88 3,334 Assets Tradingat fair value through 2,161 1,085 88 3,334 Other Insurance 358 14 372 Income InsuranceStatement: 358 14 372 Other information Other Trading 2,161 1,085 88 3,334 Derivative assets 348 16 4,586 3,162 8,112 Derivative assets Insurance 348358 16 4,586 14 3,162 8,112 372 Available-for-sale Available-for-sale Other 12,515 -2,995 1 -15,51115,511 investments 12,515 2,995 1 investments Derivative Loans,bills assets discounted billsdiscounted 348 16 4,586 3,162 8,112 Loans, Available-for-sale and receivables otherreceivables (1) 1,571 9,930 7,075 50,298 638 638 and other (1) 12,515 1,571 9,930 7,0752,995 50,298 1,8441,844 457 457 32,12932,129 1 103,942 103,942 15,511 investments Bank acceptances Bankacceptances 340 340 340 340 Loans, bills discounted assets(2)(2) Otherassets Other 3030 798798 2 2 3 3 10 10 43 431,334 1,334 2,220 2,220 and other receivables (1) 1,571 9,930 7,075 50,298 638 1,844 457 32,129 103,942 Assetsheld Assets heldfor sale forsale 1,788 1,788 452 452 2,240 2,240 Bank acceptances 340 340 Totalon Total onBalance BalanceSheet Sheet Other assets (2) 33,671 33,671 30 9,946 9,946 29,213 29,213 50,300 2 638 638 798 50,300 43 1,786 1,8471,847 3 467 46710 35,76335,7631,786 163,631 163,631 1,334 2,220 overseas overseas Assets held for sale 1,788 452 2,240 Credit Credit Total risk onrisk exposures exposures Balance relating relating Sheet offoff toto Balance Balance Sheet Sheet assets: assets: 33,671 9,946 29,213 50,300 638 1,847 467 35,763 1,786 163,631 overseas Guarantees Guarantees 1 1 9 9 1,486 1,486 40 40 304 304 1,840 1,840 Loan Loancommitments commitments 349 349 1,007 1,007 4,266 4,266 7,268 7,268 1,9771,977 230 230 10,79910,799 25,89625,896 Credit Other Other risk exposures relating to off commitments commitments 9 9Balance Sheet 5 5 assets: 607607 -1 -1 1,018 1,018 1,640 1,640 Guarantees Total Totaloverseas overseas 34,0301 34,030 10,9679 35,572 10,967 35,572 57,568 909 90940 3,8243,824 467 467 47,88447,884304 1,486 57,568 1,786 1,786 193,007 1,840 193,007 Loan Total commitments grosscredit creditrisk Totalgross risk 116,113349 116,113 1,007 21,806 21,806 4,266 130,941 130,941 575,4257,268 575,425 8,047 230 8,047 49,272 1,977 49,272 9,0589,058 224,341 10,799 224,34120,02220,022 1,155,025 25,896 1,155,025 Other commitments 9 5 607 1 1,018 1,640 (1) Loans, bills billsdiscounted and other receivables is presented Loans, (1)Total overseas discounted and other receivables 34,030 10,967gross is presented of provisions gross of provisions 35,572 for impairment for impairment 57,568 and unearned and 909 income unearned in lineinwith income 3,824 lineNote with 4673.1. Note 3.1. 47,884 1,786 193,007 (2) thepurpose Forthe (2) For purposeofof reconciling to to reconciling Balance thethe BalanceSheet, “Other Sheet, Assets” “Other predominantly Assets” predominantlycomprises assets comprises whichwhich do not assets dogive givetorise not rise credit exposure, to credit including exposure, Property, including Property, Total plant gross credit and equipment, risk Associates and 21,806 Investment in116,113 Joint Ventures,130,941 575,425 Intangible Assets, Deferred 8,047 tax assets and 49,272 Other plant and equipment, Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures, Intangible Assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. assets. 9,058 224,341 20,022 1,155,025 (1) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables is presented gross of provisions for impairment and unearned income in line with Note 3.1. (2) For the purpose of reconciling to the Balance Sheet, “Other Assets” predominantly comprises assets which do not give rise to credit exposure, including Property, plant and equipment, Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures, Intangible Assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. 203 203 203 Financial Notes to the Financial report Notes financial to thestatements Financial report Financial Notes Financial Notes toto the the Statements report report Financial Financial Statements Statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) 9.2Credit Maximum 9.2 Credit Exposure RiskRisk (continued) to Credit (continued) Risk by Industry and Asset Class before Collateral Held or Other Credit Enhancements (continued) MaximumExposure Maximum Exposure to to Credit Credit RiskRiskby by Industry Industry andand AssetAssetClass Class before before Collateral Collateral Held orHeld Otheror Other Credit Credit Enhancements Enhancements (continued) (continued) Group (1) At 30 June 2017 Group (1)Group (1) Bank At 30 June At 2017 30 June 2017 Asset Other and Bank Bank Comm AgriOther Home ConstrOther Asset FinancAsset Other and Other and and Sovereign culture Financial Loans uction Personal ing Comm Indust. Comm Other Total AgriAgriOtherOther Home Home ConstrConstrOther Other Financ-Financ$M $M $M $M $M $M $M and $M and $M $M Sovereign culture Financial Australia Sovereign culture Financial Loans Loansuctionuction Personal Personal ing ingIndust. Indust. Other Other Total Total Credit risk exposures relating $M to on $MBalance$M $M Sheet assets: $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Australia Cash and liquid assets 4,711 21,929 26,640 Australia Credit risk exposures Receivables due fromrelatingother to on Balance Sheet assets: Credit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: Cash financial Cash and liquid assets and institutions liquid assets 4,711 4,711 21,929 2,565 21,929 26,640 2,565 26,640 Receivables due from other Assets Receivablesat fair value through due from other financial institutions 2,565 2,565 Income financial Statement: institutions 2,565 2,565 Assets at fair value through Trading Assets at fair value through 18,107 1,545 8,811 28,463 Income Statement: Insurance Income 2,131 5,806 3,535 11,472 TradingStatement: 18,107 1,545 8,811 28,463 Other Trading 51 18,107 607 -453 11,472 1,111 28,463 Insurance 2,131 5,8061,545 3,535 8,811 Derivative Insurance Other assets 1,181 2,131 51 56 20,037 6075,806 53 453 4,668 3,535 1,11125,995 11,472 Available-for-sale Other assets Derivative 1,181 41,323 51 56 20,037 27,126 607 53 4,668 294 453 25,995 1,111 68,743 investments Available-for-sale Derivative assets 41,3231,181 56 27,126 20,037 53 294 4,668 68,743 25,995 Loans, investments bills discounted Available-for-sale and other Loans, (2) bills receivables investments discounted 41,323 18,085 8,784 27,126 15,425 436,184 3,765 23,183 7,872 120,638 294 68,743 633,936 and Loans,other receivables bills discounted Bank (2) acceptances 18,085 8,784 2 15,425 436,184 3,765 1 23,183 7,872 120,638 38 633,936 41 and other receivables Other Bank (2) assets acceptances (3) 1,460 18,085 16 8,784 2 4,073 15,425 436,184 1 4 3,765 23,183 6 7,872 38 359 120,638 17,056 4122,974 633,936 Other on Balance Totalassets (3) 1,460 16 4,073 4 6 -7,872 359 17,05617,056 22,974 Bank acceptances 87,0498,858 2 99,113 436,184 3,823 1 23,189 138,796 38 821,940 41 Sheet Total onAustralia Balance Other assets (3) 87,0491,460 8,858 16 99,113 4,073 436,184 3,823 423,189 6 7,872 138,796 35917,056 17,056 821,940 22,974 Sheet Australia Total on Credit risk Balance exposures relating87,049 to off Balance Sheet assets: 8,858 99,113 436,184 3,823 23,189 7,872 138,796 17,056 821,940 Sheetrisk Credit Guarantees Australia exposures relating to off50 Balance Sheet 16 assets: 1,092 8 510 4,321 5,997 Guarantees Loan commitments 50 795 16 1,967 1,092 7,439 8 66,869 510 2,973 22,495 4,321 39,467 5,997 142,005 Credit Loan Other risk exposures relating795 commitments commitments to42 1,967 30 Sheet off Balance assets: 7,439 1,040 66,869 1 2,973 962 22,495 10 39,4671,849 142,005 3,934 Guarantees 42 50 10,871 30 16 1,092 8 962 510 10 4,321 5,997 Other Totalcommitments Australia 87,936 1,040 108,684 1 503,062 8,268 45,684 7,882 1,849 184,433 17,056 3,934 973,876 LoanAustralia Total commitments 87,936795 10,871 1,967 108,684 7,439 503,062 66,869 8,268 2,97345,68422,495 7,882 184,433 39,467 17,056 973,876 142,005 Other commitments Overseas 42 30 1,040 1 962 10 1,849 3,934 Total Australia Overseas Credit risk exposures relating87,936 to on Balance 10,871 108,684 Sheet assets: 503,062 8,268 45,684 7,882 184,433 17,056 973,876 Cash risk Credit exposures and liquid assetsrelating to on Balance Sheet 15,595 assets: 3,615 19,210 Cash and liquid Overseas Receivables due from other 15,595 assets 3,615 19,210 Receivables Credit risk financial due exposures institutions from other relating to 109on BalanceSheet assets: 7,363 7,472 financial Cash and Assets institutions liquid at fair valueassets through 109 15,595 7,3633,615 -7,472 19,210 Assets at fair value Receivables due from throughother Income Statement: Income financial Statement: 7,472 Tradinginstitutions 109 2,264 -7,363 1,712 -265 4,241 Tradingat fair value through 2,264 Assets 1,712 265 4,241 Insurance 354 1,843 2,197 Insurance 354 1,843 2,197 Other Statement: Income Other Trading assets Derivative 2,264 412 19 1,712 3,037 2,261265 4,241 5,729 Derivative assets 412 19 3,037 2,261 5,729 Insurance Available-for-sale Available-for-sale 354 1,843 2,197 11,832 11,832 -2,959 2,959 -1 1 14,79214,792 investments Other investments Loans, Derivative Loans, billsdiscounted bills discounted assets 412 19 3,037 2,261 5,729 and otherreceivables receivables Available-for-sale and other (2) 1,900 9,848 11,832 1,900 9,848 5,775 5,7752,959 49,673 49,673 634 634 1,7131,713 464 464 -32,596 32,596 1 102,603 102,603 14,792 investments (2) Bank Loans, Bank acceptances bills discounted acceptances 422 422 422 422 Other and other Other assets assets (3)(3) receivables 4141 413413 3 3 8 8 57 57 2,023 2,023 2,545 2,545 Total (2) onBalance Balance 1,900 9,848 5,775 49,673 634 1,713 464 32,596 102,603 Total on 32,507 9,867 9,867 26,717 26,717 49,673 159,211 Sheet overseas 32,507 49,673 634 634 1,716 1,716 472 472 35,602 35,602 2,023 2,023 159,211 Bank overseas Sheet acceptances 422 422 Other assets (3) 41 413 3 8 57 2,023 2,545 Credit Credit Total risk risk on exposures exposures Balance relating relating totooffoff Balance Balance Sheet Sheet assets: assets: Guarantees Guarantees 32,507 1 1 9,867 2 2 26,717 1,086 1,086 49,673 37 37 634 1,716 472 301 35,602 301 2,023 159,211 1,427 1,427 Sheet overseas Loan Loancommitments commitments 284284 881881 6,335 6,335 7,4147,414 196 196 2,017 2,017 14,423 14,423 31,55031,550 Other Other Credit commitments risk exposures relating 26 commitments to26off Balance 5 5 Sheet assets: 1 1 187 187 219 219 Total Total overseas overseas Guarantees 32,818 32,8181 10,755 10,7552 34,139 1,086 57,087 34,139 57,087 867 86737 3,7333,733 472 472 -50,513 50,513 301 2,023 2,023 192,407 192,407 1,427 Loangross Total Total grosscredit commitments creditrisk risk 120,754 120,754284 21,626 21,626 881 142,823 6,335 560,149 142,823 7,414 9,135 560,149 9,13519649,41749,417 2,017 8,3548,354 234,946 234,946 14,423 19,07919,0791,166,283 1,166,28331,550 Other commitments 26 5 1 187 219 (1) Comparative (1)TotalComparative information information hashasbeen beenreclassified reclassifiedto conform to conform to presentation to presentation in current in the the year.year. current (2) overseas 32,818 10,755 34,139 57,087 867 3,733 472 50,513 2,023 192,407 Loans,bills billsdiscounted (2) Loans, discounted andandother receivables other receivables is presented is presented gross of provisions gross for impairment of provisions and unearned for impairment income and unearned income lineNote in lineinwith with3.1. Note 3.1. (3) Total For thegross purpose credit risk to the of reconciling 120,754 Balance Sheet, 21,626 142,823 “Other Assets” predominantly 560,149 9,135 comprises assets 49,417 which do not 8,354exposure, give rise to credit (3) For the purpose of reconciling to the Balance Sheet, “Other Assets” predominantly comprises assets which do not give rise to credit exposure, including Property, 234,946 19,079 including Property, 1,166,283 plant and equipment, Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures, Intangible Assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. plant and equipment, Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures, Intangible Assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. (1) Comparative information has been reclassified to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables is presented gross of provisions for impairment and unearned income in line with Note 3.1. (3) For the purpose of reconciling to the Balance Sheet, “Other Assets” predominantly comprises assets which do not give rise to credit exposure, including Property, plant and equipment, Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures, Intangible Assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. 204 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 204 Annual Report 2018Bank of Australia Commonwealth Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 204 Annual Report 2018 204 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Large Exposures Concentrations of exposure to any counterparty or counterparty group are controlled by a large credit exposure policy, which defines a graduated limit framework that restricts credit limits based on the internally assessed CRR, the type of client, and facility tenor. All exposures outside the policy limits require approval by the Executive Risk Committee and are reported to the Board Risk Committee. The following table shows the number of the Group’s Corporate and Industrial aggregated counterparty exposures (including direct and Performance overview contingent exposures), which individually were greater than 5% of the Group’s capital resources (Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital): Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Number Number 5% to less than 10% of the Group's capital resources 10% to less than 15% of the Group's capital resources Corporate governance The Group has a high quality, well diversified credit portfolio, with 60% of the gross loans and other receivables in domestic mortgage loans and a further 7% in overseas mortgage loans, primarily in New Zealand. Overseas loans account for 14% of loans and advances. Distribution of Financial Assets by Credit Classification When doubt arises as to the collectability of a credit facility, the financial instrument is classified and reported as impaired. Provisions for impairment are raised where there is objective evidence of impairment and for an amount adequate to cover assessed credit related losses. The Group regularly reviews its financial assets and monitors adherence to contractual terms. Credit risk-rated portfolios are Directors’ assessed, at least at each Balance Sheet date, to determine whether the financial asset or portfolio of assets is impaired. report Distribution of Financial Instruments by Credit Quality The table below segregates financial instruments into neither past due nor impaired, past due but not impaired and impaired. An asset is considered to be past due when a contracted amount, including principal or interest, has not been met when due or it is otherwise outside contracted arrangements. Excluding some retail portfolios, the amount included as past due is the entire contractual balance, rather than the overdue portion. Financial report Other information 205 205 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Distribution of Financial Instruments by Credit Quality (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 Neither Past Past due Total Provisions Due nor but not Impaired for Impairment Impaired Impaired Assets Gross Losses Net $M $M $M $M $M $M Cash and liquid assets 36,417 36,417 36,417 Receivables due from other financial 9,222 9,222 9,222 institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 32,254 32,254 32,254 Insurance 372 372 372 Other 258 258 258 Derivative assets 32,081 52 32,133 32,133 Available-for-sale investments 82,240 82,240 82,240 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables: Australia 628,865 13,071 2,151 644,087 (3,178) 640,909 Overseas 100,904 2,152 886 103,942 (427) 103,515 Bank acceptances 379 379 379 Assets held for sale 11,999 11,999 11,999 Credit related commitments 175,106 90 175,196 (28) 175,168 Total 1,110,097 15,223 3,179 1,128,499 (3,633) 1,124,866 Group 30 Jun 17 Neither Past Past Due Total Provisions Due nor but not Impaired for Impairment Impaired Impaired Assets Gross Losses Net $M $M $M $M $M $M Cash and liquid assets 45,850 45,850 45,850 Receivables due from other financial 10,037 10,037 10,037 institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 32,704 32,704 32,704 Insurance 13,669 13,669 13,669 Other 1,111 1,111 1,111 Derivative assets 31,717 7 31,724 31,724 Available-for-sale investments 83,535 83,535 83,535 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables: Australia 619,072 12,543 2,321 633,936 (3,271) 630,665 Overseas 99,245 2,634 724 102,603 (422) 102,181 Bank acceptances 463 463 463 Credit related commitments 184,997 135 185,132 (34) 185,098 Total 1,122,400 15,177 3,187 1,140,764 (3,727) 1,137,037 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 206 206 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Distribution of Financial Instruments by Credit Quality (continued) Bank 30 Jun 18 Neither Past Past Due Total Provisions Performance Due nor but not Impaired for Impairment Impaired Impaired Assets Gross Losses Net $M $M $M $M $M $M overview Cash and liquid assets 33,581 33,581 33,581 Receivables due from other financial 8,376 8,376 8,376 institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Corporate Trading 29,993 29,993 29,993 governance Insurance Other Derivative assets 30,834 51 30,885 30,885 Available-for-sale investments 77,731 77,731 77,731 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables: Australia 620,641 13,066 2,130 635,837 (3,171) 632,666 Directors’ Overseas 24,681 23 326 25,030 (90) 24,940 report Bank acceptances 379 379 379 Shares in and loans to controlled 118,252 118,252 118,252 entities Credit related commitments 159,521 85 159,606 (28) 159,578 Total 1,103,989 13,089 2,592 1,119,670 (3,289) 1,116,381 Financial Bank report 30 Jun 17 Neither Past Past Due Total Provisions Due nor but not Impaired for Impairment Impaired Impaired Assets Gross Losses Net $M $M $M $M $M $M Cash and liquid assets 42,814 42,814 42,814 Other Receivables due from other financial 8,678 8,678 8,678 institutions information Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 31,127 31,127 31,127 Insurance Other 796 796 796 Derivative assets 32,088 6 32,094 32,094 Available-for-sale investments 79,019 79,019 79,019 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables: Australia 611,624 12,541 2,290 626,455 (3,262) 623,193 Overseas 25,056 40 242 25,338 (83) 25,255 Bank acceptances 463 463 463 Shares in and loans to controlled 101,337 101,337 101,337 entities Credit related commitments 169,418 130 169,548 (34) 169,514 Total 1,102,420 12,581 2,668 1,117,669 (3,379) 1,114,290 207 207 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Credit Quality of Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables which were Neither Past Due nor Impaired For the analysis below, financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired have been segmented into investment, pass and weak classifications. This segmentation of loans in retail and risk-rated portfolios is based on the mapping of a counterparty’s internally assessed PD to S&P Global ratings, reflecting a counterparty’s ability to meet their credit obligations. In particular, retail PD pools have been aligned to the Group’s PD grades which are consistent with rating agency views of credit quality segmentation. Investment grade is representative of lower assessed default probabilities with other classifications reflecting progressively higher default risk. No consideration is given to LGD, the impact of any recoveries or the potential benefit of mortgage insurance. Group 30 Jun 18 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total Credit grading $M $M $M $M $M Australia Investment 307,993 4,608 643 71,525 384,769 Pass 124,371 13,863 7,435 83,185 228,854 Weak 7,567 4,045 243 3,387 15,242 Total Australia 439,931 22,516 8,321 158,097 628,865 Overseas (1) Investment 15,471 9 23,837 39,317 Pass 32,327 1,544 424 26,078 60,373 Weak 888 326 1,214 Total overseas 48,686 1,544 433 50,241 100,904 Total loans which were neither past due nor 488,617 24,060 8,754 208,338 729,769 impaired Group 30 Jun 17 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total Credit grading $M $M $M $M $M Australia Investment 296,466 4,249 300 77,407 378,422 Pass 121,035 14,362 7,172 83,758 226,327 Weak 7,791 3,416 164 2,952 14,323 Total Australia 425,292 22,027 7,636 164,117 619,072 Overseas (1) Investment 15,200 10 23,696 38,906 Pass 31,530 1,356 438 25,363 58,687 Weak 934 718 1,652 Total overseas 47,664 1,356 448 49,777 99,245 Total loans which were neither past due nor 472,956 23,383 8,084 213,894 718,317 impaired (1) For New Zealand Housing Loans, PDs reflect Reserve Bank of New Zealand requirements resulting in higher PDs on average and lower grading. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 208 208 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Credit Quality of Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables which were Neither Past Due nor Impaired (continued) Bank 30 Jun 18 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Performance overview Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total Credit grading $M $M $M $M $M Australia Investment 307,974 4,603 641 70,727 383,945 Pass 117,245 13,847 7,386 83,066 221,544 Corporate Weak 7,539 4,039 243 3,331 15,152 Total Australia 432,758 22,489 8,270 157,124 620,641 governance Overseas Investment 65 1 18,711 18,777 Pass 295 2 5,544 5,841 Weak 63 63 Directors’ Total overseas 360 2 1 24,318 24,681 report Total loans which were neither past due nor 433,118 22,491 8,271 181,442 645,322 impaired Bank 30 Jun 17 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Financial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total report Credit grading $M $M $M $M $M Australia Investment 296,403 4,240 285 76,598 377,526 Pass 114,974 14,331 7,114 83,380 219,799 Weak 7,793 3,408 163 2,935 14,299 Total Australia 419,170 21,979 7,562 162,913 611,624 Other information Overseas Investment 87 18,015 18,102 Pass 388 7 6,320 6,715 Weak 239 239 Total overseas 475 7 24,574 25,056 Total loans which were neither past due nor 419,645 21,986 7,562 187,487 636,680 impaired 209 209 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Other Financial Assets which were Neither Past Due nor Impaired The majority of all other financial assets of the Group and the Bank that were neither past due nor impaired as of 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017 were of investment grade. Age Analysis of Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables that are Past Due but Not Impaired For the purposes of this analysis an asset is considered to be past due when any payment under the contractual terms has been missed. Past due loans are not classified as impaired if no loss to the Group is expected. Unsecured consumer loans are impaired at 90 days past due and may be classified as impaired earlier if non-commercial repayment arrangements are agreed or a related loan is classified as impaired. Group 30 Jun 18 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal (1) Financing and Industrial Total Loans which were past due but not impaired $M $M $M $M $M Australia Past due 1 29 days 4,703 550 146 1,170 6,569 Past due 30 59 days 1,770 180 38 199 2,187 Past due 60 89 days 1,005 121 11 93 1,230 Past due 90 179 days 1,410 2 140 1,552 Past due 180 days or more 1,292 2 239 1,533 Total Australia 10,180 853 197 1,841 13,071 Overseas Past due 1 29 days 1,227 205 13 268 1,713 Past due 30 59 days 162 44 4 7 217 Past due 60 89 days 63 19 1 8 91 Past due 90 179 days 45 14 2 15 76 Past due 180 days or more 26 7 22 55 Total overseas 1,523 289 20 320 2,152 Total loans which were past due but not 11,703 1,142 217 2,161 15,223 impaired (1) Included in these balances are credit card facilities and other unsecured portfolio managed facilities up to 90 days past due. At 90 days past due all unsecured portfolio managed facilities are classified as impaired. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 210 210 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Age Analysis of Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables that are Past Due but Not Impaired (continued) Group 30 Jun 17 Other Performance Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal (1) Financing and Industrial Total overview Loans which were past due but not impaired $M $M $M $M $M Australia Past due 1 29 days 5,004 568 87 1,147 6,806 Past due 30 59 days 1,675 180 55 145 2,055 Past due 60 89 days 922 121 23 98 1,164 Corporate Past due 90 179 days 1,136 132 1,268 Past due 180 days or more 1,048 4 198 1,250 Total Australia governance 9,785 873 165 1,720 12,543 Overseas Past due 1 29 days 1,623 263 255 2,141 Past due 30 59 days 185 45 6 15 251 Past due 60 89 days 53 15 2 21 91 Directors’ Past due 90 179 days 41 16 2 24 83 report Past due 180 days or more 18 5 45 68 Total overseas 1,920 344 10 360 2,634 Total loans which were past due but not 11,705 1,217 175 2,080 15,177 impaired Bank Financial 30 Jun 18 report Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal (1) Financing and Industrial Total Loans which were past due but not impaired $M $M $M $M $M Australia Past due 1 29 days 4,701 550 146 1,170 6,567 1,769 180 38 199 2,186 Other Past due 30 59 days Past due 60 89 days 1,005 121 11 93 1,230 Past due 90 179 days 1,409 2 140 1,551 information Past due 180 days or more 1,291 2 239 1,532 Total Australia 10,175 853 197 1,841 13,066 Overseas Past due 1 29 days 20 20 Past due 30 59 days 2 2 Past due 60 89 days Past due 90 179 days Past due 180 days or more 1 1 Total overseas 22 1 23 Total loans which were past due but not 10,197 853 197 1,842 13,089 impaired (1) Included in these balances are credit card facilities and other unsecured portfolio managed facilities up to 90 days past due. At 90 days past due all unsecured portfolio managed facilities are classified as impaired. 211 211 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Age Analysis of Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables that are Past Due but Not Impaired (continued) Bank 30 Jun 17 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal (1) Financing and Industrial Total Loans which were past due but not impaired $M $M $M $M $M Australia Past due 1 29 days 5,003 568 87 1,147 6,805 Past due 30 59 days 1,674 180 55 145 2,054 Past due 60 89 days 922 121 23 98 1,164 Past due 90 179 days 1,136 132 1,268 Past due 180 days or more 1,048 4 198 1,250 Total Australia 9,783 873 165 1,720 12,541 Overseas Past due 1 29 days 31 1 2 34 Past due 30 59 days 2 2 4 Past due 60 89 days 1 1 Past due 90 179 days 1 1 Past due 180 days or more Total overseas 33 1 6 40 Total loans which were past due but not 9,816 874 165 1,726 12,581 impaired (1) Included in these balances are credit card facilities and other unsecured portfolio managed facilities up to 90 days past due. At 90 days past due all unsecured portfolio managed facilities are classified as impaired. Impaired Assets by Classification Assets in credit risk rated portfolios and retail managed portfolios are assessed for objective evidence that the financial asset is impaired. Impaired assets are split into the following categories:  Non-Performing Facilities;  Restructured Facilities; and  Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due. Non-performing facilities are facilities against which an individually assessed provision for impairment has been raised and facilities where loss of principal or interest is anticipated. Interest income on these facilities is reserved and taken to the Income Statement only if paid in cash or if a recovery is made. Restructured facilities are facilities where the original contractual terms have been modified to non-commercial terms due to financial difficulties of the borrower. Interest on these facilities is taken to the Income Statement. Failure to comply fully with the modified terms will result in immediate reclassification to non-performing. Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due are credit cards, personal loans and other unsecured retail products which are 90 days or more past due. These loans are collectively provided for. The Group does not manage credit risk based solely on arrears categorisation, but also uses credit risk rating principles as described earlier in this note. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 212 Annual Report 2018 212 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Impaired Assets by Classification (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 $M $M $M $M $M Australia Performance overview Non-Performing assets: Gross balances 1,711 1,962 2,002 1,940 2,134 Less individual provisions for impairment (694) (817) (807) (775) (1,035) Net non-performing assets 1,017 1,145 1,195 1,165 1,099 Restructured assets: Corporate governance Gross balances 264 174 221 144 361 Less provisions for impairment (1) (4) Net restructured assets 260 174 221 144 361 Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due: Directors’ Gross balances 254 251 252 251 236 report Less provisions for impairment (1) (161) (157) (169) (130) (131) Net unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due 93 94 83 121 105 Net Australia impaired assets 1,370 1,413 1,499 1,430 1,565 Overseas Non-Performing assets: Financial Gross balances 695 686 560 454 377 report Less individual provisions for impairment (176) (163) (138) (112) (92) Net non-performing assets 519 523 422 342 285 Restructured assets: Gross balances 242 101 67 54 248 Less provisions for impairment (1) (20) Other Net restructured assets 222 101 67 54 248 information Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due: Gross balances 13 13 14 12 11 Less provisions for impairment (1) (13) (12) (13) (9) (8) Net unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due 1 1 3 3 Net overseas impaired assets 741 625 490 399 536 Total net impaired assets 2,111 2,038 1,989 1,829 2,101 (1) Collective provisions are held for these portfolios. 213 213 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Impaired Assets by Size Group Australia Overseas Total Australia Overseas Total 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 17 Impaired assets by size $M $M $M $M $M $M Less than $1 million 1,418 139 1,557 1,338 114 1,452 $1 million to $10 million 569 197 766 666 260 926 Greater than $10 million 242 614 856 383 426 809 Total 2,229 950 3,179 2,387 800 3,187 Movement in Impaired Assets Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Movement in gross impaired assets $M $M $M $M $M Gross impaired assets opening balance 3,187 3,116 2,855 3,367 4,330 New and increased 2,136 2,164 2,370 2,095 2,393 Balances written off (1,196) (1,225) (1,328) (1,355) (1,697) Returned to performing or repaid (1,666) (1,637) (1,460) (1,903) (2,303) Portfolio managed new/increased/return to performing/repaid 718 769 679 651 644 Gross impaired assets closing balance 3,179 3,187 3,116 2,855 3,367 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 214 214 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Impaired Assets by Industry and Status Group 30 Jun 18 Gross Total Provisions Net Performance Total Impaired for Impaired Impaired Net (1) Balance Assets Assets Assets Write-offs Recoveries Write-offs overview (1) (1) Industry $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Loans Australia Sovereign 16,823 Agriculture 8,998 94 (56) 38 28 28 Bank and other financial 12,951 7 (16) (9) 3 (1) 2 Corporate governance Home loans 451,367 1,256 (236) 1,020 126 (2) 124 Construction 3,028 16 (21) (5) 13 13 Other personal 23,658 289 (171) 118 764 (165) 599 Asset financing 8,581 63 (16) 47 23 (5) 18 Other commercial and 118,681 426 (343) 83 179 (14) 165 industrial Directors’ Total loans Australia 644,087 2,151 (859) 1,292 1,136 (187) 949 report Loans Overseas Sovereign 1,571 Agriculture 9,930 365 (25) 340 3 3 Bank and other financial 7,075 9 9 5 5 Home loans 50,298 89 (5) 84 2 (1) 1 Financial Construction 638 1 (1) 1 (1) report Other personal 1,844 11 (33) (22) 65 (10) 55 Asset financing 457 4 4 Other commercial and 32,129 407 (145) 262 207 (2) 205 industrial Total loans overseas 103,942 886 (209) 677 283 (14) 269 Total loans 748,029 3,037 (1,068) 1,969 1,419 (201) 1,218 Other information Other balances Australia Credit commitments 145,820 75 75 Derivatives 24,021 3 3 Total other balances 169,841 78 78 Australia Other balances Overseas Credit commitments 29,376 15 15 Derivatives 8,112 49 49 Total other balances 37,488 64 64 overseas Total other balances 207,329 142 142 Total 955,358 3,179 (1,068) 2,111 1,419 (201) 1,218 (1) Write off, recoveries and net write-offs are not recognised against credit commitments or derivatives as these exposures are closed out and converted to loans and receivables on impairment. Write-offs and recoveries take place subsequent to this conversion. 215 215 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Impaired Assets by Industry and Status (continued) Group 30 Jun 17 Gross Total Provisions Net Total Impaired for Impaired Impaired Net (1) Balance Assets Assets Assets Write-offs (1) Recoveries (1) Write-offs Industry $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Loans Australia Sovereign 18,085 Agriculture 8,784 87 (47) 40 17 17 Bank and other financial 15,425 24 (27) (3) 1 (1) Home loans 436,184 1,107 (249) 858 115 (3) 112 Construction 3,765 48 (25) 23 16 (1) 15 Other personal 23,183 283 (166) 117 792 (170) 622 Asset financing 7,872 71 (18) 53 41 (7) 34 Other commercial and 120,638 701 (442) 259 210 (12) 198 industrial Total loans Australia 633,936 2,321 (974) 1,347 1,192 (194) 998 Loans Overseas Sovereign 1,900 Agriculture 9,848 279 (25) 254 15 15 Bank and other financial 5,775 9 9 5 5 Home loans 49,673 89 (4) 85 4 (1) 3 Construction 634 1 (1) 8 (1) 7 Other personal 1,713 13 (12) 1 60 (11) 49 Asset financing 464 6 (10) (4) Other commercial and 32,596 327 (114) 213 64 (3) 61 industrial Total loans overseas 102,603 724 (166) 558 156 (16) 140 Total loans 736,539 3,045 (1,140) 1,905 1,348 (210) 1,138 Other balances Australia Credit commitments 151,936 61 61 Derivatives 25,995 5 5 Total other balances 177,931 66 66 Australia Other balances Overseas Credit commitments 33,196 74 (9) 65 Derivatives 5,729 2 2 Total other balances 38,925 76 (9) 67 overseas Total other balances 216,856 142 (9) 133 Total 953,395 3,187 (1,149) 2,038 1,348 (210) 1,138 (1) Write-off, recoveries and net write-offs are not recognised against credit commitments or derivatives as these exposures are closed out and converted to loans and receivables on impairment. Write-offs and recoveries take place subsequent to this conversion. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 216 Annual Report 2018 216 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Collateral held against Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables Group 30 Jun 18 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Performance overview Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total Maximum exposure ($M) 501,665 25,502 9,038 211,824 748,029 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 1 12. 4 99. 4 44. 7 81. 2 Partially secured (%) 0. 9 0. 6 15. 3 4. 9 Unsecured (%) 87. 6 40. 0 13. 9 Group Corporate governance 30 Jun 17 Maximum exposure ($M) 485,857 24,896 8,336 217,450 736,539 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 2 12. 7 99. 3 42. 0 79. 8 Partially secured (%) 0. 8 0. 7 15. 4 5. 0 Unsecured (%) 87. 3 42. 6 15. 2 Directors’ Bank 30 Jun 18 report Maximum exposure ($M) 444,583 23,633 8,531 184,120 660,867 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 1 13. 4 99. 2 40. 7 79. 6 Partially secured (%) 0. 9 0. 8 14. 7 4. 8 Unsecured (%) 86. 6 44. 6 15. 6 Financial Bank report 30 Jun 17 Maximum exposure ($M) 430,575 23,143 7,801 190,274 651,793 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 1 13. 4 99. 2 40. 5 79. 5 Partially secured (%) 0. 9 0. 8 14. 6 4. 8 Unsecured (%) 86. 6 44. 9 15. 7 Other A facility is determined to be secured where its ratio of exposure to the estimated value of collateral (adjusted for lending margins) is information less than or equal to 100%. A facility is deemed to be partly secured when this ratio exceeds 100% but not more than 250%, and unsecured when either no security is held (e.g. can include credit cards, personal loans, small business loans, and exposures to highly rated corporate entities), or where the secured loan to estimated value of collateral exceeds 250%. Home Loans Home loans are generally secured by fixed charges over borrowers’ residential properties, other properties (including commercial and broad acre), or cash (usually in the form of a charge over a deposit). Further, with the exception of some relatively small portfolios, for loans with a Loan to Valuation Ratio (LVR) of higher than 80% either a Low Deposit Premium or margin is levied, or Lenders Mortgage Insurance (LMI) is taken out to cover the difference between the principal plus interest owing and the net amount received from selling the collateral post default. Impaired home loans are classified as partially secured. Personal Lending Personal lending (such as credit cards and personal loans) are predominantly unsecured, whilst margin lending is secured. 217 217 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.2 Credit Risk (continued) Collateral held against Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables (continued) Asset Finance The Group leases assets to corporate and retail clients. When the title to the underlying assets is held by the Group as collateral, the balance is deemed fully secured. In other instances, a client’s facilities may be secured by collateral valued at less than the carrying amount of the credit exposure. These facilities are deemed partly secured or unsecured. Other Commercial and Industrial Lending The Group’s main collateral types for other commercial and industrial lending consists of secured rights over specified assets of the borrower in the form of: commercial property; land rights; cash (usually in the form of a charge over a deposit); guarantees by company Directors; a charge over a company’s assets (including debtors, inventory and work in progress); or a charge over shares. In other instances, a client’s facilities may be secured by collateral with value less than the carrying amount of the credit exposure. These facilities are deemed partly secured or unsecured. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 218 218 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements Strategic report 9.3 Market Risk Market Risk Measurement The Group uses Value-at-Risk (VaR) as one of the measures of Average As at Average As at Traded and Non-traded market risk. VAR measures potential loss Traded Market June June June June using historically observed market movements and correlation Risk VaR (1-day 97.5% 2018 (1) 2018 2017 (1) 2017 Performance between different markets. confidence) $M $M $M $M VaR is modelled at a 97.5% confidence level. This means that overview there is a 97.5% probability that the loss will not exceed the VaR Interest rate risk 8. 4 12. 5 8. 9 6. 7 estimate on any given day. Foreign exchange 2. 2 2. 7 1. 8 1. 1 The VaR measured for Traded market risk uses two years of daily risk movement in market rates. The VaR measure for Non-traded Equities risk 0. 2 0. 1 0. 5 0. 1 Banking Book market risk uses six years of daily movement in Commodities risk 3. 2 3. 6 3. 0 3. 3 market rates. 2. 0 1. 4 Corporate A 1-day holding period is used for trading book positions. A Credit spread risk 3. 3 2. 8 20day holding period is used for Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Diversification governance (7. 7) (9. 4) (9. 3) (5. 1) Book, insurance business market risk and Non-traded equity risk. benefit VaR is driven by historical observations and is not an estimate of Total general 8. 3 10. 9 8. 2 8. 9 the maximum loss that the Group could experience from an market risk extreme market event. As a result of this limitation, management Undiversified risk 2. 5 2. 3 2. 2 2. 1 also uses stress testing to measure the potential for economic loss ASB Bank 0. 3 0. 1 0. 2 0. 1 at confidence levels significantly higher than 97.5%. Management then uses these results in decisions to manage the economic Total 11. 1 13. 3 10. 6 11. 1 impact of market risk positions. Directors’ report Average As at Average As at (1) Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. Total Market Risk June June June June VaR (1-day 97.5% 2018 (1) 2018 2017 (1) 2017 Non-Traded Market Risk confidence) $M $M $M $M Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book Traded Market Risk 11. 1 13. 3 10. 6 11. 1 Interest rate risk is the current and prospective impact to the Group’s financial condition due to adverse changes in interest Non-Traded Interest 43. 1 37. 6 57. 7 53. 9 Financial Rate Risk (2) (3) rates to which the Group’s Balance Sheet is exposed. The maturity transformation activities of the Group create report Non-Traded Equity 5. 3 4. 7 6. 6 5. 8 mismatches in the repricing terms of assets and liabilities Risk (2) Non-Traded positions. These mismatches may have undesired earnings and Insurance Market 5. 4 5. 6 5. 1 5. 0 value outcomes depending on the interest rate movements. The Risk (2) Group’s objective is to manage interest rate risk to achieve stable and sustainable net interest income in the long-term. (1) Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. The Group measures and manages the impact of interest rate Other (2) The risk of these exposures has been represented in this table using a one day holding period. In practice however, these ‘non-traded’ risk in two ways: exposures are managed to a longer holding period. information (3) The scope of the internal model for AUD Non-Traded Interest Rate Risk (a) Next 12 months’ earnings has been broadened to include a measurement of the risk of the change in Interest rate risk from an earnings perspective is the impact spreads between swap rates and bond yields for Debt Securities held in the Banking Book. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change based on changes to the net interest income over the next 12 in scope. NZD numbers remain unchanged. months. Traded Market Risk The risk to net interest income over the next 12 months from changes in interest rates is measured on a monthly basis. Traded market risk is generated through the Group’s participation in financial markets to service its customers. The Group trades Earnings risk is measured through sensitivity analysis, which and distributes interest rate, foreign exchange, debt, equity and applies an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel shock in commodity products, and provides treasury, capital markets and interest rates across the yield curve. risk management services to its customers globally. The prospective change to the net interest income is measured by using an Asset and Liability Management simulation model The Group maintains access to markets by quoting bid and offer which incorporates both existing and anticipated new business in prices with other market makers and carries an inventory of its assessment. The change in the Balance Sheet product mix, treasury, capital market and risk management instruments, growth, funding and pricing strategies is incorporated. including a broad range of securities and derivatives. Assets and liabilities that reprice directly from observable market rates are measured based on the full extent of the rate shock that is applied. 219 219 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.3 Market Risk (continued) Average Average June June Non-Traded Market Risk (continued) Non-Traded Interest Rate VaR 2018 (1) 2017 (1) Products that are priced based on Group administered or (20 day 97.5% confidence) (2) $M $M discretionary interest rates and that are impacted by customer AUD Interest rate risk (3) 192. 9 257. 9 behaviour are measured by taking into consideration the historic repricing strategy of the Group and repricing behaviours of NZD Interest rate risk (4) 3. 3 4. 5 customers. In addition to considering how the products have been repriced in the past the expected change in price based on (1) Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. (2) VaR is only for entities that have material risk exposure. both the current and anticipated competitive market forces are (3) The scope of the internal model for AUD Non-Traded Interest Rate Risk also considered in the sensitivity analysis. has been broadened to include a measurement of the risk of the change in spreads between swap rates and bond yields for Debt Securities held in The figures in the following table represent the potential the Banking Book. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change unfavourable change to the Group’s net interest earnings during in scope. NZD numbers remain unchanged. (4) ASB data (expressed in NZD) is for the month-end date the year based on a 100 basis point parallel rate shock. June June Non-Traded Equity Risk Net Interest 2018 2017 The Group retains Non-Traded equity risk primarily through Earnings at Risk $M $M business activities in Wealth Management. Average monthly exposure AUD 229. 2 284. 7 A 20-day, 97.5% confidence VaR is used to measure the economic impact of adverse changes in value. NZD (1) 23. 3 25. 4 As at As at High monthly exposure AUD 311. 5 352. 3 June June NZD (1) 44. 3 33. 5 Non-Traded Equity VaR 2018 2017 (20 day 97.5% confidence) $M $M Low monthly exposure AUD 120. 2 248. 9 VaR 21. 2 26. 0 NZD (1) 4. 3 17. 4 As at balance date AUD 231. 4 304. 4 Market Risk in Insurance Businesses There are two main sources of market risk in the life insurance NZD (1) 10. 5 18. 5 businesses: (i) market risk arising from guarantees made to policyholders; and (ii) market risk arising from the investment of (1) Net interest earnings at risk for NZD decreased during the period due to an Shareholders’ capital. update to products classified as sensitive to interest rate changes. Guarantees (to Policyholders) All financial assets within the life Insurance Statutory Funds (b) Economic Value directly support either the Group's life insurance or life investment Interest rate risk from the economic value perspective is based contracts. Market risk arises for the Group on contracts where the on a 20-day 97.5% VaR measure. liabilities to policyholders are guaranteed by the Group. The Measuring the change in the economic value of equity is an Group manages this risk by having an asset and liability assessment of the long-term impact to the earnings potential of management framework which includes the use of hedging the Group present valued to the current date. The Group instruments. The Group also monitors the risk on a monthly basis. assesses the potential change in its economic value of equity Shareholders’ Capital through the application of the VaR methodology. A portion of financial assets held within the Insurance business, A 20-day 97.5% VaR measure is used to capture the net both within the Statutory Funds and in the Shareholder Funds of economic value impact over the long-term or total life of all the life insurance company represents shareholder (Group) Balance Sheet assets and liabilities to adverse changes in capital. Market risk also arises for the Group on the investment interest rates. of this capital. Shareholders’ funds in the Australian life insurance The impact of customer prepayments on the contractual cash businesses are invested 99% in income assets (cash and fixed flows for fixed rate products is included in the calculation. Cash interest) and 1% in growth assets as at 30 June 2018. flows for discretionary priced products are behaviourally adjusted A 20-day 97.5% VaR measure is used to capture the Non-traded and repriced at the resultant profile. market risk exposures. The figures in the following table represent the net present value Average Average of the expected change in the Group’s future earnings in all future Non-Traded VaR in Australian June June periods for the remaining term of all existing assets and liabilities. Life Insurance Business 2018 (1) 2017 (1) (20 day 97.5% confidence) $M $M Shareholder funds (2) 1. 1 1. 3 Guarantees (to Policyholders) (3) 23. 6 22. 3 (1) Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. (2) VaR in relation to the investment of shareholder funds. (3) VaR in relation to product portfolios where the Group has guaranteed liabilities to policyholders. The Group announced the sale of its life insurances businesses during the period. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 220 Annual Report 2018 220 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report report financial statements 9.3 Market Risk (continued) Structural Foreign Exchange Risk other equipment. A lease residual value guarantee exposes the Structural foreign exchange risk is the risk that movements in Group to the movement in second-hand prices of these assets. foreign exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the Commonwealth Bank Group Super Fund Group’s Australian dollar earnings and economic value when the The Commonwealth Bank Group Super Fund (the Fund) has a Performance Group’s foreign currency denominated earnings and capital are defined benefit portion that creates market risk for the Group. translated into Australian dollars. The Group’s only material overview Wealth Risk Management and Human Resources provide exposure to this risk arises from its New Zealand banking and oversight of the market risks of the Fund held and managed on insurance, Asian and US operations. behalf of the employees receiving defined benefit pension funds Lease Residual Value Risk on behalf of the Group (refer to Note 10.2). The Group takes lease residual value risk on assets such as industrial, mining, rail, aircraft, marine, technology, healthcare and Corporate governance 9.4 Liquidity and Funding Risk Overview Liquidity and Funding Policies and Management The Group’s liquidity and funding policies are designed to ensure The Group’s liquidity and funding policies provide that: it will meet its obligations as and when they fall due by ensuring it  An excess of liquid assets over the minimum prescribed is able to borrow funds on an unsecured basis, has sufficient liquid under APRA’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) requirement assets to borrow against on a secured basis, or sell to raise is maintained. Australian ADIs are required to meet a 100% Directors’ immediate funds without adversely affecting the Group’s net asset LCR, calculated as the ratio of high quality liquid assets to value. report 30 day net cash outflows projected under a prescribed The Group’s liquidity policies are designed to ensure it maintains stress scenario; sufficient cash balances and liquid asset holdings to meet its  A surplus of stable funding from various sources, as obligations to customers, in both ordinary market conditions and measured by APRA’s Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), is during periods of extreme stress. These policies are intended to maintained. The NSFR was introduced by APRA on protect the value of the Group’s operations during periods of 1 January 2018 and requires Australian ADIs to fund core unfavourable market conditions. assets with stable sources of funding. The NSFR is The Group’s funding policies are designed to achieve diversified calculated by applying APRA prescribed factors to assets Financial sources of funding by product, term, maturity date, investor type, and liabilities to determine a ratio of required stable funding investor location, currency and concentration, on a cost effective report to available stable funding which must be greater than basis. This objective applies to the Group’s wholesale and retail 100%; funding activities.  Additional internal funding and liquidity metrics are also Liquidity and Funding Risk Management Framework calculated and stress tests additional to the LCR are run; The CBA Board is ultimately responsible for the sound and prudent management of liquidity risk across the Group. The  Short and long-term wholesale funding limits are Group’s liquidity and funding policies, structured under a formal established, monitored and reviewed regularly; Other Group Liquidity and Funding Risk Management Framework, are  The Group’s wholesale funding market capacity is regularly approved by the Board and agreed with APRA. The Group has an assessed and used as a factor in funding strategies; Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) the charter of which  Balance Sheet assets that cannot be liquidated quickly are information includes reviewing the management of assets and liabilities, funded with stable deposits or term borrowings that meet reviewing liquidity and funding policies and strategies, as well as minimum maturity requirements with appropriate liquidity regularly monitoring compliance with those policies across the buffers; Group. Group Treasury manages the Group’s liquidity and funding  Liquid assets are held in Australian dollar and foreign positions in accordance with the Group’s liquidity policies and has currency denominated securities in accordance with ultimate authority to execute liquidity decisions should the Group expected requirements; Contingent Funding Plan be activated. Group Risk Management  The Group has three categories of liquid assets within its provides oversight of the Group’s liquidity and funding risks and domestic liquid assets portfolio. The first includes cash, compliance with Group policies and manages the Group’s government and Australian semi-government securities. relationship with prudential regulators. The second includes Negotiable Certificates of Deposit, Subsidiaries within the Colonial Holding Company Group apply bank bills, bank term securities, supranational bonds, their own liquidity and funding strategies to address their specific Australian Residential Mortgage-backed Securities (RMBS) needs. The Group’s New Zealand banking subsidiary, ASB Bank, and securities that meet certain Reserve Bank of Australia manages its own domestic liquidity and funding needs in (RBA) criteria for purchases under reverse repo. The final accordance with its own liquidity policies and the policies of the category is internal RMBS, being mortgages that have been Group. ASB’s liquidity policy is also overseen by the Reserve securitised but retained by the Bank, that are repo-eligible Bank of New Zealand. with the RBA under stress; and  Offshore branches and subsidiaries adhere to liquidity policies and hold appropriate foreign currency liquid assets to meet required obligations. All securities are central bank repo-eligible under normal market conditions. 221 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.4 Liquidity and Funding Risk (continued) Liquidity and Funding Policies and Management (continued) The Group’s key funding tools include: and resulting in a greater awareness of the liquidity risk  Its consumer retail funding base, which includes a wide adjusted value of banking products; range of retail transaction accounts, savings accounts  A liquidity management model similar to a “maturity ladder” and term deposits for individual consumers; or “liquidity gap analysis”, that allows forecasting of liquidity  Its small business customer and institutional deposit needs on a daily basis; base; and  An additional liquidity management model that implements  Its wholesale international and domestic funding the agreed prudential liquidity policies. This model is programs which include its Australian dollar Negotiable calibrated with a series of “stress” liquidity crisis scenarios, Certificates of Deposit; Australian dollar bank bills; Asian incorporating both systemic and idiosyncratic crisis Transferable Certificates of Deposit program; Australian, assumptions, such that the Group will have sufficient liquid U.S. and Euro Commercial Paper programs; US assets available to ensure it meets all of its obligations as Extendible Notes programs; Australian dollar Domestic and when they fall due; Debt Program; U.S.144a and 3a2 Medium-Term Note  Central bank repurchase agreement facilities including the Programs; Euro Medium-Term Note Program; multi RBA’s open-ended Committed Liquidity Facility that jurisdiction Covered Bond program; and its Medallion provide the Group with the ability to borrow funds on a securitisation program. secured basis, even when normal funding markets are The Group’s key liquidity tools include: unavailable; and  A regulatory liquidity management reporting system  A robust Contingent Funding Plan that is regularly tested delivering granular customer and product type information so that it can be activated in case of need due to a liquidity to inform business decision making, product development event. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 222 Annual Report 2018 222 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 9.4 Liquidity and Funding Risk (continued) Maturity Analysis of Monetary Liabilities Amounts shown in the tables below are based on contractual undiscounted cash flows for the remaining contractual maturities. Group Maturity Period as at 30 June 2018 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not Performance overview Months Months Years Years Specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings (1) 502,021 103,788 17,587 489 623,885 Payables due to other financial institutions 18,064 2,827 44 20,935 Liabilities at fair value through Income 6,622 1,747 524 1,441 10,334 Statement Corporate Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 21,346 21,346 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 19 145 1,256 942 2,362 governance Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 886 15,504 38,593 24,176 79,159 Inflows (804) (13,761) (36,432) (22,539) (73,536) Bank acceptances 331 48 379 Insurance policy liabilities 451 451 Debt issues and loan capital 18,597 43,784 96,080 46,296 204,757 Directors’ report Managed funds units on issue Other monetary liabilities 6,582 874 96 23 7,575 Liabilities held for sale 182 572 274 143 12,886 14,057 Total monetary liabilities 573,846 155,528 117,978 51,015 13,337 911,704 Guarantees (2) 6,265 6,265 Loan commitments (2) 162,090 162,090 Other commitments (2) 6,841 6,841 Financial report Total off Balance Sheet items 175,196 175,196 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance 749,042 155,528 117,978 51,015 13,337 1,086,900 Sheet items Group Maturity Period as at 30 June 2017 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not Months Months Years Years Specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Other information Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings (1) 509,615 98,303 20,132 272 628,322 Payables due to other financial institutions 24,508 3,964 28,472 Liabilities at fair value through Income 6,188 1,553 1,168 1,682 10,591 Statement Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 21,283 21,283 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 77 204 1,595 1,201 3,077 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 5,724 6,923 65,799 19,905 98,351 Inflows (5,018) (6,159) (62,248) (18,940) (92,365) Bank acceptances 205 258 463 Insurance policy liabilities 12,018 12,018 Debt issues and loan capital 20,894 37,882 100,824 28,713 188,313 Managed funds units on issue 2,577 2,577 Other monetary liabilities 6,304 1,794 731 323 9,152 Total monetary liabilities 589,780 144,722 128,001 33,156 14,595 910,254 Guarantees (2) 7,424 7,424 Loan commitments (2) 173,555 173,555 Other commitments (2) 4,153 4,153 Total off Balance Sheet items 185,132 185,132 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance 774,912 144,722 128,001 33,156 14,595 1,095,386 Sheet items (1) Includes deposits that are contractually at call, customer savings and cheque accounts. These accounts provide a stable source of long-term funding. (2) All of Balance Sheet items are included in the 0 to 3 months maturity band to reflect their earliest possible maturity 223 223 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.4 Liquidity and Funding Risk (continued) Maturity Analysis of Monetary Liabilities (continued) Bank Maturity Period as at 30 June 2018 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not Months Months Years Years Specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings (1) 464,588 88,005 14,496 468 567,557 Payables due to other financial institutions 17,197 2,808 44 20,049 Liabilities at fair value through Income 5,480 1,747 524 1,441 9,192 Statement Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 21,175 21,175 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 5 52 1,022 932 2,011 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 644 17,441 45,661 32,583 96,329 Inflows (614) (15,421) (42,679) (29,927) (88,641) Bank acceptances 331 48 379 Debt issues and loan capital 15,333 37,730 78,067 39,379 170,509 Due to controlled entities 6,174 6,070 24,411 68,672 105,327 Other monetary liabilities 6,274 750 65 10 7,099 Total monetary liabilities 536,587 139,230 121,567 113,602 910,986 Guarantees (2) 5,835 5,835 Loan commitments (2) 147,098 147,098 Other commitments (2) 6,673 6,673 Total off Balance Sheet items 159,606 159,606 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance 696,193 139,230 121,567 113,602 1,070,592 Sheet items Bank Maturity Period as at 30 June 2017 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not Months Months Years Years Specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings (1) 471,711 83,962 16,997 88 572,758 Payables due to other financial institutions 24,113 3,964 28,077 Liabilities at fair value through Income 4,899 1,437 1,168 1,682 9,186 Statement Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 21,050 21,050 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 51 105 1,348 1,201 2,705 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 3,683 5,385 71,013 24,902 104,983 Inflows (3,042) (4,629) (65,902) (22,973) (96,546) Bank acceptances 205 258 463 Debt issues and loan capital 17,155 31,674 80,618 24,344 153,791 Due to controlled entities 6,273 5,877 23,743 55,329 91,222 Other monetary liabilities 5,935 2,091 120 9 8,155 Total monetary liabilities 552,033 130,124 129,105 84,582 895,844 Guarantees (2) 7,037 7,037 Loan commitments (2) 158,567 158,567 Other commitments (2) 3,944 3,944 Total off Balance Sheet items 169,548 169,548 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance 721,581 130,124 129,105 84,582 Sheet items 1,065,392 (1) Includes deposits that are contractually at call, customer savings and cheque accounts. Historical experience is that such accounts provide a stable source of long-term funding for the Group. (2) All off Balance Sheet items are included in the 0 to 3 months maturity band to reflect their earliest possible maturity. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 224 Annual Report 2018 224 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to Notes to the the report financial statements financial statements Strategic report Disclosures about 9.5 Disclosures about Fair Fair Values Values Value Hierarchy Fair Value Hierarchy for Financial Assets for Financial andLiabilities Assetsand LiabilitiesMeasured MeasuredatatFair FairValue Value classification in The classification the fair fair value in the hierarchyof ofthe value hierarchy Group’sand andthe theGroup’s Bank’sfinancial financialassets theBank’s andliabilities assetsand liabilitiesmeasured measuredatatfair fairvalue valueisis presented in presented the tables tables below. in the below. An explanationof Anexplanation howfair fairvalues ofhow arecalculated calculatedand valuesare thelevels levelsininthe andthe fairvalue thefair valuehierarchy hierarchyareareincluded included accounting policy in the accounting policy within within this this note. note. Performance Group Group FairValue Fair Valueasasat 30June at30 June2018 2018 Fair FairValue Valueasasatat30 June2017 30June 2017 overview Level Level22 Level Level11 Level Level33 Total Total Level11 Level Level Level22 Level Level3 3 Total Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M$M $M$M $M $M $M $M Financial Financial assets assets measured measured at at fair fair value valueon onaarecurring recurring basis basis Assets at Assets at fair value through fair value through Income Income Statement: Statement: Corporate Trading Trading 22,078 22,078 10,176 10,176 -32,254 32,254 24,657 24,657 8,047 8,047 -32,704 32,704 Insurance Insurance (1) (1) -372 372 -372 372 3,519 3,519 8,620 8,620 1,530 1,530 13,669 13,669 Other Other 49 49 209 209 -258 258 51 51 1,060 1,060 -1,111 1,111 governance Derivative Derivative assets assets 42 42 31,998 31,998 93 93 32,133 32,133 63 63 31,594 31,594 6767 31,724 31,724 Available-for-sale Available-for-sale investments investments 74,234 74,234 7,941 7,941 65 65 82,240 82,240 75,050 75,050 8,346 8,346 139 139 83,535 83,535 Bills Bills discounted discounted 4,280 4,280 --4,280 4,280 7,486 7,486 --7,486 7,486 Assets Assets held held for for sale (1) sale (1) 2,012 2,012 8,061 8,061 1,818 1,818 11,891 11,891 ----Directors’ Total Total financial financial assets assets measured measured at at 102,695 102,695 58,757 58,757 1,976 1,976 163,428 163,428 110,826 110,826 57,667 57,667 1,736 1,736 170,229 170,229 fair fair value value report Financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured at fair measured at fair value valueononaarecurring recurring basis basis Liabilities Liabilities at at fair fair value value through through 1,724 1,724 8,523 8,523 -10,247 10,247 2,525 2,525 7,867 7,867 -10,392 10,392 Income Income Statement Statement Derivative liabilities Derivative liabilities 57 57 28,075 28,075 340 340 28,472 28,472 192 192 30,036 30,036 102 102 30,330 30,330 Life Life investment investment contracts contracts (1) (1) -337 337 -337 337 -7,374 7,374 565 565 7,939 7,939 Liabilities Liabilities held for sale held for (1) sale (1) 55 6,985 6,985 353 353 7,343 7,343 ----Financial Total Total financial financial liabilities liabilities measured measured 1,786 43,920 693 46,399 2,717 45,277 667 48,661 report at 1,786 43,920 693 46,399 2,717 45,277 667 48,661 at fair fair value value (1) As at 30 June 2018 Assets and Liabilities of the Group’s life insurance businesses have been presented as held for sale. (1) As at 30 June 2018 Assets and Liabilities of the Group’s life insurance businesses have been presented as held for sale. Bank Bank Fair FairValue Valueas asat at30 30June June20182018 Fair Value as at 30 June 2017 Fair Value as at 30 June 2017 Level 1 Level 1 Level 2 Level 2 Level33 Level Total Total Level22 Level Level11 Level Level Level3 3 Total Total Other $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M information $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis basis Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 20,813 9,180 29,993 23,866 7,261 31,127 Trading 20,813 9,180 29,993 23,866 7,261 31,127 Other 796 796 Other 796 796 Derivative assets 41 30,751 93 30,885 55 31,972 67 32,094 Derivative assets 41 30,751 93 30,885 55 31,972 67 32,094 Available-for-sale investments 69,988 7,678 65 77,731 71,206 7,674 139 79,019 Available-for-sale investments 69,988 7,678 65 77,731 71,206 7,674 139 79,019 Bills Discounted 4,280 4,280 7,486 7,486 Bills Discounted 4,280 4,280 7,486 7,486 Total financial assets measured at Total financial assets measured at 95,122 47,609 158 142,889 102,613 47,703 206 150,522 fair value 95,122 47,609 158 142,889 102,613 47,703 206 150,522 fair value Financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis Financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis Liabilities at fair value through Income Liabilities at fair value through Income 1,724 7,382 9,106 2,525 6,464 8,989 Statement 1,724 7,382 9,106 2,525 6,464 8,989 Statement Derivative liabilities 57 30,474 340 30,871 192 31,878 103 32,173 Derivative liabilities 57 30,474 340 30,871 192 31,878 103 32,173 Total financial liabilities measured Total financial liabilities measured 1,781 37,856 340 39,977 2,717 38,342 103 41,162 at fair value 1,781 37,856 340 39,977 2,717 38,342 103 41,162 at fair value 225 225 225 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.5 Disclosures about Fair Value (continued) Analysis of Movements between Fair Value Hierarchy Levels During the year ended 30 June 2018 there have been $1,722 million reclassifications of trading securities (30 June 2017: $20 million) from Level 2 to Level 1, due to changes in the observability of inputs. There have been no reclassifications of available for sale securities (30 June 2017: $752 million) from Level 2 to Level 1. There have been no reclassifications of insurance assets (30 June 2017: $488 million) from Level 1 to Level 2. The tables below summarise movements in Level 3 balance during the year. Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken place at the end of the reporting periods. Transfers in and out of Level 3 were due to changes in the observability of inputs. Level 3 Movement Analysis for the year ended 30 June 2018 Group Financial Assets Financial Liabilities Available Assets Life Liabilities Insurance Derivative for Sale held for Derivative Investment held for Assets Assets Investments sale Liabilities Contracts Sale $M $M $M $M $M $M $M As at 1 July 2016 60 301 (64) Purchases 3 Sales/settlements (160) 29 Gains/(losses) in the period: Recognised in the (4) 6 Income Statement Recognised in the Statement of (2) Comprehensive Income Transfers in 1,530 8 (73) (565) Transfers out As at 30 June 2017 1,530 67 139 (102) (565) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for (4) 6 financial instruments held as at 30 June 2017 As at 1 July 2017 1,530 67 139 (102) (565) Purchases 618 Sales/ settlements (1) (208) (18) (100) 14 212 Gains/(losses) in the period: Recognised in the (122) (15) (144) Income Statement Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Transfers in 59 26 1,818 (108) (353) Transfers out (1,818) 353 As at 30 June 2018 93 65 1,818 (340) (353) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for (103) (15) (144) financial instruments held as at 30 June 2018 (1) Sales/ settlements includes the impact of changing fund ownership percentage held via the Group’s life insurance operations. The valuation of insurance assets directly impacts the life investment contracts they are backing. The Group’s exposure to other financial instruments measured at fair value based in full or in part or non-market observable inputs is restricted to a small number of financial instruments, which comprise an insignificant component of the portfolios to which they belong. As such, changes in fair value assumptions on all these instruments due to size or backing by policy holder funds generally have minimal impact on the Group’s Income Statement and Shareholders’ Equity. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 226 Annual Report 2018 226 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.5 Disclosures about Fair Value (continued) Analysis of Movements between Fair Value Hierarchy Levels (continued) Level 3 Movement Analysis for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) Bank Financial Performance Financial Assets Liabilities Available Derivative for Sale Derivative overview Assets Investments Liabilities $M $M $M As at 1 July 2016 60 301 (70) Purchases 3 Corporate Sales/settlements (160) 32 governance Gains/(losses) in the period: Recognised in the Income Statement (4) 8 Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (2) Transfers in 8 (73) Transfers out As at 30 June 2017 67 139 (103) Directors’ report Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for financial (4) 8 instruments held as at 30 June 2017 As at 1 July 2017 67 139 (103) Purchases Financial Sales/settlements (18) (100) 15 report Gains/(losses) in the period: Recognised in the Income Statement (15) (144) Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Transfers in 59 26 (108) Transfers out Other As at 30 June 2018 93 65 (340) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for financial (15) (144) information instruments held as at 30 June 2018 227 227 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 9.5 Disclosures about Fair Value (continued) Fair Value Information for Financial Instruments not measured at Fair Value The estimated fair values and fair value hierarchy of the Group’s and the Bank’s financial instruments not measured at fair value as at 30 June 2018 are presented below: Group 30 Jun 18 Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Cash and liquid assets 36,417 22,896 13,521 36,417 Receivables due from other financial institutions 9,222 9,222 9,222 Loans and other receivables 739,085 739,545 739,545 Bank acceptances of customers 379 379 379 Other assets 5,455 1,823 3,630 2 5,455 Assets held for sale 192 107 85 192 Total financial assets 790,750 25,205 26,458 739,547 791,210 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Deposits and other public borrowings 622,234 622,327 622,327 Payables due to other financial institutions 20,899 20,899 20,899 Bank acceptances 379 379 379 Debt issues 172,294 173,895 173,895 Managed funds units on issue Bills payable and other liabilities 9,271 2,459 6,812 9,271 Loan capital 22,992 9,566 14,131 23,697 Liabilities held for sale 2,621 13 923 1,685 2,621 Total financial liabilities 850,690 12,417 838,987 1,685 853,089 Financial guarantees, loan commitments and other 170,586 170,586 170,586 off Balance Sheet instruments Group 30 Jun 17 Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Cash and liquid assets 45,850 23,117 22,733 45,850 Receivables due from other financial institutions 10,037 10,037 10,037 Loans and other receivables 724,276 724,271 724,271 Bank acceptances of customers 463 463 463 Other assets 6,026 2,371 3,655 6,026 Total financial assets 786,652 25,951 36,425 724,271 786,647 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Deposits and other public borrowings 626,655 626,924 626,924 Payables due to other financial institutions 28,432 28,432 28,432 Bank acceptances 463 463 463 Debt issues 167,571 167,752 167,752 Managed funds units on issue 2,577 1,547 1,030 2,577 Bills payable and other liabilities 9,485 2,795 6,690 9,485 Loan capital 18,726 8,278 10,428 18,706 Total financial liabilities 853,909 13,083 841,256 854,339 Financial guarantees, loan commitments and other off 182,999 182,999 182,999 Balance Sheet instruments Commonwealth Bank of Australia 228 Annual Report 2018 228 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 9.5 Disclosures about Fair Value (continued) Fair Value Information for Financial Instruments not measured at Fair Value (continued) Bank 30 Jun 18 Carrying Performance value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total overview $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Cash and liquid assets 33,581 21,351 12,230 33,581 Receivables due from other financial institutions 8,376 8,376 8,376 Loans and other receivables 652,370 652,794 652,794 Bank acceptances of customers 379 379 379 Loans to controlled entities 106,431 106,509 106,509 Corporate governance Other assets 4,717 1,398 3,317 2 4,717 Total financial assets 805,854 23,128 23,923 759,305 806,356 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Deposits and other public borrowings 566,200 566,200 566,200 Payables due to other financial institutions 20,014 20,014 20,014 Directors’ Bank acceptances 379 379 379 Due to controlled entities 105,327 105,309 105,309 Debt issues 139,984 142,064 142,064 report Bills payable and other liabilities 7,400 1,942 5,458 7,400 Loan capital 22,249 9,561 13,373 22,934 Total financial liabilities 861,553 11,882 747,109 105,309 864,300 Financial guarantees, loan commitments and other off 155,012 155,012 155,012 Balance Sheet instruments Financial Bank 30 Jun 17 report Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Other Cash and liquid assets 42,814 20,949 21,865 42,814 Receivables due from other financial institutions 8,678 8,678 8,678 Loans and other receivables 640,017 640,114 640,114 information Bank acceptances of customers 463 463 463 Loans to controlled entities 90,765 90,797 90,797 Other assets 5,067 1,833 3,234 5,067 Total financial assets 787,804 23,245 33,777 730,911 787,933 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Deposits and other public borrowings 571,353 571,505 571,505 Payables due to other financial institutions 28,038 28,038 28,038 Bank acceptances 463 463 463 Due to controlled entities 91,222 91,222 91,222 Debt issues 134,966 135,621 135,621 Bills payable and other liabilities 7,341 2,297 5,044 7,341 Loan capital 17,959 8,277 9,642 17,919 Total financial liabilities 851,342 11,037 749,850 91,222 852,109 Financial guarantees, loan commitments and other off 167,415 167,415 167,415 Balance Sheet instruments 229 229 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.5 Disclosures about Fair Value (continued) Accounting Policy Valuation Fair value is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. On initial recognition, the transaction price generally represents the fair value of the financial instrument, unless there is observable information from an active market that provides a more appropriate fair value. The fair value for financial instruments traded in active markets at the reporting date is based on their quoted market price or dealer price quotations, without any deduction for transaction costs. Assets and long positions are measured at a quoted bid price; liabilities and short positions are measured at a quoted asking price. Where the Group has positions with offsetting market risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a quoted bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate. Non-market quoted financial instruments are mostly valued using valuation techniques based on observable inputs except where observable market data is unavailable. Where market data is unavailable the financial instrument is initially recognised at the transaction price, which is generally the best indicator of fair value. This may differ from the value obtained from the valuation model. The timing of the recognition in the Income Statement of this initial difference in fair value depends on the individual facts and circumstances of each transaction, but is never later than when the market data becomes observable. The difference may be either amortised over the life of the transaction, recognised when the inputs become observable or on de-recognition of the instrument, as appropriate. The fair value of Over-the-Counter (OTC) derivatives includes credit valuation adjustments (CVA) for derivative assets to reflect the credit worthiness of the counterparty. Fair value of uncollateralised derivative assets and uncollateralised derivative liabilities incorporate funding valuation adjustments (FVA) to reflect funding costs and benefits to the Group. These adjustments are applied after considering any relevant collateral or master netting arrangements. Fair Value Hierarchy The Group utilises various valuation techniques and applies a hierarchy for valuation inputs that maximise the use of observable market data, if available. Under AASB 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ all financial and non-financial assets and liabilities measured or disclosed at fair value are categorised into one of the following three fair value hierarchy levels: Quoted Prices in Active Markets – Level 1 This category includes assets and liabilities for which the valuation is determined by reference to unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Financial instruments included in this category are liquid government bonds, financial institution and corporate bonds, certificates of deposit, bank bills, listed equities and exchange traded derivatives. Valuation Technique Using Observable Inputs – Level 2 This category includes assets and liabilities that have been valued using inputs other than quoted prices as described for Level 1, but which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. The valuation techniques include the use of discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other market accepted valuation models. Financial instruments included in this category are commercial papers, mortgage-backed securities and OTC derivatives including interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and FX options. Valuation Technique Using Significant Unobservable Inputs – Level 3 This category includes assets and liabilities where the valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Unobservable inputs are those not readily available in an active market due to market illiquidity or complexity of the product. These inputs are generally derived and extrapolated from observable inputs to match the risk profile of the financial instrument, and are calibrated against current market assumptions, historic transactions and economic models, where available. These inputs may include the timing and amount of future cash flows, rates of estimated credit losses, discount rates and volatility. Financial instruments included in this category for the Group and Bank are assets backing insurance liabilities held through infrastructure funds, certain exotic OTC derivatives and certain asset-backed securities valued using unobservable inputs. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 230 Annual Report 2018 230 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 9.5 Disclosures about Fair Value (continued) Accounting Policy (continued) Critical accounting judgements and estimates (continued) Performance Valuation techniques are used to estimate the fair value of securities. When using valuation techniques the Group makes maximum use of market inputs and relies as little as possible on entity specific inputs. It incorporates all factors that the Group believes market participants would consider in setting a price and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments. overview Data inputs that the Group relies upon when valuing financial instruments relate to counterparty credit risk, volatility, correlation and extrapolation. Periodically, the Group calibrates its valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from any observable current market transaction in the same instruments (i.e. without modification or repackaging) and any other available observable market data. Corporate 9.6 Collateral Arrangements governance Collateral Accepted as Security for Assets The Group takes collateral where it is considered necessary to support both on and off Balance Sheet financial instruments. The Group evaluates each customer’s creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral taken, if deemed necessary, is based on management’s credit evaluation of the counterparty. The Group has the right to sell, re-pledge, or otherwise use some of the collateral received. At Balance Sheet date the carrying value of cash accepted as collateral (and recognised on the Group’s and the Bank’s Balance Sheets) and the fair value of securities accepted as collateral (but not recognised on the Group’s or the Bank’s Balance Sheets) were as follows: Directors’ Group Bank report 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M Cash 6,884 7,280 6,155 7,042 Securities 13,520 22,733 12,230 21,865 Collateral held 20,404 30,013 18,385 28,907 Financial Collateral held which is re-pledged or sold report Assets Pledged As part of standard terms of transactions with other banks, the Group has provided collateral to secure liabilities. At Balance Sheet date, the carrying value of assets pledged as collateral to secure liabilities were as follows: Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Other information $M $M $M $M Cash 6,064 6,307 5,679 5,607 Securities (1) 15,495 16,360 15,604 16,591 Assets pledged 21,559 22,667 21,283 22,198 Asset pledged which can be re-pledged or re-sold by 15,495 16,360 15,604 16,591 counterparty (1) These balances include assets sold under repurchase agreements. The liabilities related to these repurchase agreements are disclosed in Note 4.1. The Group and the Bank have pledged collateral as part of entering repurchase and derivative agreements. These transactions are governed by standard industry agreements. 231 231 232 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia report Financial Statements 9.7 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The table below identifies amounts that have been offset on the Balance Sheet and amounts covered by enforceable netting arrangements or similar agreements that do not qualify for set off. Cash settled Annual Report 2018 derivatives that trade on an exchange are deemed to be economically settled and therefore outside the scope of these disclosures. Group 30 Jun 18 Subject to Enforceable Master Netting or Similar Agreements Amounts offset on the Balance Sheet Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet Gross Balance Amount Reported on the Financial Financial Collateral Not subject to Total Balance Net Netting Sheet Amount offset Balance Sheet Instruments (1) (Received)/ Pledged (1) Sheet amount Amount Agreements Financial Instruments $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Derivative assets 36,923 (6,794) 30,129 (19,344) (6,770) 4,015 2,004 32,133 Securities purchased under 13,520 13,520 (765) (12,755) 13,520 agreements to resell Equity securities sold not 516 (230) 286 286 286 delivered Total financial assets 50,959 (7,024) 43,935 (20,109) (19,525) 4,301 2,004 45,939 Derivative liabilities (37,466) 10,149 (27,317) 19,344 4,567 (3,406) (1,155) (28,472) Securities sold under (14,696) (14,696) 765 13,931 (14,696) agreements to repurchase Equity securities purchased (656) 230 (426) (426) (426) not delivered Total financial liabilities (52,818) 10,379 (42,439) 20,109 18,498 (3,832) (1,155) (43,594) (1) For the purpose of this disclosure, the related amounts of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial assets/(liabilities) reported on the Balance Sheet, i.e. over collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result, the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 9.7 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (continued) Group 30 Jun 17 Subject to Enforceable Master Netting or Similar Agreements Amounts offset on the Balance Sheet Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet Gross Balance Amount Reported on the Financial Financial Collateral Not subject to Total Balance Sheet Amount offset Balance Sheet Instruments (1) (Received)/ Pledged (1) Net Amount Netting Agreements Sheet amount Financial Instruments $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Derivative assets 33,909 (5,501) 28,408 (18,147) (6,236) 4,025 3,316 31,724 Securities purchased under 22,733 22,733 (1,257) (21,289) 187 22,733 agreements to resell Equity securities sold not 568 (213) 355 355 355 delivered Total financial assets 57,210 (5,714) 51,496 (19,404) (27,525) 4,567 3,316 54,812 Derivative liabilities (35,832) 8,383 (27,449) 18,147 5,448 (3,854) (2,881) (30,330) Securities sold under (16,270) (16,270) 1,257 15,013 (16,270) agreements to repurchase Equity securities purchased (630) 213 (417) (417) (417) not delivered Total financial liabilities (52,732) 8,596 (44,136) 19,404 20,461 (4,271) (2,881) (47,017) (1) For the purpose of this disclosure, the related amounts of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial assets/(liabilities) reported on the Balance Sheet, i.e. over collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. 233 Other Financial Directors’ Corporate Performance Strategic information report report governance overview report 234 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia report financial statements 9.7 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (continued) Annual Report 2018 Bank 30 Jun 18 Subject to Enforceable Master Netting or Similar Agreements Amounts offset on the Balance Sheet Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet Gross Balance Amount Reported on the Financial Financial Collateral Not subject to Total Balance Sheet Amount offset Balance Sheet Instruments (1) (Received)/ Pledged (1) Net Amount Netting Agreements Sheet amount Financial Instruments $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Derivative assets 35,483 (6,794) 28,689 (18,887) (5,955) 3,847 2,196 30,885 Securities purchased under 12,230 12,230 (765) (11,465) 12,230 agreements to resell Total financial assets 47,713 (6,794) 40,919 (19,652) (17,420) 3,847 2,196 43,115 Derivative liabilities (39,785) 10,149 (29,636) 18,887 4,375 (6,374) (1,235) (30,871) Securities sold under (14,806) (14,806) 765 14,041 (14,806) agreements to repurchase Total financial liabilities (54,591) 10,149 (44,442) 19,652 18,416 (6,374) (1,235) (45,677) (1) For the purpose of this disclosure, the related amounts of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial assets/(liabilities) reported on the Balance Sheet, i.e. over collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. 234 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report Financial financial Notes to thestatements report Financial Statements 9.7 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (continued) Bank 30 Jun 17 Subject to Enforceable Master Netting or Similar Agreements Amounts offset on the Balance Sheet Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet Gross Balance Amount Reported on the Financial Financial Collateral Not subject to Total Balance Sheet Amount offset Balance Sheet Instruments (1) (Received)/ Pledged (1) Net Amount Netting Agreements Sheet amount Financial Instruments $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Derivative assets 34,517 (5,501) 29,016 (18,936) (6,133) 3,947 3,078 32,094 Securities purchased 21,865 21,865 (1,285) (20,420) 160 21,865 under agreements to resell Total financial assets 56,382 (5,501) 50,881 (20,221) (26,553) 4,107 3,078 53,959 Derivative liabilities (37,450) 8,383 (29,067) 18,936 4,702 (5,429) (3,106) (32,173) Securities sold under (16,501) (16,501) 1,285 15,216 (16,501) agreements to repurchase Total financial liabilities (53,951) 8,383 (45,568) 20,221 19,918 (5,429) (3,106) (48,674) (1) For the purpose of this disclosure, the related amounts of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial assets/(liabilities) reported on the Balance Sheet, i.e. over collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. Related Amounts not Set Off on the Balance Sheet Derivative Assets and Liabilities The “Financial Instruments” column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off under netting agreements, such as the ISDA Master Agreement. All outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied if an event of default or other predetermined events occur. Financial collateral refers to cash and non-cash collateral obtained to cover the net exposure between counterparties by enabling the collateral to be realised in an event of default or if other predetermined events occur. Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements and Security Lending Agreements The “Financial Instruments” column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off under netting agreements, such as global master repurchase agreements and global master securities lending agreements. Under these netting agreements, all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied if an event of default or other predetermined events occur. Financial collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of counterparty default. Accounting Policy Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the Balance Sheet if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 235 Other Financial Directors’ Corporate Performance Strategic information report report governance overview report 235 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 10. Employee Benefits Overview The Group employs over 50,000 people across multiple jurisdiction and remunerates its employees through both fixed and variable arrangements. This section outlines details of the share based payment and superannuation components of employee remuneration and provides an overview of key management personnel arrangements. 10.1 Share-Based Payments The Group operates a number of cash and equity settled share plans as detailed below. Group Leadership Reward Plan (GLRP) The GLRP is the Group’s Long-Term Variable Remuneration (LTVR) plan for the CEO and Group Executives. The GLRP focuses efforts on achieving superior performance for key stakeholders – being shareholders, customers, our people and the community–creating sustainable long-term shareholder value. Participants are awarded a maximum number of Reward Rights, which may convert into CBA shares on a 1-for-1 basis. The Board has discretion to apply a cash equivalent. The Reward Rights may vest at the end of a performance period of up to four years subject to the satisfaction of performance hurdles as follows: For awards up to and including the 2017 period:  25% of the award is assessed against Customer Satisfaction (CS) compared to ANZ, NAB, Westpac and other key competitors for our wealth management business by reference to independent external surveys; and  75% of the award is assessed against Total Shareholder Return (TSR) compared the 20 largest companies listed on the ASX (by market capitalisation) at the beginning of each respective performance period, excluding resource companies and CBA. For awards made in the 2018 period:  75% of the award is assessed against TSR compared the 20 largest companies listed on the ASX (by market capitalisation) at the beginning of each respective performance period, excluding resource companies and CBA.  12.5% of the award is assessed against a Relative Trust and Reputation measure; and  12.5% of the award is assessed against an Absolute Employee Engagement measure. A positive TSR gateway applies to the Trust and Reputation and Employee Engagement measures. Refer to the Remuneration Report for further details on the GLRP. The following table provides details of outstanding Reward Rights granted under the GLRP. Outstanding Outstanding Expense Period 1 July Granted Vested Forfeited 30 June ($'000) 30 Jun 18 1,174,899 215,356 (174,139) (537,315) 678,801 4,329 30 Jun 17 1,250,589 295,725 (75,442) (295,973) 1,174,899 15,658 The fair value at the grant date for TSR was $36.94 and $57.11 for both Trust and Reputation and Employee Engagement Reward Rights issued during the year (2017: $65.76 for TSR and $83.71 for CS). The fair value of the Reward Rights granted during the period has been independently calculated at grant date using a Monte Carlo pricing model based on market information and excluding the impact of non-market performance conditions. The assumptions included in the valuation of the 2018 financial year award include a risk-free interest rate of 2.12%, a 5.17% dividend yield on the Bank’s ordinary shares and a volatility in the Bank share price of 15%. Group Rights Plan (GRP) and Employee Equity Plan (EEP) The GRP and EEP facilitate mandatory short-term variable remuneration deferral, sign-on incentives and retention awards. Participants are awarded rights or restricted shares that vest provided the participant remains in employment of the Group until vesting date. The following table provides details of outstanding awards of rights and shares granted under the GRP and EEP. Outstanding Outstanding Expense Period 1 July Granted Vested Forfeited 30 June ($'000) 30 Jun 18 2,125,927 1,045,179 (849,508) (75,394) 2,246,204 67,725 30 Jun 17 1,795,728 1,067,588 (673,224) (64,165) 2,125,927 70,455 The average fair value at grant date of the awards issued during the year was $75.67 (2017: $72.07). Commonwealth Bank of Australia 236 Annual Report 2018 236 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 10.1 Share-Based Payments (continued) Employee Share Acquisition Plan (ESAP) Under the ESAP eligible employees have the opportunity to receive up to $1,000 worth of shares each year if the Group meets the required performance hurdle of growth in the Group’s net profit after tax (“cash basis”). If the hurdle is not met, the Board has discretion to determine whether a full award, a partial award or no award is made. The number of shares a participant receives is calculated by dividing the award amount by the average price paid for CBA shares Performance overview purchased during the purchase period preceding the grant date. Shares granted are restricted from sale until the earlier of three years or until such time as the participant ceases employment with the Group. Participants receive full dividend entitlements and voting rights attached to those shares. The Group achieved the performance target for 2017 resulting in shares being awarded to each eligible employee during the financial year ended 30 June 2018. The following table provides details of shares granted under the ESAP. Number of Shares Total Number of Total Period Allocation date Participants Allocated per Participant Shares Allocated Issue Price $ Fair Value $ 30 Jun 18 8 Sep 2017 31,780 12 381,360 79.11 30,169,390 Corporate 30 Jun 17 9 Sep 2016 32,049 13 416,637 71.89 29,952,034 governance It is estimated that approximately $18.7 million of CBA shares will be purchased on market at the prevailing market price for the 2018 grant. Other Employee Awards A number of other plans are operated by the Group, including: Directors’  The Employee Share (Performance Unit) Plan and Employee Equity Plan (EEP) Cash Settled Rights are cash-based versions report of the GRP; and  The International Employee Share Acquisition Plan which is the cash-based version of the ESAP. The following table provides a summary of the movement in awards during the year. Outstanding Outstanding Expense Period 1 July Granted Vested Forfeited 30 June ($'000) Financial 30 Jun 18 458,764 251,284 (168,925) (31,196) 509,927 21,405 report 30 Jun 17 298,693 269,766 (77,300) (32,395) 458,764 17,913 The average fair value at grant date of the awards issued during the year was $75.70 (2017: $71.83). Salary Sacrifice Arrangements The Group facilitates the purchase of CBA shares via salary sacrifice as follows: Other Type Arrangements Salary Sacrifice  Australian based employees and Non-Executive Directors can elect to sacrifice between $2,000 information and $5,000 p.a. of their fixed remuneration and/or annual STVR or fees (in the case of NonExecutive Directors)  Restricted from sale for a minimum of two years and a maximum of seven years or earlier, if the employee ceases employment with the Group. Non-Executive  Required to defer 20% of post-tax fees until a minimum shareholding requirement of 5,000 Directors shares is reached.  Restricted from sale for ten years or when the Non-Executive Director retires from the Board if earlier. Shares are purchased on market at the prevailing market price at that time and receive full dividend entitlements and voting rights. The following table provides details of shares granted under the Employee Salary Sacrifice Share Plan (ESSSP). Number of Average purchase Total purchase Period Participants shares purchased price $ consideration $ 30 Jun 18 983 41,390 77.68 3,215,222 30 Jun 17 828 37,310 77.14 2,878,131 During the year four (2017: two) Non-Executive Directors applied $74,991 in fees (2017: $43,427) to purchase 988 shares (2017: 564 shares). 237 237 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 10.2 Retirement Benefit Obligations Date of Last Actuarial Name of Plan Type Form of Benefit Assessment of the Fund Commonwealth Bank Group Defined Benefits Indexed pension and lump sum 30 June 2015 (2) Super and Accumulation (1) Commonwealth Bank of Australia Defined Benefits Indexed pension and lump sum 30 June 2016 (UK) Staff Benefits Scheme and Accumulation(1) (CBA (UK) SBS) (1) The defined benefit formulae are generally comprised of final salary, or final average salary, and service. (2) The actuarial assessment of the Fund as at 30 June 2018 is due to be finalised by 31 December 2018. Regulatory Framework Both plans operate under trust law with the assets of the plans held separately in trust. The Trustee of Commonwealth Bank Group Super is Commonwealth Bank Officers Superannuation Corporation Pty Limited. The Trustee of CBA (UK) SBS is Commonwealth Bank of Australia (UK) Staff Benefits Scheme Trustee Company Limited. Both Trustees are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group. The Trustees do not conduct any business other than trusteeship of the plans. The plans are managed and administered on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of each trust deed and relevant legislation. The funding of the plans complies with regulations in Australia and the UK respectively. Funding and Contributions An actuarial assessment as at 30 June 2015 showed Commonwealth Bank Group Super remained in funding surplus. The Bank agreed to continue contributions of $20 million per month to the plan. Employer contributions paid to the plan are subject to tax at the rate of 15% in the plan. An actuarial assessment of the CBA (UK) SBS as at 30 June 2016 was completed in September 2017. It confirmed a funding deficit of GBP26.2 million ($44.8 million). The Bank agreed to pay deficit reduction contributions of GBP5 million ($8.7 million) per annum, paid monthly from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2022. Deficit recovery contributions of GBP15 million ($26.6 million) per annum were paid until 31 December 2017. The Group’s expected contributions to the Commonwealth Bank Group Super and the CBA (UK) SBS for the year ended 30 June 2019 are $240 million and GBP7.6 million ($13.5 million) respectively. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 238 Annual Report 2018 238 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Financial Notes to Notes to the the report Strategic report financial statements financial statements report 10.2 Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued) 10.2 Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued) Defined Benefit Superannuation Plan Defined Benefit Superannuation Plan Commonwealth Bank Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS Total 30 Jun 18 Group Super 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 Total 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Performance Note $M $M $M $M $M $M Note $M $M $M $M $M $M Present value of funded obligations (2,826) (2,910) (645) (656) (3,471) (3,566) overview Present value of funded obligations (2,826) (2,910) (645) (656) (3,471) (3,566) Fair value of plan assets 3,355 3,336 697 645 4,052 3,981 Fair value of plan assets 3,355 3,336 697 645 4,052 3,981 Net pension assets/(liabilities) as at 30 June 529 426 52 (11) 581 415 Net pension assets/(liabilities) as at 30 June 529 426 52 (11) 581 415 Amounts in the Balance Sheet: Amounts in the Balance Sheet: Assets 6.3 529 426 52 581 426 Assets 6.3 529 426 52 581 426 Corporate Liabilities 7.2 (11) (11) Liabilities 7.2 (11) (11) Net assets/(liabilities) 529 426 52 (11) 581 415 governance Net assets/(liabilities) 529 426 52 (11) 581 415 The amounts recognised in the Income The amounts Statement arerecognised as follows: in the Income Statement are as follows: Current service cost (36) (38) (6) (7) (42) (45) Current service cost (36) (38) (6) (7) (42) (45) Net interest income/(expense) 13 6 (1) 13 5 Net interest income/(expense) 13 6 (1) 13 5 Directors’ Employer financed benefits within accumulation Employer financed benefits within accumulation (289) (275) (289) (275) division (1) (289) (275) (289) (275) report division (1) Total included in superannuation plan Total included in superannuation plan (312) (307) (6) (8) (318) (315) expense (312) (307) (6) (8) (318) (315) expense Changes in the present value of the defined in the obligation Changesbenefit present value of the are as follows: defined benefit obligation are as follows: Opening defined benefit obligation (2,910) (3,114) (656) (656) (3,566) (3,770) Opening defined benefit obligation (2,910) (3,114) (656) (656) (3,566) (3,770) Financial Current service cost (36) (38) (6) (7) (42) (45) Current service cost (36) (38) (6) (7) (42) (45) report Interest cost (122) (105) (17) (18) (139) (123) Interest cost (122) (105) (17) (18) (139) (123) Member contributions (6) (7) (6) (7) Member contributions (6) (7) (6) (7) Actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in Actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in 41 41 demographic assumptions 41 41 demographic assumptions Actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in financial Actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in financial (25) 175 29 (84) 4 91 assumptions (25) 175 29 (84) 4 91 assumptions Actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in other Other Actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in other 57 (9) (4) 57 (13) assumptions 57 (9) (4) 57 (13) assumptions information Payments from the plan 216 188 35 32 251 220 Payments from the plan 216 188 35 32 251 220 Exchange differences on foreign plans (30) 40 (30) 40 Exchange differences on foreign plans (30) 40 (30) 40 Closing defined benefit obligation (2,826) (2,910) (645) (656) (3,471) (3,566) Closing defined benefit obligation (2,826) (2,910) (645) (656) (3,471) (3,566) Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: in the fair value of plan assets are as Changes follows: Opening fair value of plan assets 3,336 3,375 645 605 3,981 3,980 Opening fair value of plan assets 3,336 3,375 645 605 3,981 3,980 Interest income 135 111 17 17 152 128 Interest income 135 111 17 17 152 128 Return on plan assets (excluding 143 66 17 63 160 129 Return intereston plan assets (excluding income) 143 66 17 63 160 129 interest income) Member contributions 6 7 6 7 Member contributions 6 7 6 7 Employer contributions 240 240 22 29 262 269 Employer contributions 240 240 22 29 262 269 Employer financed benefits within accumulation Employer financed benefits within accumulation (289) (275) (289) (275) division (289) (275) (289) (275) division Payments from the plan (216) (188) (35) (32) (251) (220) Payments from the plan (216) (188) (35) (32) (251) (220) Exchange differences on foreign plans 31 (37) 31 (37) Exchange differences on foreign plans 31 (37) 31 (37) Closing fair value of plan assets 3,355 3,336 697 645 4,052 3,981 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,355 3,336 697 645 4,052 3,981 (1) Represents superannuation contributions required by the Bank to meet its obligations to members of the defined contribution division of Commonwealth Bank Group (1) Represents Super. superannuation contributions required by the Bank to meet its obligations to members of the defined contribution division of Commonwealth Bank Group Super. 239 239 239 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 10.2 Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued) Economic Assumptions Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Economic assumptions % % % % The above calculations were based on the following assumptions: Discount rate 4. 20 4. 20 2. 70 2. 60 Inflation rate 2. 10 2. 00 3. 30 3. 50 Rate of increases in salary 2. 90 3. 00 4. 30 4. 50 In addition to financial assumptions, the mortality assumptions for pensioners can materially impact the defined benefit obligations. These assumptions are age related and allowances are made for future improvement in mortality. The expected life expectancies (longevity) for pensioners are set out below: Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Expected life expectancies for pensioners Years Years Years Years Male pensioners currently aged 60 28. 8 28. 7 27. 6 27. 8 Male pensioners currently aged 65 23. 8 23. 7 23. 1 23. 0 Female pensioners currently aged 60 33. 1 33. 0 29. 8 29. 7 Female pensioners currently aged 65 28. 1 28. 0 25. 0 24. 9 Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions The table below sets out the sensitivities of the present value of defined benefit obligations at 30 June to a change in the principal actuarial assumptions: Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 18 Impact of change in assumptions on % % liabilities 0.25% decrease in discount rate 3. 40 4. 90 0.25% increase in inflation rate 2. 70 3. 30 0.25% increase to the rate of increases in salary 0. 50 0. 30 Longevity increase of 1 year 4. 50 3. 70 Average Duration The average duration of defined benefit obligation at 30 June is as follows: Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 18 Years Years Average duration at balance date 12 20 Risk Management The pension plans expose the Group to longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk and market risk. The Trustees perform Asset-Liability Matching (ALM) exercises to ensure the plan assets are well matched to the nature and maturities of the defined benefit obligations. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 240 Annual Report 2018 240 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements Strategic report 10.2 Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued) Risk Management (continued) The Commonwealth Bank Group Super’s investment strategy comprises 40% growth and 60% defensive assets. Inflation and interest rate risks are partly mitigated by investing in long dated fixed interest securities which better match the average duration of liabilities Performance and entering into inflation and interest rate swaps. The allocation of assets backing the defined benefit portion of the Commonwealth Bank Group Super is as follows: overview Commonwealth Bank Group Super 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Fair value % of plan Fair value % of plan Asset allocations $M asset $M asset Cash 81 2. 4 144 4. 3 Corporate Equities Australian (1) 253 7. 5 307 9. 2 Equities Overseas (1) 570 17. 0 520 15. 6 governance Bonds Commonwealth Government (1) 679 20. 2 648 19. 4 Bonds Semi-Government (1) 1,179 35. 1 1,107 33. 2 Bonds Corporate and other (1) 79 2. 4 62 1. 9 Real Estate (2) 334 10. 0 367 11. 0 Directors’ Derivatives (2) (17) (0. 5) (18) (0. 6) report Other (3) 197 5. 9 199 6. 0 Total fair value of plan assets 3,355 100. 0 3,336 100. 0 (1) Values based on prices or yields quoted in an active market. (2) Values based on non-quoted information. (3) These are alternative investments which are not included in the traditional asset classes of equities, fixed interest securities, real estate and cash. They include multi-asset investments, liquid alternative investments and hedge funds. Financial The Australian equities fair value includes $15 million of Commonwealth Bank shares. The real estate fair value includes $1.5 million of report property assets leased to the Bank. The bonds – corporate and other fair value includes $0.1 million of Commonwealth Bank debt securities. The other asset allocation includes $0.3 million of Commonwealth Bank shares and $0.1 million debt securities held in a multiasset fund. 10.3 Key Management Personnel Other Detailed remuneration disclosures by Key Management Personnel (KMP) are provided in the Remuneration Report of the Directors’ Report on pages 96 to 118 and have been audited. information Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 (1) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 (1) Key Management Personnel compensation $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Short-term benefits 23,089 18,205 23,089 18,205 Post-employment benefits 421 438 421 438 Long-term benefits 854 359 854 359 Share-based payments 11,234 15,966 11,234 15,966 Total 35,598 34,968 35,598 34,968 (1) Comparatives have been restated to include the provision of partner travel costs (including associated fringe benefits tax). 241 241 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements 10.3 Key Management Personnel (continued) Security holdings Details of the aggregate security holdings of KMP are set out below. Previous Acquired/ Years Net Balance Granted as Awards Change Balance Class (1) 1 July 17 Remuneration Vested (2) Other (3) 30 June 18 (4) Non-Executive Ordinary (5) 171,693 1,617 (34,904) 138,406 Directors PERLS 11,070 (2,470) 8,600 Executives (6) Ordinary 505,701 (338,120) 167,581 LTVR Reward Rights 1,029,620 215,356 (125,841) (738,987) 380,148 Deferred Rights 29,609 2,896 (14,798) 38,816 56,523 PERLS 330 330 (1) LTVR reward rights are subject to performance hurdles. Deferred rights represent the deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements, sign-on and retention awards received as rights. PERLS include cumulative holdings of all PERLS securities issued by the Group. (2) LTVR reward rights and deferred rights become ordinary shares upon vesting. A portion of Ian Narev’s vested equity award was delivered in the form of cash, which was paid to registered charities pursuant to an option that the Board made available in the financial year. (3) Net change other incorporates changes resulting from purchases, sales, forfeitures and appointment or departure of KMP during the year. It also includes a portion of deferred rights and/or LTVR reward rights forfeited as a result of individual and collective accountability in relation to the APRA Prudential Inquiry. (4) 30 June 18 balances represent aggregate shareholdings of all KMP at balance date. (5) Non-Executive Directors who hold fewer than 5,000 Commonwealth Bank shares are required to receive 20% of their total after-tax base fees as CBA shares. These shares are subject to a 10-year trading restriction (the shares will be released earlier if the director leaves the Board). (6) Anna Lenahan holds 2,000 Capital Notes. Loans to KMP All loans to KMP (including close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any entity over which any of those family members or entities held significant voting power) have been made in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers, including the term of the loan, security required and the interest rate (which may be fixed or variable). There has been no write down of loans during the period. Details of aggregate loans to KMP are set out below: 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $'000 $'000 Loans 12,914 12,145 Interest charged 476 406 Other transactions of KMP Financial Instrument Transactions Financial instrument transactions (other than loans and shares disclosed within this report) of KMP occur in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers. Disclosure of financial instrument transactions regularly made as part of normal banking operations is limited to disclosure of such transactions with KMP and entities controlled or significantly influenced by them. All such financial instrument transactions that have occurred between entities within the Group and their KMP have been trivial or domestic in nature and were in the nature of normal personal banking and deposit transactions. Transactions other than Financial Instrument Transactions of Banks All other transactions with KMP and their related entities and other related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis in the normal course of business and on commercial terms and conditions. These transactions principally involve the provision of financial and investment services by entities not controlled by the Group. A related party of an Executive who has also been employed by the Group, and is remunerated in a manner consistent with normal employee relationships. Services Agreements The maximum contingent liability for termination benefits in respect of service agreements with the Chief Executive Officer and other Group KMP at 30 June 2018 was $3,096,820 (2017: $5,614,191). Commonwealth Bank of Australia 242 Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 11. Group Structure Overview The Group Structure includes the Bank legal entity and its interests in operating and special purpose subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. These entities were either acquired or established and their classification is driven by the Bank’s level of control or influence. Performance overview These entities operating activities include banking, advice, funds management, specialised customer financing and asset backed financing across multiple jurisdictions. 11.1 Investments in Subsidiaries and Other Entities Subsidiaries The key subsidiaries of the Bank are: Corporate governance Entity Name Entity Name Australia (a) Banking CBA Covered Bond Trust Medallion Trust Series 2015-1 Commonwealth Securities Limited Medallion Trust Series 2015-2 Medallion Trust Series 2008-1R Medallion Trust Series 2016-1 Medallion Trust Series 2011-1 Medallion Trust Series 2016-2 Directors’ Medallion Trust Series 2013-1 Medallion Trust Series 2017-1 report Medallion Trust Series 2013-2 Medallion Trust Series 2017-1P Medallion Trust Series 2014-1 Medallion Trust Series 2017-2 Medallion Trust Series 2014-2 Residential Mortgage Group Pty Ltd (b) Insurance and Funds Management Capital 121 Pty Limited Commonwealth Insurance Limited Financial Colonial Holding Company Limited The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited (1) report Commonwealth Insurance Holdings Limited All the above subsidiaries are 100% owned and incorporated in Australia. Extent of Beneficial Entity Name Interest if not 100% Incorporated in New Zealand and Other Overseas (a) Banking Other ASB Bank Limited New Zealand information ASB Covered Bond Trust New Zealand ASB Finance Limited New Zealand ASB Holdings Limited New Zealand ASB Term Fund New Zealand CommBank Europe Limited Malta Medallion NZ Series Trust 2009-1R New Zealand PT Bank Commonwealth 99% Indonesia (b) Insurance and Funds Management ASB Group (Life) Limited (1) New Zealand PT Commonwealth Life 80% Indonesia Sovereign Assurance Company Limited (1) New Zealand (1) These Subsidiaries are part of the Group’s discontinued operations and include the Group’s Life Insurance businesses in Australia and New Zealand. 243 243 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 11.1 Investments in Subsidiaries and Other Entities (continued) Subsidiaries (continued) The Group also consolidates a number of unit trusts and other companies as part of the ongoing investment activities of the life insurance and wealth businesses. These investment vehicles are excluded from the above list. Significant Judgements and Assumptions Control and Voting Rights Holding more than 50% of an entity’s voting rights typically indicates that the Group has control over the entity. Significant judgement is involved where the Group either holds more than 50% of the voting rights but does not control an entity, or where the Group is deemed to control an entity despite holding less than 50% of the voting rights. Agent or principal The Group is deemed to have power over an investment fund when it holds either the responsible entity (RE) and/or the manager function of that fund. Whether that power translates to control depends on whether the Group is deemed to act as an agent or a principal of that fund. Management have determined that the Group acts as a principal and controls a fund when it cannot be easily removed as a manager or RE by investors and when its economic interest in that fund is substantial compared to the economic interest of other investors. In all other cases the Group acts as agent and does not control the fund. Non-Controlling Interests Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M Shareholders' Equity 554 546 Total non-controlling interests 554 546 The share capital above comprises predominantly New Zealand Perpetual Preference Shares (PPS) of AUD505 million. On 10 December 2002, ASB Capital Limited, a New Zealand subsidiary, issued NZD200 million (AUD182 million) of PPS. The PPS were issued into the New Zealand capital markets and are subject to New Zealand law. These shares are non-redeemable and carry limited voting rights. Dividends are payable quarterly based on the New Zealand one year swap rate plus a margin of 1.3% and are noncumulative. The payments of dividends are subject to a number of conditions including the satisfaction of solvency tests and the ability of the Board to cancel payments. On 22 December 2004, ASB Capital No.2 Limited, a New Zealand subsidiary, issued NZD350 million (AUD323 million) of PPS. The PPS were issued into the New Zealand capital markets and are subject to New Zealand law. These shares are non-redeemable and carry limited voting rights. Dividends are payable quarterly on the New Zealand one year swap rate plus a margin of 1.0% and are noncumulative. The payments of dividends are subject to a number of conditions including the satisfaction of solvency tests and the ability of the Board to cancel payments. ASB Capital Limited and ASB Capital No.2 Limited have advanced proceeds from the above public issues to ASB Funding Limited, a New Zealand subsidiary. ASB Funding Limited in turn invested the proceeds in PPS issued by ASB Limited (ASB PPS), also a New Zealand subsidiary. In relation to ASB Capital No.2 Limited, if an APRA Event occurs, the loan to ASB Funding Limited will be repaid and ASB Capital No.2 Limited will become the holder of the corresponding ASB PPS. The PPS may be purchased by a Commonwealth Bank subsidiary exercising a buy-out right five years or more after issue, or on the occurrence of regulatory or tax events. Significant Restrictions There were no significant restrictions on the ability to transfer cash or other assets, pay dividends or other capital distributions, provide or repay loans and advances between the entities within the Group. There were also no significant restrictions on the Group's ability to access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of the Group resulting from protective rights of non-controlling interests. Associates and Joint Ventures There were no individually significant investments in associates or joint ventures held by the Group as at 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017. In addition, there were no significant restrictions on the ability of associates or joint ventures to transfer funds to the Bank or its subsidiaries in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances made. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 244 Annual Report 2018 244 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements Strategic report 11.1 Investments in Subsidiaries and Other Entities (continued) The Group’s investments in associates and joint ventures are shown in the table below. Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Ownership Ownership Principal Country of Balance $M $M Interest % Interest % Activities Incorporation Date Performance Mortgage overview AHL Holdings Pty Limited (1) 288 80 Australia 30-Jun Broking Commercial Bank of Hangzhou Co., Ltd 1,680 1,412 18 18 China 31-Dec Banking BoCommLife Insurance Company 151 38 38 Insurance China 31-Dec Limited (2) First State European Diversified Funds 121 116 3 3 Luxembourg 31-Dec Infrastructure Fund FCP-SIF Management Qilu Bank Co., Ltd 638 445 18 20 Commercial China 31-Dec Corporate Banking Vietnam International Commercial Commercial governance 210 186 20 20 Vietnam 31-Dec Joint Stock Bank Banking Other 193 180 Various Various Various Various Various Carrying amount of investments in associates and 2,842 2,778 joint ventures (1) On 25 August 2017, the Group acquired the remaining 20% holding in AHL Holdings Pty Limited (trading as Aussie Home Loans) (AHL). Further information is Directors’ report set out in Note 11.4. In the prior period, the Group’s 80% interest in AHL (trading as Aussie Home Loans) was jointly controlled, as the key financial and operating decisions required the unanimous consent of all Directors. The Group’s maximum exposure to loss in relation to its investment was its carrying value, The total assets of Aussie Home Loans in 2017 were $292 million. (2) On 23 May 2018, the Group entered an agreement to dispose of its stake in BoCommLife. The investment of $401 million has been reclassified as held for sale subject to the completion of the sale. Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Share of Associates' and Joint Ventures profits (1) $M $M Operating profits before income tax 321 354 Financial Income tax expense (52) (81) report Operating profits after income tax (2) 269 273 (1) Excludes information concerning associates and joint ventures classified as held for sale. (2) This amount is recognised within Note 2.3 in the share of profits of associates and joint ventures net of impairment. Structured Entities Other A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control. Structured entities are generally created to achieve a narrow and well defined objective with restrictions around their ongoing activities. Depending on the Group’s power over the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own returns, it may consolidate the entity. information In other cases it may sponsor or have exposure to such an entity but not consolidate it. Consolidated Structured Entities The Group has the following contractual arrangements which require it to provide financial support to its structured entities. Securitisation Structured Entities The Group provides liquidity facilities to Medallion, Medallion NZ and Swan structured entities. The liquidity facilities can only be drawn to cover cash flow shortages relating to mismatches in timing of cash inflows due from securitised asset pools and cash outflows due to note holders. These ‘timing mismatch’ facilities rank pari passu with other senior secured creditors. The facilities limit is $857 million (2017: $773 million). The Group has no contractual obligations to purchase assets from its securitisation structured entities. Covered Bonds Trust The Group provides funding and support facilities to CBA Covered Bond Trust and ASB Covered Bond Trust (the ‘Trusts’). The Trusts are bankruptcy remote SPVs that guarantee any debt obligations owing under the US$30 billion CBA Covered Bond Programme and the EUR7 billion ASB Covered Bond Programme, respectively. The funding facilities allow the Trusts to hold sufficient residential mortgage loans to support the guarantees provided to the Covered Bonds. The Group also provides various swaps to the Trusts to hedge any interest rate and currency mismatches. The Group, either directly or via its wholly owned subsidiaries, Securitisation Advisory Services Pty Limited and Securitisation Management Services Limited, provides various services to the Trusts including servicing and monitoring of the residential mortgages. 245 245 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 11.1 Investments in Subsidiaries and Other Entities (continued) Consolidated Structured Entities (continued) Structured Asset Finance Structured Entities The Group has no contractual obligation to provide financial support to any of its Structured Asset Finance structured entities. During the year ended 30 June 2018, the Bank entered into a debt forgiveness arrangement with three wholly owned structured entities for the total of $17 million (2017: $11 million). The financial impact of the debt forgiveness was fully eliminated on consolidation. Unconsolidated Structured Entities The Group has exposure to various securitisation vehicles via Residential Mortgage-backed Securities (RMBS) and Asset-backed Securities (ABS). The Group may also provide derivatives and other commitments to these vehicles. The Group also has exposure to Investment Funds and other financing vehicles. Securitisations Securitisations involve transferring assets into an entity that sells beneficial interests to investors through the issue of debt and equity notes with varying levels of subordination. The notes are collateralised by the assets transferred to these vehicles and pay a return based on the returns of those assets, with residual returns paid to the most subordinated investor. The Group may trade or invest in RMBS and ABS which are backed by Commercial Properties, Consumer Receivables, Equipment and Auto Finance. The Group may also provide lending, derivatives, liquidity and commitments to these securitisation entities. Other Financing Asset-backed entities are used to provide tailored lending for the purchase or lease of assets transferred by the Group or its clients. The assets are normally pledged as collateral to the lenders. The Group engages in raising finance for assets such as aircraft, trains, vessels and other infrastructure. The Group may also provide lending, derivatives, liquidity and commitments to these entities. Investment Funds The Group conducts investment management and other fiduciary activities as responsible entity, trustee, custodian, advisor or manager for investment funds and trusts, including superannuation and approved deposit funds, wholesale and retail trusts. The Group’s exposure to Investment Funds includes holding units in the investment funds and trusts, providing lending facilities, derivatives and receiving fees for services. The nature and extent of the Group’s interests in these entities are summarised below. Interests do not include plain vanilla derivatives (e.g. interest rate swaps and currency swaps) and positions where the Group creates rather than absorbs variability of the Structured Entity, for example deposits. These have been excluded from the below table. 30 Jun 18 Other Investment RMBS ABS Financing Funds Total Exposures to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M $M Assets at fair value through income statement trading 22 43 65 Available-for-sale investments 7,233 652 224 8,109 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 3,056 1,576 2,892 8,089 15,613 Other assets 401 401 Assets held for sale 824 824 Total on Balance Sheet exposures 10,311 2,228 2,892 9,581 25,012 Total notional amounts of off Balance Sheet exposures (1) 2,027 674 454 4,302 7,457 Total maximum exposure to loss 12,338 2,902 3,346 13,883 32,469 Total assets of the entities (2) 52,230 9,869 12,032 332,443 406,574 (1) Relates to undrawn facilities. (2) Size of the entities is generally the total assets of the entities, except for Real Estate Investment Trusts where the size is based on the Group’s credit exposure of $9.7 billion. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 246 Annual Report 2018 246 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements Strategic report 11.1 Investments in Subsidiaries and Other Entities (continued) Unconsolidated Structured Entities (continued) 30 Jun 17 Other Investment Performance RMBS ABS Financing Funds Total Exposures to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M $M overview Assets at fair value through income statement trading 10 828 838 Available-for-sale investments 6,824 701 212 7,737 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 2,573 1,589 2,589 7,410 14,161 Other assets (1) 419 419 Total on Balance Sheet exposures 9,407 2,290 2,589 8,869 23,155 Total notional amounts of off Balance Sheet exposures (2) 1,348 1,658 668 5,837 9,511 Corporate Total maximum exposure to loss 10,755 3,948 3,257 14,706 32,666 governance Total assets of the entities (3) 62,805 19,017 9,736 325,941 417,499 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current period. (2) Relates to undrawn facilities (3) Size of the entities is generally the total assets of the entities, except for Real Estate Investment Trusts where the size is based on the Group’s credit exposure of $10.7 billion. Directors’ report The Group’s exposure to loss depends on the level of subordination of the interest which indicates the extent to which other parties are obliged to absorb credit losses before the Group. An overview of the Group’s interests, relative ranking and external credit rating, for vehicles that have credit subordination in place, is summarised in the table below, and include securitisation vehicles and other financing. 30 Jun 18 Other Ranking and credit rating of exposures RMBS ABS Financing Total to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M Financial Senior (1) 12,254 2,902 3,346 18,502 report Mezzanine (2) 84 84 Total maximum exposure to loss 12,338 2,902 3,346 18,586 (1) All ABS exposures, $12,240 million of RMBS exposures and $1,647 million of other financing exposures are rated investment grade. $14 million of RMBS and $1,699 million of other financing exposures are sub-investment grade. (2) All RMBS and ABS exposures are rated investment grade. Other information 30 Jun 17 Other Ranking and credit rating of exposures RMBS ABS Financing Total to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M Senior (1) 10,727 3,936 3,257 17,920 Mezzanine (2) 13 12 25 Subordinated (3) 15 15 Total maximum exposure to loss 10,755 3,948 3,257 17,960 (1) All RMBS and ABS exposures, and $1,776 million of other financing exposures are rated investment grade, $1,481 million of other financing exposures are subinvestment grade. (2) All RMBS and ABS exposures are rated investment grade. (3) All exposures are rated sub-investment grade. 247 247 Financial Notes to the report financial statements 3Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 11.1 Investments in Subsidiaries and Other Entities (continued) Unconsolidated Structured Entities (continued) Sponsored Unconsolidated Structured Entities For the purposes of this disclosure, the Group sponsors an entity when it manages or advises the entity’s program, places securities into the market on behalf of the entity, provides liquidity and/or credit enhancements to the entity, or the Group’s name appears in the Structured Entity. As at 30 June 2018, the Group has not sponsored any unconsolidated structured entities. Accounting Policy Subsidiaries The consolidated financial report comprises the financial report of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities (including structured entities) over which the Bank has control. The Bank controls an entity when it has:  power over the relevant activities of the entity, for example through voting or other rights;  exposure to, or rights to, variable returns from the Bank’s involvement with the entity; and  the ability to use its power over the entity to affect the Bank’s returns from the entity. Consolidation of Structured Entities The Group exercises judgement at inception and periodically thereafter, to assess whether that structured entity should be consolidated based on the Bank’s power over the relevant activities of the entity and the significance of its exposure to variable returns of the structured entity. Such assessments are predominately required for the Group’s securitisation program, structured transactions and involvement with investment funds. Transactions between subsidiaries in the Group are eliminated. Non-controlling interests and the related share of profits in subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, and Balance Sheet. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and de-consolidated when control ceases. Subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less accumulated impairments at the Bank level. Business Combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. At the acquisition date, the cost of the business is the fair value of the purchase consideration, measured as the aggregate of the fair values of assets transferred, equity instruments issued, or liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the Group’s share of assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of acquisition. If there is a deficit instead, this discount on acquisition is recognised directly in the consolidated Income Statement, but only after a reassessment of the identification and measurement of the net assets acquired. Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Associates and joint ventures are entities over which the Group has significant influence or joint control, but not control. In the consolidated financial report, they are equity accounted. They are initially recorded at cost and adjusted for the Group’s share of the associates’ and joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses and other comprehensive income (OCI), less any dividends received. At the Bank level, they are accounted for at cost less accumulated impairments. The Group assesses, at each Balance Sheet date, whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. The main indicators of impairment are as for equity securities classified as available-for-sale (Note 5.5). If there is an indication that an investment may be impaired, then the entire carrying amount of the investment in associate or joint venture is tested for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less disposal costs) with the carrying amount. Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement are subsequently reversed through the Income Statement if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 248 Annual Report 2018 248 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 11.2 Related Party Disclosures A number of banking transactions are entered into with related parties in the normal course of business on an arm’s length basis. These include loans, deposits and foreign currency transactions, upon which some fees and commissions may be earned. Details of amounts paid or received from related parties, in the form of dividends or interest, are set out in Note 8.4 and 2.1. The Bank’s aggregate investments in, and loans to controlled entities are disclosed in the table below. Amounts due to controlled entities are disclosed in the Balance Sheet of the Bank. Performance overview Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M Shares in controlled entities 11,821 10,572 Loans to controlled entities 106,431 90,765 Corporate Total shares in and loans to controlled entities 118,252 101,337 governance The Group also receives fees on an arm’s length basis of $118 million (2017: $53 million) from funds classified as associates. The Bank provides letters of comfort to other entities within the Group on standard terms. Guarantees include a $175 million (2017: $50 million) guarantee to AFS license holders in respect of excess compensation claims. The Bank is the head entity of the tax consolidated group and has entered into tax funding and tax sharing agreements with its eligible Australian resident subsidiaries. The terms and conditions of these agreements are set out in Note 2.5. The amount receivable by the Bank under the tax funding agreement with the tax consolidated entities is $283 million as at 30 June 2018 (2017: $302 million receivable). Directors’ report This balance is included in ‘Other assets’ in the Bank’s separate Balance Sheet. All transactions between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation. Accounting Policy Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operational decisions, or a separate party controls both. The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, pension plans as well as other persons. Financial report 11.3 Discontinued Operations and Operations under Strategic Review Discontinued Operations During the 2018 financial year the Group announced the sale of 100% of its life insurance businesses in Australia (CommInsure Life) and New Zealand (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA) for $3.8 billion. The sale agreement includes a 20-year partnership with AIA for the provision of life insurance products to customers in Australia and New Other Zealand. The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July 2018, resulting in a total post tax gain of $102 million (inclusive of separation costs and subject to final tax calculations and purchase price adjustments). This has also been reported as a subsequent event. information The sale of CommInsure Life remains subject to certain conditions and regulatory approvals, and is expected to be completed later in calendar year 2018. On 23 May 2018 CBA announced the sale of its 37.5% equity interest in BoComm Life Insurance Company Limited (BoComm Life) to Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd (MSI). Completion of the sale is subject to regulatory approvals in China, and is a condition precedent to completion of the CommInsure Life sale. The Group is currently exploring options for the most suitable long-term structure for TymeDigital with African Rainbow Capital, a minority shareholder in TymeDigital. CommInsure Life currently forms part of the Wealth Management segment, Sovereign forms part of the New Zealand segment while BoComm Life and TymeDigital form part of the IFS and Other segment. All are discontinued operations within each segment. The comparative Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income of the Group have been restated to disclose discontinued operations separately from continuing operations. 249 249 Financial Notes to the report financial statements 3Financial Notes to the report financial statements 11.3 Discontinued Operations and Operations under Strategic Review Operations under Strategic Review On 25 June 2018, CBA announced its intention to demerge its wealth management and mortgage broking businesses, and will undertake a strategic review of its general insurance business, including a potential sale. The demerged business (NewCo) will include Colonial First State, Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM), Count Financial, Financial Wisdom and Aussie Home Loans (AHL) and the Group’s minority interests in Mortgage Choice and Countplus. The implementation of the demerger is subject to final CBA Board, shareholder and regulatory approvals under a scheme of arrangement. If approved, the demerger is expected to be implemented in calendar year 2019. Due to the uncertain timing of the completion of the demerger, NewCo is included in continuing operations. Financial Impact of Discontinued Operations on the Group The performance and net cash flows of the Group’s interest in CommInsure Life, Sovereign, BoComm Life and TymeDigital are set out in the tables below. The balance sheet of the Group’s interest in CommInsure Life, Sovereign and BoComm Life are set out in the table on page 251. TymeDigital is a discontinued operation but has not been classified as held for sale. Full Year Ended (1) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 $M $M $M Net interest income 1 (9) (2) Other banking income 15 17 13 Net banking operating income 16 8 11 Net funds management operating income 109 123 145 Net insurance operating income 676 604 805 Net operating income before operating expenses 801 735 961 Operating expenses (2) (554) (456) (477) Net profit before tax 247 279 484 Corporate tax expense (98) (81) (105) Policyholder tax (59) (32) (101) Net profit after tax and before transaction and separation costs 90 166 278 Transaction and separation costs (136) Non-controlling interests (4) Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations attributable to equity (46) 162 278 holders of the Bank (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current period. (2) Includes impairment due to the reclassification of TymeDigital as a discontinued operation. Full Year Ended (1) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 $M $M $M Net cash used in operating activities (801) (1,132) (759) Net cash from investing activities 862 1,205 1,060 Net cash used in financing activities (82) (6) (287) Net cash inflows/(outflows) from discontinued operations (21) 67 14 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current period. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 250 Annual Report 2018 250 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report financial statements Strategic report 11.3 Discontinued Operations and Operations under Strategic Review (continued) Discontinued Operations As at (1) 30 June 18 Assets held for sale $M Cash and liquid assets 108 Performance overview Insurance assets at fair value through Income Statement 11,867 Intangible assets 1,372 Property, plant and equipment 1,225 Investment in associates and joint ventures 401 Other assets 653 Total assets (2) 15,626 Corporate Liabilities held for sale governance Insurance policy liabilities 11,188 Deferred tax liabilities 763 Deposits and other public borrowings 871 Managed funds units on issue 1,698 380 Directors’ Other liabilities Total liabilities 14,900 report (1) Intragroup balances have been eliminated; however will impact the final gain/loss on disposal of the discontinued operations. (2) Excludes businesses or assets that are held for sale, which do not form part of the Group’s discontinued operations. 11.4 Acquisition of Controlled Entities On 25 August 2017, the Group acquired the remaining 20% of the issued share capital of AHL Holdings Pty Limited (“AHL”) for $164 million purchase consideration in the form of CBA shares. Following acquisition of the remaining 20% issued share capital of AHL, the Group Financial report controls and consolidates AHL. AHL is the parent of the “Aussie” group of entities. Aussie predominantly operates as a mortgage broker and originator. On 23 February 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of eChoice’s operating assets and intellectual property for $5 million. The fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed as at the acquisition date for both AHL and eChoice are as follows: Other Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 $M $M $M information Net identifiable assets at fair value (1) 55 16 553 Add: Goodwill 446 16 304 Less: Fair value of previously held interests (2) (332) Purchase consideration 169 32 857 Less: Cash and cash equivalents acquired (31) (1) Less: Non-cash consideration (164) Net cash (inflow)/outflow on acquisition for cash flow statement (3) (26) 31 857 (1) This balance includes $67 million of acquired intangible assets in the form of Aussie customer-broker relationships and the Aussie Brand name, $19 million of deferred tax liabilities relating to intangible assets, $4 million of software related to eChoice and $7 million of tangible assets related to Aussie. The Aussie Brand has an indefinite useful life. The carrying value of all acquired net tangible assets approximate their fair values. (2) As a result of remeasuring its equity interest in AHL to fair value, the Group recognised a gain of $58 million calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the 80% investment ($274 million) and the fair value ($332 million) of this previously held interest. (3) For the purpose of the statements of cash flow, presentation of cash inflows will be positive and outflows negative. 251 251 Financial Notes to the report financial statements 3Financial Notes to the report financial statements 12. Other Information Overview This section includes other information about the Group’s operations that is disclosed to provide a more complete view of our business. It includes customer related commitments and contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of business through certain lending arrangements. In addition, it covers the impact of adopting new accounting standards, notes to the statement of cash flows, lease commitments and remuneration of auditors. Finally, details of events that have taken place subsequent to the balance sheet date are provided. 12.1 Contingent Liabilities, Contingent Assets and Commitments arising from the banking business Details of contingent liabilities and off Balance Sheet instruments are presented below and in Note 7.1 Other Provisions-Litigations, investigations and reviews. The face (contract) value represents the maximum potential amount that could be lost if the counterparty fails to meet its financial obligations. The credit equivalent amounts are a measure of potential loss to the Group in the event of non-performance by the counterparty. The credit commitments shown in the table below also constitute contingent assets. These commitments would be classified as loans and other assets in the Balance Sheet should they be drawn upon by the customer. Group Face Credit Value Equivalent 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Credit risk related instruments $M $M $M $M Guarantees 6,265 7,424 5,185 7,424 Documentary letters of credit 761 1,183 753 1,168 Performance related contingents 4,610 2,133 2,531 2,127 Commitments to provide credit 162,090 173,555 157,636 167,205 Other commitments 1,470 837 1,470 835 Total credit risk related instruments 175,196 185,132 167,575 178,759 Bank Face Credit Value Equivalent 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Credit risk related instruments $M $M $M $M Guarantees 5,835 7,037 4,754 7,037 Documentary letters of credit 720 1,098 715 1,086 Performance related contingents 4,593 2,133 2,514 2,127 Commitments to provide credit 147,098 158,567 144,102 153,638 Other commitments 1,360 713 1,360 711 Total credit risk related instruments 159,606 169,548 153,445 164,599 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 252 Annual Report 2018 252 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements Strategic report 12.1 Contingent Liabilities, Contingent Assets and Commitments arising from the banking business (continued) Accounting Policy Credit default financial guarantees are unconditional undertakings given to support the obligations of a customer to third parties. Other Performance forms of financial guarantees include documentary letters of credit which are undertakings by the Group to pay or accept drafts drawn by a supplier of goods against presentation of documents in the event of payment default by a customer. Financial guarantees are overview recognised within other liabilities and initially measured at fair value, being the premium received. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group’s liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation recognised in the Income Statement, and the best estimate of expenditure required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantee. Any increase in the liability relating to financial guarantees is recorded in the Income Statement. The premium received is recognised in the Income Statement in other operating income on a straight line basis over the life of the guarantee. Corporate Performance related contingents are undertakings that oblige the Group to pay third parties should a customer fail to fulfil a contractual non-monetary obligation. Performance related contingents are performance guarantees and do not meet the definition of a financial guarantee, because they do not transfer credit risk. Performance guarantees are recognised when it is probable that an obligation has governance arisen. The amount of any provision is the best estimate of the amount required to fulfil the obligation. Commitments to provide credit include all obligations on the part of the Group to provide credit facilities (unutilised credit lines or undrawn portions of credit lines) against which clients can borrow money under defined terms and conditions. As facilities may expire without being drawn upon, the notional amounts do not necessarily reflect future cash requirements. Loan commitments that are cancellable by the Group are not recognised on the Balance Sheet. Upon a loan drawdown by the counterparty, the amount of the loan is accounted Directors’ for in accordance with accounting policies for loans and receivables. Irrevocable loan commitments are not recorded in the Balance Sheet, but a provision is recognised if it is probable that a loss has been incurred and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Other commitments to provide credit include commitments with certain drawdowns, standby letters of credit and bill endorsements. report 12.2 Lease Commitments Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Financial $M $M $M $M report Lease Commitments Property, Plant and Equipment Due within one year 681 662 619 603 Due after one year but not later than five years 1,764 1,826 1,593 1,641 Due after five years 1,811 2,160 1,658 1,951 Total lease commitments property, plant and equipment 4,256 4,648 3,870 4,195 Other Lease Arrangements Operating leases are entered into to meet the business needs of entities in the Group. Leases are primarily over commercial and retail information premises and plant and equipment. Lease rentals are determined in accordance with market conditions when leases are entered into or on rental review dates. The total expected future sublease payments to be received are $88 million as at 30 June 2018 (2017: $99 million). 253 253 Financial Notes to the report financial statements 3Financial Notes to the report financial statements 12.3 Notes to the Statements of Cash Flows (a) Reconciliation of Net Profit after Income Tax to Net Cash provided by/ (used in) Operating Activities Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Net profit after income tax 9,348 9,952 9,243 8,875 8,979 Increase in interest receivable (62) (14) (148) (17) 21 Increase/(decrease) in interest payable 112 (26) (312) 243 (5) Net decrease/(increase) in assets at fair value through 1,536 2,788 (8,538) 2,079 3,372 Income Statement (excluding life insurance) Net loss/(gain) on sale of controlled entities and 184 (2) 172 associates Net movement in derivative assets/liabilities 3,381 (492) 5,988 4,830 (3,509) Net loss/(gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment 17 (6) 21 17 3 Equity accounting profit (287) (292) (289) 7 Loan impairment expense 1,079 1,095 1,256 963 1,040 Depreciation and amortisation (including asset 968 1,229 857 777 1,035 write downs) (Decrease)/increase in liabilities at fair value through (258) 121 1,651 (41) 1,550 Income Statement (excluding life insurance) Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 156 114 (78) 205 113 (Decrease)/increase in income taxes payable (461) 603 486 (484) 570 Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities 400 (14) (162) (Increase)/decrease in deferred tax assets (538) (573) 66 (106) (587) Decrease/(increase) in accrued fees/reimbursements 20 (238) 137 (68) 20 receivable Increase/(decrease) in accrued fees and other items 631 18 (150) 801 (62) payable Decrease in life insurance contract policy liabilities (836) (1,240) (991) Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness (4) (20) 5 4 3 (Gain)/loss on changes in fair value of hedged items (765) 799 (642) (763) 1,829 Dividend received controlled entities (2,085) (1,200) Changes in operating assets and liabilities arising from (15,461) (15,228) (13,640) (15,771) (14,907) cash flow movements Other 1,949 619 679 1,953 552 Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 1,109 (807) (4,561) 1,591 (1,183) (b) Reconciliation of Cash For the purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, cash includes cash and money at short call. Group Bank 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M $M $M Notes, coins and cash at banks 17,110 14,836 12,103 15,586 12,782 Other short-term liquid assets 5,895 8,281 2,344 5,765 8,167 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 23,005 23,117 14,447 21,351 20,949 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 254 254 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 12.3 Notes to the Statements of Cash Flows (continued) (c) Non-cash Financing and Investing Activities Group 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Performance $M $M $M Shares issued under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan 2,105 1,143 1,209 overview 12.4 Remuneration of Auditors During the financial year, the following fees were paid or payable for services provided by the auditor of the Group and the Bank, and its network firms: Group Bank Corporate 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 governance a) Audit and audit related services Audit services PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 21,292 16,643 14,040 10,758 Network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 5,939 5,167 1,027 705 Total remuneration for audit services 27,231 21,810 15,067 11,463 Directors’ Audit related services PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 4,416 5,765 3,736 4,952 report Network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 2,133 981 145 178 Total remuneration for audit related services 6,549 6,746 3,881 5,130 Total remuneration for audit and audit related services 33,780 28,556 18,948 16,593 b) Non-audit services Financial Taxation services report PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 757 617 561 197 Network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 1,508 1,601 481 834 Total remuneration for tax related services 2,265 2,218 1,042 1,031 Other Services Other PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 10,955 4,347 10,933 4,300 Network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 66 534 information Total remuneration for other services 11,021 4,881 10,933 4,300 Total remuneration for non-audit services 13,286 7,099 11,975 5,331 Total remuneration for audit and non-audit services (1) 47,066 35,655 30,923 21,924 (1) An additional amount of $11,850,256 (2017: $10,728,963) was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers by way of fees for entities not consolidated into the Financial Statements. Of this amount, $8,093,111 (2017: $8,401,175) relates to audit and audit-related services. The Audit Committee has considered the non-audit services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers and is satisfied that the services and the level of fees are compatible with maintaining auditors’ independence. All such services were approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with pre-approved policies and procedures. Audit related services principally includes assurance and attestation reviews relating to comfort levels over financing programmes, reviews of systems and processes as well as reviews of internal controls reports. Taxation services included the assistance with tax returns and submissions, and advice regarding Australian/foreign tax legislation. Other services include benchmarking and process reviews on the Bank’s response to APRA and the Royal Commission as well as IT security assessments. 255 255 Financial Notes to the report financial statements 3Financial Notes to the report financial statements 12.5 New accounting standards adopted on 1 July 2018 AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ In December 2014, the AASB issued the Australian Accounting  Stage 3 – Lifetime ECL – Non-performing Standard AASB 9 ’Financial Instruments’ which has replaced Credit impaired financial assets recognise an impairment AASB 139 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and provision equivalent to lifetime expected credit losses. Measurement'. The standard covers three broad topics: Financial assets in stage 1 and stage 2 are assessed for Impairment, Classification and Measurement and Hedging. impairment collectively, whilst those in stage 3 are subjected to The Group adopted AASB 9 Classification and Measurement either collective or individual impairment assessment. and Impairment requirements on 1 July 2018. The Group has Interest revenue is recognised on gross carrying amounts for currently elected an accounting policy choice in AASB 9 to financial assets in Stage 1 and Stage 2, and gross carrying retain AASB 139 hedge accounting requirements. The Group value net of impairment provisions for financial assets in Stage can commence applying IFRS 9 hedging at the beginning of any 3. reporting period in the future. This choice is available until the The ECL model applies to all financial assets measured at amended standard resulting from IASB’s project on macro amortised cost, debt securities measured at fair value through hedging is effective at which point IFRS 9 hedging requirements OCI, lease receivables, loan commitments and financial will become mandatory. guarantee contracts not measured at fair value through Income AASB 9 Classification and Measurement and Impairment Statement. requirements have been applied on a retrospective basis. The Group has adjusted the carrying amounts of financial Significant increase in credit risk (‘SICR’) instruments resulting from adoption of AASB 9 through opening SICR is assessed by comparing the risk of default occurring retained earnings and reserves on 1 July 2018 as if it has always over the expected life of the financial asset at reporting date to applied the new requirements. As permitted by AASB 9, the the corresponding risk of default at origination. The Group Group will not restate the prior period comparative financial considers all available qualitative and quantitative information statements. that is relevant to assessing SICR. The key changes to the Group’s accounting policies and the For non-retail portfolios, such as the corporate risk rated impacts resulting from the adoption of AASB 9 are described portfolio and the asset finance portfolio, the risk of default is below. defined using the existing Risk Rated Probability of Default (PD) Masterscale. The PD Masterscale is used in internal credit risk Impairment management and includes 23 risk grades that are assigned at AASB 9 introduced an expected credit loss (‘ECL’) impairment a customer level using rating tools reflecting customer specific model which differs significantly from the incurred loss approach financial and non-financial information and management under AASB 139. The ECL model is forward looking and does experienced credit judgement. Internal credit risk ratings are not require evidence of an actual loss event for impairment updated regularly on the basis of the most recent financial and provisions to be recognised. non-financial information. The implementation of AASB 9 required management to make The Group has developed a Retail Masterscale for use in the a number of judgements and assumptions and has had a ECL measurement on personal loans, credit cards, home loan significant impact on the Group’s impairment methodology. A and SME retail portfolios. The Retail Masterscale has 15 risk description of the key components of the Group’s AASB 9 grades that are assigned to retail accounts based on their credit impairment methodology is provided below. quality scores determined through a credit quality scorecard. Expected credit loss (‘ECL’) model Risk grades for retail exposures are updated monthly as credit quality scorecards are recalculated based on the new The ECL model uses a three-stage approach to ECL behavioural information. recognition. Financial assets migrate through these stages based on changes in credit risk since origination: For significant portfolios, the primary indicator of SICR is a significant deterioration in an exposure’s internal credit rating  Stage 1 – 12 months ECL – Performing loans grade between origination and reporting date. Application of the On origination financial assets recognise an impairment primary SICR indicator uses a sliding threshold such that an provision equivalent to 12 month’s ECL. 12 month’s ECL is exposure with a higher credit quality at origination would need the credit losses expected to arise from defaults occurring to experience a more significant downgrade compared to a over the next 12 months. lower credit quality exposures before SICR is triggered. The  Stage 2 – Lifetime ECL – Performing loans that have levels of downgrade required to trigger SICR for each experienced a significant increase in credit risk (‘SICR’) origination grade have been defined for each significant Financial assets that have experienced a SICR since portfolio. origination are transferred to Stage 2 and recognise an The Group also uses the following secondary SICR indicators impairment provision equivalent to lifetime ECL. Lifetime as backstops in combination with the primary SICR indicator: ECL is the credit losses expected to arise from defaults  30 days past due arrears information; occurring over the remaining life of financial assets. If credit  A retail exposure entering a financial hardship status; quality improves in a subsequent period such that the increase in credit risk since origination is no longer  A non-retail exposure referral to Group Credit Structuring. considered significant the exposure is reclassified to Stage 1 and the impairment provision reverts to 12 month’s ECL. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 256 Annual Report 2018 256 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 12.5 New accounting standards adopted on 1 July 2018 (continued) AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (continued) simplified provisioning approaches that differ from the Significant increase in credit risk (‘SICR’) (continued) description below. 30 days past due is used as a primary Performance For a number of small portfolios which are not considered indicator of SICR on exposures in these portfolios. significant individually or in combination the Group applies overview Definition of default, credit impaired assets and writethese exposures are calculated directly as the difference offs between the defaulted asset’s carrying value and the present The definition of default used in measuring ECL is aligned to the value of expected future cash flows including cash flows from definition used for internal credit risk management purposes realisation of collateral, where applicable. across all portfolios. This definition is also in line with the Forward-looking information regulatory definition of default. Default occurs when there are Credit risk factors of PD and LGD used in ECL calculation are Corporate indicators that a debtor is unlikely to meet contractual credit point-in-time estimates based on current conditions and obligations to the Group in full, or the exposure is 90 days past adjusted to include the impact of multiple probability-weighted governance due. future forecast economic scenarios. Financial assets, including those that are well secured, are The Group uses the following four alternative macro-economic considered credit impaired when they default. Loans are writtenscenarios to reflect an unbiased probability-weighted range of off when there is no realistic probability of recovery which is possible future outcomes in estimating ECL: consistent with the Group’s write-off policy under AASB 139.  Central scenario: This scenario reflects the Group’s base ECL Measurement case assumptions used in business planning and Directors’ ECL is a probability weighted expected credit loss estimated by forecasting; evaluating a range of possible outcomes and taking into account Upside and Downside scenarios: These scenarios are set report  the time value of money, past events, current conditions and relative to the central scenario based on reasonably forecasts of future economic conditions. possible alternative macro-economic conditions. The The Group uses the following AASB 9 collective provisioning upside and downside scenarios reflect macro-economic models in calculating ECL: conditions that generate the lowest and highest  Retail lending: Personal Loans model, Credit Cards impairment losses for a particular portfolio over an model, Home Loans model; Retail SME model. approximate 10 year economic cycle, respectively. Financial  Non-retail lending: Corporate Risk rated model, Asset  Severe Downside scenario: This scenario has been included to account for a potentially severe impact of less report Finance model. likely extremely adverse economic conditions. It reflects For each significant portfolio ECL is calculated as a product of macro-economic conditions that generate the highest the following credit risk factors at a facility level: impairment losses for a particular portfolio over a longer  Probability of default (PD): The likelihood that a debtor will horizon such as a 30 year economic cycle. be unable to pay its obligations in full without having to Forward looking PD and LGD factors are modelled for each take actions such as realising on security or that the significant portfolio based on macro-economic factors that are debtor will become 90 days overdue on obligation or most closely correlated with credit losses in the relevant Other contractual commitment; portfolios. Each of the four scenarios includes a forecast of  Exposure at default (EAD): Expected balance sheet information relevant macro-economic variables which differ by portfolio: exposure at default. The Group generally calculates EAD  Retail portfolios: Cash rate, unemployment rate, GDP per as the higher of the drawn balance and total credit limit, capita and House price index. except for the credit cards portfolio, for which EAD calculation also takes into account the probability of  Non-retail lending: Unemployment rate, business unused limits being drawn down; and investment index, ASX 200 and the AUD/ USD exchange rate.  Loss given default (LGD): The amount that is not New Zealand equivalents of the above macro-economic expected to be recovered following default. variables are used for credit exposures originated in New Secured retail exposures with expected loss in excess of Zealand. $20,000 and defaulted non-retail exposures that are not well secured are assessed for impairment through an Individually Assessed Provisions (‘IAP’) process. Impairment provisions on 257 257 Financial Notes to the report financial statements 3Financial Notes to the report Financial Statements 12.5 New accounting standards adopted on 1 July 2018 (continued) AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (continued) Governance Forward-looking information (continued) The Group’s Loan Loss Provisioning Committee (LLPC) is The four scenarios are probability weighted according to responsible for approving forecast economic scenarios and their management’s best estimate of their relative likelihood based associated probability weights. In addition, LLPC is responsible on historical frequency, current trends and conditions. The for approving all model adjustments including those required to same future forecast scenarios and probability weights apply account for situations where all relevant information has not across all portfolios. been considered in the modelling process. The Group’s assessment of SICR also incorporates the impact The Group’s loan loss provisions, loan impairment expense and of multiple probability-weighted future forecast economic any areas of judgement are reported to the Group’s Board Audit scenarios on exposures’ internal risk grades using the same Committee. four forecast macro-economic scenarios as described above. In estimating impairment provisions on individually significant Classification and Measurement defaulted exposures, the Group generally applies conservative Under AASB 9 the Group is required to differentiate between assumptions in estimating recovery cash flows. Incorporating financial asset debt instruments and financial asset equity multiple forecast economic scenarios in estimates is not instruments, as follows: expected to significantly effect the level of impairment Financial assetsdebt instruments provisions on these credit exposures. There are three classification models for financial asset debt Lifetime of an exposure instruments under AASB 9: For exposures in Stage 2 impairment provisions are determined  Amortised Cost: Financial assets with contractual cash as a lifetime expected loss. The Group used a range of flows that comprise the payment of principal and interest approaches to estimate expected lives of financial instruments only and which are held in a business model whose subject to ECL requirements: objective is to collect their cash flows are measured at  Non-revolving products in corporate portfolios: Expected amortised cost; life is determined as a maximum contractual period over  Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI): which the Group is exposed to credit risk; Financial assets with contractual cash flows that comprise  Non-revolving retail products: For fixed term products the payment of principal and interest only and which are such as personal loans and home loans, expected life is held in a business model whose objective is to both collect determined using behavioural term analysis and does not their cash flows and sell them are measured at FVOCI; exceed the maximum contractual period; and and  Revolving products in corporate and retail portfolios: For  Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL): Other financial revolving products that include both a loan and an assets are measured at FVTPL. undrawn commitment such as, credit cards and Financial assets equity instruments corporate lines of credit, the Group’s contractual ability Similar to AASB 139, AASB 9 requires equity instruments to be to cancel the undrawn limits and demand repayments measured at FVTPL but permits non-traded equity investments does not limit the exposure to credit losses to the to be designated at FVOCI on an instrument by instrument contractual notice period. For such products, ECL is basis. Unlike AASB 139, should this election be made under measured over the behavioural life. AASB 9, gains or losses are not reclassified from other Incorporation of experienced credit judgement comprehensive income to profit or loss on disposal of the Management exercises credit judgement in assessing if an investment. However, the gains or losses may be reclassified exposure has experienced SICR and in determining the amount within equity. of impairment provisions at each reporting date. Where Financial liabilities applicable, model adjustments are made to incorporate The Group adopted the AASB 9 requirement to recognise reasonable and supportable information about known or changes in the fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair expected risks that have not been considered in the modelling value through the Income Statement that are attributable to process. This includes but is not limited to information about changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income on 1 emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a January 2014. There were no other changes to the particular portfolio segment level. classification and measurement of financial liabilities as a result of adoption of AASB 9. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 258 258 Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 12.5 New accounting standards adopted on 1 July 2018 (continued) Hedging Where there is variable consideration in calculating a The Group has currently elected the accounting policy choice to transaction price, revenue will only be recognised if it is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal will not Performance continue applying hedge accounting under AASB 139. The Group can commence applying IFRS 9 hedging at the beginning subsequently occur. AASB 15 applies to contracts with customers except for revenue arising from items such as overview of any reporting period in the future. financial instruments, insurance contracts and leases. AASB 9 Implementation Program The Group has used the modified retrospective approach in In November 2015 the Group established AASB 9 Program (the adopting AASB 15 which recognises the cumulative effect of “Program”) to ensure a high quality implementation of AASB 9. initial application through opening retained earnings as at 1 July The Program is jointly owned by Finance and Risk with a 2018. The Group will not restate the comparative period steering committee comprising senior management to provide financial statements. The modified retrospective approach Corporate oversight. Progress on each of the areas during the financial applied to contracts not completed at 30 June 2018. year ended 30 June 2018 is set out below: The significant changes to the Group as a result of adopting Impairment AASB 15 are: governance The Group has developed and tested AASB 9 models to  Trail commissions: Certain trail commission income and address all material portfolios. All the models have been expenses that were previously recognised over time by independently validated and approved by the Group’s LLPC and the Group, will be recognised at the start of a contract the Group Board Audit Committee. Prior to adoption on 1 July when the performance obligation has been provided. This 2018, the Group completed parallel runs of the models which will result in the Group recognising the net present value included testing, calibration and analysis of models, processes of expected future trail commission income and Directors’ expenses. For investment referral services, the Group is report and outputs. The Group is in the process of implementing changes required to finance systems and controls to ensure unable to forecast the trail commission revenue in line compliance with the disclosure requirements introduced by with the highly probable test in AASB 15. Therefore trail AASB 9. commission revenue and expenses on investment referral balances will be recognised when received or Classification and Measurement paid; and The Group has completed the accounting analysis of the  Upfront fees: Certain fees in relation to lending, lease and Group’s financial assets and implemented changes to finance guarantees arrangements are no longer recognised systems and controls required to ensure financial asset Financial upfront but when the performance obligation to the measurement and presentation is compliant with external customer is delivered, which is generally over the life of report reporting requirements. these contractual arrangements. Where the performance obligation is the Group providing a loan, lease AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ arrangement or guarantee over a contractual period, The Group has adopted AASB 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with these fees previously recognised upfront will be amortised Customers’ from 1 July 2018, replacing the previous standard, over the expected life of the contracts. This will also result AASB 118 ‘Revenue’. Under AASB 118 revenue is recognised in a reclassification from other banking income to interest Other when risks and rewards have transferred from the seller to the income. buyer. AASB 15 has introduced a single, principle-based information fivestep recognition and measurement model for revenue Impacts of adopting AASB 9 and AASB 15 recognition. The five steps are: The following table summarises the adjustments arising on 1. Identify the contract with a customer; adoption of the new accounting standards. The adjustments 2. Identify the separate performance obligations; have been recognised against the Group’s opening retained 3. Determine the transaction price; profits and reserves as at 1 July 2018. 4. Allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation identified in Step 2; and 5. Recognise revenue when a performance obligation is satisfied. 259 259 260 Financial Notes to the report financial statements 3 Financial Notes to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia report Financial Statements 12.5 New accounting standards adopted on 1 July 2018 (continued) Impacts of adopting AASB 9 and AASB 15 Annual Report 2018 Group AASB 9 AASB 9 Classification and Measurement AASB 15 Revenue Impairment High Quality Loans with NZD NZD Liquid Non-Traded Liquid Assets Embedded Certificates Trail Upfront Assets Equities 30 Jun 18 (HQLAs) Features of Deposit Commission Fees 1 Jul 18 Assets $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Assets at fair value through Income Statement 32,884 (2,148) 235 65 31,036 Derivative assets 32,133 (56) 32,077 Available-for-sale investments 82,240 (78,145) (3,797) (298) Investment securities At amortised cost 7,121 7,121 At fair value through OCI 71,020 5,945 63 77,028 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 743,365 (10) (968) (156) 742,231 Intangible assets 9,023 (72) 8,951 Deferred tax assets 1,439 1 320 64 72 1,896 Other assets 6,991 (10) 351 (3) 7,329 Other financial and non-financial assets 67,090 67,090 Total assets 975,165 (3) (1) (658) 343 (87) 974,759 Liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings 622,234 1,141 623,375 Liabilities at fair value through Income 10,247 (1,141) 9,106 Statement Derivative liabilities 28,472 (1) 28,471 Deferred tax liabilities 104 (1) 103 Other provisions 1,889 87 1,976 Bills payable and other liabilities 11,596 214 123 11,933 Other financial and non-financial liabilities 232,867 232,867 Total liabilities 907,305 (1) 87 318 122 907,831 Shareholders' Equity Share capital 37,270 37,270 Reserves 1,676 (3) 3 1,676 Retained profits 28,360 (748) 25 (209) 27,428 Non-controlling interest 554 554 Total Shareholders' equity 67,860 (3) (745) 25 (209) 66,928 Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report Financial Statements report 12.5 New accounting standards adopted on 1 July 2018 (continued) AASB 9 Classification and Measurement High quality liquid assets (‘HQLA’): under AASB 139, $78,145 million of the Group’s HQLA were included in Available-for-Sale investments. $7,121 million of HQLA previously included in Available-for-Sale assets are held within the business model held to collect Performance and have been reclassified to Investment securities at amortised cost under AASB 9. These financial assets have been restated to amortised cost and $4 million of unrealised gains (before tax) previously recognised in the Available-for-sale revaluation reserve have overview been reversed against the carrying value of the assets on 1 July 2018. This also led to a reversal of the deferred tax previously recognised in relation to unrealised gains on these securities through reserves. The Group’s deferred tax asset have increased by $1 million and the reserves have decreased by $3 million. $71,020 million of HQLA previously included in Available-for-Sale assets are held within the business model held to collect and sell and have been reclassified to Investment securities at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income under AASB 9. The reclassification did not have an impact on retained earnings or reserves. Corporate NZD liquid assets: under AASB 139, $3,797 million of the Group’s NZD liquid assets were included in Available-for-Sale investments with the remaining $2,148 million measured at fair value through the Income Statement. These financial assets are held within the business model held to collect and sell and have been reclassified to Investment securities at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income governance under AASB 9. The reclassification did not have a material impact on retained earnings or reserves. Non-traded equity instruments: the Group has $298 million of non-traded equity instruments included in Available-for-sale investment under AASB 139. One of the equity securities of $235 million was reclassified to Assets at Fair Value through Income Statement under AASB 9. The remaining $63 million of equity securities have been reclassified to Investment securities at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income under AASB 9. The reclassifications did not have a material impact on retained earnings or reserves. Directors’ Loans with embedded derivatives: the Group issued loans with embedded derivative features. Under AASB 139, the embedded derivatives were bifurcated and accounted for as standalone derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement; the host loan contracts were measured at amortised cost and included in Loans, bills discounted and other receivables on the Balance sheet. The contractual report cash flows on these instruments are not solely payments of principal and interest and they have been reclassified to Assets at Fair Value through Income Statement together with the related embedded derivative features. The reclassification did not have an impact on retained earnings. NZD Certificate of Deposits (CD): Under AASB 9, $1,141 million of NZD CDs have been reclassified from liabilities at fair value through income statement to liabilities at amortised cost, as the CDs are not held for trading. The reclassification did not have a material impact on retained earnings or reserves. Financial AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ report Trail commission: Other assets and Bills payable and other liabilities have increased by $351 million and $214 million, respectively, to reflect the recognition of trail commission receivable and payable across various trail commission arrangements across the Group. This reflects the upfront recognition of certain future trail commission income and expenses when a performance obligation has been met, e.g. a new customer is introduced into a product. This change also led to a $72 million decrease in goodwill on the acquisition of Aussie Home Loans, a $64 million and $104 million increase in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, respectively. The impact of this change on retained earnings as at 1 July 2018 was an increase of $25 million. Upfront fees: Upfront fees in relation to lending lease and guarantee arrangements are no longer recognised upfront. Instead, income is Other recognised over the life of the contractual arrangements. Establishment fees on financing facilities will be deferred on the Group’s Balance Sheet in Loans, bills discounted and other receivables, and amortised to interest income over the expected life of the loan in accordance information with AASB 9. From 1 July 2018, this will also result in a reclassification of income from other banking income to interest income. In addition, other annual fees will be deferred on Balance Sheet in Bills payable and other liabilities when received and recognised in other banking income on a straight-line basis throughout the year. The impact at 1 July 2018 includes a reduction in Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables of $156 million, a reduction in Other assets of $3 million, and an increase in Bills payable and other liabilities of $123 million. The deferral of upfront fees from existing customer contracts resulted in a one-off increase in deferred tax assets of $72 million and a decrease in deferred tax liabilities of $1 million. The impact of this change on retained earnings as at 1 July 2018 was a reduction of $209 million. 261 261 262 Financial Notes to the report financial statements 3 Financial Notes to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia report Financial Statements 12.5 New accounting standards adopted on 1 July 2018 (continued) Annual Report 2018 AASB 9 Impairment The adoption of AASB 9 impairment requirements has resulted in $1,058 million increase in collective provisions. This includes $968 million for loans, bills discounted and other receivables, $87 million for offbalance sheet instruments (recognised in other provisions), and $3 million for investment securities at fair value through OCI (recognised in reserves). In addition, the Group recognised a $10 million provision on non-lending assets that are not in scope of IFRS 9 CP models. The transition resulted in $320 million increase in deferred tax assets and a corresponding $748 million decrease in retained earnings as at 1 July 2018. The increase in impairment provisions has been driven by the AASB 9 requirement to hold provisions equivalent to lifetime expected losses for all loans that have experienced a significant increase in credit risk since origination and the impact of forward looking factors on expected credit losses estimates. The table below presents the Group’s total impairment provisions on lending assets by ECL stage as at 1 July 2018. 1 July 2018 Impairment provisions $M Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 12 months ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Portfolio (1) Collectively assessed Collectively assessed Collectively assessed Individually assessed Total Retail Secured lending 206 410 113 247 976 Unsecured lending 525 847 233 3 1,608 Total retail 731 1,257 346 250 2,584 Non-retail Corporate and business lending, banks and sovereign 145 1,268 74 620 2,107 Total 876 2,525 420 870 4,691 (1) Exposures subject to impairment provisions include drawn balances, undrawn credit commitments, financial guarantees and debt securities classified at fair value through OCI. Financial Notes to the report financial statements Financial Notes to the Strategic report financial statements report 12.6 Subsequent Events The Bank expects the DRP for the final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2018 will be satisfied by the issue of shares of approximately $622 million. Completion of sale of New Zealand Life Insurance Business (Sovereign) Performance During the 2018 financial year the Group announced the sale of 100% of its life insurance businesses in Australia (“CommInsure Life”) and New Zealand (“Sovereign”) to AIA Group Limited (“AIA”) for $3.8 billion. overview The sale agreement includes a 20-year partnership with AIA for the provision of life insurance products to customers in Australia and New Zealand. The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July 2018, resulting in a total post tax gain of $102 million (inclusive of separation costs and subject to final tax calculations and purchase price adjustments). Sale of Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited (“TymeDigital”) The CBA Board has approved the sale of Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited (“TymeDigital”) to the minority shareholder, African Rainbow Capital. The sale is subject to regulatory approval and potential sale price adjustments. As a result, the financial effect of the sale currently cannot be reliably estimated, however, it is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s Corporate results. The Directors are not aware of any other matter or circumstance that has occurred since the end of the financial year that has significantly governance affected or may significantly affect the operations of the Group, the results of those operations or the state of affairs of the Group in subsequent financial years. Directors’ report Financial report Other information 263 263 Directors declaration Directors Declaration The Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia declare that in their opinion: (a) the consolidated financial statements and notes for the year ended on 30 June 2018, as set out on pages 125 to 263, are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: (i) complying with the Accounting Standards and any further requirements in the Corporations Regulations 2001; and (ii) giving a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 30 June 2018 and its performance for the year ended 30 June 2018; (b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Commonwealth Bank of Australia will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable. Note 1.1 of the consolidated financial statements includes a statement of compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards. The Directors have been given the declarations required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001. This declaration is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. Catherine Livingstone AO Matt Comyn Chairman Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 7 August 2018 7 August 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 264 Annual Report 2018 264 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Independent auditor’s report To the members of Commonwealth Bank of Australia Report on the audit of the financial report Performance Our opinion In our opinion: overview The accompanying financial report of Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the Company) and its controlled entities (together the Group) is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: a. giving a true and fair view of the Company's and Group's financial positions as at 30 June 2018 and of their financial performance for the year then ended Corporate b. complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. What we have audited governance The Company and Group financial report comprises:  the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2018;  the Consolidated and Company income statements and statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended; Directors’  the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended;  the Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended; report  the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies; and  the directors’ declaration. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those Financial standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report section report of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence Other We are independent of the Company and the Group in accordance with the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are information relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo NSW 2000, GPO BOX 2650 Sydney NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 265 Our audit approach Group audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial report as a whole, taking into account the geographic and management structure of the Company and Group, its accounting processes and controls and the industries in which it operates. We also ensured that the audit team had the appropriate skills and competencies needed for the audit of a complex financial services group. This included industry expertise in retail, business and institutional banking, and insurance and wealth management services, as well as specialists and experts in IT, actuarial, tax, treasury and valuation. The Group is structured into 7 business segments being Retail Banking Services (RBS), Business and Private Banking (B&PB), Institutional Banking and Markets (IB&M), Wealth Management (WM), New Zealand (NZ), Bankwest (BW), International Financial Services and Other (IFS and Other). In designing our scope we considered the structure of the Group and identified those entities or business activities (referred to as components) for which the Group prepares financial information for inclusion in the financial report. The nature, timing and extent of audit work performed for each component was determined by the components’ risk characteristics and financial significance to the Group and consideration of whether sufficient evidence had been obtained for our opinion on the financial report as a whole. This involved either:  an audit of the complete financial information of a component (full scope),  an audit of one or more of the component’s account balances, classes of transactions or disclosures (specified scope),  analytical procedures performed at the Group level, or  further audit procedures at a Group level, including over the consolidation of the Group’s reporting units and the preparation of the financial report. Set out on the next page is an overview of our Group audit approach highlighting key aspects of our audit. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 266 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Performance overview Corporate governance 1 Specified scope procedures are performed for the purposes of the Group audit. However, full scope audits are Directors’ performed for the purposes of standalone legal entity statutory financial statements as required. report Group materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. Items are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users taken on the basis of the financial report. Financial report Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the financial report, which we have set out in the table below: Overall Group $615 million (2017: $606 million) materiality Approximately 5% of 2018 financial year profit before tax (PBT) Other How we information (2017: approximately 5% of 2017 financial year PBT) for the determined it Company. We chose net profit before income tax because, in our view, it is the metric against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured and is a generally accepted benchmark in the banking industry. Rationale for the We performed our audit over both the Group and Company financial materiality information concurrently. We apply the lower of materiality benchmark calculated based on Group and Company PBT in order to avoid applied duplication of work. As the Company has a lower PBT, we have calculated materiality based on the Company PBT. We selected 5% based on our professional judgement noting that it is also within the range of commonly acceptable quantitative materiality measures. 267 Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial report for the current period. We describe each key audit matter and include a summary of the principal audit procedures we performed to address those matters in the table below. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Further, any commentary on the outcomes of a particular audit procedure is made in that context. We communicated the key audit matters, amongst other relevant topics, to the Audit Committee. The key audit matters identified below relate to both the Company and Group audit with the exception of the valuation of insurance policy holder liabilities which relates only to the Group. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Loan impairment provisions (Relevant components: RBS, B&PB, IB&M, BW, NZ ASB) We considered this a key audit matter due to We developed an understanding of the the subjective judgements made by the controls relevant to our audit over the Group in determining when to recognise following areas and assessed whether they impairment provisions against lending assets were appropriately designed and were and in estimating the size of such provisions. operating effectively throughout the year: Provisions for impairment of loans that · Identification of impaired loans; exceed specific thresholds are individually · Reliability and integrity of credit assessed by the Group. These provisions information maintained in the are established based on the expected Group’s systems; future cash repayments and estimated · Transfer of data from the underlying proceeds from the value of the collateral source systems to the impairment held by the Group in respect of those loans. provisioning models; and During the financial year ended 30 June · The Group’s assessment of the 2018, the majority of the Group’s individually integrity of these models. assessed provisions for specific lending For a selection of individually assessed assets related primarily to business and provisions for specific lending assets, we corporate loans. performed the following audit procedures, If an individually assessed loan is not amongst others: impaired, it is then included in a group of · Examined the Group’s cashflow loans with similar risk characteristics and, forecasts supporting the impairment along with those loans below the specific calculation by assessing key thresholds noted above, is collectively judgements (in particular the amount assessed on a portfolio basis using models and timing of recoveries) made by developed by the Group. These models use the Group in the context of the assumptions in their calculations which are borrowers’ circumstances based on based on the Group’s historical loss the detailed loan and counterparty experience including both the frequency of information known by the Group; defaults and the losses incurred where loans and have defaulted. · Compared key inputs in the Group’s Adjustments or overlays to the provisions estimates (such as valuation of are applied by the Group to take account of collateral held) to external emerging trends and where models may fail information where available. to fully capture all risks in the loan portfolio. To test the collectively assessed Commonwealth Bank of Australia 268 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Loan impairment provisions (Relevant components: RBS, B&PB, IB&M, BW, NZ ASB) An example of an overlay is one which provisions, we together with our allows for the impact of the current independent modelling experts, performed Performance macroeconomic environment (such as the following audit procedures, amongst residential and consumer lending in mining others: overview towns). These overlays require significant · Tested the completeness and judgement. accuracy of key data being Relevant references in the financial transferred between the Group’s report systems and its collective Corporate Refer notes 1.1 and 3.2 for further provisioning models; information. · Compared the Group’s key assumptions to supporting evidence governance and market practices; and · Compared the modelled calculations to our own calculated expectations on a sample basis. To assess the overlays to the provisions, Directors’ report we performed the following audit procedures, amongst others: · Considered the Group’s rationale for the recognition of overlays by considering the potential for impairment to be affected by events not captured by the Group’s models; Financial and report · Assessed the Group’s estimate of ranges on key drivers of credit loss using sensitivity analysis. As part of this work, we considered local and global external data to provide objective support. Other AASB 9 expected credit loss information AASB 9 Financial Instruments will be To determine the appropriateness of the adopted by the Group for the financial year AASB 9 framework implemented by the beginning 1 July 2018. In periods prior to Group, including the reasonableness of the adoption of new accounting standards, models developed for the purposes of Australian Accounting Standards require disclosure of known or reasonably estimable determining ECL, and the inputs and information that the application of the new assumptions used in the models, we along standard will have on the Group’s financial with PwC modelling and economic experts, report. performed the following audit procedures, amongst others: AASB 9 introduces an expected credit loss (‘ECL’) impairment model which takes into · Assessed the methodology inherent account forward-looking information within the ECL models against the reflecting potential future economic events. This has resulted in the Group developing requirements of the new accounting new models which are reliant on large standard. volumes of data, as well as a number of · Considered management’s judgements 269 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Loan impairment provisions (Relevant components: RBS, B&PB, IB&M, BW, NZ ASB) significant estimates at adoption including and the reasonableness of forwardthe impact of multiple economic scenarios. looking information incorporated into the ECL models by assessing the forecasts, · We considered this a key audit assumptions and probability weightings matter because: · the models used to calculate ECLs applied in the multiple economic (ECL models) are inherently scenarios, and comparing on a sample complex and judgement is applied basis against supporting evidence in determining the correct construct where applicable,. of model to be applied; · Considered the integrity of data used as · judgement is applied in determining input into the models by tracing a the most appropriate information sample of inputs used in the models to and datasets to be used as inputs to the models; and, source systems and calculations. · there are a number of key · Considered the accuracy and assumptions made by the Group reasonableness of the modelled concerning the values of inputs to calculations by re-performing the ECL the models (e.g. statistical calculations, on a sample basis. assumptions used to determine · Developed an understanding of the key forward looking loan probability of default and discount rates) and how transition controls related to the inputs correlate with one another. calculation, review and approval of the estimated ECL calculation and Relevant references in the financial corresponding disclosures. report · Compared the estimated transitional Refer notes 1.1 and 12.5 for further impact amount disclosed in the financial information. report to the underlying calculations and assessed the adequacy of the disclosures against the requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Judgemental valuation of financial instruments (Group and Company level with additional testing by relevant components: IB&M, NZ – ASB) The Group holds financial instruments We developed an understanding of the measured at fair value representing 17% of controls relevant to our financial statement the total assets and 5% of the total liabilities audit over the following areas and assessed of the Group. The financial instruments held whether they were appropriately designed at fair value include: and were operating effectively throughout the year: · Derivative assets and liabilities; · Available-for-sale investments; · Valuation model governance control · Life insurance assets and liabilities; framework; and · Completeness and accuracy of data · Bills discounted and other assets inputs; including sourcing and liabilities designated at fair independent market data inputs; value. · Methodology for the determination of fair value adjustments; and The majority of the Group’s financial · The Group’s assessment of its own instruments are considered to be nonmodels used to measure fair value. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 270 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Judgemental valuation of financial instruments (Group and Company level with additional testing by relevant components: IB&M, NZ – ASB) complex in nature as fair value is based on Performance overview prices and rates that can be easily observed In relation to the fair value of financial in the relevant markets. On this basis the instruments as at 30 June 2018, together majority of the Group’s financial instruments with our valuation experts, we compared the are classified under Australian Accounting Group’s calculation of fair value to our own Standards as either ‘Level 1’ (i.e. where key independent calculation across a sample of inputs to the valuation is based on quoted financial instruments. This involved sourcing prices in the market) or ‘Level 2’ (i.e. where independent inputs from market data key inputs to the valuation is based on providers and using our own valuation Corporate governance observable prices in the market). We models. We considered the results to assess considered these Level 1 and Level 2 whether there was evidence of systemic bias financial instruments to be a key audit matter or error in the Group’s calculation of fair due to their financial significance to the value. Group. The Group also holds a limited number of Directors’ financial instruments considered to be ‘Level 3’ under Australian Accounting Standards in report nature (i.e. where key inputs to the valuation require additional judgement as observable inputs are not available in the market due to market illiquidity or complexity of the product) primarily in respect to complex derivatives, certain asset-backed securities Financial and infrastructure funds. While the Group’s report holdings of such instruments is limited relative to total financial instrument holdings, we considered their valuation to be a key audit matter because there is more judgement involved in determining their value. Relevant references in the financial Other report information Refer notes 1.1, 4.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5 and 9.5 for further information. 271 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provision for conduct risk and regulator action (Group and Company level) The Group has assessed the need to raise We developed an understanding of the provisions in relation to certain legal Group’s processes for identifying and proceedings, investigations and reviews assessing the impact of conduct risk, legal and regulatory matters. from its regulators including in relation to AUSTRAC’s civil proceedings, the Royal We read the minutes of the Group’s key Commission into banking misconduct in the governance banking, superannuation and financial meetings (i.e. Audit Committee, Risk services industry and APRA’s Enforceable Committee and Undertaking, amongst others. Board of Directors), attended the Group’s Audit and We considered this a key audit matter due to Risk Committee meetings and considered key correspondence with relevant regulatory the subjective judgements required by the bodies. Group in determining: · the probability of financial outcomes We discussed ongoing legal and regulatory based on available information, and matters with the directors and management. · the estimate of the amounts which may We obtained written representations from be paid under each of the proceedings, the Group Chief Executive Office, Chief investigation and reviews. Financial Officer and Group General Counsel and obtained access to relevant documents in order to develop our Relevant references in the financial understanding of the matters. report Refer notes 1.1 and 7.1 for further We considered the Group’s judgement as to information. whether there is potential material financial exposure for the Group, and if so, the amount of any provision required. This included inspecting the Group’s underlying calculations and assumptions made against available information and, where relevant, agreeing settlements booked to payments made. We have considered if provisions should be recognised in respect of AUSTRAC’s civil proceedings and the ASIC Bank Bill Swap Rate Enforceable Undertaking in addition to the civil penalties payables already recognised in the financial report. Where the Group determined that they were unable to reliably estimate the possible financial impact of a legal or regulatory action, we assessed the appropriateness of their conclusion. We assessed the adequacy of related disclosures against the requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 272 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of insurance policyholder liabilities (Relevant components: WM CommInsure, NZ Sovereign) We considered this a key audit matter To assess the assumptions used to Performance because the Group’s valuation of the determine the value of insurance provisions for the settlement of future policyholder liabilities, we along with our overview insurance claims involves complex and independent actuarial experts performed the subjective judgements about future events, following audit procedures, amongst others: both internal and external to the business, for which small changes in assumptions can · Compared the methodology and result in a material impact to the valuation of models used by the Group to those these liabilities. The Group’s insurance commonly applied in the industry Corporate and recognised by regulatory governance policyholder liabilities relate to the life insurance businesses. standards; · Developed an understanding of and In determining the valuation of the liabilities, evaluated the controls the Group the key actuarial assumptions made by the has in place over key processes Group’s experts include: relating to the valuation. This included the Group’s use of models, · Expected amount, timing and the quality of oversight and controls Directors’ duration of claims and/or policy over key assumptions within those report payments, likely lapse rates of models, and the Group’s preparation policies by policyholders, mortality of the manually calculated and morbidity rates, acquisition and components of the liability; maintenance expenses; and · Compared key inputs (for example · Long term economic assumptions inflation rates) used by the Group in including inflation rates. the calculation to relevant supporting Financial evidence, such as external market Relevant references in the financial data; report report · Considered the impact of key Refer note 1.1 for further information. changes in assumptions and methodologies over the year and compared these to industry practice; and · Compared the underlying supporting data relating to policyholder Other information information used in the Group's valuation to source documentation on a sample basis. 273 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Operation of financial reporting Information Technology (IT) systems and controls (Relevant components: All) We focused on this area because the Our procedures included evaluating and Group’s operations and financial reporting testing the design and operating processes are heavily dependent on IT effectiveness of certain controls over the systems, including automated accounting continued integrity of the IT systems that are procedures, IT dependent manual controls relevant to financial reporting. and controls preventing unauthorised access to systems and data. We also carried out direct tests, on a sample basis, of system functionality that was key to The Group’s controls over IT systems our audit testing in order to assess the include: accuracy of certain system calculations, the generation of certain reports and the · The framework of governance over operation of certain system enforced access IT systems; controls. · Program development and changes; Where we noted design or operating · Access to process, data and IT effectiveness matters relating to IT systems operations; and and applications controls relevant to our · Governance over generic and audit, we performed alternative or additional privileged user accounts. audit procedures. Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report for the year ended 30 June 2018, including Strategic report, Performance overview, Corporate governance, Directors’ report and Other information, but does not include the financial report and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial report The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal controls as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the ability of the Company and the Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 274 Annual Report 2018 b Strategic Independent auditor's report (continued) report Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit Performance conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in overview the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our auditor's report. Corporate Report on the Remuneration Report governance Our opinion on the Remuneration Report We have audited the Remuneration Report included in pages 96 to 119 of the Directors’ Report for the year ended 30 June 2018. In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the year ended 30 June 2018 complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Directors’ report Responsibilities The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Financial report PricewaterhouseCoopers Other information Matthew Lunn Sydney Partner 7 August 2018 275 275 Other information Commonwealth Bank of Australia 276 Annual Report 2018 Other Shareholding information information Other Shareholding Strategic information information report Top 20 Holders of Fully Paid Ordinary Shares as at 30 July 2018 Rank Name of Holder Number of Shares % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 370,746,865 21.07 2 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 228,386,048 12.98 Performance 3 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 98,454,740 5.59 4 National Nominees Limited 57,172,719 3.25 overview 5 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Limited 51,468,942 2.92 6 Bond Street Custodians Limited 14,656,952 0.83 7 Australian Foundation Investment Company limited 7,900,000 0.45 8 Navigator Australia Limited 3,670,568 0.21 9 Argo Investments Limited 3,203,731 0.18 10 Milton Corporation Limited 3,119,505 0.18 11 Netwealth Investments Limited 2,956,624 0.17 12 Nulis Nominees (Australia) Limited 2,142,125 0.12 Corporate 13 Mr. Barry Martin Lambert 1,643,613 0.09 14 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 1,592,260 0.09 governance 15 IOOF Investment Management Limited 1,499,545 0.09 16 McCusker Holdings Pty Ltd 1,470,000 0.08 17 ANZ Executors & Trustee 1,328,789 0.08 18 RBC Dexia Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited 1,243,309 0.07 19 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 1,228,937 0.07 Directors’ 20 Joy Wilma Lambert 1,068,250 0.06 The top 20 shareholders hold 854,953,522 shares which is equal to 48.58% of the total shares on issue. report Substantial Shareholding The following organisation has disclosed a substantial shareholding notice to ASX. Number of Percentage of Name Shares Voting Power BlackRock Group (1) 86,557,665 5.00 Financial report (1) Substantial shareholder notice dated 16 May 2017. Stock Exchange Listing The shares of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (Bank) are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBA, with Sydney being the home exchange. Details of trading activity are published in most daily newspapers, generally under the abbreviation of CBA or C’wealth Bank. The Bank is not currently in the market conducting an on market buy-back of its shares. Range of Shares (Fully Paid Ordinary Shares and Employee Shares) as at 30 July 2018 Other Percentage of information Number of Percentage of Number of Issued Range Shareholders Shareholders Shares Capital 1 – 1,000 591,209 73.01 186,153,941 10.58 1,001 – 5,000 190,162 23.48 395,673,395 22.48 5,001 – 10,000 19,815 2.45 134,818,887 7.66 10,001 – 100,000 8,433 1.04 158,583,477 9.01 100,001 and over 186 0.02 884,613,230 50.27 Total 809,805 100.00 1,759,842,930 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 15,346 1.90 45,921 0.00 Voting Rights Under the Bank’s Constitution, each person who is a voting Equity holder and who is present at a general meeting of the Bank in person or by proxy, attorney or official representative is entitled:  On a show of hands – to one vote; and  On a poll – to one vote for each share held or represented. Every voting Equity holder who casts a vote by direct vote, shall also have one vote for each share held or represented. If a person present at a general meeting represents personally or by proxy, attorney or official representative more than one Equity holder, on a show of hands the person is entitled to one vote even though he or she represents more than one Equity holder. If an Equity holder is present in person and votes on a resolution, any proxy or attorney of that Equity holder is not entitled to vote. If more than one official representative or attorney is present for an Equity holder:  None of them is entitled to vote on a show of hands; and 277 277 Other Shareholding information information Other Shareholding Information information  On a poll only one official representative may exercise the Equity holder’s voting rights and the vote of each attorney shall be of no effect unless each is appointed to represent a specified proportion of the Equity holder’s voting rights, not exceeding in aggregate 100%.  If an Equity holder appoints two proxies and both are present at the meeting:  If the appointment does not specify the proportion or number of the Equity holder’s votes each proxy may exercise, then each proxy may exercise one half of the Equity holder’s votes;  Neither proxy shall be entitled to vote on a show of hands; and  On a poll each proxy may only exercise votes in respect of those shares or voting rights the proxy represents. Top 20 Holders of Perpetual Exchangeable Resalable Listed Securities VI (“PERLS VI”) as at 30 July 2018 Number of Rank Name of Holder Securities % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 997,275 4.99 2 Bond Street Custodians Limited 422,489 2.11 3 IOOF Investment Management Limited 252,642 1.26 4 National Nominees Limited 241,231 1.21 5 Netwealth Investments Limited 241,217 1.21 6 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd 224,874 1.12 7 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 173,696 0.87 8 Nulis Nominees (Australia) Limited 168,709 0.84 9 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 118,024 0.59 10 Navigator Australia Limited 117,797 0.59 11 Dimbulu Pty Limited 100,000 0.50 12 Eastcote Pty Limited 100,000 0.50 13 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 90,923 0.45 14 V S Access Pty Limited 80,000 0.40 15 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 65,945 0.33 16 Marento Pty Ltd 52,916 0.26 17 Mutual Trust Pty Limited 51,228 0.26 18 Edgelake Proprietary Limited 49,267 0.25 19 Kaptock Pty Limited 48,730 0.24 20 Junax Capital Pty Ltd 47,000 0.24 The top 20 PERLS VI security holders hold 3,643,963 securities which is equal to 18.22% of the total securities on issue. Stock Exchange Listing PERLS VI are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPC. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS VI) as at 30 July 2018 Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of Issued Range Security Holders Security Holders Securities Capital 1 – 1,000 25,239 89.29 8,263,689 41.31 1,001 – 5,000 2,723 9.63 5,517,381 27.59 5,001 – 10,000 194 0.69 1,441,572 7.21 10,001 – 100,000 100 0.35 2,308,079 11.54 100,001 and over 11 0.04 2,469,279 12.35 Total 28,267 100.00 20,000,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 9 0.03 22 0.00 Voting Rights PERLS VI do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 277 and 278 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 278 Annual Report 2018 278 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Other Shareholding information information Other Shareholding Strategic information information report Top 20 Holders of CommBank PERLS VII Capital Notes (“PERLS VII”) as at 30 July 2018 Number of Rank Name of Holder Securities % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 2,403,303 8.01 2 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Limited 965,593 3.22 Performance 3 Netwealth Investments Limited 507,694 1.69 4 Bond Street Custodians Limited 371,713 1.24 overview 5 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 313,843 1.05 6 National Nominees Limited 300,007 1.00 7 IOOF Investment Management Limited 282,085 0.94 8 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 252,287 0.84 9 Nulis Nominees (Australia) Limited 202,216 0.67 10 Navigator Australia Limited 185,200 0.62 11 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 130,665 0.44 12 Dimbulu Pty Limited 100,000 0.33 Corporate 13 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 96,444 0.32 14 Tandom Pty Limited 90,000 0.30 governance 15 Randazzo C & G Developments Pty Limited 84,286 0.28 16 Tsco Pty Limited 80,000 0.27 17 Simply Brilliant Pty Limited 75,000 0.25 18 Mutual Trust Pty Limited 74,362 0.25 19 Seymour Group Pty Limited 73,700 0.25 Directors’ 20 Willimbury Pty Limited 70,673 0.24 The top 20 PERLS VII security holders hold 6,659,071 securities which is equal to 22.21% of the total securities on issue. report Stock Exchange Listing PERLS VII are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPD. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS VII) as at 30 July 2018 Percentage of Financial report Number of Percentage of Number of Issued Range Security holders Security holders Securities Capital 1 – 1,000 27,875 86.13 9,670,068 32.24 1,001 – 5,000 3,974 12.28 8,004,918 26.68 5,001 – 10,000 300 0.92 2,145,521 7.15 10,001 – 100,000 203 0.63 4,810,090 16.03 100,001 and over 13 0.04 5,369,403 17.90 Total 32,365 100.00 30,000,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 8 0.02 27 0.00 Other Voting Rights information PERLS VII do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 277 and 278 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 279 279 Other Shareholding information information Other Shareholding Information information Top 20 Holders of CommBank PERLS VIII Capital Notes (“PERLS VIII”) as at 30 July 2018 Number of Rank Name of Holder Securities % 1 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Limited 3,178,248 21.92 2 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 943,954 6.51 3 Goodridge Nominees Pty Ltd 208,870 1.44 4 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 127,344 0.88 5 Mr. Walter Lawton & Mr. Brett Lawton 108,573 0.75 6 G Harvey Nominees Pty Ltd 100,000 0.69 7 Piek Holdings Pty Ltd 93,000 0.64 8 Netwealth Investments Limited 90,418 0.62 9 National Nominees Limited 79,158 0.55 10 Snowside Pty Limited 79,083 0.55 11 Bond Street Custodians Limited 71,560 0.49 12 Nulis Nominees (Australia) Limited 70,476 0.49 13 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 65,420 0.45 14 V S Access Pty Limited 62,482 0.43 15 Navigator Australia Limited 57,610 0.40 16 Dimbulu Pty Limited 50,000 0.34 17 Mifare Pty Limited 50,000 0.34 18 Randazzo C & G Developments Pty Limited 50,000 0.34 19 Adirel Holdings Pty Limited 47,000 0.32 20 Resthaven Incorporated 45,500 0.31 The top 20 PERLS VIII security holders hold 5,578,696 securities which is equal to 38.46% of the total securities on issue. Stock Exchange Listing PERLS VIII are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPE. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS VIII) as at 30 July 2018 Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of Issued Range Shareholders Shareholders Shares Capital 1 – 1,000 13,149 89.37 4,250,053 29.31 1,001 – 5,000 1,374 9.34 2,945,723 20.32 5,001 – 10,000 120 0.82 888,629 6.13 10,001 – 100,000 64 0.43 1,963,409 13.54 100,001 and over 6 0.04 4,452,186 30.70 Total 14,713 100.00 14,500,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 3 0.02 7 0.00 Voting Rights PERLS VIII do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 277 and 278 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 280 Annual Report 2018 Other Shareholding information information Other Shareholding Strategic information information report Top 20 Holders of CommBank PERLS IX Capital Notes (“PERLS IX”) as at 30 July 2018 Number of Rank Name of Holder Securities % 1 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd 2,504,391 15.27 2 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 1,246,863 7.60 Performance 3 Bond Street Custodians Limited 234,797 1.43 4 Navigator Australia Limited 218,318 1.33 overview 5 Dimbulu Pty Limited 147,700 0.90 6 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 147,080 0.90 7 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 125,468 0.77 8 Netwealth Investments Limited 109,516 0.67 9 Mutual Trust Pty Limited 103,145 0.63 10 G Harvey Investments Pty Limited 100,000 0.61 11 IOOF Investment Management Limited 97,716 0.60 12 Nulis Nominees (Australia) Limited 93,452 0.57 Corporate governance 13 National Nominees Limited 84,614 0.52 14 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 71,800 0.44 15 Ranamok Pty Limited 71,365 0.44 16 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 62,613 0.38 17 Ernron Pty Ltd 34,530 0.21 18 J C Family Investments Pty Limited 33,264 0.20 19 Sir Moses Montefiore Jewish Home 30,660 0.19 20 Pendant Realty Pty Ltd 30,000 0.18 Directors’ The top 20 PERLS IX security holders hold 5,526,649 securities which is equal to 33.67% of the total securities on issue. report Stock Exchange Listing PERLS IX are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPF. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS IX) as at 30 July 2018 Percentage of Financial report Number of Percentage of Number of Issued Range Shareholders Shareholders Shares Capital 1 – 1,000 18,090 90.31 5,723,191 34.90 1,001 – 5,000 1,737 8.67 3,619,443 22.07 5,001 – 10,000 129 0.64 969,294 5.91 10,001 – 100,000 66 0.33 1,733,427 10.57 100,001 and over 9 0.05 4,354,645 26.55 Total 20,031 100.00 16,400,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 3 0.01 4 0.00 Other Voting Rights information PERLS IX do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 277 and 278 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 281 281 Other Shareholding information information Other Shareholding Information information Top 20 Holders of CommBank PERLS X Capital Notes (“PERLS X”) as at 30 July 2018 Number of Rank Name of Holder Securities % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 1,308,096 9.58 2 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd 1,068,430 7.83 3 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 394,146 2.89 4 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 116,377 0.85 5 Bond Street Custodians Limited 107,237 0.79 6 Dimbulu Pty Limited 100,000 0.73 7 Tandom Pty Limited 100,000 0.73 8 Randazzo C & G Developments Pty Limited 80,000 0.59 9 Rakio Pty Limited 77,000 0.56 10 Ernron Pty Ltd 74,428 0.55 11 Nora Goodridge Investments Pty Limited 70,000 0.51 12 Netwealth Investments Limited 69,888 0.51 13 Hanson Tsai Pty Limited 60,000 0.44 14 Navigator Australia Limited 57,362 0.42 15 Eastcote Pty Limited 50,000 0.37 16 Federation University Australia 50,000 0.37 17 Harriette & Co Pty Limited 50,000 0.37 18 National Nominees Limited 42,121 0.31 19 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 34,215 0.25 20 Raffy Holdings Pty Limited 29,910 0.22 The top 20 PERLS X security holders hold 3,939,210 securities which is equal to 28.87% of the total securities on issue. Stock Exchange Listing PERLS X are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPG. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS X) as at 30 July 2018 Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of Issued Range Security holders Security holders Securities Capital 1 – 1,000 13,340 88.57 4,585,925 33.60 1,001 – 5,000 1,513 10.05 3,303,894 24.20 5,001 – 10,000 130 0.86 1,009,841 7.40 10,001 – 100,000 74 0.49 1,956,444 14.33 100,001 and over 5 0.03 2,793,896 20.47 Total 15,062 100.00 13,650,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 2 0.01 9 0.00 Voting Rights PERLS X do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 277 and 278 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 282 Annual Report 2018 Other Five year Other information Five year summary financial Information financial summary Strategic report 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 (1) 30 Jun 16 (1) 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 $M $M $M $M $M Net interest income 18,341 17,543 16,858 15,827 15,131 Other operating income (2) 7,583 7,737 7,043 7,751 7,270 Total operating income 25,924 25,280 23,901 23,578 22,401 Operating expenses (11,599) (10,622) (9,957) (10,003) (9,499) Performance overview Impairment expense (1,079) (1,095) (1,256) (988) (953) Net profit before tax 13,246 13,563 12,688 12,587 11,949 Corporate tax expense (3,994) (3,847) (3,497) (3,439) (3,250) Non-controlling interests (19) (20) (20) (21) (19) Net profit after tax from continuing operations ( cash 9,233 9,696 9,171 9,127 8,680 basis ) Corporate Net profit after tax from discontinued operations 179 185 274 governance Net profit after tax ( cash basis ) 9,412 9,881 9,445 9,127 8,680 Treasury shares valuation adjustment 2 (23) 4 (28) (41) Hedging and IFRS volatility 101 73 (199) 6 6 (Loss)/gain on disposal of controlled entities/investments (183) 17 Bankwest non-cash items (3) (3) (27) (52) (56) Bell Group litigation 25 Net profit after income tax attributable to Equity holders Directors’ 9,329 9,928 9,223 9,053 8,631 report of the Bank statutory basis Contributions to profit (after tax) Retail Banking Services 5,193 4,933 4,540 3,994 3,678 Business and Private Banking 1,888 1,808 1,522 1,495 1,321 Institutional Banking and Markets 1,121 1,311 1,190 1,285 1,252 Wealth Management 563 422 400 643 789 Financial New Zealand 975 869 785 882 742 report Bankwest 681 576 778 795 675 IFS and Other (1,188) (223) (44) 33 223 Net profit after tax from continuing operations ( cash 9,233 9,696 9,171 9,127 8,680 basis ) Investment experience after tax (10) (16) (24) (150) (197) Net profit after tax underlying basis 9,223 9,680 9,147 8,977 8,483 Other information Balance Sheet Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 743,365 731,762 695,398 639,262 597,781 Total assets 975,165 976,318 932,945 873,489 791,451 Deposits and other public borrowings 622,234 626,655 588,045 543,231 498,352 Total liabilities 907,305 912,658 872,437 820,684 742,103 Shareholders' Equity 67,860 63,660 60,508 52,805 49,348 Net tangible assets (including discontinued operations) 56,911 53,090 49,630 41,334 38,080 Risk weighted assets Basel III (APRA) 458,612 437,063 394,667 368,721 337,715 Average interest earning assets 854,264 834,741 790,596 736,164 705,862 Average interest bearing liabilities 759,583 755,612 733,754 693,376 660,847 Assets (on Balance Sheet) Australia 811,491 817,519 783,114 741,249 669,293 Assets (on Balance Sheet) New Zealand 69,052 89,997 83,832 72,299 69,110 Assets (on Balance Sheet) Other 94,622 68,802 65,999 59,941 53,048 (1) Comparative information for 2017 and 2016 has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1 and refinements to the allocation of customer balances. (2) Includes investment experience. 283 283 Other Five year Other information Five year summary financial Information financial summary 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Shareholder summary from continuing operations Earnings per share (cents) (1) Basic Statutory 536. 9 567. 9 525. 6 553. 1 530. 6 Cash basis 528. 6 563. 4 538. 3 556. 9 532. 7 Fully diluted Statutory 520. 2 549. 9 513. 3 539. 1 518. 9 Cash basis 512. 4 545. 6 525. 4 542. 7 521. 0 Net tangible assets per share ($) 33. 1 31. 5 29. 7 25. 4 23. 5 Shareholder summary including discontinued operations Earnings per share (cents) (1) Basic Statutory 534. 3 577. 3 542. 0 553. 1 530. 6 Cash basis 538. 8 574. 1 554. 5 556. 9 532. 7 Fully diluted Statutory 517. 7 558. 8 529. 0 539. 1 518. 9 Cash basis 522. 0 555. 8 540. 9 542. 7 521. 0 Dividends per share fully franked (cents) 431 429 420 420 401 Dividend cover statutory (times) 1. 1 1. 3 1. 3 1. 3 1. 3 Dividend cover cash (times) 1. 2 1. 3 1. 3 1. 3 1. 3 Dividend payout ratio (%) Statutory 81. 2 74. 6 78. 4 75. 8 75. 5 Cash basis 80. 4 75. 0 76. 5 75. 2 75. 1 Net tangible assets per share ($) including 32. 3 30. 7 28. 9 25. 4 23. 5 discontinued operations Weighted average number of shares (statutory 1,746 1,720 1,692 1,627 1,618 basic) (M) Weighted average number of shares (statutory fully 1,852 1,816 1,771 1,711 1,691 diluted) (M) Weighted average number of shares (cash basic) (M) 1,747 1,721 1,694 1,630 1,621 Weighted average number of shares (cash fully 1,853 1,817 1,773 1,714 1,694 diluted) (M) Number of shareholders 811,409 806,386 820,968 787,969 791,564 Share prices for the year ($) Trading high 85. 12 87. 74 88. 88 96. 69 82. 68 Trading low 67. 22 69. 22 69. 79 73. 57 67. 49 End (closing price) 72. 87 82. 81 74. 37 85. 13 80. 88 (1) Comparative information for 2017 and 2016 has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. 284 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 284 Annual Report 2018 Other Five year information financial summary Other Five year Strategic Information financial summary report 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 14 Performance ratios (%) from continuing operations Return on average Shareholders' Equity Statutory 14. 4 15. 9 15. 8 18. 2 18. 7 Cash basis 14. 1 15. 7 16. 1 18. 2 18. 7 Performance overview Return on average total assets Statutory 1. 0 1. 0 1. 0 1. 1 1. 1 Cash basis 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 1. 1 1. 1 Net interest margin (1) 2. 15 2. 10 2. 13 2. 15 2. 19 Performance ratios (%) including discontinued Corporate operations Return on average Shareholders' Equity Statutory 14. 3 16. 2 16. 3 18. 2 18. 7 governance Cash basis 14. 4 16. 0 16. 6 18. 2 18. 7 Return on average total assets Statutory 1. 0 1. 0 1. 0 1. 1 1. 1 Cash basis 1. 0 1. 0 1. 0 1. 1 1. 1 Directors’ Capital adequacy Common Equity Tier 1 Basel III report 10. 1 10. 1 10. 6 9. 1 9. 3 (APRA) Capital adequacy Tier 1 Basel III (APRA) 12. 3 12. 1 12. 3 11. 2 11. 1 Capital adequacy Tier 2 Basel III (APRA) 2. 7 2. 1 2. 0 1. 5 0. 9 Capital adequacy Total Basel III (APRA) 15. 0 14. 2 14. 3 12. 7 12. 0 Leverage Ratio Basel III (APRA) (%) 5. 5 5. 1 5. 0 n/a n/a Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%) 131. 5 128. 6 120. 0 120. 0 n/a Financial Net interest margin (1) 2. 15 2. 11 2. 14 2. 15 2. 19 report Other information (numbers) Full-time equivalent employees from continuing 43,771 43,620 43,178 45,948 44,329 operations (1) Full-time equivalent employees including discontinued 45,753 45,614 45,129 45,948 44,329 operations Branches/services centres (Australia) 1,082 1,121 1,131 1,147 1,150 Other information Agencies (Australia) 3,589 3,664 3,654 3,670 3,717 ATMs 4,253 4,398 4,381 4,440 4,340 EFTPOS terminals (active) 219,245 217,098 217,981 208,202 200,733 Productivity from continuing operations (2) Total operating income per full-time (equivalent) 591,876 579,023 552,805 508,578 500,034 employee ($) Employee expense/Total operating income (%) 22. 9 23. 2 24. 1 24. 9 25. 0 Total operating expenses/Total operating income (%) 44. 8 42. 1 41. 7 42. 8 42. 9 Productivity including discontinued operations (2) Total operating income per full-time (equivalent) 580,859 568,685 545,237 508,578 500,034 employee ($) Employee expense/Total operating income (%) 23. 2 23. 6 24. 4 24. 9 25. 0 Total operating expenses/Total operating income (%) 45. 4 42. 7 42. 4 42. 8 42. 9 (1) Comparative information has been restated for 2017 and 2016 to align to presentation in the current period. (2) The productivity metrics have been calculated on a cash basis. 285 285 Other Capital adequacy information and liquidity Other Capital adequacy information and liquidity Capital The tables below show the APRA Basel III capital adequacy calculation at 30 June 2018 together with prior period comparatives. For a more detailed discussion on our capital position, refer to our Basel III Pillar 3 document. 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Risk Weighted Capital Ratios % % Common Equity Tier 1 10. 1 10. 1 Tier 1 12. 3 12. 1 Tier 2 2. 7 2. 1 Total Capital 15. 0 14. 2 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M Ordinary Share Capital and Treasury Shares Ordinary Share Capital 37,270 34,971 Treasury Shares (1) 265 295 Ordinary Share Capital and Treasury Shares 37,535 35,266 Reserves Reserves 1,676 1,869 Reserves related to non-consolidated subsidiaries (2) (80) (81) Total Reserves 1,596 1,788 Retained Earnings and Current Period Profits Retained Earnings and Current Period Profits (3) 28,360 26,274 Retained earnings adjustment from non-consolidated subsidiaries (4) (342) (537) Net Retained Earnings 28,018 25,737 Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests (5) 554 546 Less ASB perpetual preference shares (505) (505) Less other non-controlling interests not eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital (49) (41) Non-controlling interests Common Equity Tier 1 Capital before regulatory adjustments 67,149 62,791 (1) Represents shares held by the Group's life insurance businesses ($85 million) and employee share scheme trusts ($180 million). (2) Represents equity reserve balances associated with the insurance and funds management entities and those entities through which securitisation of the Group's assets are conducted. These entities are classified as non-consolidated subsidiaries by APRA and are excluded from the Level 2 Regulatory Consolidated Banking Group. (3) Comparative information has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1 to the Financial Statements. (4) Cumulative current period profit and retained earnings adjustments for subsidiaries not consolidated for regulatory purposes. (5) Non-controlling interests predominantly comprise ASB Perpetual Preference Shares of NZD 505 million issued by a New Zealand subsidiary entity. These are non-redeemable and carry limited voting rights. These are classified as additional Tier 1 Capital. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 286 Annual Report 2018 285 Other Capital adequacy information and liquidity Other Capital adequacy Strategic Information and liquidity report Capital (continued) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M Common Equity Tier 1 regulatory adjustments Goodwill (1) (8,021) (7,620) Other intangibles (including software) (2) (2,057) (2,144) Performance overview Capitalised costs and deferred fees (714) (707) Defined benefit superannuation plan surplus (3) (407) (298) General reserve for credit losses (4) (412) (412) Deferred tax asset (1,911) (1,627) Cash flow hedge reserve 160 107 Employee compensation reserve (145) (164) Equity investments (5) (2,967) (2,626) Corporate Equity investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries (6) (3,474) (2,673) Shortfall of provisions to expected losses (7) (212) (218) governance Gain due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities (116) (128) Other (336) (122) Common Equity Tier 1 regulatory adjustments (20,612) (18,632) Common Equity Tier 1 46,537 44,159 Directors’ Additional Tier 1 Capital report Basel III complying instruments (8) 9,455 8,090 Basel III non-complying instruments net of transitional amortisation (9) 640 635 Holding of Additional Tier 1 Capital (10) (200) (200) Additional Tier 1 Capital 9,895 8,525 Tier 1 Capital 56,432 52,684 Financial report Tier 2 Capital Basel III complying instruments (11) 11,262 7,744 Basel III non-complying instruments net of transitional amortisation (12) 1,166 1,495 Holding of Tier 2 Capital (25) (29) Prudential general reserve for credit losses (13) 176 182 Total Tier 2 Capital 12,579 9,392 Other information Total Capital 69,011 62,076 (1) Goodwill excludes $243 million which is included in equity investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries. In addition, Goodwill also includes $1,323 million Goodwill from discontinued operations. (2) Other intangibles (including capitalised software costs), net of any associated deferred tax liability. Other intangibles also includes $49 million other intangibles from discontinued operations. (3) In accordance with APRA regulations, the surplus in the Group’s defined benefit superannuation fund, net of any deferred tax liability, must be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1. (4) Adjustment to ensure the Group has sufficient provisions and capital to cover credit losses estimated to arise over the full life of individual facilities, as required by APRA Prudential Standard APS 220. (5) Represents the Group’s non-controlling interests in other entities. (6) Non-consolidated subsidiaries primarily represent the insurance and funds management companies operating within the Colonial Group. The Group’s insurance and fund management companies held $1,161 million of capital in excess of minimum regulatory requirements at 30 June 2018. (7) Regulatory Expected Loss (pre-tax) using stressed loss given default assumptions associated with the loan portfolio in excess of eligible credit provisions (pre-tax). (8) As at 30 June 2018 comprises, PERLS X $1,365 billion (April 2018), PERLS IX $1.64 million (March 2017), PERLS VIII $1.45 billion (March 2016), PERLS VII $3 billion (October 2014) and PERLS VI $2 billion (October 2012). (9) Represents APRA Basel III non-compliant Additional Tier 1 Capital Instruments that are eligible for Basel III transitional relief. (10) Represents holdings of Additional Tier 1 capital instruments issued by the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited. (11) During the 2018 financial year the Group issued USD 1.25 billion and EUR 1 billion subordinated notes that are Basel III compliant Tier 2. (12) Includes both perpetual and term instruments subordinated to depositors and general creditors, having an original maturity of at least five years. APRA requires these to be included as if they were unhedged. Term instruments are amortised at 20% of the original amount during each of the last five years to maturity. These instruments are eligible for Basel III transitional relief. (13) Represents the collective provision and general reserve for credit losses for exposures in the Group which are measured for capital purposes under the Standardised approach to credit risk. 287 286 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 Other Capital adequacy information and liquidity Other Capital adequacy information and liquidity Capital (continued) 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Risk Weighted Assets $M $M Credit Risk Subject to AIRB approach (1) Corporate (2) 68,479 74,663 SME corporate (2) 32,772 33,067 SME retail 4,709 4,838 SME retail secured by residential mortgage 2,458 2,766 Sovereign 2,509 2,154 Bank 11,097 12,598 Residential mortgage 139,203 134,969 Qualifying revolving retail 9,592 9,414 Other retail 15,750 15,101 Total RWA subject to AIRB approach 286,569 289,570 Specialised lending exposures subject to slotting criteria 55,893 58,752 Subject to Standardised approach Corporate 1,246 1,202 SME corporate 412 510 SME retail 5,856 6,172 Sovereign 222 271 Bank 79 136 Residential mortgage 5,627 5,017 Other retail 1,593 2,925 Other assets 5,241 5,291 Total RWA subject to Standardised approach 20,276 21,524 Securitisation 2,890 1,584 Credit valuation adjustment (3) 2,882 4,958 Central counterparties 1,018 871 Total RWA for Credit Risk Exposures 369,528 377,259 Traded market risk 8,255 4,650 Interest rate risk in the banking book 24,381 21,404 Operational risk 56,448 33,750 Total risk weighted assets 458,612 437,063 (1) Pursuant to APRA requirements, RWA amounts derived from AIRB risk weight functions have been multiplied by a scaling factor of 1.06. (2) Traded Market Risk RWA increase was driven by the conservative treatment, under the internal model approach, of some interest rate products, which is under review. (3) Operational Risk RWA increase mainly driven by: the $12.5 billon add-on required by APRA following the Prudential Inquiry findings; $2.9 billion arising from the inclusion of the Advice businesses in the Level 2 banking group for the first time; and regular assessment of the Group’s operational risk profile in the context of the evolving risk and regulatory environment. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 288 Annual Report 2018 287 Other Capital adequacy information and liquidity Other Capital adequacy Strategic Information and liquidity report Leverage Ratio As at Summary Group Leverage Ratio 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Tier 1 Capital ($M) 56,432 52,684 Performance Total Exposures ($M) (1) 1,018,622 1,027,958 overview Leverage Ratio (APRA) (%) 5. 5 5. 1 Leverage Ratio (Internationally Comparable) (%) (2) 6. 3 5. 8 (1) Total exposures is the sum of on Balance Sheet exposures, derivatives, Securities Financing Transactions (SFTs), and off Balance Sheet exposures, net of any Tier 1 regulatory deductions, as outlined in APS 110 “Capital Adequacy”. (2) The Tier 1 Capital included in the calculation of the internationally comparable leverage ratio aligns with the 13 July 2015 APRA study titled “International capital comparison study”, and includes Basel III non-compliant Tier 1 instruments that are currently subject to transitional rules. The Group’s leverage ratio, defined as Tier 1 Capital as a percentage of total exposure, was 5.5% at 30 June 2018 on an APRA basis Corporate governance and 6.3% on an internationally comparable basis. The ratio increased across the June 2018 full year benefitting from an increase in capital levels driven by internally generated capital combined with the issuance of PERLS X. In December 2017, as part of the final calibration of the leverage ratio, the BCBS announced:  Confirmation that the leverage ratio will have a minimum regulatory requirement of 3% effective from 1 January 2018 and;  Changes in the definition of exposures related to derivatives and off balance sheet items, effective from 1 January 2022. In February 2018, APRA released additional refinements to the BCBS guidance including a minimum leverage requirement of 4% for IRB Directors’ report banks. These changes are subject to consultation and are proposed to apply from 1 July 2019. Liquidity As at 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Level 2 $M $M Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) Liquid Assets Financial report High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) (1) 83,589 93,402 Committed Liquidity Facility (CLF) 53,300 48,300 Total LCR liquid assets 136,889 141,702 Net Cash Outflows (NCO) Customer deposits 73,470 77,298 Other Wholesale funding 13,893 17,579 information Other net cash outflows (2) 16,767 15,271 Total NCO 104,130 110,148 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%) 131 129 LCR surplus 32,759 31,554 (1) Includes all repo-eligible securities with the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Exchange Settlement Account (ESA) cash balance is netted down by the Reserve Bank of Australia open-repo of internal Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS). (2) Includes cash inflows. The Group holds high quality, well diversified liquid assets to meet Balance Sheet liquidity needs and internal and external regulatory requirements, such as APRA’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). At 30 June 2018, the Group’s LCR was 131%, up from 129% as at 30 June 2017. 289 288 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2018 290 Other Other Profit Profit information reconciliation Information reconciliation Commonwealth Bank of Australia Full Year Ended 30 June 2018 (Loss)/gain on Treasury Net profit Annual Report 2018 Net profit disposal and Hedging Bankwest shares after tax after tax acquisition of and IFRS non-cash valuation Investment statutory cash basis controlled entities (1) volatility items (2) adjustment experience basis Profit Reconciliation $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Group Interest income 34,543 34,543 Interest expense (16,202) (16,202) Net interest income 18,341 18,341 Other banking income 5,182 65 143 5,390 Total banking income 23,523 65 143 23,731 Funds management income 2,091 8 2,099 Insurance income 293 9 302 Total operating income 25,907 65 143 17 26,132 Investment experience 17 (17) Total income 25,924 65 143 26,132 Operating expenses (11,599) (30) (4) (11,633) Loan impairment expense (1,079) (1,079) Net profit before tax 13,246 35 143 (4) 13,420 Corporate tax (expense)/benefit (3,994) 9 (42) 1 (4,026) Non-controlling interests (19) (19) Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 9,233 44 101 (3) 9,375 (3) Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations 179 (227) 2 (46) Net profit after income tax 9,412 (183) 101 (3) 2 9,329 (1) Includes transaction and separation costs (net of tax) associated with the disposal of CommInsure Life and Sovereign ($136 million) and impairment due to the reclassification of TymeDigital as a discontinued operation ($91 million), demerger costs for NewCo ($21 million), a gain recognised on acquisition of AHL ($58 million), a gain on sale of County Banks ($11 million), and a loss due to the dilution of the Group’s interest in Qilu Bank Co. Ltd ($4 million). (2) Includes merger related amortisation through operating expenses of $4 million, and an income tax benefit of $1 million. (3) Statutory net profit after income tax from discontinued operations is presented net of non-controlling interests. 290 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report Other Profit information reconciliation Other Profit Information reconciliation Full Year Ended 30 June 2017 (1) (Loss)/gain on Treasury Net profit Net profit disposal and Hedging Bankwest shares after tax after tax acquisition of and IFRS non-cash valuation Investment statutory cash basis controlled entities volatility items (2) adjustment experience basis Profit Reconciliation $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Group Interest income 33,301 33,301 Interest expense (15,758) (15,758) Net interest income 17,543 17,543 Other banking income 5,578 106 5,684 Total banking income 23,121 106 23,227 Funds management income 1,913 15 1,928 Insurance income 223 8 231 Total operating income 25,257 106 23 25,386 Investment experience 23 (23) Total income 25,280 106 25,386 Operating expenses (10,622) (4) (10,626) Loan impairment expense (1,095) (1,095) Net profit before tax 13,563 106 (4) 13,665 Corporate tax (expense)/benefit (3,847) (33) 1 (3,879) Non-controlling interests (20) (20) Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 9,696 73 (3) 9,766 (3) Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations 185 (23) 162 Net profit after income tax 9,881 73 (3) (23) 9,928 (1) Comparative information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Includes merger related amortisation through operating expenses of $4 million, and an income tax benefit of $1 million. (3) Statutory net profit after income tax from discontinued operations is presented net of non-controlling interests. 291 Other Financial Directors’ Corporate Performance Strategic information report report governance overview report 290 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Glossary Financial and of terms remuneration Glossary Financial related and remuneration definitions of terms related definitions Term Description Assets Under Management Assets Under Management (AUM) represents the market value of assets for which the Group acts as appointed manager. Growth and volatility in this balance is a key performance indicator for the Wealth Management business. Board The Board of Directors of the Group. CET1 (Common Equity Tier 1 The highest quality of capital available to the Group reflecting the permanent and unrestricted Captial) commitment of funds that are freely available to absorb losses. It comprises ordinary share capital, retained earnings and reserves less prescribed deductions. Corporations Act Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) Customer satisfaction – Roy Morgan This represents satisfaction with Main Financial Institution (MFI) based on the relationship with the financial institution as measured by Roy Morgan Research. The figures are six months rolling averages and are based on respondents aged 14+. The measure is the percentage of customers who answered as being either “very satisfied” or “fairly satisfied” with their MFI. Net Promoter Score (NPS) is now the primary metric by which we assess customer satisfaction. Advocacy is measured on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being “Very Unlikely” and 10 bring “Very likely” to recommend. Measuring our customers’ satisfaction is important as satisfied customers usually return, they tell other people about their experiences, and they may well pay a premium for the privilege of doing business with an institution they trust. Our aim is to retain our customers by providing quality service to them. Deferred Rights Deferred Rights to ordinary shares in CBA are used for deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements, sign-on and retention awards. These equity awards are subject to forfeiture if the Executive ceases to be employed by the Group prior to the vesting date as a result of resignation. Dividend payout ratio (“cash basis”) Dividends paid on ordinary shares divided by net profit after tax (“cash basis”). Dividend payout ratio (“statutory Dividends paid on ordinary shares divided by net profit after tax (“statutory basis”). basis”) DPS Dividends per share. DRP Dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) DRP participation The percentage of total issued capital participating in the dividend reinvestment plan. EPS (Earnings per share) Basic earnings per share is the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank, divided by (basic) the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue during the period, per the requirements of relevant accounting standards. EPS (Earnings per share) (diluted) Diluted earnings per share adjusts the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank and the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue used in the calculation of basic earnings per share, for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares. Expense to income ratio Represents operating expenses as a percentage of total operating income. The ratio is a key efficiency measure. Executives The CEO and Group Executives are collectively referenced as ‘Executives’. Full-time equivalent staff Includes all permanent full-time staff, part-time staff equivalents and external contractors employed through third-party agencies. Funds Under Administration Funds Under Administration (FUA) represents the market value of funds administered by the Group and excludes AUM. Growth and volatility in this balance is a key performance indicator for the Wealth Management business. Group Commonwealth Bank of Australia and its subsidiaries. Group Executive (GE) Key Management Personnel who are also members of the Executive Leadership Team (excludes the CEO). Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book is the risk that the Bank’s profit derived from Net Interest Income Book (IRRBB) (interest earned less interest paid), in current and future periods, is adversely impacted from changes in interest rates. This is measured from two perspectives: firstly by quantifying the change in the net present value of the Balance Sheet’s future earnings potential, and secondly as the anticipated change to the Net Interest Income earned over 12 months. This calculation is driven by APRA regulations with further detail outlined in the Group’s Basel III Pillar 3 report. Jaws (%) The Group uses Jaws as a key measure of financial performance. It is calculated as the difference between Total operating income growth and Operating expenses growth compared to the prior comparative period. The Jaws ratio is an efficiency and profitability indicator for the Group Key Management Personnel (KMP) Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an entity, directly or indirectly, including any Director (whether Executive or otherwise) of that entity. Long-Term Variable Remuneration A variable remuneration arrangement which grants instruments to participating Executives that may (LTVR) vest over a period of four years if, and to the extent that, performance hurdles are met. The Group’s LTVR plan for Executives is the GLRP. The Company’s executive remuneration framework is designed to attract and retain high-calibre executives by rewarding them for achieving goals that are aligned to the Company’s strategy and shareholder interests. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 292 Annual Report 2018 292 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Glossary Financial and of terms remuneration Glossary related and Financial definitions remuneration Strategic of terms related definitions report Term Description Net profit after tax (“cash basis”) Represents net profit after tax and non-controlling interests before noncash items including hedging and IFRS volatility. Bankwest non-cash items, treasury shares valuation adjustment, and losses or gains on disposal and acquisition of entities This is Management’s preferred measure of the Group’s financial performance. Net profit after tax (“statutory basis”) Represents net profit after tax and non-controlling interests, calculated in accordance with Australian Accounting Performance Standards. Net Promoter Score Consumer DBM Consumer MFI Net Promoter Score. Australian Population 14+ (from Aug 16; 18+ for data prior). Refers overview to customers’ likelihood to recommend their MFI using a scale from 0-10 (where 0 being ‘Not at all likely’ and 10 being ‘Extremely likely’) and is calculated by subtracting the percentage of Total Detractors (0-6) from the percentage of Promoters (9-10). Note that percentage signs are not used to report NPS. 6 month rolling average. CBA excludes Bankwest, Westpac exclude St George. Net Promoter Score Business DBM Business Net Promoter Score measures the net likelihood of recommendation to others of the customer’s main financial institution. Net Promoter Score is a trademark of Bain & Co Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. Using a scale of 0 to 10 (0 means ‘extremely unlikely’ and 10 means ‘extremely likely’), the 0-6 raters (detractors) are deducted from the 9-10 raters (promoters). A 6-month rolling data is used. Corporate Net Promoter Score Mobile App Net Promoter Score – Mobile App (via mobile app on a mobile phone or tablet): Roy Morgan Research. governance Australian population 14+ who used the internet banking services of their (self-nominated) main financial institution in the last 4 weeks, rolling average of the last 6 months of spot scores, as at June 2018. Rank based on comparison to ANZ, NAB and Westpac. Net Promoter Score Internet Banking Net Promoter Score –Internet Banking (via the website or mobile app): Roy Morgan Research. Australian population 14+ who used the internet banking services of their (self-nominated) main financial institution in the last 4 weeks, rolling average of the last 6 months of spot scores, as at June 2018. Rank based on comparison to ANZ, NAB and Westpac. Net tangible assets per share Net assets excluding intangible assets, non-controlling interests, and other equity instruments divided by Directors’ ordinary shares on issue at the end of the period (excluding Treasury Shares deduction). report Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) The NSFR more closely aligns the behaviour terms of assets and liabilities. It is the ratio of the amount of available stable funding (ASF) to the amount of required stable funding (RSF). ASF is the portion of an ADI’s capital and liabilities expected to be a reliable source of funds over a one year time horizon. RSF is a function of the liquidity characteristics and residual maturities of an ADI’s assets and off-balance sheet activities Non-Executive Director Key Management Personnel who are not Executives. Profit after capital charge (PACC) The Group uses PACC, a risk-adjusted measure, as a key measure of financial performance. It takes into account the profit achieved, the risk to capital that was taken to achieve it, and other adjustments. Financial report Other Overseas Represents amounts booked in branches and controlled entities outside Australia and New Zealand. Return on equity – cash basis Based on cash net profit after tax and non-controlling interests less other equity instruments’ distributions applied to average shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests, other equity instruments and the treasury shares deduction. Return on equity is a performance metric that indicates shareholder return on investment for the period excluding capital growth. Return on equity – statutory basis Based on net profit after tax (“statutory basis”) less other equity instruments’ distributions applied to average shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests and other equity instruments. Other Reward Rights Rights to ordinary shares in CBA granted under the GLRP and subject to performance hurdles. The aim is to create and maintain a highly motivated employee force by providing an additional reward for their work. Short-Term Variable Remuneration Variable remuneration paid subject to the achievement of predetermined performance hurdles over one information (STVR) financial year. The Company’s executive remuneration framework is designed to attract and retain highcalibre executives by rewarding them for achieving goals that are aligned to the Company’s strategy and shareholder interests. Total Committed Exposure (TCE) Total Committed Exposure is defined as the balance outstanding and undrawn components of committed facility limits. It is calculated before collateralisation and excludes gross settlement exposures on derivatives. Weighted average number of shares The calculation incorporates the bonus element of any rights issue, discount element of any DRP and excludes (“cash basis”) “Treasury Shares” related to investment in the Bank’s shares held by the employee share scheme trust. Weighted average number of shares The calculation incorporates the bonus element of any rights issue, discount element of any DRP and excludes (“statutory basis”) “Treasury Shares” related to investments in the Bank’s shares held by both the life insurance statutory funds and by the employee share scheme trust. 293 Glossary Non-financial of terms performance Glossary metrics definitions Non-financial performance of terms metrics definitions Metric Description ENVIRONMENT Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) is the sum of Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Gas Emissions (Group) (Group), Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) and Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) defined below. Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Comprises the sum of Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Australia, New Zealand and other overseas (Group) locations, as defined below. Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Comprises the sum of Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Australia, New Zealand and other overseas (Group) locations, as defined below. Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Comprises the sum of Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Australia, New Zealand and other overseas (Group) locations, as defined below. Greenhouse Gas Emissions per FTE Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Group as – Scope (1 & 2) (Group) detailed above. FTE relates to the Group’s full-time equivalent employees. For consistency and comparability with peers, emissions per FTE relate to Scope 1 and 2 only. Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) are the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Gas Emissions (Australia) emissions (Australia) defined below. This comprises CBA, Bankwest and Aussie Home Loans (AHL). Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the consumption of natural gas and stationary fuel (Australia) used in retail, commercial and data centre properties under our operational control as defined under National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER). It also includes the business use of our tool-of-trade vehicle fleet. Source of emissions factors: National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors (2017). Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the electricity used by ATMs, retail, commercial, (Australia) residential and data centre properties under our operational control as defined under NGER. Source of emissions factors: NGA Factors (2017). Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to indirect emissions associated with Scope 1 and (Australia) Scope 2 emission sources, rental car and taxi use, business use of private vehicles, dedicated bus service, business flights, waste to landfill and emissions associated with electricity consumption at data centres not under CBA’s operational control. FY14 to FY16 data has been restated to include data centres Scope 3 emissions relate to the electricity and diesel consumption in our Australian data centres not under our operational control. Source of emissions factors: NGA Factors (2017) and UK Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) guidance (2017) for flights. Greenhouse Gas Emissions per FTE Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Australia as detailed (Scope 1 & 2) (Australia) above. FTE relates to domestic full-time equivalent employees in Australia. For consistency and comparability with peers, emissions per FTE relate to Scope 1 and 2 only. Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) are the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope Gas Emissions (New Zealand) 3 emissions (New Zealand) defined below. This comprises ASB and Sovereign. Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) relate to the consumption of natural gas and stationary (New Zealand) fuel used in commercial properties. It also includes the business use of our tool-of-trade vehicle fleet. Source of emissions factors: Guidance for Voluntary Corporate Greenhouse Gas Reporting (2016). Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) relate to the electricity use by ATMs and retail and (New Zealand) commercial properties. Source of emissions factors: Guidance for Voluntary Corporate Greenhouse Gas Reporting (2016). Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) relate to indirect emissions associated with Scope 1 and (New Zealand) Scope 2 emission sources, waste to landfill, business air travel, taxi use and hire cars, fuel consumed by operating lease fleet vehicles and personal vehicles used by staff for business purposes, postal and courier services and paper. Source of emissions factors: Guidance for Voluntary Corporate Greenhouse Gas Reporting (2016) and DEFRA (2017). Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) are the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Gas Emissions (Other overseas) Scope 3 emissions (Other overseas) defined below. This comprises Group’s offices in Asia, Africa, Europe and North America. Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) is an estimate of multiplying the Scope 1 Emissions per (Other overseas) FTE as at 30 June 2018 in Australia by the number of FTEs of all the Group’s other overseas offices. Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) is an estimate of multiplying the Scope 2 Emissions per (Other overseas) FTE as at 30 June 2018 in Australia by the number of FTEs of all the Group’s other overseas offices. The 2018 approach differs from prior year data, which included invoiced electricity consumption data for Asia locations. Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) is an estimate of multiplying the Scope 3 Emissions per (Other overseas) FTE in Australia by the number of FTEs as at 30 June 2018 of all the Group’s other overseas offices. Scope 1 Stationary Greenhouse Gas Scope 1 Stationary Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the consumption of diesel and natural gas Emissions (Australia) used in retail, commercial and data centre properties in Australia under our operational control as defined under NGER. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2017). Commonwealth Bank of Australia 294 Annual Report 2018 293 Glossary Non-financial of terms performance Glossary metrics definitions Non-financial performance Strategic of terms metrics definitions report Metric Description Scope 1 Transport Greenhouse Gas Scope 1 Transport Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the consumption of diesel, ethanol E10 and Emissions (Australia) petrol from our business use of our domestic tool-of-trade vehicle fleet in Australia. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2017). Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the electricity used by ATMs, Performance Greenhouse Gas Emissions retail, commercial, residential and data centre properties under our operational control in Australia as defined (Australia) under NGER. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2017). overview Scope 3 Stationary Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 Stationary Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to indirect emissions associated with diesel Emissions (Australia) and natural gas used in retail, commercial and data centre properties in Australia under our operational control as defined under NGER. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2017). Scope 3 Purchased Electricity Scope 3 Purchased Electricity Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia operations) relate to indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions emissions associated with the electricity used by ATMs, retail, commercial and residential properties (Australia) under our operational control in Australia. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2017). Scope 3 Data Centres Greenhouse Scope 3 Data centres Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia operations) relate to the electricity and diesel Corporate Gas Emissions (Australia operations) consumption in our Australian data centres not under our operational control as defined under NGER. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2017). Scope 3 Waste to Landfill Scope 3 Waste to Landfill Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia operations) relate to emissions generated from governance Greenhouse Gas Emissions our waste to landfill from our commercial properties under our operational control in Australia. Refer to Total (Australia operations) waste to Landfill definition below for more details. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2017). Scope 3 Transport Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 Transport Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to rental car and taxi use, business use of Emissions (Australia) private vehicles, dedicated bus service, business flights, and indirect emissions from business use of our toolof-trade vehicle fleet. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2017) and DEFRA (2017) for flights. Total Waste Total waste comprises the sum of waste to landfill and waste recycled as defined below. Directors’ Total Waste to Landfill Tonnes of waste to landfill generated per annum from CBA, Bankwest and AHL’s commercial buildings under report our operational control in Australia. Commercial buildings are buildings that are used for office space and are not retail branches. As a 30 June 2018, we occupied 50 commercial buildings across the states. As at 30 June 2018, 58% waste to landfill data is based on invoiced amounts, the remainder is estimated based on an average tonnes per m2 of net lettable area (NLA). Invoiced amounts are estimated by the total number of bin lifts using density conversion factors or actual weighed amounts where available. These commercial buildings represent the home office location for 72% of the Group’s total Australian FTE employees. For the first time in 2018, organic stream is diverted from waste to landfill to waste recycled for properties where data can be reported separately. Financial In 2016-2017, the scope comprised nine major commercial buildings located in NSW and WA which includes 2, 4 and 10 Dawn Fraser Av, 1 and 11 Harbour St, Tower 1 201 Sussex St, 101 and 150 George St and report Bankwest Place. 2013-2015 results did not include Bankwest Place. Total Waste Recycled Tonnes of recycled waste generated per annum from CBA, Bankwest and AHL’s commercial buildings under our operational control in Australia. Commercial buildings are buildings that are used for office space and are not retail branches. As a 30 June 2018, we occupied 50 commercial buildings across the states. 68% waste recycled data is based on invoiced amounts, the remainder is estimated based on an average tonnes per m2 of net lettable area (NLA). Invoiced amounts are estimated by the total number of bin lifts using density conversion factors or actual weighed amounts where available. For the first time in 2018, organic stream is diverted from waste to landfill to waste recycled for properties where data can be reported Other separately. information In 2016-2017, the scope comprised nine major commercial buildings located in NSW and WA which includes 2, 4 and 10 Dawn Fraser Av, 1 and 11 Harbour St, Tower 1 201 Sussex St, 101 and 150 George St and Bankwest Place. 2013-2015 results did not include Bankwest Place. Total Water Water consumption (kilolitres) includes tenanted usage from CBA, Bankwest and AHL’s commercial buildings in Australia. Commercial buildings are buildings that are used for office space and are not retail branches. As at 30 June, we occupied 50 commercial buildings across the states. Consumption amounts are calculated as follows:  Actual invoiced water quantities are used where available.  Where a complete set of invoices is not available, CBA extrapolates the remaining months of data from a monthly average based on invoiced amounts.  Where CBA occupies a portion of a building and invoices are only available for the whole building, CBA reports an apportioned amount, based on its occupied NLA of the building.  Where CBA occupies a portion of a building and no invoiced data is available, CBA reports an estimated amount, based on an average kL per m2, which is calculated from CBA buildings where invoices are available. As at 30 June 2018, 46% water consumption is based on actual invoiced amounts. In 2016-2017, the scope comprised nine major commercial buildings located in NSW and WA which includes 2, 4 and 10 Dawn Fraser Av, 1 and 11 Harbour St, Tower 1 201 Sussex St, 101 and 150 George St and Bankwest Place. 2013-2015 results did not include Bankwest Place Data Centres Water CBA uses five data centres in Australia. CBA only has access to actual water consumption (kilolitres) from invoices for three data centres (Frame Court, Burwood and Norwest). As CBA has no access to water consumption data for the other two data centres, these have been excluded from the reported metric. Frame Court was under our operational control until February 2018, Burwood and Norwest are not under our operational control. Operational control is defined under NGER. 295 294 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report Glossary Non-financial of terms performance metrics definitions Glossary Non-financial performance of terms metrics definitions Metric Description CUSTOMER CBA – Retail Net Promoter Score This metric measures the likelihood of individual retail customers who identified CBA as their main financial (NPS) institution, recommending CBA to others. It is based on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being ‘very unlikely’ to recommend and 10 being ‘very likely’ to recommend. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) is calculated by subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ (score 1-6) from the percentage of ‘promoters’ (score 9-10). The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June, based on the Australian population aged 14 and over, surveyed by Roy Morgan. The ranking refers to CBA’s position relative to the other main banks (ANZ, NAB and Westpac (excluding St. George)). ®Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a trademark of Bain and Company, Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. CBA – Online Net Promoter Score This metric measures the likelihood of individual customers who identified CBAs as their main financial (NPS) institution, recommending CBA to others based on their experience using Internet Banking services via CBA Website or Mobile App. It is based on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being ‘very unlikely’ to recommend and 10 being ‘very likely’ to recommend. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) is calculated by subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ (score 1-6) from the percentage of ‘promoters’ (score 9-10). The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June, based on the Australian population aged 14 and over, surveyed by Roy Morgan. The ranking refers to CBA’s position relative to the other main banks (ANZ, NAB and Westpac (excluding St. George)). ®Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a trademark of Bain and Company, Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. CBA – Business Net Promoter Score This metric measures the likelihood of institutions banking customers who identified CBA as their main (NPS) business’s financial institution, recommending CBA to others. It is based on a scale of 0 to 10, with 1 being ‘very unlikely’ to recommend and 10 being ‘very likely’ to recommend. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) is calculated by subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ (score 1-6) from the percentage of ‘promoters’ (score 9-10). The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June, based on survey by DBM Consultants. The ranking refers to CBA’s position relative to the other major banks: ANZ, NAB and Westpac. CBA excludes Bankwest and Westpac excludes St George. DBM interviews approximately 19,000 businesses annually, covering the whole market including Institutional Banking customers via its product 'Business Financial Services Monitor'. Participating businesses includes:  All actively trading businesses, (Australian and foreign-owned registered in Australia);  Commercially operating government organisations; or  Community service organisations (not-for-profit). ®Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a trademark of Bain and Company, Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. Wealth Management – Colonial First The metric is calculated based on the weighted average (using Funds Under Administration (FUA) from the State’s platforms Customer most recent Strategic Insight (formerly known as Plan for Life) FUA subscription database) of the overall Satisfaction satisfaction scores (out of 10, from the annual Wealth Insights Platform Service Level Survey) of FirstChoice and FirstWrap. The ranking is calculated by comparing the overall satisfaction score with the weighted average of other platform providers in the relevant peer set (using the same FUA weighted methodology as the CFS score). The relevant peer set includes platforms belonging to Westpac, NAB, ANZ, AMP and Macquarie Bank in the Wealth Insights survey. Bankwest – Retail Banking Customer This metric represents the average score retail customers give on a scale of 1-10 surveyed by Roy Advocacy Morgan, based on their likelihood of recommending Bankwest as their Main Financial Institution (MFI). MFI customers are defined as retail customers who consider Bankwest to be their main financial institution. The metric is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June, based on the Australian population aged 14 and over. Bankwest – Business Banking The metric represents the average score business customers give on a scale of 0-10, based on their Customer Advocacy likelihood to recommend Bankwest as their Main Financial Institution (MFI). MFI customers are defined as business customers who consider Bankwest to be their main financial institution. The metric is measured by DBM’s Business Financial Services Monitor as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 296 Annual Report 2018 295 Glossary Non-financial of terms performance Glossary metrics definitions Non-financial performance Strategic of terms metrics definitions report Metric Description Sovereign – Customer Experience The metric represents the average score of customer experience measured by the Customer Experience Survey Score conducted by Sovereign, which is sent to customers who have had a recent interaction with Sovereign. The score is based on averages from three customer groups – new customers, existing customers and customers who have made a claim. Performance ASB – Retail Banking Customer The metric represents the proportion of retail customers surveyed by Camorra Research Retail Market Monitor Satisfaction (RMM) that rated either ‘Excellent’ or ‘Very good’ on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is ‘Poor’ and 5 is ‘Excellent’ on their satisfaction level with their main provider of financial services. The metric is reported as a 12 month rolling overview average as at 30 June, based on the New Zealand population aged 15 – 79. The ranking refers to ASB’s position relative to the other four main New Zealand banks (ANZ, BNZ, Kiwibank and Westpac). ASB – Business and Rural Banking The metric represents the proportion of business and rural customers surveyed by Kantar TNS that rated Customer Satisfaction ‘Excellent’ or ‘Very good’ on their overall satisfaction level with their main bank on a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 is ‘Excellent’ and 6 is ‘Very poor’. Main bank is defined as the main provider of financial services by the customer. The metric is reported as a four quarters rolling average to 30 June, based on the New Zealand business and rural populations. The ranking refers to ASB’s position relative to the other main New Zealand banks. The Corporate competitor set varies for different segments. For small businesses, they are ANZ, BNZ, Kiwibank and Westpac. For commercial and corporate, they are ANZ, BNZ and Westpac. For rural, they are ANZ, BNZ, Westpac and governance Rabobank. PT Bank Commonwealth – Banking The metric represents the results of the Bank Service Excellence Monitor (BSEM) survey conducted by Service Excellence Performance Marketing Research Indonesia (MRI) independently every year using mystery shopping methodology. In 2018, BSEM measured service excellence performance of the top 23 banks in Indonesia (private owned-banks, government banks and foreign banks). Customer Complaints The number of complaints resolved as at 30 June for the Group as recorded in the FirstPoint feedback system excluding Bankwest and ASB, as defined by the Australian Securities and Investments Directors’ Commission Regulatory Guide 165. This includes complaints which has taken more than 5 business days to resolve to the customer’s complete satisfaction and any complaints relating to hardship, a declined insurance claim, or the value of an insurance claim. report SOCIAL Full-time equivalent employees (FTE) This metric represents the full-time equivalent (FTE) employees of the Group by geographical work locations. FTE captures full-time, part-time, job-share employees, employees on extended leave and contractors. One full-time role is equal to 38 working hours per week. The FY16 and FY14 numbers are restated due to internal reconfigurations. Employee engagement index – CBA The index shows the proportion of employees replying with a score of 4 or 5 to four engagement questions in the Group’s annual People and Culture Survey. These questions relate to satisfaction, Financial report retention, advocacy and pride on a scale of 1-5 (where 1 is ‘Strongly Disagree’ and 5 is ‘Strongly Agree’). The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, AHL, ASB, Sovereign and IFS. Employee turnover (voluntary) Employee turnover refers to all voluntary exits of permanent employees as a percentage of the average, permanent headcount paid directly by the Group (full-time, part-time, job-share or on extended leave), excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. Voluntary exits are determined to be resignations and retirements. Women in workforce (headcount) The metric represents percentage of roles filled by women, in relation to the total headcount as at 30 June for the Group. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job-share, on Other extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. information Women in Manager and above roles The metric represents percentage of roles that are filled by women at the level of Manager and above (headcount) (including Branch Managers), in relation to the total headcount at this level as at 30 June. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. Women in Executive Manager and The metric represents percentage of roles at the level of Executive Manager and above filled by women, above roles (headcount) in relation to the total headcount at these levels as at 30 June. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. Women in Senior Leadership (Group This metric represents the percentage of roles that are filled by women who are current executives as at Executives) 30 June. These roles are direct reports of the CEO with authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling CBA’s activities. This excludes ASB and Sovereign. For the list of current executives, please refer to the 2018 Annual Report page 84 to 85. Gender pay equity – female to male Gender pay equity is defined as the pay gap between the weighted average base salary of males and base salary comparison females for Australian-based employees of the Group. The data reflects roles in similar functions, role size and responsibilities. The data refers to permanent full time and part time employees, excluding contractors, and employees who have not defined a gender, as at 31 January 2018. Age diversity Age diversity is the breakdown of permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave) and those contractors paid directly by the Group, by their age group as at 30 June of the reporting year. The population excludes the employees of ASB and Sovereign. 297 297 Glossary Non-financial of terms performance Glossary metrics definitions Non-financial performance of terms metrics definitions Metric Description Cultural diversity index Cultural Diversity Index (CDI) is the concentration mix of all cultures of the Group’s employees, resulting in an index between 0 and 1, where the higher the score, the more diverse the population. The index is calculated using anonymous, self-disclosed demographic information by employees from the Group’s annual People and Culture Survey and benchmarked against the ancestry question in the Australian 2016 Census. The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, AHL, ASB, Sovereign and IFS. Indigenous workforce The metric represents the ancestry of respondents who chose to nominate the ancestry they most strongly identify with in the Group’s annual People and Culture Survey conducted by CBA. Indigenous Workforce shows the proportions of employees who selected: 1) Australian Peoples – Australian Aboriginal 2) Australian Peoples – Torres Strait Islander; and 3) Australian Peoples – Both Australian & Torres Strait Islander. The surveyed population is the same as the ‘Employee Engagement Index – CBA’. 2016 Australia Census Indigenous question show that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples represented 2.8 per cent of the population in Australia. Employees who identify as having a The metric represents the proportion of CBA employees that have selected any of the disability conditions disability in the last 12 months based on the survey responses in the Group’s annual People and Culture Survey. Answer options for disability condition include: • Physical condition • Intellectual condition • Chronic health • Mental illness • Vision impairment • Hearing impairment and • Other (not listed). The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, AHL, ASB, Sovereign and IFS. Employees who identify as LGBTI The metric represents the proportion of CBA employees who identify as LGBTI in the last 12 months based on the survey responses in the Group’s annual People and Culture Survey. Answer options for LGBTI include:• Heterosexual (also known as straight) • Gay • Bisexual • Transgender • Intersex. The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, AHL, ASB, Sovereign and IFS. Employees working flexibly The metric represents the proportion of CBA employees that have used flexible work options in the last 12 months based on the survey responses in the Group’s annual People and Culture Survey. The answer options are multi-select. Answer options for flexible working include: working from home, alternating my start/finish time; working from a different location; purchased extra annual leave; job-share; part time/reduced working hours; compressed work week; and other. Note this question was updated in FY17, the previous question was “My manager allows me the flexibility I need to meet my work goals and personal needs with”, employees responded with a score of 4 and 5. The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, AHL, ASB, Sovereign and IFS. Employees working part-time or jobThe number of employees at 30 June who are employed on a part-time or job share basis, as a sharing percentage of permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave) and contractors paid directly by the Group, excluding the employees of ASB and Sovereign. Employees with caring responsibilities The metric represents the proportion of CBA employees that have selected any of the following caring responsibilities in the last 12 months based on the survey responses in the Group’s annual People and Culture Survey. Answer options for caring responsibilities include: • Elderly • Children under the age of 18 • People with a disability • People with a chronic condition •Someone experiencing domestic, family violence and/or sexual assault • other family members. The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, AHL, ASB, Sovereign and IFS. Number of graduates The number of graduates who accepted and commenced in a graduate position with CBA or Bankwest under the Talent Acquisition programme during the year ended 30 June. Training hours This represents the total completed training hours recorded in CBA’s learning management system 'PeopleLink' as at 30 June. Training hours are allocated to each training item such as face-to-face or online training. Executive Managers, General Managers, Executive General Managers and the Chief Executive Officer are included in 'Executive Managers and above' and 'Others' includes team managers and team members. Training hours per employee This metric represents the average completed training hours per employee that is recorded in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June, measured by headcount. Environmental, Social and Number of employees who have completed ESG learning modules recorded in CBA’s learning Governance (ESG) Training management system 'PeopleLink' as at 30 June, measured by headcount. The ESG learning modules are ESG Risk Fundamentals, ESG Risk Tool and Responsible Investing and Equator Principles III eLearning. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR is the reported number of occurrences of lost time arising from injury or disease that have resulted (LTIFR) in an accepted workers compensation claim, for each million hours worked by Australia and New Zealand employees. The metric captures claims relating to permanent, casual, AHL’s employees as well as contractors paid directly by the Group. Data is presented using the information available as at 30 June for each financial year. Prior year results include Australia-based employees only. Absenteeism Absenteeism refers to the average number of sick leave days per Australia-based full-time equivalent (FTE) (and for CommSec employees, it includes carers leave days), excluding Bankwest. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 298 Annual Report 2018 297 Glossary Non-financial of terms performance Glossary Non-financial performance metrics definitions of terms metrics definitions Strategic report Metric Description Total community investments Total voluntary investments contributed to communities in the form of cash contributions, time volunteering, foregone revenue and program implementation costs as defined under each metric below. Cash contributions Total dollars contributed by the Group through charitable gifts, community partnerships and matched giving. Matched giving excludes staff contributions. Performance Time volunteering Total estimated cost of volunteering hours contributed by CBA and Bankwest Australia-based employees through volunteering activities as captured in CBA’s volunteering database. Average hourly rates are overview calculated using Australia-based permanent employees' salaries as at 30 June excluding the salary of the executive leadership and management teams. Forgone revenue Forgone revenue consists of the aggregate value of fee-free or discounted CBA customers banking accounts (relating to Monthly Account Fee and Transaction Fees only, not including discounts in interest rates) for customers who have been assessed as low-income earners, underprivileged or not-for-profit organisations. Program implementation costs Total costs incurred by the Group to implement community investment programs, operating costs of Corporate managing the Indigenous Customer Assistance Line call centre, operating cost of managing the Group Corporate Affairs team and Women in Focus as well as other not-for-profit activities and school governance programs. These costs include salary and wages, occupancy, IT and other administration costs. Community investments as a Total community investments as a percentage of the Group’s statutory pre-tax profit as at 30 June. percentage of pre-tax profit School banking students (active) The number of active students who participated in the CBA School Banking program from the period 1 July to 30 June. Active students are those who banked at least once during the last 12-month period through a school which participated in the CBA School Banking program. Start Smart students (booked) The number of students booked to attend the CBA’s Start Smart programs from the period 1 July to 30 Directors’ report June. Start Smart sessions cover different topics and the same student may be booked to attend a number of sessions. Indigenous Customer Assistance Line Number of calls received via the dedicated Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (ICAL) of CBA during (calls received) the period from 1 July to 30 June. The metric does not take into account calls that were abandoned by customers. This assistance line is dedicated to assist the Australian indigenous community. Australian Indigenous supplier spend The Group’s total direct and indirect supplier diversity spend on Indigenous businesses in Australia. The spend includes supply of stationery, services and other products used by CBA. Indigenous businesses are those businesses who are registered or certified with Supply Nation. This metric excludes payments to the Australian Indigenous business that were given as grants. Financial GOVERNANCE report Female Directors on Board The metric represents percentage of female Directors in relation to the total Commonwealth Bank of Australia Board as at 30 June. Training completion rates on ‘Our The metric represents percentage of employees who have been assigned and completed ‘Our Commitments’ Commitments’ learning module recorded in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Bankwest, ASB and Sovereign. Training completion rates on The metric represents the percentage of employees who have been assigned and completed the Group’s Other information mandatory learning mandatory learning modules recorded in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June. The Group’s mandatory learning modules are Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Anti-Money Laundering & Counter-Terrorism Financing, Conflicts of Interest, Fraud, Security and Privacy, Resolving Customer Complaints, Workplace Conduct and Health and Safety. Substantiated misconduct cases This metric represents closed substantiated misconduct cases managed in Australia by the Workplace Relations team and Group Investigations team. The metric excludes incidents reported by local associates and joint ventures. There are various internal policies within the Group that govern staff conduct obligations, such as ‘Our Commitments’ which is the guiding framework at CBA. SpeakUP Program cases The metric represents the number of SpeakUP cases recorded in the Group’s SpeakUP Program records as at 30 June. The cases include disclosure types such as anonymous, confidential and whistleblower. Whistleblower cases The metric represents the number of whistleblower cases recorded in the Group’s Speak UP Program records as at 30 June. 298 Commonwealth Bank of Australia 299 Annual Report International representation International representation Australia Americas Hong Kong United States Head Office CBA Hong Kong Branch, Commonwealth Bank of Australia CBA Branch Office Level 13, One Exchange Square, Ground Floor, Tower 1 Level 30, 599 Lexington Avenue 8 Connaught Place, 201 Sussex Street New York NY 10022 Central, Hong Kong Sydney NSW 2000 Telephone: +1 212 848 9200 Telephone: +852 2844 7500 Telephone: +61 2 9378 2000 Managing Director, Americas Managing Director, Hong Kong Leon Allen New Zealand Maaike Steinebach ASB Bank Limited First State Investments ASB North Wharf 10 East 53rd Street, Floor 21 CBA International Financial Services 12 Jellicoe Street New York NY 10022 Limited Auckland Central Telephone: +1 212 497 9980 Level 14, One Exchange Square Auckland 1010 Managing Director, Americas 8 Connaught Place, Telephone: +64 9 306 3000 Heather Brilliant Central, Hong Kong Chief Executive Officer Telephone: +852 2293 7888 Asia Group Executive International Financial Vittoria Shortt China Services CBA NZ Branch CMG, Beijing Representative Office Coenraad Jonker ASB North Wharf Unit 2908, Level 29 12 Jellicoe Street China World Tower 1, First State Investments Auckland Central 1 Jianguomenwai Avenue, Level 25, One Exchange Square Auckland 1010 Beijing 100004 8 Connaught Place, Telephone: +64 9 337 4748 Telephone: +86 10 6505 5023 Central, Hong Kong General Manager China Chief Representative Telephone: +852 2846 7566 Andrew Woodward James Gao Facsimile: +852 2868 4742 FSI Managing Director – Asia CBA Beijing Branch Office Michael Stapleton Africa Level 46, China World Tower, South Africa 1 Jianguomenwai Avenue, TymeDigital, Beijing 100004 Commonwealth Bank of South Africa, Telephone: +86 10 5680 3000 2nd Floor, 30 Jellicoe Avenue, Rosebank Branch Manager Beijing Johannesburg 2196 Tony Zhang Telephone: + 27 87 2868833 Executive General Manager, CBA Shanghai Branch Office South Africa Level 11 Azia Centre Sandile Shabalala 1233 Lujiazui Ring Road Pudong Shanghai 200120 Telephone: +86 21 6123 8900 Branch Manager Shanghai Bosco Pun First State Investments 24th Floor, China Merchants Bank Building 7088, Shen Nan Road, Shenzhen China 518040 Telephone: +86 755 8317 2666 Managing Partner, First State Stewart Michael Stapleton Commonwealth Bank of Australia 300 Annual Report 2018 International representation International Strategic report representation Indonesia First State Investments Malta PT Bank Commonwealth 38 Beach Road 06-11 South Beach Tower CommBank Europe Limited World Trade Centre 6, 3A Floor Singapore 189767 Level 3 Strand Towers Jl. Jenderal Sudirman Kay. 29-31, Telephone: +65 801 390 36 The Strand Jakarta 12920 Sliema SLM07 Performance Telephone: +62 21 5296 1222 FSI Managing Director – Asia Telephone: +356 2132 0812 President Director Michael Stapleton Chief Financial Officer overview Lauren Sulistiawati Greg Williams Vietnam PT Commonwealth Life CBA Representative Office United Kingdom World Trade Centre 6, 3A Floor England Suite 603-604 Jl. Jenderal Sudirman Kay. 29-31, Central Building CBA Branch Office Jakarta 12920 31 Hai Ba Trung, Hanoi 1 New Ludgate Telephone: +62 21 570 5000 Telephone: +84 4 3824 3213 60 Ludgate Hill President Director Chief Representative and Director of London EC4M 7AW Corporate Telephone: +44 20 7710 3999 governance Elvis Liongosari Investment and Banking Hanh Nguyen Managing Director, Europe First State Investments Paul Orchart 29th Floor, Gedung Artha Graha CBA Digital Solutions Company Limited Sudirman Central Business District Levels 7-11, 4B Ton Duc Thang, Dist. 1 First State Investments Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 52-53 Ho Chi Minh City Finsbury Circus House Jakarta 12190 Telephone: +842838246276 15 Finsbury Circus Directors’ Telephone: +62 21 515 0088 General Director London EC2M 7EB Managing Director Christopher Bennett Telephone: +44 0 20 7332 6500 Hazrina Dewi Managing Director, EMEA report Europe France Chris Turpin Japan First State Investments Scotland CBA Branch Office 8th Floor, Toranomon Waiko Building 14, Avenue d’Eylau First State Investments 12-1 Toranomon 5-chome 75016 Paris 23 St Andrew Square Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0001 Telephone: +33 1 7302 4674 Edinburgh EH2 1BB Telephone: +81 3 5400 7280 Managing Director, EMEA Telephone: +44 0 131 473 2201 Financial Chris Turpin Managing Director, EMEA report Branch Head Tokyo Martin Spann Germany Chris Turpin First State Investments First State Investments Westhafen Tower 8th Floor, Toranomon Waiko Building Westhafenplatz 1 12-1 Toranomon 5-chome 60327 Frankfurt a.M. Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0001 Telephone: +49 0 69 710456 302 Telephone: +81 3 5402 4831 Other Managing Director, EMEA FSI Managing Director – Asia Chris Turpin information Michael Stapleton Singapore CBA Branch Office 38 Beach Road 06-11 South Beach Tower Singapore 189767 Telephone: +65 6349 7000 Managing Director, Singapore Scott Speedie 301 Corporate Directory Corporate directory 132 221 General Enquiries Available from 8am to 7pm (Sydney Time), Monday to Friday, for For your everyday banking including paying bills using BPAY® our share trading and stock market enquiries, and 8am to 7pm 7 days automated service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. a week for CommSec Cash Management. A 24 hour lost and stolen card line is available 24 hours, 7 days a week. 132 221 Lost, Stolen or Damaged Cards 131 709 CommSec Margin Loan To report a lost or stolen card 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. From overseas call +61 2 9999 3283. Operator assistance is Enables you to expand your portfolio by borrowing against your available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. existing shares and managed funds. To find out more simply call 131 709 8am to 6pm (Sydney Time) Monday to Friday or visit ® Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518 www.commsec.com.au. 132 224 Home Loans and Investment Home Loans 1800 019 910 Corporate Financial Services To apply for a new home loan or investment home loan or to For a full range of financial solutions for medium-size and larger maintain an existing loan. Available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a companies. week. Available from 8am to 6pm (Sydney Time), Monday to Friday. 131 431 Personal Loan Sales 131 998 Local Business Banking To apply for a new personal loan. A dedicated team of Business Banking Specialists, supporting a Available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. network of branch business bankers, will help you with your 1800 805 605 Customer Relations financial needs. If you would like to pay us a compliment or are dissatisfied with Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or visit any aspect of the service you have received. www.commbank.com.au/lbb. Internet Banking 1300 772 968 (1300 AGLINE) AgriLine You can apply for a home loan, credit card, personal loan, term A dedicated team of Agribusiness Specialists will help you with deposit or a savings account on the internet by visiting our website your financial needs. With our Business Banking team living in at www.commbank.com.au available 24 hours a day, 7 days a regional and rural Australia, they understand the challenges you week. face. Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Do your everyday banking on our internet banking service Colonial First State NetBank at www.commbank.com.au/netbank available 24 hours a Existing investors can call 131 336 from 8am to 7pm (Sydney day, 7 days a week. Time) Monday to Friday. To apply for access to NetBank, call 132 221. New investors without a financial adviser can call 1300 360 645. Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Financial advisers can call 131 836. Do your business banking on our Business Internet Banking Alternatively, visit www.colonialfirststate.com.au. Service CommBiz at www.commbank.com.au/CommBiz available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 1300 362 081 Commonwealth Private To apply for access to CommBiz, call 132 339. Commonwealth Private offers clients with significant financial Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. resources a comprehensive range of services, advice and opportunities to meet their specific needs. For a confidential Special Telephony Services discussion about how Commonwealth Private can help you, call Customers who are hearing or speech impaired can contact us via 1300 362 081 between 8am to 5:30pm (Sydney time), the National Relay Service (www.relayservice.com.au) available Monday to Friday or visit 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. www.commbank.com.au/commonwealthprivate  Telephone Typewriter (TTY) service users can be connected 132 015 Commonwealth Financial Services to any of our telephone numbers via 133 677.  Speak and Listen (speech-to-speech relay) users can also For enquiries on retirement and superannuation products, or connect to any of our telephone numbers by calling managed investments. Available from 8.30am to 6pm (Sydney 1300 555 727. Time), Monday to Friday.  Internet relay users can be connected to our telephone Unit prices are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. numbers via National Relay Service. CommInsure 131 519 CommSec (Commonwealth Securities) For all your general insurance needs call 132 423 8am to 8pm For enquiries about CommSec products and services (Sydney Time), Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm (Sydney Time) visit www.commsec.com.au. on Saturday. For all your life insurance needs call 131 056 8am to 8pm (Sydney Time), Monday to Friday. Alternatively, visit www.comminsure.com.au. Commonwealth Bank of Australia 302 Annual Report 2018 302 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Contact us Strategic Contact us report Registered Office Ground Floor, Tower 1 201 Sussex Street Sydney NSW 2000 Telephone +61 2 9378 2000 Performance Facsimile +61 2 9118 7192 Company Secretary Taryn Morton overview Shareholder Information www.commbank.com.au/shareholder Share Registrar Link Market Services Limited Corporate Level 12 680 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 governance Telephone: 1800 022 440 Internet: www.linkmarketservices.com.au Email: cba@linkmarketservices.com.au Telephone numbers for overseas shareholders New Zealand Directors’ 0800 442 845 United Kingdom report 0345 640 6130 Fiji 008 002 054 Other International +61 2 8280 7199 Australian Securities Exchange Listing Financial CBA report Annual Report To request a copy of the Annual Report, please call Link Market Services Limited on 1800 022 440 or by email at cba@linkmarketservices.com.au. Electronic versions of Commonwealth Bank’s past and current Annual Reports are available on www.commbank.com.au/investors. Other information 303 CBA1421280918
