The Enigma Group of Companies continues to support and promote the corporate, social and environmental initiatives of the UN Global Compact. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 Vista Office Centre Telephone: 020 8572 9171 50 Salisbury Road Fax: 020 8538 1500 Hounslow E-mail: info@enigma-group.com Middlesex TW4 6JQ CONTENTS • Our Performance in 2017 3 • Chief Executive’s Statement 5 • Our Vision Plan 6 • On Human Rights 8 • On Labour 10 • On the Environment 12 • On Anti-Corruption 16 • Looking Ahead: A Sustainable Future 17 • Enigma’s Broader Commitment 19 • Company Sustainability Aims & Strategy 21 • Appendix: Enigma Tool Box Talk 24 Page 2 Communication on Progress “FOR ENIGMA, BECOMING A MORE RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS GOES HAND IN HAND WITH THESE INITIATIVES AND THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATION’S GLOBAL COMPACT.” OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2017 Enigma continued its drive for susEnigma maintained its excellent reThis was achieved partly by an tainability and compliance within cord in Health and Safety for staff, emissions strategy involving more the parameters of the UN Global clients and others affected by our stringent vehicle monitoring; a staff Compact principles via integration operations. reward system for planning and enwith verified accreditations such as acting vehicular mileage reduction; the current ISO 9001:2015, OHSAS Over the past 12 months, Enigma and the strict use (purchase and 18001:2007, ISO 14001:2015 and continued to refine its carbon reduchire) of green award vehicles. Achilles. tion strategy (first implemented in 2010) by introducing more stringent Results show a substantial comparaThese were secured while undermonitoring and control measures in tive reduction in Enigma’s overall going significant ongoing business waste reduction, recycling and CO2 carbon footprint between 2013 and growth. output from vehicle/office fuel and December 2017. energy use. In March 2017, Enigma also achieved We have established a long-term a top rating and highest ever score of Due to our concerted efforts at carsustainability strategy with positive 151 points in the Security Industry bon reduction initiatives, Enigma outcomes to be achieved for all straAuthority’s assessment scheme for continued to achieve significant retegic KPIs by 2020 (see end Chart). Approved Contractors. After several duction in both waste and carbon years of a top 10% placing, this latest emissions relative to the annual inscore elevated Enigma into the top crease in business growth. 5% of all UK SIA Approved Security Contractors. Page 3 Communication on Progress Page 4 Communication on Progress OBJECTIVES FOR 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Today, Transparency, SustainTo assist in this development, Enigma will As part of our community engagement, ability and Social Responsibility are esintroduce new awareness programmes we will maintain our arrangements with sential requirements for sound business for employees and commit all stakeholdthe Social Landlord and Regenerations practice and all-inclusive social and ecoers through the application of Enigma’s Charity in London, enabling disadvannomic growth. Stakeholder demand for Sustainable Supplier Charter. Stringent taged people to gain valuable employaccountability and transparency is more Carbon Measurements will continue to ment training and certification via our prevalent than ever. Corporate Social Reapply to all aspects of Enigma’s business training partner. Enigma will aim to imsponsibility (CSR) is all about addressing activities. We will integrate the UN’s sevprove financial support to various youth such requirements and demands. enteen Sustainable Development Goals sporting groups in different regions of (SDGs) into our CSR strategy. the UK. Our shared UN Global Compact membership helps provide our company with We will take steps towards improving As part of Enigma’s broader commitment valuable tools and guidance in its quest interactions with clients, to express our to Sustainable Communities, Consumpto satisfy best practice CSR in our daily values of corporate social responsibility tion, Climate Change and Environmental operations and the strict regulations of and to understand their needs and priEnhancement, Enigma will extend supthe industry in which we operate. The ority values to help accentuate common port to TREE AID, Water Aid and UNICEF’s ten principles of the Global Compact also ground. This will also help reinforce the general health programmes. TREE AID provide a frame of reference with respect bond with clients and give us the ability UK and Water Aid are separate charities to the multifaceted issues of human to improve our operational and strategic which invest heavily in tree planting and rights, labour, environment and antiservices. providing accessible drinking water for corruption. communities on the African continent. Our business is focused on a minimal In 2018 Enigma will actively engage its “environmental footprint”. A more proUNICEF has a broad range of proemployees and commercial contacts in active personnel policy and training will grammes aimed at the general welfare the implementation of Enigma’s sustainmake our planners and employees more of children and communities including ability strategy. The objective is for all aware of the impact of their actions on the WASH programme (WATER, SANITAstakeholders to share in the responsibiliEnigma’s environmental footprint. New TION, HYGIENE). This programme takes ty and satisfaction of creating a healthier, personnel will also be expected to have specific aim to provide clean, affordable more sustainable physical environment high environmental awareness and perand accessible water for all impoverand more principled and sustainable sosonal competencies. ished people across the globe. Enigma cial organisation. supports this aim with its charitable donation to UNICEF and its operational commitment to the UN Global Compact. Page 5 Communication on Progress ENIGMA & THE GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES OUR VISION PLAN Enigma seeks to achieve profitable growth while making the world a better place. To succeed in this mission, Enigma plans its business growth on a comprehensive sustainability strategy which integrates the United Nation’s principles relating to human rights, labour governance, the environment and anti-corruption. Enigma has a clear strategic intent to base our operations on these core values and honour obligations towards the communities in which we operate. Certification and industry standards guide our approach and actions. Page 6 Communication on Progress Page 7 Communication on Progress ON HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights are universal and every person around the world deserves to be treated with dignity and equality. Basic rights include freedom of speech, privacy, health, life, liberty and security, as well as an adequate standard of living. Principle 1 Businesses should support Enigma also expects that all of our emand respect the protection of internaployees and those of associated compationally proclaimed human rights. nies are able to work in an environment free of physical, psychological and verbal Principle 2 Businesses must ensure that abuse and harassment, and in an envithey are not complicit in human rights ronment free of the threats of such abuse abuses. and harassment. The aim of the Enigma Group is to comEnigma has a published statement on municate to all its employees, business human rights which is implemented connections and communities, in which through internal management systems we operate, our commitment to respect and staff training, both introductory and and uphold human rights. We endeavour ongoing. to observe and promote the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a comIn March 2011, Enigma introduced a formon standard of achievement for all peomal, periodic revision course for employple and all nations. The guidelines and ees with more than 12 months’ company conventions of the United Nations and service. This course is now given to each International Labour Organisation on the employee at 12 monthly intervals and Rights of the Child are also fundamental covers policy statements and job-specific to instructing our policy provisions. information. It is now delivered continuously, along with other training and upCommitment dates, as required. • Enigma human rights policy • Enigma Group ethical code for all The course aims to ensure awareness of our suppliers content and of changes to the initial induction training that all employees are Implementation traditionally given at the beginning of Enigma employs a widely diverse worktheir employment. force who are guaranteed an “equality for all” policy to prevent discrimination Enigma’s employment handbook and in hiring, promotion and work conditions site instruction booklets include all Polbased on race, caste, colour, national oriicy Statements, including those based gin, sex, age, religion, disability, marital on ethical commitments and legislative status, actual or perceived sexual orienrequirements. tation, employment status or political affiliation. Appropriate procedures for implementation of policy are also comprehensively We endeavour to ensure that employdescribed. The Policy Statements and ees of sub-contractors and our suppliers Procedures are checked and reviewed on have similar guarantees against discrimian annual basis, or more frequently, as nation. necessary to ensure any safety or other compliance issues and legalities are applied and maintained. Page 8 Communication on Progress Whereas Enigma has long had a broad To ensure Global Compact principles mix of employees from varying national were incorporated in Enigma’s sustainand ethnic backgrounds, our gender mix ability strategy and operations, a manwas poor due to the traditional male agement committee was established in dominance of our core business. In Janu2010. The committee is now chaired by ary 2011, we introduced new recruitment our CEO and includes two directors and procedures which helped to increase the Enigma’s Compliance Manager. number of female employees from 7% to 13% of the total workforce by mid-2011. The operational expertise of commitThis had increased to 19% by March 2014 tee members helps link issues regarding and to 23% by March 2017. aims of improving work and living conditions for all stakeholders, under the umEnigma endeavours to provide enhanced brella of sustainability. The development working conditions legislated and best of sustainable communities and workindustry practices regarding health, force, best practice health and safety safety and comfort, for its employees. It procedures, natural resource protection is Enigma’s policy to provide a written and environmental enhancement, are Risk Assessment for all work sites and to the essential priorities. All key business implement all necessary control measareas are represented at the committee 151.6 ures before workers are allowed on site. which is given external specialist advice Enigma only contracts to clients with apfrom SSAIB and Achilles. propriate Management, Health, Safety & Environmental accreditations and CorEnigma’s ethical code for suppliers highporate Social Responsibility/Sustainabillights all ten principles of the UN Global Million ity Policies which adhere to Global ComCompact to which our suppliers are expact Principles. pected to adhere to throughout their operations. Enigma has linked this to the Enigma has implemented a proactive inISO 9001:2015 quality assurance manual, formation, advice and complaints strucwhich is documented, audited and reAround the world, there are ture through the provision of: viewed. See Enigma’s Sustainable Supapproximately 151.6 million children a) 24-hour local management contact. pliers’ Charter (below). aged 5 to 17 in child labour. b) 24-hour national management contact (through our ARC centre). Page 9 Communication on Progress ENIGMA GROUP SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER CHARTER Enigma is committed to ensuring that sustainability is paramount in our business and supply chain. We need to deliver ever more sustainable solutions for our people, our customers, the wider community and the environment in which we work and live by promoting best sustainable practice and aiming above guidance levels set by government and regulatory bodies. Enigma applies the principles of the UK’s Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply’s (CIPS) Policy on Purchasing Ethics and operates in line with our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. CONTINUOUS HEALTH & SAFETY SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL WORKING AND VALUES IMPROVEMENT AND INNOVATION Enigma i) Provide a safe environment and a i) Use sustainability criteria in the award i) Ethical and transparent methods of working i) Consult with, listen to, and act safe supply chain. of contracts. ii) Confirm all suppliers are subjected to Enigma’s evaluation process (Supplier on supplier’s suggestions for Commits ii) Assess the Health, Safety & Evaluation Form QSF 013 Issue2) continuous improvement To: Environmental Systems of suppliers and iii) Check that we and our suppliers comply with the International Labour ii) Lead continuous improvement to monitor their compliance. Organisation’s Core Conventions as well as local labour laws and regulations programmes within the Supply iii) Working with their supplier’s supply iv) Provide clear and fair procurement methods and to develop long term iii) Deliver solutions that exceed chain to ensure that their sustainability relationships customer requirements risks are understood and managed v) Recognise excellent supplier performance via repeat business vi) Payment in accordance with agreed terms Enigma Expects i) Provide a safe and competent i) Effectively manage and mitigate their i) Treat people fairly and with respect, so there is a culture of equality and i) Commit to and participate in workforce employed in accordance environmental impacts. equity. continuous improvement Suppliers To: with industry best practice ii) Work to high ethical standards and to ii) Comply with the International Labour Organisation’s Core Conventions as programmes ii) Incorporate safety into design improve their social and environmental well as local labour laws and regulations. ii) Coordinate their management and work to approved method impacts. iii) Deliver to the agreed specification, time and cost and information system’s with statements and risk assessments. iii) Submit prices and suggestions for iv) Submit complete tenders on the agreed dates Enigma’s alternative more sustainable products v) Apply the principles of this charter fairly and consistently to their Supply iii) Share and promote innovation and methods of working. Chain to ensure Key Risks are understood & managed with Enigma iv) Understand and deliver to our safety, sustainability, quality, time, and cost management requirements & standards Together we shall: i) Provide a safe, healthy workplace i) Deliver leading edge sustainable solutions to our clients and aim to i) Work with the values of Collaboration, Mutual Dependency, Professional Delivery, Sustainable Profitable Growth & Innovation. i) Reduce cost and eliminate waste through continuous exceed their expectations ii) Deliver a “right first time” customer solution through better planning, improvement ii) make tomorrow a better place performance improvement & risk management ii) Deliver value for money for iii) Deliver to agreed programme, quality and cost in order that our customers’ our customers success becomes our success iii) Develop and deliver iv) Support the UN Declaration on Human Rights to ensure that all parties innovative solutions working with Enigma are protected and treated fairly iv) Promote a two way v) Take a non-adversarial approach to dispute resolution engagement process that encourages continuous improvement of sustainable issues and cost reduction Making tomorrow a better place ON LABOUR Economic growth alone is not enough to ensure equity, social progress and to eradicate poverty. All employees around the world should have decent working conditions. Decent work involves employment that is productive and delivers a fair income. It also should ensure workplace security, social protection, better prospects for personal development and social integration. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Implementation freedom of association and the effective Enigma’s written Code of Conduct and recognition of the right to collective barPolicy Statements provide a clear outline gaining. to all employees of policies, procedures and boundaries of various aspects of emPrinciple 4 Businesses should uphold the ployment relating to terms, conditions elimination of all forms of forced and comand conduct that must be adhered to. Topulsory labour. gether, they inform that Enigma supports all legislative and applicable common law Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the regulations concerning an individual’s right effective abolition of child labour. to freedom of association and right to Collective Bargaining. They also inform that no Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the employee should be expected to work beelimination of discrimination in respect of low national wage and benefit standards, employment and occupation. or under forced, unsafe, or unsatisfactory conditions; or that any employee, at any Commitment level, should allow anything to compro• Managing equality and diversity policy mise their own commitment to Enigma’s • Enigma code of conduct health and safety, environment, and social • Enigma ethical code of conduct policies. Page 10 Communication on Progress All employees can access our national and reviewed based on the ten principles ARC centre on a 24 hour basis either to of the UN Global Compact covering the request information and advice, or otharea of human rights, labour rights, enerwise to report or raise concerns over vironmental protection, bribery and corpossible breaches in policy, conduct and ruption, and sets out the standards that other standards. are expected from all suppliers engaged by Enigma. Enigma provides all staff with a risk assessment (including hazard identificaPercentage of employees receiving regular policy and performance reviews tion) and an environmental impact assessment for their particular place of employment. These assessments are reviewed at regular intervals, with a compulsory minimum 12 month re-assessment period, and comply with British Standards OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2015. Enigma applies quantitative testing in the recruitment process as an antidiscrimination measure. Two tests are given: one for literacy and the other for industry-specific knowledge. They were introduced in 2011 in order to increase objectivity and to help eliminate undesired (including unintentional) discrimination. From the time of introduction, there has been significant improvement in our female to male staff ratio. Enigma aims to continue this development of greater gender equality in the company and our HR Department has since achieved an even balance of male and female staff. Enigma, through its ISO 9001:2015 accreditation, has asserted minimum exTable A shows the results of our recent efforts to intensify training through monthly and pected ethical standards for suppliers yearly appraisals for all staff. Note that beginning 2012, all Section Managers are monithrough 2010 to June 2018 (See Enigma’s tored monthly using the Achievement Monitoring System and that the period 2016-2018 Ethical Code and Sustainable Suppliers’ has seen a 100% return for monthly reviews of all employees. Charter). This is documented, audited Page 11 Communication on Progress ON THE ENVIRONMENT The world today is facing unprecedented, interconnected environmental challenges in areas including climate change, water, energy, biodiversity and agriculture. With businesses relying on natural resources directly and via supply chains, new corporate efforts are needed to address environmental responsibilities, value natural capital, and better understand the linkages between resources. Principle 7 Businesses should support a Enigma will provide employee awareloured paper) and a methodical procedure, precautionary approach to environmental ness training in its environmental policy ensuring an almost 100% recycling score for challenges. and procedures. Enigma has established all recyclable waste materials. shared environmental objectives with cliPrinciple 8 Businesses should undertake ents and suppliers. Through a policy change first initiated in initiatives to promote greater environmen2010, approximately 95% of Enigma emtal responsibilities. Enigma employees, directors and consulployees were receiving information and tants are required to carefully consider enrota bulletins by email as opposed to post Principle 9 Businesses should encourage vironmental issues when making decisions by July 2011. By 30th June 2014, this figure the development and diffusion of environin the planning, controlling and execution had risen to and was maintained at 100%, mentally friendly technologies. of work for the company. which also includes Employee Pay Slips and Monthly Newsletters. Commitment Implementation of sustainable mobility of • Enigma Environmental Policy: The the workforce and thereby reducing the As part of its carbon reduction initiatives, environmental objective of Enigma average journey distance continues to deEnigma established teleconferencing as the is to provide effective environmental crease our CO2 footprint. Enigma endeavdefault format for management meetings awareness and control, seeking to ours to recruit local staff for work locations and by June 2014, the 85% target for intercontinually improve all aspects of its to reduce travel. For almost a decade, Enigbranch meets was achieved and has since environmental performance within ma has used “green award” cars for manrisen to 95% in 2017. Enigma’s environmenits sphere of operation as far as is ecoagers, supervisors, and mobile response tal policy implementation will be based on nomically viable. drivers. BS ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015. Implementation These cars, which include electronic/fuel Enigma was first assessed on 31st March Enigma will endeavour to care for the enhybrids, have significantly reduced fuel 2009 for accreditation by Achilles UVDB vironment through continual review and costs and Enigma’s carbon footprint. From category B2 and has been successfully reimprovement to working practices relat2017, the Enigma Group will only purchase viewed and certificated annually through to ing to environmental impacts. Enigma will vehicles of Euro 6 emissions standard or 2017 (Supplier Number 056588). comply with the requirements of relevant better, with a preference for electric and legislation and regulations. petrol/electric. New standards expected in By annually donating to the foundation 2019 will be adopted. “Trees for All” in order to compensate all Enigma will encourage the efficient use of greenhouse gas emissions. energy, materials, products and services Enigma has operated an intensive office retogether with minimising and eliminating cycling programme for several years. This Every year in the period 2015 to 2025, the pollution and waste, wherever possible. has led to a now very refined division of all aim for the Enigma Group is for an energy Enigma will apply health and safety considoffice waste (for example: high grade white consumption drop of 2% per employee. erations throughout all activities. paper; mixed white paper; newspaper; coPage 12 Communication on Progress ANNUAL EMISSIONS 2012 NOV 2017 Annual Data Table Page 13 Communication on Progress NOTES: The Fuel Emission Conversion Factors used The Electricity factor 0.52 is obtained from Past and Future Strategy: Emissions are based on Defra’s Petrol and Diesel used Defra’s tables, as advised, for Converting by UNIT VOLUME (per unit litre used of typiPurchased Electricity/Grid Rolling Average, Defra provide conversion factors for Passencal bio-fuel blends as sold in the UK), unKgCO2e per kWh, Annex Table 3c. Source: ger Road Transport/Units travelled (km and der TOTAL DIRECT GAS HOUSE EMISSIONS Department of Environment, Food and miles) according to car type and size and (CO2, GH4, N2O) only (also called TAIL PIPE Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Guidelines for Defuel used. They also provide conversion facor AT SITE emissions, which exclude emisfra GHG Conversion Factors for Company tors for other modes of transport (air, rail, sion costs of fuel and car manufacture and Requirements, 2012. Enigma has reduced sea) and road freight. Conversion factors distribution). In 2012, the conversion factor kWh each year between 2012-13 and 2016most relevant/applicable to Enigma’s abilgiven for Diesel was x 2.58 and Petrol x 2.24. 17. ity to adopt more efficient energy use would (Defra Annex Tables 1b & 6a; also see Calinclude the following (for Total Direct GHG culators National Energy Foundation and in kgCO2e per mile). Carbon Footprint Ltd for comparable figures). Note that these Conversion Factors differ from those used to determine emissions per km or mile driven per vehicle type and size. Page 14 Communication on Progress From the above data it is evident that averlitre ecoflex active). Enigma made further Enigma also introduced a more rigorous age emissions by Medium Hybrid cars were purchases of Hybrid cars in 2013 and reanalysis of miles and fuel purchases/fuel lowest, followed by Small Diesels. London stricted the use of hired cars to eco models. types used for all vehicles. The eco cars Underground and National Rail are shown Furthermore, in April 2016, a new fleet of have significantly impacted on fuel usage to produce less GHG per person than car cars were purchased by Enigma – 2 x Kia and carbon footprint within a period of travel for cars occupied by drivers only. Sportages and 2 x Kia Cee’ds – these cars rapid growth. In spite of significant staff inare specifically designed to be more ecocreases and more than doubling of the veEnigma has used this information, similarly nomical and fuel efficient as part of the ECO hicle fleet in between 2011 and 2017, emisavailable prior to 2012, to assist in deciddynamics model range. sions increase was only around 30% and the ing purchases of new vehicles (2012/13 office carbon print dropped by 10%. and again in 2014 and 2017, as has been The key to EcoDynamics is the state-of-therequired in our expanding business) and art Intelligent ‘Stop and Go’ technology, The emissions ratio reduction with vehicles in organising travel arrangements between which switches off the engine whenever continued as expected between 2014-2018 London, Newcastle/Middlesbrough and the car is stationary, cutting down on fuel as newer and more efficient technology and other areas of the UK. Enhanced teleconusage and CO2 emissions. The cars also car usage was deployed. ference arrangements have also been instihave energy saving tyres which reduce fuel tuted over the past three years. usage through less road friction, The gearIn fact, emissions fell across the board this shift indicator advises on the most fuel efpast year, with lower usage of both diesel From January 2010 to December 2014, ficient points to change gear ensuring miniand petrol, in spite of only a very slight drop Enigma’s Emissions tonnage grew from mal engine wear and tear. in mileage. In the future, petrol hybrids or 110.4 to 150.6 tonnes. Enigma’s car fleet electric will be favoured over diesel due to grew from six cars to fourteen in 2014, with Finally the Kia Cee’d and Sportage models recent research on diesel pollutants and additional use of short term car hire. New were produced in Zilina, Slovakia; Kia’s first government policies advocating against eco rated cars were first bought in 2012. European plant: which meets the highest diesel engines. Four of the new cars were Medium Toyota environmental standards at every stage of Prius Hybrids; five were small diesels (1.3 the manufacturing process. Page 15 Communication on Progress ON ANTICORRUPTION Corruption is a considerable obstacle to economic and social development around the world. It Table B has negative impacts on sustainable development and particularly affects poor communities. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment • Enigma Code of Conduct. Due to its primary involvement in the security industry business, Enigma, as both a company organisation and a group of people, has a duty to fulfil strict legal and social obligations relating to all forms of corruption and illegality. This duty is accepted in accord with the underlying principles and technical requirements of both UK and internationally acclaimed law. Implementation Enigma’s Code of Conduct addresses issues of bribery and corruption. As detailed in the Enigma Employment Handbook & the Enigma Instruction Manuals, employees are both protected and encouraged to raise concerns about possible or known acts of corruption. Legal protection is assured under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998. In 2012, a whistle blower policy and system was implemented. Hereby our employees are provided with a possibility to raise, whilst remaining protected from reprisals of retaliation (anonymity), any serious and/or sensitive concerns. In 2017, the number of grievances related to corruption were zero. As a provider of both manned and CCTV security services, Enigma carries a great deal of responsibility in the management of public behaviour and Data Protection. Enigma staff are expected to act with enhanced sensibility and unquestionable integrity at all times. In February 2018, the Enigma Group obtained a Certificate of Assurance in the UK Cyber Essentials Scheme. Enigma is often obliged to carry out internal investigations and provide reports for incidents of suspected criminality involving the property and viability of businesses belonging to clients. These incidents generally involve theft and unlawful property damage but may also include forms of corruption including trade in illegal services and also stolen and/or counterfeit goods. See Table B for percentage of incidents resolved to the satisfaction of both Enigma and the Client. Note that this past year has also proved very satisfying in terms of increased business with reduced Incidents of Suspected Criminality being reported. Page 16 Communication on Progress LOOKING AHEAD: A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE The Seventeen Global Goals for Sustainable Development (UN Development Programme) 2. NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION As part of its sustainable and principled The Four Priority Areas: AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENHANCEMENT: growth model, Enigma seeks to embed sustainability into all of its operations. As 1. SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES: “We will minimise our impact on the envipart of this objective, Enigma has aligned ronment through the prudent use and reits growth model with that described in the “We will be good neighbours who engage sponsible management of natural resourcUN’s Global Goals for Sustainable Developwith, work with, and support our local es, minimising waste and by protecting and ment and the UK Government’s Sustaincommunities. We will create an excellent enhancing the environment in which we ability Development Strategy. This Sustainworkplace where our people are respected, work and live.” able Growth Model focuses on four priority motivated and competent, and where exareas: cellence in Health and Safety is our goal.” 2.1 Environmental Impacts. We will not • Sustainable communities and workpollute or contaminate land or water and force 1.1 Health and Safety. Through the way will manage our waste responsibly. We will • Natural resource protection and enviwe work and behave, all our people and seek to enhance and improve the environronmental enhancement stakeholders will be protected from the ment where possible through good design • Climate change and energy risks of occupational injury and ill health. and management. • Sustainable consumption and production 1.2 Our People. We will attract, develop 2.2 Bio Diversity. We will endeavour to unand retain the best people and promote diderstand and manage our biodiversity imEnigma intends to deliver more sustainable versity in a way that underpins our values. pacts and seek opportunities for all forms solutions for its people, customers and the We will ensure equal opportunities and of wildlife and their habitats. wider community and the environment in gender equality, end discrimination and which we all work and live. Our strategy recreate a happy and motivated workforce. 2.3 Supply Chain. We will work with our flects our commitment to ensuring sustainsupply chain to deliver mutually sustainability is paramount in all aspects of our 1.3 Community. By engaging, respecting able solutions that deliver value for money. business but particularly the impact in the and understanding our community stakefour priority areas. holders, we will aim to make a positive con2.4 Resource Use. We will do “more with tribution to everyone’s environment and less” by maximising resource efficiency in quality of life. planning, design, waste minimisation and recycling. Page 17 Communication on Progress 3. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY: 4. SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION 4.3 Governance. We will be recognised as “We will work to reduce our impact on cli“We will work with our customers and supa company which applies its values to all mate change by minimising all our uses of pliers to achieve “more with less” through its activities and one that demonstrates an energy.” more efficient use of human and material ethical approach across all areas of corporesources, considering life cycle impacts, rate responsibility. 3.1 Atmospheric Impacts. We will actively and delivering profitable yet sustainable reduce our use of energy and emissions of and environmentally beneficial outcomes”. greenhouse in transport use, design, maintenance and operations of our facilities. 4.1 Value and Risk. We will improve our business margins and create shareholder 3.2 Design. Sustainability will be a key obvalues in a sustainable way. We will be recjective of our designs. We will achieve exognised as a leader in the way we undercellence in life-cycle design and exceed our stand and manage our risk profile. customer expectations by delivering more cost effective, sustainable solutions. 4.2 Customer. We will aim to be renowned for understanding and exceeding our customer expectations; and for responding rapidly to their demands for more sustainable solutions. Page 18 Communication on Progress ENIGMA’S BROADER COMMITMENT As part of Enigma’s broader commitment to Sustainable Communities, Consumption, Climate Change and Environmental Enhancement, Enigma has become a contributor to TREE AID, Water Aid and UNICEF’s general water and health programmes. TREE AID UK and Water Aid are separate Both WaterAid UK and UNICEF are at the charities which invest heavily in tree forefront of exploring innovative ways planting and community water access to access sustainable, affordable water on the African continent. UNICEF has a while building a climate resistant infra2.5 BILLION broad range of programmes aimed at the structure. Reducing evaporation at water people in the world do not have welfare of children and families but also points and piping water from clean local access to adequate sanitation, almost two aims to provide clean, affordable and acand distant sources are standard solufifths of the world’s population. Around 700,000 cessible water for all people across the tions. children die every year from diarrhoea caused by unsafe water and poor sanitation that’s almost globe. 2,000 children a day. Finding groundwater as opposed to surWASH is the UNICEF Programme which face water is increasingly being develstands for Water, Sanitation and Hyoped as new techniques allow easier acgiene. Due to their interdependent nacess to groundwater which is less likely ture, these three core issues are grouped to become contaminated than surface together to represent a growing sector. water. Although often subject to poor While each is a separate field of work, management and over-extraction, UNIthey are all dependent on the presence CEF has developed a series of Groundwaof one other. ter Programming and Drilling Principles 8 MILLION to ensure how to best site and develop UNICEF’s work in water focusses particunew water points. trees will be grown over the period 2017-2022 by TREE AID. Through this, TREE AID larly on issues pertaining to children in aims to help lift 2.5 million people out of poverty, their ability to access clean, safe water, Household water treatment (for example restore over 250,000 hectares of degraded land and promote people’s rights to trees by working and the journey they must take to colchlorination or filtration), along with imwith local and national policy makers. lect it. Worldwide, some estimated 700 proved water storage and handling, is million people are still without access to another control measure to ensure safe clean drinking water, particularly in subwater use inside the household and this Saharan Africa (though not restricted is widely supported by WaterAid UK and Page 19 Communication on Progress to this area), yet solutions are relatively UNICEF. simple and inexpensive. For sanitation, UNICEF works to ensure access and People here live in some of the toughest conditions use of basic toilets and ways to separate human on earth and trees are essential to their survival. waste from contact with people. One important area Trees provide nutrition, generate income and help of work for sanitation is to facilitate community-led to create a healthy environment. initiatives to build, maintain and use basic toilets as well as the prevention of cross contamination with TREE AID works with local communities to help water supplies. UNICEF’s work in hygiene is aimed them protect and grow trees, for themselves and for at nurturing good hygiene practices, especially future generations. TREE AID has planted 14 million handwashing with soap. Although it sounds simple, trees across the drylands of Africa with hundreds of this act is essential to prevent disease and preserve thousands more trees being naturally regenerated the health of children. through improvements in natural resource management. Over 1,000,000 villagers have directly benefitAs part of its broad commitment to Sustainable ted from TREE AID’s work, meaning better health, Growth, Enigma also contributes to TREE AID UK. education and life chances. TREE AID is a UK registered charity which works to create thriving, sustainable communities throughTREE AID: out the isolated and remote regions of Africa. It • Gives vital food all year round, with trees that works with locally-based teams in the drylands of can survive droughts. Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mali and Niger and the iso• Helps people earn an income for basic needs lated areas of Ethiopia, working with communities like food, education and health. to build skills, knowledge and self-reliance. Since • Protects the environment using trees, land and 1987, TREE AID has helped people in the drylands of water to protect and improve it. Africa to lift themselves out of poverty and protect • Defends people’s rights to the trees and land their environment. on which they rely for survival. TREE AID plans ahead in 5 year strategy periods to have the most impact. In the current strategy period 2017-2022, it has plans to: • Grow another 8 million trees. • Help to lift 2.5 million people out of poverty by growing incomes, creating jobs and diversifying diets. • Restore over 250,000 hectares of degraded land. • Promote people’s rights to trees by working with local and national policy makers. Page 20 Communication on Progress COMPANY SUSTAINABILITY AIMS & STRATEGY Enigma first established a Sustainability Management Committee in 2010. It was chaired by the CEO and After several intensive discussions thirHealth & Safety and Company teen key performance indicators (KPIs) Sustainability included the senior management team with advice given by exterwere established by the committee to measure progress and an independent As part of Enigma’s integrated approach to nal specialist organisations who sustainability, a management based Health audit procedure was set up. This was conhad links to the UK government’s ducted via external auditors using our BS and Safety cultural assessment was incorSustainability Development 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS porated in its strategy as part of a structured Commission and the UN Global 18001:2007 systems. framework with which to assess Health and Compact. Safety across Enigma’s business. This asSee the Enigma Chart below: Value sessment continues to form the structure The SSAIB is also used to gain advice through Sustainability & Strategic KPIs. for driving Health and Safety improvethrough their Business Leaders Forum in ments, including those in Enigma’s supply which key players meet regularly to share Our strategy will be delivered by: chain. The assessment is based on four key best practice information and to develop • Generating a culture that actively elements: sustainability plans and objectives for encourages and communicates best Enigma. sustainable practices. • Awareness: “All our people and stake• Ensuring the real involvement of all holders have an awareness and underThe Sustainability Management Commitour people, our supply chain and standing of Health and Safety hazards tee refined the Company’s strategic direcstakeholders in the broadest worldand risks that affect our people and tion and targets using input from all opwide perspective. business”. erational groups within the company. To • Conducting our business in ac• Competence: “All our people and help clarify the Company’s sustainability cordance with our core values of stakeholders have the competence to policy vision, a long-term strategy model openness, collaboration, mutual undertake their work with minimum was developed to illustrate the links bedependency, professional delivery, risks to Health and Safety”. tween Key Performance Indicators and innovation, sustainability and profit• Compliance: “Our work activities Enigma’s Corporate Objectives. able growth. achieve compliance with legislation, and our people are empowered to take action to minimise Health and Safety risks”. • Excellence: “Enigma is recognised for excellence in the way it manages Health and Safety”. These four elements of Awareness, Competence, Compliance and Excellence form the framework for Enigma to: • Facilitate the management of Health and Safety excellence. • Communicate the Health and Safety policy, objectives, procedures, guidance, plans and performance. • Realise and maintain continuous improvement in Health and Safety performance. • Ensure compliance with all relevant Health and safety legislation. • Fulfil the structural requirements of OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Specifications. Page 21 Communication on Progress Page 22 Communication on Progress Sustainability: Strategic KPIs Results and Targets PRIORITY AREAS IMPACTS MEASURES 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Health & Safety Complete 78% 92% 100% 100% 100% monthly & yearly training/ assessments (ACCE) Health & Safety Reportable 0.04 0.04 0.02 0.02 0.01 accidents and incidents (520,000 man-hours) Our People Employee 8% 6% 5% 5% 4% turnover based on voluntary leavers Our People Employee 83% 88% 95% 95% 96% satisfaction ratings: High Sustainable & Above Communities & Our People Grievances 7 cases 5 cases 0 2 cases 0 Workforce raised of an ethical nature: internal/external Our People Equality & Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Diversity Policy implemented Community Donations £1,000 £1,450 +20% £2,300 £3,550 made to local communities Community Engagement: 30 36 42 44 44 support training for disadvantaged people Community Participation £400 £480 +20% £700 £1,080 Charity Walks Enviornmental Percentage of 76% 85% 95% 95% 96% Impacts sustainability targets achieved Biodiversity Percentage 81% 89% 100% 100% 100% of contracts/ Natural Resource clients with Environmental Protection and Biodiversity Environmental Policies Enhancement Supply Percentage of 90% 95% 100% 100% 100% suppliers with ISO 14001 Resource Use Follow our 74% 85% 100% 100% 100% resource plans Atmospheric 65.1 CO2 10% 14% 20% 16% 12% Impacts reduction by revenue (fuel, Climate Change energy) and Energy Average (New for 2014) 0.05 T CO2 Emissions per Tons CO2 per employee employee Customer Satisfaction 92% 94% 100% 96% 98% Satisfaction Score Levels Sustainable Customer Percentage 95% 92% 100% 98% 100% Consumption and Retention Renewed Production Governance Adoption of 85% 95% 100% 100% 100% UN, European & UK Industry Standards Page 23 Communication on Progress APPENDIX: ENIGMA TOOL BOX TALK SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Introduction When getting involved with ideas about environmental and Enigma uses the ideas and practices of sustainable developsocial best practice, it doesn’t take long to realise that there ment throughout the Company but increasingly the term are many different ways of looking at the subject. This easily Corporate Social Responsibility is being used in the business leads to confusion even when people are heading in the same world. What does this actually mean for us? direction. Page 24 Communication on Progress The below diagram shows Enigma’s Sustainability Policy and Impacts. From these, Enigma can develop suitable actions that deliver positive impacts on society. To realise this overall goal of sustainable development, it is important to embrace change and innovation – it may be small or large but it can make a difference. Page 25 Communication on Progress CONTACT US Enigma Group Ltd Phone No +(44) 20 8572 9171 Address Vista Office Centre 50 Salisbury Road Hounslow Middlesex TW4 6JQ Email info@enigma-group.com Website www.enigmasecuritysolutions.com www.enigma-group.com
