2018 ANNUAL REPORT Why does a food and agriculture company start thinking like a technology startup? Technology How does it deliver ideas and Cargill Goes Tech With Plan to Nurture New Wave insights in addition to ingredients? of Food Startups Where does it join with unlikely allies to forge a new path? Waarom suikervrij Finally, Facial Recognition When does it realize the promise for Cows Is Here ijs even lekker is of tomorrow? Net and adjusted operating earnings DOLLARS IN BILLIONS • NET EARNINGS • ADJUSTED OPERATING EARNINGS $3 $2 $1 $0 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 This year, we began answering questions connect differently. 식탁 혁명 이끄는 사료의 마술 In Brazil, we launched Liza® Origens soy 用最好的方式滋养世界 cooking oil that Our fortified oils and flour reached features our 100 M innovative Cargill executive calls consumers in India, enriched with Triple S time on traditional nourish needed nutrients (Sustainably Sourced & Supplied) supply models certification During the past decade, our global work with CARE has reached 2.2M Our newly opened poultry lives operation in the Philippines – a joint venture with Jollibee Foods – will We received a produce the perfect 1meals equivalent of score on the Disability Equality Index, and for the 14th year in a row, on the Human Rights M 67% of workers grow Campaign’s Corporate Equality daily at our Columbus, Nebraska, Index protein plant received retraining while it was closed for consumers for expansion, preparing them for new high-tech jobs We mapped upon reopening 2.3 M hectares in our cocoa Cargill @Cargill Follow supply chain with Trade matters. The world depends on it. World Resources The world is fed by trade. bit.ly/2BF19E1 #NAFTAworks #fedbytrade Institute to Cargill sales and other revenues by destination combat Cargill se reinventa para continuar no jogo Tras adquirir FISCAL 2018 deforestation 35% North America Pollos Bucanero, 29% Asia Pacific Cargill alista 25% Europe, Middle East and Africa más inversiones 11% Latin America Our ocean Nearly 30% transportation business reduced CO2 Cargill employees by geography output by FISCAL 2018 of raw materials 5.7% we use to make aqua feeds come from agricultural, 37% 29% Asia Pacific North America per cargoindustrial or fishery ton-mile byproducts, reducing both 22% Latin America waste and pressure on marine ecosystems 12% Europe, Middle East and Africa Letter to stakeholders We create the connections the world needs for vibrant food and agriculture both today and tomorrow. Cargill achieved $3.2 billion in adjusted operating earnings this year, one of our best financial performances. Our strong results over the past two years are due to our teams’ diligent efforts to redefine how we do our daily work. Cargill operates today with greater agility and stronger integration to serve our customers’ rapidly changing needs. At the center of everything we do is our purpose: to nourish the world in a safe, responsible and sustainable way. In the midst of significant uncertainty in the world, we are strengthening the connections that enable progress. Cargill has always moved food from where it is produced to where it is needed. Today, we are pioneering new capabilities and partnerships to invest for the future. We are working with farmers and others to implement sustainable agricultural practices, innovating alongside customers to develop healthy, delicious products made the way consumers want, and standing up for responsible global trade that lets food move freely. Achievements this year Delivered $3.2 bilInvested 71 perAdvocated with Provided trainPledged to reduce Advanced suslion in adjusted cent of our $5.22 policymakers and ing to more than greenhouse gas tainable solutions operating earnbillion cash flow other leaders for 475,000 farmers emissions in for customers, ings, one of the from operations in open, responon agricultural our operations including pioneercompany’s best acquisitions, joint sible trade that practices that by 10 percent ing work in poultry performances, ventures and facilallows food to raise productivity by 2025, in line feed in Europe and with three of four ities that expand move, benefiting and promote with the U.N. beef in Canada segments reportour global team farmers, workers sustainability Sustainable that earned us a ing year-onand capabilities to and consumers Development McDonald’s Scale year gains serve customers Goals and the for Good award Paris Agreement for suppliers 2 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report David MacLennan Marcel Smits Chairman and CEO Executive Vice President and CFO First: Safety in all that we do The safety of our people is our deepest commitment. This year, we introduced new leading metrics that define safety as the presence of defenses, not the absence of incidents. We are putting safeguards in place that isolate and ultimately eliminate hazards, helping us to continue reducing total injuries across the company including the most serious ones. Still, we suffered three fatalities, an unacceptable outcome. As we build safer systems, we have enlisted everyone across Cargill to see and stop unsafe conditions. We know we can achieve our goal to send everyone home safe each day. Financial performance At $3.2 billion, adjusted operating earnings were up 6 percent from last year’s strong performance, with gains in three of four business segments. Net earnings on a U.S. GAAP basis increased 9 percent to $3.1 billion. Both the adjusted and net figures included a provisional net charge of $86 million related to the new U.S. tax law enacted in December 2017. Revenues rose 5 percent to $114.7 billion. Cash flow from operations reached $5.22 billion, of which $3.68 billion was invested in strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, and new and existing facilities. Segment results Animal Nutrition & Protein surpassed last year’s strong performance, making the segment the largest contributor to Cargill’s adjusted operating earnings. Our protein business delivered exceptional results, fueled by rising domestic and export demand for North American beef and steady expansion in value-added egg products. We also realized considerable growth in feed additives, micronutrients and premixes for customized animal nutrition. Earnings from aqua feeds were flat, while compound feeds were up slightly. Excess supplies of chicken relative to demand in Thailand contributed to a moderate decrease in global poultry results. We invested significantly to serve the growing global appetite for protein. In poultry, we acquired Pollos El Bucanero in Colombia; formed U.K.-based Avara Foods, a fresh poultry joint venture; and opened a major processing plant in the Philippines with Jollibee Foods. In the U.S., we expanded facilities for cooked meat and eggs. In animal nutrition, we acquired U.S.-based Diamond V and invested in Austria-based Delacon; they are the respective leaders in improving animal health through fermentationand plant-based feed additives. We purchased Integral Animal Nutrition, a Brazilian producer of cattle mineral feeds. In the U.S., we bought Pro-Pet, a private-label pet food maker, and the animal feed business of Southern States Cooperative. Technical application centers supporting aqua nutrition were opened in India and Vietnam. We also invested in Dublin-based Cainthus, an animal facial recognition startup, and broadened our farm management software offerings; both will give farmers a digital boost to their productivity and profitability. Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 3 Letter to stakeholders The world is fed by trade Almost 20 percent of the food produced worldwide crosses international borders, a critical connection between supply and demand Nearly 1 billion people worldwide depend on global trade for their basic food needs Major flows of agricultural commodities By 2050 Corn Wheat Soybeans 70% of the world's people Exporters Importers will live in cities, with much of the growth occurring in developing countries Exporter Importer Insights Transform Insights Insights Move Farmers Our business Transform Transform Move Move Customers Farmers Farmers Customers Customers For farmers We supply feeds, sremotsuC sremraF other inputs and evoM expertise to farmers, and buy crops and livestock from them 4 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report Earnings rose in Food Ingredients & Applications, lifted by outstanding performance in cocoa and chocolate, and gains in Asia-based ingredients and global edible oils; results across starches and sweeteners were steady. Salt earnings decreased for the year, as volume growth in food and water softening was more than offset by lower sales prices for road salt and higher freight costs. We introduced several new ingredients, including a high oleic canola oil with the lowest-ever level of saturated fat; EverSweet™ zero-calorie sweetener; and the SimPure™ line of high-performing native starches. In Brazil, we launched Liza® Origens soy cooking oil that carries our innovative Triple S (Sustainably Sourced & Supplied) certification. We increased our ownership in an Argentina-based starches and sweeteners joint venture and formed a new joint venture with Minneapolis-based Puris to serve growing demand for plant-based proteins. Origination & Processing pulled ahead thanks to a strong fourth quarter. For most of the year, rising demand for grains and oilseeds was muted by big crops, building stocks and low market volatility. Toward year-end, this changed, as drought in Argentina and other market forces began to influence global flows of corn, soybeans and related products. With markets moving and prices coming off lows, the segment improved origination, processing and trading results in key geographies. Through investments in technology, we are better connecting our global operations, honing our competitive edge in trading and analytics, and bringing greater insight to customers. We modernized several oilseed processing plants in Brazil and the U.S., and broke ground on a biodiesel facility in Kansas. Early in fiscal 2019, we formed a joint venture to meet increasing demand for soybean meal and oil in Egypt. Industrial & Financial Services completed its reorganization by selling energy and steel processing, and adding our existing risk management and trade finance activities to the segment. Metals profitably captured market volatility through superior use of data and analytics. In total, segment earnings slightly lagged the prior year due to lower returns from fund investments and the wind down of discontinued activities. Working as one Cargill Our global presence in agricultural supply chains, deep understanding of markets and vantage points across sectors empower us to provide unique offerings to our customers. Our businesses and global functions operate in an integrated way, allowing each business to provide top products and services in its sector while drawing on the broad capabilities and insights of the entire company. These capabilities benefit our customers and also work to solve collective challenges in food and agriculture. For example, we are employing digital strategies to generate data-driven insights that help customers succeed. This year, our animal nutrition business launched the iQShrimp™ predictive software platform that captures various streams of data and uses machine learning Insights Insights to give shrimp farmers insights that help them produce healthier, larger shrimp with fewer Insights resources. We are currently expanding this platform to other species. Transform Transform Transform Move Move We provide insights Insights Move Insights Insights InsightsInsights to our partners Transform Data analytics Market expertise Risk management Financial solutions Farmers Farmers Farmers Insights Insights Insights Insights Insights Transform Transform Transform Transform Customers We transform Customers Move Customers raw materials into Insights Transform Transform Transform Transform Transform Move Move Move Move For customers finished goods Farmers Transform Move MoveMove Move Move Animal nutrition Farmers Farmers Food ingredients Animal protein Branded foods Bioindustrials We deliver finished goods to customers Farmers Farmers in the foodservice, retail, consumer We move products Customers Move Farmers Farmers Farmers FarmersCustomers Farmers Customers packaged goods and industrial sectors around the world Customers Customers Roads Rail Rivers Oceans Farmers Customers Customers Customers Customers Customers Customers Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 5 Letter to stakeholders We also uncover consumer trends that inform our joint product development with our customers. In the U.S., for example, our protein business joins guests at Target stores as they shop for groceries to learn what types of meat products they like. This enables us to design restaurant-quality meals that consumers want to cook at home, and led Target to honor us as its Grocery Vendor of the Year. We are harnessing our global expertise to make agriculture more sustainable. This year, we established a corporate sustainability hub to support our businesses as they advance our focus areas of land use, water resources, climate change, farmer prosperity and food waste. We added this fifth focus area knowing that we can make large gains in the efficiency and resource intensity of global agriculture by reducing food loss and waste after harvest, in transit and at the consumer level. This year, our global Collaboration for progress contributions totaled $57.1M At Cargill, we are optimistic that through partnerships across our sectors, we can collectively nourish the world while protecting the planet. As a result, we increasingly set our course and measure our progress against the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals. We support the U.N. Global Compact’s across Ten Principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, and we are working to 54 implement these principles as part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Our actions reflect this commitment. To help mitigate climate change, we pledged to reduce greencountries house gas emissions from our operations by 10 percent from 2017 to 2025. We worked with The Nature to advance programs Conservancy to develop a comprehensive plan to reach this goal. To ensure high labor standards, with our partners human rights and ethical practices in our supply chains, we implemented a global Supplier Code of Conduct. It is closely aligned with our long-established Employee Code of Conduct and Guiding Principles, which help ensure our people do the right thing no matter the circumstances. We know that no one organization has all of the solutions to meet global challenges. This year, we expanded our alliance with Gastromotiva, a chef-led nonprofit based in Brazil that seeks to use food to improve social equality and employment opportunities while reducing food waste. We reaffirmed our partnerships with The Nature Conservancy, World Wildlife Fund and World Resources Institute. And we celebrated a decade of impact with CARE that has improved farmer livelihoods, food and nutrition security, and community resilience in 10 countries. Responsible trade is an essential part of sustainably nourishing the world. When food moves freely, billions of people benefit from greater affordability and wider choice in their diets. This year, we defended the global rules-based trading system and institutions like the World Trade Organization that make sure nations can resolve disputes and keep borders open. We advocated with policymakers to build upon existing trade agreements like those between the U.S., Mexico, Canada, China and South Korea, rather than walk away from the negotiating table. To show how farmers, workers and consumers are better off thanks to global trade, we launched the advocacy website fedbytrade.com. In closing We take pride in what Cargill has accomplished for all of our stakeholders this year. We work with a strong sense of purpose, one that builds toward sustainable, long-term growth while doing more every day for those who depend on us. David MacLennan Marcel Smits Chairman and Executive Vice President, Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer August 7, 2018 6 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report Connect Nourish Grow We team up with a diverse set of partners – from tech developers to world-renowned chefs to farmers large and small. Because we know that future growth resides in the surprising connections that spark breakthroughs and solve collective challenges. Across food, agriculture and nutrition, we are activating tomorrow’s solutions to nourish the world. Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 7 Connect Nourish Grow We connect to build the future of food “It’s thrilling to see how technology can play an important role in connecting consumers to the farmers who raise their food. It’s one of the ways we’re increasing transparency in today’s digitally enabled world.” Debra Bauler Chief Information Officer, Cargill Protein & Salt 8 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report Knowing more about a family meal A holiday dinner at home starts with where their food comes from, while giving A code on each packaged turkey picking out wholesome dishes. This past farmers an opportunity to share their story. links the consumer to information Thanksgiving in the U.S., families were on the farmer who raised that Farmer Darrell Glaser said, “Everyone particular bird. offered a new way to learn about how their deserves to know more about the food food was produced, thanks to blockchain they’re eating, and I like feeling more technology. In select markets, they could connected to the people I’m raising these trace their fresh Honeysuckle White® turkey turkeys for. It’s important for me that back to the family farmer who raised it. consumers understand the care my family Underpinning the pilot was a secure blockputs in every day to provide quality turkeys chain solution from Cargill that tracked and for families across the country.” recorded supply chain data to help consumWith an enthusiastic response from consumers learn about the turkey they purchased. ers, support from farmers and strong interest After entering an on-package code via text from retail partners, Cargill plans to expand or at Honeysucklewhite.com, they could the program this coming year. Meanwhile, view photos of the family-owned farm and insights from the project will spur more read a message from the farmer who raised blockchain solutions from Cargill, in order to their bird. This farm-to-table connection increase traceability and trust from one end is building consumers’ confidence about of agricultural supply chains to the other. Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 9 Connect Nourish Grow Technology with a purpose Startups are seeking breakthroughs to revolutionize how we make food. This year, we joined with several to combine our expertise and bring new ideas to scale. Machine learning from satellite imagery Descartes Labs specializes in machine learning and refining large data sets from sources like satellite imagery. Our partnership with the company helps us analyze huge quantities of data to better forecast crop production both globally and locally. We take the resulting insights to our farmer customers so they can make planting and crop marketing decisions with greater confidence. Facial recognition for animals Cainthus is an Irish firm specializing in facial and movement recognition, with an artificial intelligence platform that identifies individual dairy cows and then employs algorithms to predict health, well-being and performance based on an animal’s behavior. We invested to bring the Cainthus platform to the farmers who raise tens of millions of dairy cows worldwide to help them optimize their operations and earn more per animal. We are currently looking to expand the platform to other species. Cultured meat Some ventures are aimed further out on the horizon. Memphis Meats is a California-based company seeking to commercialize cultured meat grown directly in a lab. This year, we were an early investor in Memphis Meats to spur new types of alternative proteins. This doesn’t mean we are moving away from traditional meat. Instead, with global protein demand rising quickly, it’s a nod to the fact that we will need all types of solutions tomorrow. Boosting startups More answers are waiting to be discovered. To expand innovation within food and agriculture, we joined with Techstars, a top global technology accelerator, and Ecolab, a global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services. Our Farm to Fork Accelerator will work with promising startups to share expertise and other resources, including a 13-week program to support the development of new products and business models that will culminate in a showcase for investors. PHOTO COPYRIGHT DESCARTES L ABS 10 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report Powering growth for Making room customers in Asia for bees Food and feed companies based in with the company to open a soybean crush On farms across Germany, Cargill Asia need a partner that can provide complex that serves rapid growth in North is investing resources in biodiverhigh-quality products and supply chain China, and are partnering strategically to sity projects that bring together expertise in order to meet consumers’ help New Hope meet its goals around the plants and pollinators. We link fast-rising demand for animal protein. country. As New Hope expands to counup with farmers who choose to We deliver soybeans, corn and other tries like Indonesia, the Philippines and set aside a portion of their land feed ingredients from farmers around Vietnam, and looks farther afield to Africa, for wildflowers, fruit trees and the world into the region to help local it also is turning to Cargill to keep conrefuge areas for wild animals. companies achieve their ambitions. nected to reliable supply chains and more The strips of land attract bees deeply understand these new locales. that pollinate crops and improve New Hope Group is one of China’s largest animal feed makers, looking to grow both yields. Our employee volunteers domestically and abroad. We have joined help coordinate the effort and join in the planting and care. Project partner Braunschweiger Landvolk, a German agricultural association, shares best practices among its farmer members. For all of the participants, it’s a way to balance the need for productive farmland with environmental stewardship and public trust. Joining forces for the future of shipping Nations rely on ocean shipping to trade vital resources with one another. To help ensure the long-term viability of the maritime sector, we joined with four organizations this year to make progress on key issues. Advancing decarbonization, Combating bribery and other Protecting ocean health Improving gender inclusion trade and digital efficiency corrupt practices and biodiversity in the workforce Global Maritime Maritime North American Marine Women’s International Forum Anti-Corruption Environment Protection Shipping & Trading Association Network Association Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 11 Connect Nourish Grow We nourish the world with a holistic approach Advancing the frontiers of animal health Healthier animals use nutrients more Delacon’s scientists have searched the Cargill also acquired Diamond V, adding its efficiently, impact the environment less globe for naturally occurring compounds market-leading immune support technology and carry fewer pathogens that can cause that have measurable effects on animals’ and expertise to our comprehensive animal illness in humans. These animals also live gut health. These come from ordinary items nutrition and health portfolio. Diamond V’s better, which makes consumers happy. in your pantry like garlic, peppers and products derive from proprietary processes Today, Cargill is investing at the intersection thyme, as well as more far-flung sources using microbial fermentation. They work of animal health and wellness, and food like the rare quillaja tree native only to Chile. naturally with the animal’s biology to support safety, so animals can perform to their Validated by rigorous scientific trials, these immune function, optimize performance and potential and produce more protein for the extracts help animals convert more of the promote food safety. By strengthening the world in a sustainable way. feed they eat into protein. They also can immune system, these products enhance the reduce emissions like methane from cows animal’s first line of defense against all types This year, we invested in a strategic partby up to 20 percent and ammonia from of health challenges. And research shows nership with Delacon, the global leader in chickens and pigs by up to 50 percent, that animals consuming certain Diamond V phytogenics, or plant-based feed additives. protecting the environment. And by helping products pose less risk of passing on to keep animals healthier, they lower the use pathogens like salmonella or E. coli, helping of antibiotics. to keep humans safer. 12 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report PHOTO COPYRIGHT DEL ACON Research shows that products from Diamond V and Delacon work naturally with an animal’s biology to improve health and performance. Together, Delacon, Diamond V and Cargill Bioactive compounds in These products reduce Gut health and digestive will look to answer even bigger questions. the products strengthen the prevalence and contissues also benefit, Can antioxidants affect gene expression an animal’s natural centration of foodborne meaning animals can to help reduce animal stress? Can immune immune defenses, pathogens, helping to make greater use of the support products help preserve the power supporting health and assure human health. nutrients they eat. wellness while reducing of antibiotics in protecting public health? the use of antibiotics. And what other health benefits could these products provide to individual people? Uniting our expertise promises to unlock new opportunities for tomorrow. Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 13 Connect Nourish Grow Chef collaborations Consumers are always looking to try a new flavor or style of cuisine. The team of chefs in our protein business works side by side with our foodservice customers to continuously develop new products that diners are saying they want. Our Sterling Silver ® brand of premium beef is served by thousands of independent owner-operator chefs in their restaurants across the U.S. and Canada. Twelve Sterling Silver Signature Chefs join our own culinary team in the kitchen to experiment and create dishes that give consumers a new twist on favorite cuts of meat, like our sliced short rib that lends itself well to small plate applications. We take these fresh offerings and build a library of recipes and drink pairings that restauranteurs can use to deliver an exciting dining experience and fill tables night after night. “Bringing us together to share inspirations shows that Sterling Silver and Cargill are dedicated to innovation and, even more, to our success,” said Signature Chef Nick Unangst from South Carolina’s SERG Restaurant Group. Plant proteins of the future, today Many consumers want more plant-based protein. Puris and its family founders have crafted a clean-tasting pea protein that offers a non-GMO, Certified Organic, allergen-friendly option for a new wave of protein-packed foods and beverages. This year, we invested in Puris to accelerate its reach across a broader market. Our collaboration is one more piece in solving the protein puzzle for a growing world. PHOTO COPYRIGHT PURIS Reaching a new low Everyone is looking for balance in their It took steady persistence across 10 years diet. Now, consumers will have healthier of research and development to achieve options for some favorite foods. Twentythis breakthrough. Sifting through the five years after we upended the market 90,000 genes in the canola plant, our teams by removing trans fats from canola oil, we cross-bred, grew and tested more than 150 have created a new high oleic canola oil types of hybrid canola. Regular feedback with the lowest-ever level of saturated fat from farmers aided our researchers as for our foodservice customers. This latest they developed seeds that deliver robust generation of Clear Valley® specialty oil cuts yields and disease resistance while also saturated fat by 35 percent and performs producing a healthier oil. Canadian grower just the way our customers need with regard Ron Lamb appreciates the potential: “I see to taste, stability and fry life. it as a sustainable asset on our farm. It’s an opportunity to help create a healthier oil, and I believe healthy is the future.” 14 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report Cooking up fresh ways to strengthen communities PHOTO COPYRIGHT ANGELO DAL BÓ – GASTROMOTIVA Social change in the kitchen What if cooking could unlock economic opportunity and dignity Cargill has supported Gastromotiva in Brazil since 2014 through for others while also making fuller use of food? This is the goal of funding and employee volunteers, helping it reach more than the Social Gastronomy Movement, a chef-led initiative to address 100,000 people. Now, a three-year, $1.5 million grant from Cargill issues like nutrition, food waste and social inequality. As a leader in will help bring global scale to the Social Gastronomy Movement. this movement, Brazil-based Gastromotiva operates its community Cargill is contributing our expertise on supply chains and relakitchens as both schools and restaurants. Young people, many tionships across the food system, as well as a shared passion to from the margins of society, get free culinary training and prepare employ food for good. delicious, healthy meals made from surplus food that would other“Fighting hunger and poverty is everyone’s job,” said Chef David wise go to waste. These meals are served to people in need, Hertz, Gastromotiva’s founder. “We are joining forces to make in a space that encourages dialogue and companionship. something much bigger than ourselves – to accelerate a movement.” Cutting food waste Access to Nourishing education This year, our teams in 30 countries led healthy options In Indonesia, we are working with the events connected to World Food Day. Of U.N. World Food Programme, education Many communities in the U.S. have limited these, 125 events in 16 countries were part departments and local nonprofits to drive access to nutritious food. To help solve this of Cargill Project 1/3, which sought to raise gains in community health and nutrition. problem in our hometown of Minneapolis, awareness of the fact that one-third of food Nearly 100,000 students have received The Cargill Foundation, along with other worldwide is lost or wasted. To support this additional school meals and education public and private organizations, supported program in Nicaragua, we joined with World about healthy diets since 2016. Academic the launch of the North Market. Local Central Kitchen to host a community event performance is up, while days missed due residents now have expanded access to an that served up nutritious meals and food to illness have been cut in half. In Cargill’s array of fresh groceries, health and wellness know-how. World Central Kitchen’s internaown cafeterias, WFP’s nutrition expertise resources, and gathering spaces. Since tional chefs worked side-by-side with cooks is helping employees make healthier food opening in late 2017, the North Market has from schools supported by Cargill, teaching choices. Meanwhile, the meal programs are empowered families, seniors and others attendees how to get the most out of their providing local farmers with a new market in the neighborhood with a new model for vegetable gardens, use all parts of the for their production. health and nutrition. chicken and safely handle all ingredients. Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 15 Connect Nourish Grow We grow alongside our partners to help them thrive Empowering farmers to do more We work with growers at all levels of at both large and small scales with agrothe program were women. As all of these production to share sustainable agricultural nomic training, and also connected them farmers have increased production, Cargill practices, raise their yields and livelihoods, with a tropicalized hybrid seed developed has been a ready buyer of their crops to and improve their market access. Our by a local technical institute that costs half support our local animal feed business. programs are tailored to local conditions as much as conventional seeds. Similar programs are achieving significant to help farmers adapt and prosper, even as Small producers have seen profitability results in many countries: they strengthen agricultural supply chains go up more than 100 percent, and large and communities in an economically and • In Chile, our work with a local scientific producers have seen profits rise 50 percent. environmentally sustainable way. institute is connecting farmers from the In 2017, more than half the small farmers in indigenous Mapuche community with a In Nicaragua, we have partnered for three years with international development nonprofit TechnoServe on the Impulsor “Through certification, I earned additional income from program, which has helped revitalize the a premium, which is a big help to our family to sustain our everyday lives – local sorghum industry. Low productivity and high costs had limited production of more food on the plate and sorghum, an important raw material for animal feed in the country. Impulsor has ensuring education to our children.” engaged more than 400 farmers operating Natividad Beligolo Coconut farmer in Sarangani province, Philippines 16 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report profitable rotation crop, lupine. Protein More than from this plant is substituted for fish meal in salmon feed, taking pressure off of marine ecosystems. 475,000 farmers • The Philippines and Indonesia are the world’s two largest producers of coconuts. Along with partners BASF, Procter & Gamble, and the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, we are providing training benefited this year from our training in in sustainable agricultural practices to enable coconut farmers to gain sustainable agricultural practices Rainforest Alliance certification for their products. The goal is to increase farmers’ 45 percent while their costs have dropped incomes and economic self-sufficiency 30 percent, thanks to Educampo Mayab, by boosting their farms’ productivity. a Cargill program begun in 2013. We are • In Mexico’s Yucatán state, small corn working to expand this program to other farmers like Rafael Chan Martin, pictured parts of the country. above, have seen their yields increase Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 17 Connect Nourish Grow Sharing Protecting people every day food safety Keeping our employees and contractors safe is our most important commitment. Stronger controls also are defending everyone on our team. These controls knowledge We have developed new metrics that come in many forms: installing a walkway Indonesia’s 260 million people allow us to peer more deeply into that separates pedestrians from vehicles; reside on more than 13,000 islands, complex safety risks and find ways relocating an oft-used valve to a lower presenting an expansive challenge to proactively guard against them. height to protect from falls; switching to the nation’s cohort of food safety Currently, nearly 500 Cargill employees to less caustic chemicals that still do inspectors. The country’s food and have been trained to conduct formal risk the job. They also include swapping agriculture agency turned to Cargill assessments that examine and improve motorbikes for much safer compact cars to help its inspectors increase their the safety of our highest-risk activities for more than 7,000 employees who drive knowledge so that consumers in order to prevent serious injuries on the job. Thanks to these combined receive safe food every time, and fatalities. efforts, we are a safer company today everywhere. We convened partners than ever before. and organized a training program with a coalition of local universities that provided low-cost courses to government auditors and smaller food businesses. This has helped disseminate practices that meet a high standard across Indonesia. We also bring countries together to collaborate and harmonize standards and practices. For 10 years, Cargill has worked with China’s food safety agency, bringing practitioners to the U.S., Canada and Europe to exchange knowledge. This year, we convened regulators from China, Argentina and Brazil. “We knew everyone would learn from each other, and it exceeded our expectations,” said Shi Baoxiang, head of the Chinese delegation. “From our perspective, we now have a deeper understanding about regulations in grain production in Brazil and Argentina. Everyone benefits.” Growing action on climate change We see ourselves as a growth company. But even as Cargill gets bigger, we will reduce our impact on the environment. By 2025, we will cut absolute greenhouse gas emissions from our operations by 10 percent, compared to 2017 levels. This is a science-based target in line with the Paris Agreement and the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals. To reach this target, we worked with The Nature Conservancy to identify a broad range of actions adapted to the local markets and supply chains where our businesses operate. For example, we are increasing our use of renewable energy through investments like the solar power system we installed this year at our cocoa processing facility in Tema, Ghana. Along with other upgrades, this has enabled us to reduce CO2 emissions at Tema by more than 70 percent. 18 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report Expanding sustainable beef Telling people that the foods they enjoy were processed. This includes using for the first chain, while cattle producers are earning made sustainably means verifying practices time the criteria developed by the Canadian financial incentives for participating. at every step of a supply chain. A growing Roundtable for Sustainable Beef. Recognizing how this is building a supply sustainability pilot in Canada led by Cargill is of sustainable beef in Canada, McDonald’s Customers are receiving increasing plugging our customers into unprecedented gave us its 2018 Scale for Good award. amounts of beef from a fully certified supply information on how cattle are raised and Navigating risk Specially sourced cocoa in metals For Swiss chocolatier Lindt & Sprüngli, sustainably sourced ingredients China imports about 1 billion tons of iron ore are a prerequisite for its premium brand philosophy. In the midst of rapid each year, using it to produce 50 percent of growth, the company is committed to giving consumers the ultimate the world’s steel. The Chinese steel market is chocolate experience, one that takes responsibility for people and the highly volatile; pricing can shift in unpredictable planet. During the past two years, Cargill and Lindt & Sprüngli have ways as market fundamentals are influenced by collaborated to build a tailored sourcing program that provides Lindt & changes in policy and trade. This fast-moving, Sprüngli with assurance that our cocoa butter meets high standards for quickly maturing environment has local steel quality, responsibility and sustainability all the way back to the farmer. mills searching for ways to manage risk and Our sourcing program with Lindt & Sprüngli is supported by the strong hedge against future price swings. foundation of the Cargill Cocoa Promise, which is steadily improving the Cargill provides these steel mill customers with long-term viability of the cocoa sector through more sustainable agricreative commercial solutions and customized cultural practices and stronger livelihoods and communities for cocoa risk management. As the only international farmers and their families. Combined with our supply chain expertise, trading house with a material onshore presence this work will help Lindt & Sprüngli meet its needs as it continues to grow in physical steel trading, we combine a global globally in the years to come. perspective with a talented team of traders and analysts who have expertise in local commodities markets. “Cargill is the benchmark for the industry, especially in its way of thinking,” said Zhang Zhigang, vice president of The Hunan Valin Iron & Steel Group. “Cargill sees the supply chain from beginning to end. Other traders are mainly interested in selling you things, but Cargill thinks with you.” PHOTO COPYRIGHT LINDT & SPRÜNGLI Cargill 2018 Annual Report | 19 Our corporate responsibility Our impact Working with diverse partners around the globe, we advance a wide range and sustainable development priorities and highlights of approaches to keep the food and agriculture system strong. Every day, we connect farmers with markets, customers with healthier ingredients, and Nourishing our world people with the food they need to grow and prosper. Food • Invested $15.5 million in nutrition programs in 26 countries security and • Donated more than 2 million pounds of food to the Feeding America nutrition network of foodbanks Food safety • Shared expertise through the Global Food Safety Initiative that helped other organizations earn more than 125,000 food safety certifications in calendar year 2017 Farmer • Trained more than 475,000 farmers in sustainable agricultural prosperity practices Protecting our planet Land use • Traced 96 percent of our palm oil to the mill and 55 percent to the plantation, while 65 percent of our direct suppliers now have a “No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation” (NDPE) sourcing policy • Developed an integrated approach to forest protection, including an updated global land use policy and operational guidelines that will be released early in the new year Climate • Set a goal to cut greenhouse gas emissions from our operations change at least 10 percent by 2025, against a 2017 baseline • Evaluated virtual power purchase agreements to increase our use of renewable energy Water • Launched a new collaboration with Nestlé Purina and The Nature resources Conservancy using smart weather sensors that will help U.S. farmers irrigate crops with up to 2.4 billion fewer gallons of water over the next three years Food waste • Collaborated with World Resources Institute to incorporate the Food Loss & Waste Protocol’s standard into our global waste By 2030, we will: inventory Enriching our communities Economic • Provided $57.1 million in total charitable contributions Increase access Eliminate Provide training and community across 54 countries to safe, nutritious deforestation and on sustainable development • Invested $15.6 million in education programs worldwide food for a advance climate agricultural practices Employee • Through our See. Say. Stop. program, employees identified more growing population solutions in and improve access safety than 4,600 potentially unsafe work conditions or near misses, our supply chains to markets for enabling us to correct and protect against them 10 million farmers Gender • Women comprised 27.5 percent of our leadership positions globally, representation as we aspire to achieve Paradigm for Parity® by 2030 Employee • More than 11,000 employees volunteered on projects for engagement World Food Day and Earth Day 20 | Cargill 2018 Annual Report Our leadership team LeighAnne Baker Ruth Kimmelshue Joe Stone Human Resources Business Operations Animal Nutrition and Supply Chain David Dines Gert-Jan van den Akker Metals and Shipping David MacLennan Agricultural Supply Chain Chairman and CEO Todd Hall Frank van Lierde Protein and Salt Marcel Smits Food Ingredients Finance and Compliance and Bioindustrial Through our daily operations, our businesses make progress toward many of the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals. For more than 150 years, we have been helping the world thrive. Every day, we reach higher to nourish the world in a safe, responsible and sustainable way. Join us. About Cargill Cargill’s 155,000 employees across 70 countries work relentlessly to achieve our purpose of nourishing the world in a safe, responsible and sustainable way. Every day, we connect farmers with markets, customers with ingredients, and people and animals with the food they need to thrive. We combine 153 years of experience with new technologies and insights to serve as a trusted partner for food, agriculture, financial and industrial customers in more than 125 countries. Side by side, we are building a stronger, sustainable future for agriculture. For more information, visit Cargill.com and our News Center. www.cargill.com © 2018 Cargill, P.O. Box 9300 Incorporated. Minneapolis, MN 55440 Printed in USA CCA-111A-18
