CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 WORK TEAM Pablo Serrano Santos Encarna Guirao Jara Blas Galián Peñalver Luis Pérez Armenteros With the cooperation of all departments of the company In consultation with Longinos Marín Rives (University of Murcia) Design and Layout by José Espinosa (Estudio MOZO) Hero España S.A. Av. de Murcia, 1, 30820 Alcantarilla Murcia T: 968 89 89 00 www.hero.es CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTENTS 02 ... we delight our consumers 2.1. Product innovation 2.2. Health and Nutrition 2.3. Goodness of Nature (GON) 2.4. Bee Careful 01 At Hero… 1.1. Letter from the General Manager 1.2. History | Awards | Milestones 1.3. Mission, Values and Corporate Responsibility 03 ... sustainably 3.1. Sustainable talent 3.2. Environmental sustainability 3.3. Social sustainability 04 Appendix Table of contents GRI Verification Statement 01 At Hero... 1.1. Letter from the General Manager 1.2. History | Awards | Milestones 1.3. Mission, Values and Corporate Responsibility 1.1. Letter from the General Manager What is valuable is worth being preserved, defended, protected and fostered for all of us to enjoy. Therefore, at Hero, we have always The only way of doing things right aimed at preserving the masterpieis being sustainable, coherent and ce of the greatest artists of all time: transparent. Being sustainable conMother Nature. sists in respecting the goodness of nature, guaranteeing the safety and Social responsibility has always been development of our professionals, present at the core of Hero Group requiring high quality standards since its beginning back in 1886 and, from our suppliers and choosing raw likewise, Hero Spain embraced it materials carefully, aiming to delight from its birth in 1922, always keeping our consumers with healthy and naclose, respectful and transparent tural products. relationships with our people, community, consumers and competition, From Hero Spain, we want to share as well as maintaining great care for the best of ourselves, of our products biodiversity. and of our interest groups through Javier Uruñuela Fernández the Sustainability Report regarding General Manager Southern Europe Hero Spain stays true to its double the activity for 2017. commitment to the profitability of the business and to its sustainability, The success of Hero is an ongoing being aware that its commitment to story from 1886, always offering inSocial Responsibility is a guarantee novative products in a sustainable of competitiveness and success. way and taking care of biodiversity to “delight consumers by conserving We are committed to improving our the goodness of nature”. sustainability credentials. We are striving to find the best practices to suit all our interest groups and our future generations. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 7 REPORT 2017 1.2. | A History 1886 1922 1950 1980 Founding of Founding of Hero Consolidation and Conservenfabrik Lenzburg, Alcantarilla large scale expansion Henckell & Zeiler On 20th January 1922, Hero Alcantarilla In the 50s, Murcia’s industry only produced was founded. The purpose of the new significant quantities of products like Hero was founded in 1886 when two company was the preparation of pulps canned apricots, peaches, bell peppers, friends, Gustav Henckell and Gustav and syrups for export. The new company tomatoes and quince jelly. Zeiler, set up Conservenfabrik, Henckell started out with a share capital of 600,000 & Zeiler in Lenzburg (Switzerland) to pesetas. Overcoming the problems that The 60s saw the greatest economic growth process fruit and vegetables. Henckell arose from the First World War, the in Spain, far higher than the European was an experienced worker in the economic recovery of the main European average, and Hero consolidated its position preservation industry and Zeiler was a countries and the rise in the purchasing as one of the most important canned food producer of fruit and vegetables. Before power of the general public foretold companies in the country. On 1st March the end of the year, Carl Roth joined a better outlook for the newly created 1972, the name Hero Alcantarilla S.A. was them as a shareholder. When Gustav company. replaced by Hero España S.A. with the aim Zeiler died unexpectedly, Carl Roth of giving the Company a higher national became a full partner and succeeded status. In these years Hero was a pioneer him. From that time on, the company in introducing Hero Diet Jams in the diet was renamed Henckell & Roth. world, anticipating the needs of a market that barely existed at that time. 1930 1950 Diversification 1910 1939 In 1930, Lenzburg granted Hero 1980 2000 Flourishing business and Alcantarilla (Spain) permission to sell international expansion some of the products and canned foods Start of a new age that were manufactured there under Between 1910 and 1939 five companies the Hero brand. The two production The 80s brought about a strategic change in were founded or bought in Switzerland, plants were exclusively devoted to the the Hero Group, the challenge was creating which led to the flourishing of the export preparation of canned fruit, producing new products for an increasingly wide business. Subsidiaries were set up in different varieties of pulps, natural market. This initiative was founded from the Netherlands (1914) and Spain (1922). preparations, compotes and jams, all of the very beginning on an increase in quality In 1922 there were already 31 different them of unbeatable quality. control and investment in R&D&I, which types of Hero preserves, in formats that made it possible for Hero España to position ranged from 500 g jars to oak casks During this decade, Hero Alcantarilla itself advantageously in comparison with its weighing 55 kg. maintained its strategy of neutrality competitors when it came to facing future towards the events. However, it was challenges. not able to prevent economic reality from posing technical problems in the The Hero brand is a guarantee for production, such as the shortage of fresh consumers of the quality offered in its products or raw materials such as sugar products. But that is not all. The attributes or tinplate, which were essential for its of our brand are also a guarantee of activity. In addition, there was rationing excellence in all the business activity 1910 and the need to consume fresh products. of the company, including customers, suppliers, environment, responsibility and environmental efficiency. Launching of the Hero Brand In 1995, combining the experience in The name of the Hero brand comes from cereals of the company Schwartau and the the joining together of the first two letters potential of the new child food market, it of the surnames of the partners HEnckell was decided to enter the sector of baby food and ROth. The shape of the tins also manufacturing, which was to mean a huge inspired the name, since the letters H, R investment and a technological revolution and O are similar to their shape. for the group. 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 9 REPORT 2017 1985 2000 2010 2010 2015 The Birth of Hero Baby New millennium, new Hero España adapts to strategy an interconnected and The prestige of the Hero brand, At the beginning of the 21st century, the changing world associated with products for feeding babies, was one of the keys of the activity was very intense and large-scale Hero España’s insistence on knowing success in converting them into investments were made by the Hero what consumers need in order to offer something practically ’irresistible’ Group. Several companies were bought it to them in the best conditions of for consumers. Hero Baby enters the in the child food sector and, in addition, quality has found an ally of extraordinary Spanish child food market. distribution networks were set up all importance in the growth of the internet. around the world. Now, Hero España can communicate In the following years, production and directly with the consumers, who are sales grew steadily. Big investments The growth of production and the widening practically present at all times in the were made in the creation of modern of the range of products had complicated company. production plants in which expert the logistics of distribution and storage, research teams had access to the and had considerably increased costs. In the new decade, Hero España has latest technology in all fields, including Therefore, Hero España took the decision been able to adapt to the vertiginous knowledge management. That is how to build a centralised warehouse with the speed with which changes are coming Hero Baby products came to be the latest self-supporting technology and with about and has continued fostering unquestioned leader of the sector in capacity for more than 30,000 pallets. innovation and improvement in the Spain. quality of its products, even the ones whose quality standards seemed to be impossible to make better. An example of these years is the launch of Mermelada de Temporada (Seasonal Jams). Direct contact with consumers means 2006 that Hero can always offer them the 1995 products that they need. This close Creation of the Hero relationship has led to the launch of A new direction Institute for Infant Nutrition new product lines that have proved very successful and that, in spite of being In 1995, the German company The entry of the Hero Group in the very new, seem to have been made by Schwartauer International GmbH, child food sector was supported from Hero forever. This is the case of Pedialac founded in 1899 and owned by Dr Arend the beginning by investing in research infant formulas, with which Hero has Oetker, bought a majority stake in and development. The production entered the pharmacy channel; Hero Hero. The prospects of the Schwartau of knowledge in this field led to the Nanos, which are a healthy and natural companies, as well as the strategic creation of the Hero Nutrition Institute complement to food for children from importance for Hero, were positive. The located in the premises in Alcantarilla, 12 months and Maridaje del Chef, which activities of these companies were to where the best international experts in makes a novel contribution to modern be found in the sector of cereal bars, paediatrics and infant nutrition work. cuisine. jams (sector in which they are leaders in Germany), semi-prepared products This same year, the Global Technology One of the most recent new items are for bakeries, as well as articles and Centre was created jointly with the the Siglo XXI jars. Innovations have been decorations for cakes, spreadable Institute. This Centre incorporates the made in the jar for the first time in 30 products and fruit desserts, which could latest scientific evidences that ensure years, making it more convenient for open up other possibilities for sales that Hero infant food contributes to the consumer, coinciding with the 30th and market access with new quality the healthy development and growth anniversary of the Hero Baby brand. products for all of the subsidiaries of of babies, so that in the future they will the Hero Group. become healthy children and adults. 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 REPORT 2017 1.2. | B Awards and acknowledgements We have been awarded with more than 40 awards and recognitions for our effort and good work. All of them are equally important to us, but the following are some of the most emblematic ones: 1998 2000 2004 2005 2009 Laurel Award TRAINING AND (“José Luis FLEXIBLE COMPANY Accésit ESPIGA DE for supporting DEVELOPMENT Pérez” Prize for RECOGNITION, given ORO Award, by the labour POLICY CORPORATE SOCIAL by the Ministry of Spanish Federation integration of Recognition, RESPONSIBILITY, Social Affairs and of Food Banks and people with awarded by awarded by Capital Employment, IESE the Ministry of intellectual Capital Humano Humano Journal and Mass Media Agriculture disabilities, given Journal and the University of by FEAPS Deusto 12 2017 Fidelity Award, given by FESBAL 2012 2012 2012 2014 2016 “SOCIAL VIII ENERGY “ANTONIO RUIZ 8 MARCH AWARDS AWARD FOR THE COMPANY” AWARDS in GIMÉNEZ” AWARD FOR EQUALITY, ECODESIGN OF PRIZE, given by the category FOR GOOD awarded by the CONTAINERS AND Mundo Ciudad of Energy PRACTICES OF Department of PACKAGING, given Foundation Efficiency OCCUPATIONAL RISK Health and Social by the Department PREVENTION, given Policy of the Region of Agriculture, Water by the Department of of Murcia and Environment of Education, Training the Region of Murcia and Employment CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 REPORT 2017 1.2. | C Hitos 1922 2000 Hero Alcantarilla is created. Soil Association Certification/ Organic Standard for infant products 1930 Products began to be sold under A centralised warehouse with the the Hero brand name (jams, latest self-supporting technology syrups and canned vegetables). and with capacity for more than 30,000 pallets is built. 1970 2001 Hero juices and ready-made meals are launched (Meatballs, Ravioli Halal Certification. and Lasagna, among others). 2003 1985 EMAS registration, European The new range of Hero Baby Infant Eco-management and Audit Food and Nutrition is born. Scheme. 1994 2006 First solid company in the food sector The Global Technology Center is to achieve the Certification in Quality created in Spain, a reference in Management System ISO 9001 research and development of infant products for both Hero Group and Hero 1995 Nutrition Institute. Hero Baby Infant Formulas are launched. OSHAS 18001 Certification. ISO 22000 Certification. 1997 Certification in Environmental BRC Standard. Management System ISO 14001. IFS Standard. 1999 Hero Portugal is born. 14 2011 2015 KRAV Standard for manufacturing Renovation of our brand and biological and organic products. corporate identity. Hero Baby celebrates its 2012 30th anniversary. Hero España celebrates its 90th anniversary. FSC 22000 Certification. Our exclusive range of formulas SAE Certification. for pharmacies, Pedialac, is born. 2016 We launched Mermelada de Temporada (Seasonal Jam). First Sustainability Report of Hero España. Hero Nanos, a range for babies over the age of 12 months, is created. 2017 IURISCERT Certification 2013 (Management System for Crime Launching of our bolsitas de fruta Prevention). (natural fruit pouches). FDA Certification. 2014 Kosher Certification. Launching of our Babynatur baby foods and jars. New formulation with Lipilac of our infant formulas. Launching of Hero Maridaje del Chef, a new concept of jams. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 REPORT 2017 1.3. Mission, Values and Corporate Responsibility Mission Values Our mission, “delight consumers by Our ambition to grow is based on We foster an environment where conserving the goodness of nature”, our five core values: professional entrepreneurs can addresses the needs and desires flourish and where creativity, of today’s consumers for real and 1. Change imagination and new ideas are honest food. We believe in going 2. Entrepreneurship highly esteemed. back to the basics and adopting the 3. Speed principles of purity, honesty and 4. Empowerment We have an open-minded way of simplicity. 5. Family working, which is also informal, non-hierarchical and family Our values help us navigate he oriented, by taking rapid decisions. constantly changing environment in We give our people the freedom and which we work and guarantee our responsibility necessary to reach continuous effort to keep innovating in their goals and ambitions in the way order to meet the needs of our clients. they think is best. 16 CSR strategy Hero’s social responsibility strategy is founded on 4 fundamental pillars: 01 Environmental Protecting the natural resources by means of innovation and a more Sustainability efficient use of energy, water and our containers and packaging. Our project “Bee Careful”, whose objective is making our interest groups aware of the importance of the bees and their protection, is particularly important. 02 Social Encouraging people to live healthier by offering them healthy, innovative and quality food, developing fair and safe practices. Sustainability 03 Sustainable Investing in our people to help them be successful and develop the skills necessary to boost the growth of the company at all levels and Talent creating new jobs. 04 Economic Aiming to offer better and more sustainable financial performances over time in order to meet the aforementioned targets. Sustainability Today’s Hero is a modern company, In 2015, we conducted a materialiinternationally renowned and with a ty analysis in collaboration with the future plan, that has integrated CorUniversity of Murcia with the aim of porate Responsibility into its core vadetermining our priorities and laying lues by implementing sustainability the scientific foundations to guide criteria in all its performances. We the Social Responsibility strategy of have identified all our stakeholders: our company. The analysis enabled staff, suppliers, consumers, orgaus to discover those responsible asnisational clients, local community, pects that are considered important public and private institutions and and relevant by our interest groups, biodiversity. as well as those aspects considered less significant. This value of responsibility is written in our people’s DNA and imbues their daily work. The influence of our activity on our economic and social environment is our genuine pride. Thanks to our dedication to responsibility, we work today, building a natural and healthy future. RESPONSABILIDAD SOCIAL CORPORATIVA 17 MEMORIA 2017 Food quality Occupational and safety safety and health Health and safety Diversity HIGH for clients and equal opportunities Regulatory Marketing compliance communications Attracting employees Emissions Minimisation Product of risks labelling Economic Environmental Materials performance Relations RELEVANCE FOR THE INTEREST GROUPS management Market Executive presence Board workers Energy relations and water Non-discrimination Biodiversity SIGNIFICANT Evaluation Procurement of suppliers practices Local communities Fighting corruption MEDIUM MEDIUM SIGNIFICANT HIGH IMPACT FOR HERO ESPAÑA Human Work practices Society Product Economy Ecological Rights responsibility 18 In order to conduct this materiality analysis, several face-to-face meetings were held, and an online survey was completed by more than 1500 representatives of interest groups, a figure that marks a true breakthrough of participation in this kind of study. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 REPORT 2017 02 we delight our consumers 2.1. Product innovation 2.2. Health and Nutrition 2.3. Goodness of Nature (GON) 2.4. Bee Careful 2.1. Product innovation Hero Spain is one of the most important companies of the country in the infant food and nutrition sector. We innovate, elaborate and commercialise a wide range of foods, with the best products offered by nature and by applying the most careful manufacturing processes, with the aim of offering our clients the best quality and naturalness. In doing this, we contribute actively and positively to sustainable development. Foods made by Hero Spain hold a clear leading position within their respective sectors and show great prestige in the market, standing out for their innovation, quality and safety. Hero Spain elaborates natural and healthy foods that can be grouped into the following families: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 REPORT 2017 A thorough and Baby: Healthy painstaking selection Infant food until Snacks: of the best products 12 months of age. Our cereal bars and pouches offered by mother provide energy at any time nature, together with Solo: and in any place. a strict manufacturing 100% ecological food. process that takes Sauces into consideration the Nanos: and syrups: highest quality and Food for babies over With fresh and safety standards, result 12 months of age. natural ingredients. in healthy and natural foods with Hero’s seal Pedialac: Ready-made of guarantee. Complete range of baby food available only in pharmacies. meals: Delicious homemade meals to enjoy good traditional Jams: cuisine in the quickest and Elaborated with the original recipe most comfortable way with a from 1886, 100% natural, with more traditional taste. than 30 different flavours and a wide range of formats. Food Service: Excellent products adapted to offer satisfactory solutions in all channels. 22 2.2. Health and Nutrition 2.2.1 Institute Hero for Infant Nutritión What is the Institute? Institute Hero for Infant Nutrition has more than 50 years of research experience. Its main task is to guide the companies of the Hero Group in developing the best Baby food. For this purpose, and with the advice of our independent scientific advisory committee, we elaborate nutritional guidelines and scientific opinions based on the latest advances in paediatric nutrition. Apart from developing important scientific work in its own analytical and biotechnological laboratories, Hero works closely with prestigious universities and research centres. Our mission: Inspired by nature, confirmed by science CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 REPORT 2017 Activities of the Institute We contribute to a healthy life through healthy scientific practices. But, how do we do this? 01 We establish the lines of research based on the advice of our 02 We develop and offer online programmes on medical nutrition, 03 We have expanded our experience in clinical research within the independent scientific advisory food quality and safety, technology field of Paediatrics thanks to committee and taking into and many other subjects to offer the collaboration with health consideration the latest scientific constant training. professionals from more than 100 advances in Infant nutrition. international hospitals and health Hero has many analytical and care centres, as well as through biotechnological laboratories where many projects in cooperation with we develop our scientific work universities and research centres in in collaboration with prestigious Europe and the Middle East. Hero’s universities and hospitals that Scientific Advisory Committee, guarantee the suitability and which is made up of renowned accuracy of our research. international independent experts, advises the Hero Nutrition Institute regarding the latest scientific achievements. Constant training of health professionals Advised by experts 24 Latest activities of the Institute Hero for Infant Nutrition: 04 • Internal training programmes on nutrition addressed to Hero’s working teams, contributing to the generation of knowledge in this field of research. • Promotion of healthy habits, modifying the meals served in the on-site canteen by including more balanced combinations and fostering the consumption of fruits and vegetables as well as seasonal foods. • Encouragement of the constant training of health Hero Nutrition Institute is well professionals on issues related to infant nutrition: paediatricians, gastroenterologists, nutritionist, chemists, connected with international paediatric nurses. To that end, we offer them specific experts who research in the field training programmes, courses on nutritional education and of infant nutrition. Hero’s Scientific symposia held in conferences with the latest advances on Committee validates every scientific infant nutrition. project together with the members • Scientific support to all our ranges of products by means of that committee. of scientific meetings and symposia held in medical conferences, among other activities. • Production of scientific communications to spread the nutritional goodness of our products. Research in the nutrition field Nutritional guidelines on the development of new products CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 REPORT 2017 2.3. Goodness of Nature (GON) Nature is all about basics: it is simplicity, honesty and purity. We have a great heritage and we must go back to basics. Thanks to the optimisation of processes, the innovation and the premiumisation, we have focused on the natural quality of our products and, actually, they make the goodness of nature available for our consumers in tune with the times. Rob Versloot, CEO of Hero Group Today’s mission of our company, In Motion), whose aim is to spread “Deligth consumers by conserving and highlight our mission. Our most the goodness of nature”, is a maimportant goal is to guarantee that tter of pride for each person who our products are aligned with our is part of Hero. This pride does not mission and that we are able to evacome only from having great brands, luate objectively whether they are knowledge and capacities and from progressively oriented to “delight our joining our passion towards our consumers” in a natural and healthy common objective, but also from way, “by conserving the goodness of knowing that, by doing all this, we nature”. are offering better products to our consumers. In order to fulfill our mission through our foods, Hero has developed the project GONIM (Goodness of Nature 26 From Hero Group, we want to have a clear position, to prove our certainty of the “natural and healthy” quality of our products and to maintain these values over time. We have been able to establish how close we are to the accomplishment of our mission, to the natural food and to the international parameters of reference for nutrition, as well as a very clear basis that helps us improve our products. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 REPORT 2017 2.4. Bee Careful Hero and the bees: chronicle of a commitment In this alarming context, Hero sets up the initiative Bee Careful to protect the health of the bees by developing varied activities to raise awareness, to train and to encourage good agricultural practices in the framework of intensive sustainable agriculture. Photo: Juan Pérez Internal Photography Contest 28 A clear objective: plot should be planted with an optiAlbopunctata, A.Hispana, A.Morio). mum selection of melliferous flowers There is also something that has From Hero Spain, we want to prove of two different families: herbaceous come as a pleasant surprise: the that it is possible to boost the preplants and aromatic plants. Thus, we presence of butterflies, specially sence of pollinating insects by carrhave 11.13 hectares full of plants avaiParnasius Apoyo, a species that is ying out very simple actions. These lable to be pollinated in three different protected by different international actions have to be well planned on an settlements of the province of Teruel. treaties (such as the CITES Treaty agricultural level, though, and need (Convention on International Trade for the involvement of all the particiThe project began in 2016 and it has in Endangered Species of Wild Faupants of the sector: companies, farbeen extended recently until January na and Flora)), whose presence in mers and scientists. 2019. the area is not only important but also unusual. The grounds of the project: With the support of This is only the beginning of our CSIC (Spanish National commitment to pollinators, but it is With the aim of tying this project into Research Council): the normal activity of Hero and its very promising!! subsidiaries from the very beginning, An entomologist, who collaborates we contacted in Spain our main suSpreading the project: with CSIC and is an expert in pollipplier of wheat flour and, in turn, their nators, is carrying out a study within suppliers from the Cereal CooperatiHero Spain wants to extend its inithe different aforementioned plots ve of Teruel. tiative to consumers as well as to of wheat to confirm the impact of bee lovers and all its interest groups the “new” melliferous flowers on We put forward our idea: planting the through three channels: the area. Thus, an environmental edge of the crops with melliferous diagnosis will be developed, as well flowers, those used by bees to pro• The website Bee Careful (http:// as a biodiversity inventory and a duce honey, with the aim of attracting www.bee-careful.com/es/), monitoring of the evolution of pollithe homonymous bees to these areas where you can find further innators. This monitoring will provide of wheat monoculture. They found our formation on the project, the data to draw conclusions regarding initiative interesting and we agreed on current situation of the beekeethe number of species (of bees and planting those flowers in both areas ping world and all you need to other insects), potential pests, possiof production and adjacent areas. know regarding these fascinable predators, endemic species and ting insects. other existing species in the area. Doing the numbers: • A short didactic video that we have created aimed at the whoFirstly, we estimated the amount of First results and an le family. You can watch it on our whole grain wheat per year that we “unexpected” guest star: Youtube channel or on the webprocess in Hero Spain to elaborate site itself. infant foods (600 tonnes approx.) and, In the latest samples collected by the • A QR code that we have desigconsidering an approximated producentomologist (July 2017), we started ned and added on the labels tion of 3 tonnes/cultivated hectare, to notice the first results of our perof our infant cereals to get you we calculated a necessary plot of 200 formance “Bee Careful”: “pioneer” learn about the project and hectares. Out of these 200 hectares, pollinators, solitary bees, of varied about our commitment to the we established that, at least, 5% of the species have been found (Andrena care of bees. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 REPORT 2017 03 sustainably 3.1. Sustainable talent 3.2. Environmental sustainability 3.3. Social sustainability 3.1. Sustainable talent We believe in the development of sustainable talent. We invest in our people to help them be successful and develop their skills with the aim of boosting and getting involved with the sustainable growth of the company. Diversity and Equality in the Workplace The promotion of work stability and ponsibility, are duly reflected in the the respect for gender equality and Code of Ethics and Conduct of the parity as well as for diversity are Company. key principles in our company, as demonstrated by the composition Our commitment to our employees of the staff in Hero Spain. These shall be highlighted, since 96.34% of aspects, together with many others the staff in Hero Spain have permarelated to integrity and Social Resnent contracts. 48% WOMEN 52% MEN CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 REPORT 2017 People in Hero Just as we defend in our essential mission “the goodness of nature”, we also defend sustainable and natural relationships with our staff. People are key to the whole natural and sustainable process of the company. 332 It is our people that have to believe, create, design, assess, develop and get involved… and thanks to all that, each action that is carried out in our company can be sustainable and Training activities aligned with our mission. That is the reason why we count on people who are responsible and en29.615 gaged, who have knowledge, appetite for learning and enthusiasm and, to whom the company commits by offering training and development plans. Hero Spain believes in the versatility of its professionals, therefore, Hours of training we provide many opportunities for them to get trained in a wide variety 1.549 of subjects that contribute to better performance in their jobs and to developing all their potential talent: Trained workers 37 Average hours of training/person 32 We grant internal promotions by offering the possibility of developing horizontal technical professional career growth, so that everyone can assert themselves and be compensated for their efforts. All our selection processes guarantee non-discrimination and objectivity by means of a blind selection procedure every time that our area managers interact. Number of selected positions 29 SELECTION PROCESSES 6 POSITIONS IN OFFICE ENVIRONMENT 23 POSITIONS IN PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS 47% WOMEN 21% 2017 79% 53% MEN Furthermore, thanks to our collaThe evaluation of our workers’ perworkers feel comfortable, and healboration with different Universities formance, when it comes to assesthy relationships where trust is key to and Vocational Training Centres, we sing their results and competences, labour relations, always establishing receive an average of 50 students per includes objectivity, fairness and ina true working environment in which year. We pioneered the collaboraternal meritocracy. every employee can make Hero their tion with the University of Murcia 20 own professional project and feel resyears ago and we have been working We have a high grade of internal componsible for it. with them since then, bringing enmunication regarding all the events thusiasm and serving as a reference coming about in our company. We for future generations. create a warm environment to make CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 REPORT 2017 A safe environment It is our main concern. Therefore, we invest many resources and time into improving safety, hygiene, psychosocial support and ergonomics. We also have our own Medical Service available to look after our people’s health, always a few steps ahead of what the law establishes. Health and safety at work are unaregarding physical, social and menvoidable and essential aspects for tal welfare as well as environmenHero Spain and have always been tal comfort. The aim is keeping our our main concern. That’s why we people healthier, happier and more achieved the certification OSHAS motivated and satisfied. 18001 in 2006. Thus, by establishing a firm commitWe want to be a healthy company; ment, we carry out different actions therefore, we move towards that aim to favour healthy habits, both at perby offering new activities year after sonal and occupational level. These year and helping and influencing our healthy habits contribute to achiepeople in this regard. The Human ving the comprehensive welfare of Resources Department, with the cothe employees of Hero Spain and to llaboration of our own Medical Serchange health risk attitudes and bevice and our Prevention and Occuhaviours: pational Health Service, fosters this project of being a healthy company. The project encompasses all aspects 34 • Campaigns and talks on • First aid training courses and • Free breast cancer prevention tobacco withdrawal. training programmes on the in our facilities in cooperation use of defibrillator, seeking with AECC (Spanish Association • Providing employees with the objective of getting all the Against Cancer). knowledge on nutrition and members of the staff to know healthy habits to help them about CPR, first aid and the use • Free medical check-ups and choose their lifestyles wisely. of defibrillator. tests. • Updating of the document • Sport promotion (such as • Healthy meals in the canteens. “Protocol on action for running, promoted by our Hero interpersonal conflict Runners). • Forum Hero, where our people resolution and the prevention of can share experiences or work harassment”. • Project Hero ADAPTRA: hobbies with the rest of staff. supplementary information • Promotion of healthy meals in in addition to compulsory • Open and direct communication our on-site canteen: balanced job-specific information with our CEO. meals which provide the (Art. 19 LPRL – Law for the necessary caloric intake for our occupational risk prevention). • On-site gymnasium with people’s lifestyles. This information is mainly activities and an instructor. practical, is given in the factory • Specific health programmes department by the manager (Project Fifty/Fifty). directly responsible for the employees and is repeated • Services of podiatry and every time that the staff or the physiology. equipment change. The importance of equal compliance of the law, as well as new policies and actions that open new paths to discover gender equality: • Training in fields where women • Promotion of training courses are underrepresented (for on equality addressed to all the instance, our training activity on staff. Automation and Electricity). • Workplace training. • Incorporation of women into the Committee for Energy • Incorporation of women into Efficiency. decision-making bodies of the company. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 REPORT 2017 In the social field, Hero always goes further in its commitment to caring for its employees: We foster the reconciliation of professional and personal life. We accompany, help and reward our people all along their professional careers. We protect maternity and help Hero mums and dads. Those are our ways of increasing the sense and pride of belonging in the company. In short, we do so by implementing policies and actions such as: 01 02 03 Flexibility with the times of entry Flexible management of Possibility of working and departure in the case of working time in the field of from home administrative staff production 04 05 06 Schoolgrants for the A gift when a baby is born Scholarships for Hero orphans purchase of textbooks 07 08 09 Internal celebration of Mother’s Free infant foods for Hero Delivery of product launches and Father’s Day babies until 18 months of age 10 11 12 Financial assistance for Celebration of 25 and 40 years On-site canteen subsidy children with special needs in the company 13 14 Short working day Special permissions during summer 36 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 REPORT 2017 Regulatory Compliance Labour relations inside our company are based on the absolute compliance of the occupational regulations in their fullest terms. However, it is not enough, since both the company managers and the workers’ representatives (Works Council) go further by positioning, fostering and creating equal opportunities of co-responsibility and reconciliation of professional and private lives of the people working in Hero Spain. The compliance of the law gets everwe count on our Compliance Officer yone involved in the best way, requito provide guidance in all levels of ring from us to be our best version the company. day after day. Thus, in January 2017, we achieved the certification IURISThis mentality of internal co-responCERT by Aenor for Crime Prevention sibility leads us to have management in Organisations. systems of high participation, as showed by our Lean (Manufacturing The employee is responsible for asand Office) methodology with the suming the regulation compliance participation, implication, contribuaccording to their position and restion and visibility of our people that ponsibility field. In order to have a provided us with more than 600 ideas more responsible attitude towards for improvement collected in 2017. the worker and the other way around, Criminal liability of legal persons Occupational risk prevention Food Management General Regulation for defence Compliance the Protection of Personal Data Food Chain Law Competition Law 38 Promotion of work-life balance and commitment Hero Spain fosters the balance of professional life and private life of its employees by promoting policies that enable some flexibility with the times of entry and departure in the case of administrative staff, the flexible management of the time in the production sector as well as the possibility of working from home. Flexible organisation of working and their families get involved. Our hours is one of the measures that aim is to boost the sense of belonHero Spain offers to its staff in order ging in the company and to create a to promote a balance between their warm environment. professional and private lives. Likewise, Hero Spain organises many different corporate events all along the year in which our people CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 REPORT 2017 3.2. Environmental Sustainability 3.2.1 Respect for biodiversity One of the key principles of Hero’s corporate policy is respect for nature. The integration of environmental criteria and the preservation of natural resources lead us to constantly improve our activity, seeking to minimise its environmental impact. This search for operational excellence results in a solid and consolidated Environmental Management System according to the requirements of the international ISO 14001:2015 regulations and the European EMAS Regulation. 40 3.2.2 Environmental Policy 1 2 5 Hero Spain shall develop all its acHero Spain shall meet the legal Hero Spain shall acquire the netivities in an environmentally-friendrequirements regarding the envicessary means to develop with full ly manner, working constantly to imronment that are applicable for each guarantee the tasks of analysis, perprove its environmental practices. In situation and, whenever possible, formance and revision related to enorder to minimise the environmental shall outpace those requirements by vironmental protection. impacts and prevent pollution, the setting its own higher standards. Lifollowing measures shall be applied kewise, Hero España S. A. shall meet at the design stage of new facilities, any other subscribed requirement or 6 processes and products by studying agreement. those previously existing ones: Hero Spain shall issue and spread an annual Environmental Statement a. Suitable management of material and energy resources shall be 3 internally including all the requirements set in the Annex III of the promoted. Hero Spain shall get involved in European Regulation No 1221/2009 b. Whenever possible, atmospheric staff training and raising awareness through which organisations can emissions, waste, and dumping regarding all kinds of environmental voluntarily join a community system generated by our activity shall be issues. To that end, training activities of environmental management and reduced. shall be organised, and all the meaaudit, amended in accordance to Rec. Hero Spain shall work together sures taken by the organisation shall gulation (EU) 1505/2017. Likewise, with suppliers to improve their be shared. the aforementioned Statement shall environmental performances, be internally communicated to thoespecially with farming se interest groups who so request cultivations (phytosanitary treatments, nutritional 4 through our website. treatments, etc.) Hero Spain shall develop an Environmental Management System, according to the guidelines that have 7 been generally accepted, that guarantees the respect for the environAnnually, the Chief Operating Officer ment through all its activity, enabling and the Director of Innovation and the achievement of the established Quality shall revise the Environmengoals. tal Policy, goals and targets. Likewise, they shall establish the environmental goals for the following year. This revision shall be included in the Environmental Statement. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 REPORT 2017 3.2.3 Efficient use of resources It is not only an environmental matter, but also a key aspect for the survival of the production sector, the economy and employment, and it is progressively prevailing over old ways of doing business. From the environmental perspecetc.) and will diminish the consumptive, it generates a series of benetion of raw materials, thereby also fits that affect many other aspects reducing the impact on the surrounpositively. It is evident that energy ding environment and its ecosystem. efficiency is always accompanied by Another essential aspect, especially reducing polluting emissions and in geographical areas where there this, in turn, improves air quality and, is a water deficit such as Murcia, is consequently, health, and quality of water use efficiency. This aspect may life. Reducing waste and improving affect this universal treasure whose recycling processes will decrease renewability is increasingly dwindenvironmental pressure too (extracling due to the overexploitation of tion of raw materials, landfills, sothe resources and the alteration of lid-waste incinerators, emissions, ecosystems. 3.2.3.1 Water Water resources consumed by Hero adaptation to new market needs that España are mainly used for cleaning require shorter manufacturing proprocesses, thermal treatments, coocesses. ling processes and incorporation to the final product. Its origin is from This aspect has been labelled as sigthe public water supply network and nificant in the Study on Environmenfrom underground sources of water. tal Aspects 2015-2017. Therefore, improvement measures are already As the eco-efficiency indicator being developed in order to optimise shows, the consumption of water industrial water consumption. worsened in 2017 due mainly to the 9 m3/manufactured t 7,5 6 6,65 6,03 6,52 4,5 3 1,5 0 2015 2016 2017 42 3.2.3.2 Packaging Containers play a fundamental role reducing the containers and packain preserving the nutritional benefits ging of its products, seeking to reand the quality of our products. They duce their environmental impact by also enable the storage, transport making them lighter, redesigning and safe consumption of our prothem, or eliminating superfluous ducts. However, containers are also packaging, etc. In recent years, the a challenge, since important resourindicator has improved due to the ces are needed for their creation and measures that have been implementhey become waste when they are ted through policies for redesign and not recycled. reduction of gauges and the thickness of materials. Since 1995, Hero has been working on eco-design measures focused on 0,600 t Containers/Packaging / manufactured t 0,500 0,503 0,472 0,469 0,400 0,300 0,200 2015 2016 2017 3.2.3.3 Raw materials (Eco) Hero Spain has been manufacturing rials consumed has increased 3,9% organic products for many years (esin the last year in comparison to the pecially for central European counyear before thanks to this measure. tries). The new commitment, since The Spanish organic market is sti2016, has been launching to the ll awakening to this new chance for national market of a range of orgahealthier and more sustainable food. nic products ONLY for infant foods. The amount of organic raw mate10,00 %Ecological RMs 7,50 6,6 5,00 2,50 1,8 2,7 0,00 2015 2016 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 REPORT 2017 3.2.4 Climate Change 3.2.4.1 Energy One of the goals of Hero Spain is the within their departments and they cohandled in our logistic warehouse. optimisation of the energy consumpllaborate with the internal Committee tion. In its daily activity, the consumpfor Energy Efficiency as well. Both indicators have been kept stable tion of energy comes mainly from during the last years due to the meindustrial heating processes, lighting, Some of the most significant measuasures adopted in terms of energy air conditioning and electrical conres that have been introduced in recent efficiency. sumption of equipment. years are the replacement of fluorescent lighting by LED light technology, We want to highlight that the elecThere is an internal Committee for the reuse of waste heat in other protrical energy consumed in 2017 has Energy Efficiency that studies the cesses, the optimisation of energy conbeen supplied under the guarantee most effective measures to implesumption in the purification plant and of being 100% renewable energy. ment in the company. Many of thethe improvement of the performance of Thus, we encourage the use of these se measures are suggested by the industrial steam boilers. clean energies as well as the global workers themselves via the so-called reduction of the impact of the CO2 Energy Efficiency Promotors. Those The first figure shows the indicator of emissions caused by the generation are leading figures in the teams of electricity and natural gas consumpof electrical energy. By implemenproduction, maintenance and offices tion of the factory per manufactured ting this measure, we have prevented that watch over the optimisation of tonne. The second figure shows the 4,880 tonnes of CO2 caused by the energy resources used in the maelectrical consumption of the logistic generation of electrical energy from nufacturing processes and their suwarehouse per handled tonne. This being emitted. rroundings. Those promotors collect differentiation is necessary since thefrom their co-workers and suggest re are products that are not manufacideas to improve energy efficiency tured in Hero Spain’s facilities but are Mw-h consumed energy/ 1,40 1,102 1,111 manufactured t 1,086 1,05 0,70 0,35 0,00 2015 2016 2017 Mw-h consumed energy/ t handled 0,012 in logistic warehouse 0,009 0,009 0,008 0,008 0,006 0,003 0,000 2015 2016 2017 44 3.2.4.2 Atmospheric emissions Atmospheric emissions produced by thanks to the measures for energy Hero Spain come from the combusefficiency adopted by the company. tion of five industrial boilers, several Those measures aim at the optigroups of electrical auxiliary genemisation of industrial processes of rators, cooking equipment from the energy use and the reduction of reon-site canteen and the leakage of frigerant gas leakages. The savings refrigerant gases from the refrigerain emissions were 324 tonnes of ting facilities. CO2eq* in 2017. In 2017, the indicator of emissions per manufactured tonne improved t CO2eq/ manufactured t 0,200 0,180 0,178 0,170 0,160 0,166 0,140 0,120 2015 2016 2017 * CO2eq of consumed fuel has been calculated according to the consumption of natural gas by applying conversion factors set out in “Annex 8.Factors of emission of C02 and ICV of fuels”, from the Spanish National Inventory of Emissions of GG (Greenhouse Gas), years 1990-2015. The parameters for CH4 and N20 have been calculated by considering the conversion factors of the institution CORINAIR (Core Inventory of Air Emissions) published in the Guidebook for Reporting Emissions in Thermal Power and Combustion Plants (Dec 2013), by the Department of Environment and Spatial Planning of the Junta of Andalusia. The CO2eq of refrigerant gases has been calculated by taking the global warming potentials published in the Fourth Assessment Report of the IPCC (Regulation 517/2014) as a reference point. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 REPORT 2017 3.2.5 Waste and dumping Hero Spain generates industrial dumping that is treated in an industrial sewage treatment plant (EDARI) of our own that is located within our facilities. A double treatment based on physiin an external biodigester and comcochemical methods (DAF – Dissolposting plant. ved Air Flotation) and aerobic biological depuration of activated sludges The adjacent figures (in which the on fluidized bed. Later, the treated parameters *COD and **SIS are waste dumping is channelled to the reflected) evidence the adequate municipal sewage collection system functioning of the treatment system, for subsequent treatment in an urkeeping levels far below the legal ban sewage treatment plant, while limits established by the competent the sludges are managed as wastes Authority. Kg SIS/manufactured t 2,50 Legal limit 2,00 1,50 1,00 0,50 0,144 0,221 0,162 0,00 2015 2016 2017 KG O2 (COD)/ manufactured t 6,00 Legal limit 4,50 3,00 1,50 0,362 *COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) 0,170 0,242 **SIS(Solids in Suspension) 0,00 2015 2016 2017 46 Hero Spain generates a series of ning the indicator stable during the An important improvement can be non-hazardous waste that is derived last years by seeking alternatives of observed regarding the amount from its industrial activity in the food valuation and/or reuse of the waste, of waste sent to landfills in recent and agriculture sector. That waste is: and being subsequently delivered to years, as a high percentage of waste domestic waste (assimilable to urmanagers authorised by the compeassimilable to domestic waste has ban waste), plastic, cardboard, glass, tent environmental administration. been evaluated since 2016 by the fiscrap, wood, used vegetable oil and nal authorised waste manager. mud or sludge from EDARI. The indicator has been kept stable in recent years despite the implemenClassification policies applied to this tation of new lines. waste have contributed to maintaiT No hazardous wastes/ 0,08 manufactured t 0,07 0,07 0,06 0,06 0,04 0,02 0,00 2015 2016 2017 91,536 %NHW 100 88,482 Landfill 75 62,231 Valuation 50 37,768 25 11,517 8,463 0 2015 2016 2017 Hazardous waste generated by Hero are authorised by the competent enviThe adjacent figure shows the worseSpain comes from the use of dangeronmental administration. Hero Spain ning of the indicator due mainly to the rous substances in auxiliary activities holds the appropriate authorisation to generation of waste from the wall-cosuch as cleaning, maintenance and be producer of small volumes of haverings made of asbestos-cement that laboratory work. This waste is duly zardous waste with the No 1277. were removed in 2017. Nevertheless, classified in our facilities and delivered the total amount of dangerous waste later to special waste managers that generated did not surpass 10t. Kg HWs generated/ 0,20 0,170 manufactured t 0,15 0,10 0,090 0,065 0,05 0,00 2015 2016 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 REPORT 2017 3.2.6 Other kinds of impacts 3.2.6.1 Environmental training and awareness raising. Any company that may be able to Therefore, educational training on the number of hours and workers achieve excellence will reach it sustainability is a fundamental factor trained on environmental issues inonly through learning and practice. within its corporate strategy. creased considerably. The training The perception of excellence from activities that were carried out adcustomers’ perspective shall be baWe have specific training programdressed fields related to adaptations sed on a flawless functioning of the mes available on environmental of regulations, circular economy and organisational system, achieving issues to guarantee suitable maenvironmental health. the established goals by means of nagement and care for biodiversity innovation, research and training. in our daily performance. In 2017, Environmental 900 training (hours) 675 681 450 224 67 159 0 2015 2016 2017 3.2.6.2 Integration and updating of the management systems. In October 2017, the new 2015 versions of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 regulations were adapted through an audit carried out by Aenor (Spanish Association for Standardization and Certification) with positive results. With the new versions, both regulations 9001 and 14001 are standardised under the same structure and a greater emphasis is placed on risk assessment. Moreover, a new approach has been developed in which it is necessary to take into consideration two missing aspects in former versions, such as the context of the company (environmental and financial, in the market, crisis situations, etc.) and the different interest groups of the organisation. 48 Photo: Carmen Orts Internal Photography Contest CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 49 REPORT 2017 3.3. Social Sustainability Hero Spain has a strong commitment to its environment, which can be clearly seen by all kinds of social, educational, sport and cultural initiatives that are carried out in cooperation with many different institutions specialised in those fields. In the social domain, Hero focuses on offering support to the most disadvantaged, especially children and babies, through local, national and international associations. In the educational field, Hero Spain attention and care of children and Alcantarilla in order to help cooperates permanently with uniand families affected by cancer in our closest surroundings. Toversities, business schools and reboth when are in hospital and tal donation of 65,000 Kg of prosearch centres. Likewise, Hero Esafterwards) of 5,800€ throuducts in all our actions. paña sponsors the Cátedra de RSC gh our programme “Solidari(Corporate Social Responsibility ty Cents” that helped building • Environmental volunteer action Chair) of the University of Murcia. the playground “El árbol de los with our annual Tree-planting sueños” (The Dreaming Tree) at programme in Sierra Espuña. The company also promotes sport the Mother and Child Hospital During the last 5 years, more and cultural activities in order to Virgen de la Arrixaca. This playthan 3,000 trees have been create links with the surrounding ground has become one of the planted (lentisca, holm oaks, environment. biggest and best equipped hosjunipers, kermes oaks and olive pital playgrounds of the country. trees). Our corporate volunteer programmes enable us to kindly connect with • Donation of infant formulas • Project “The Hero Wishing Tree” society. Our people get involved to through the Bangassou Founin collaboration with Red Cross give back to society what it has given dation to the Central African Murcia where our volunteers to us and they participate actively in Republic in order to break the contributed with gifts for the all solidarity initiatives: cycle of HIV/AIDS and feed chilThree Wise Men Day to little dren. Donation of infant food to children. • Donation to AFACMUR (AssociaFESBAL addressed to all food tion of relatives of children with banks in Spain aiming to help • Collaboration with the Regiocancer in the Region of Murcia the needy in our country. Conal Centre for blood donation in that has been working in the llaboration with Cáritas Murcia Murcia. 50 Respect for Human Rights and our commitment to SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) Our respect for Human Rights is proven through our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. Our company rejects all forms of forced and child labour, as well as any other infringement of fundamental rights, as described in our Code of Ethics. Hero Spain also applies this commitment to all its suppliers to whom it requires, in addition to complying with regulations, the compliance of Human Rights, among many other criteria of Social Responsibility. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 51 REPORT 2017 Sustainable management of the supply chain Sustainable suppliers. Hero Spain implements a system of in the supply chain, as well as many assessment for suppliers through other tools to generate reports that the platform SEDEX, according to help Hero Spain monitor the perforthose aspects that have to do with mance of its suppliers. It also has a working practices, health and saferisk assessment tool available. ty, commercial ethics and environment. 93.2% of our suppliers have registered on the platform until 2017. Our Our suppliers are members of Sepurchase department’s aim is to dex, a non-profit organisation whose achieve 93% in 2018 and 95% before objective is to enable improvements 2021. when it comes to commercial and ethical practices in the supply chain. Sedex offers an online system to collect and analyse information regarding responsible business practices % SEDEX 100,0 93,2 Suppliers 90,4 75,0 86,2 50,0 25,0 0,0 2015 2016 2017 Supporting SAI (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative) platform Hero Group has joined this platform its logistical trail, but also because whose aim is to ease the exchanwe believe that local cooperation ge of knowledge and experiences leads to more sustainable practices regarding sustainable agriculture on both environmental and social on an international level. Whenelevels. In order to extend this philover possible, the company acquires sophy to the value chain, Hero striproducts that are certified with an ves to maintain stable relationships origin ethical and respectful with with its suppliers and to collaborate human rights and biodiversity. with them for the sake of a constant improvement and a better knowleLikewise, Hero Spain supports local dge on Social Responsibility issues. suppliers, not only aiming to reduce 52 Photo: Javier Mármol Internal Photography Contest CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 53 REPORT 2017 04 Appendix 4.1. Table of contents GRI 4.2. Verification Report 4.1. Table of contents GRI INDEX.GRI DESCRIPTION SECTION G4-1 Declaration of the main person in charge of the organisation’s decisions. 1.1 G4-2 Main effects, risks and opportunities. 1.1 Organisation’s profile. G4-3 Name of the organisation. 1.2 G4-4 Most important brands, products and services of the organisation. 2.1 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. 1.2 G4-6 Countries in which the organisation operates and relevant operations. 2.1 G4-7 Kind of ownership regime and its legal structure. 1.2 G4-9.a Size by number of employees. 3.1 G4-10.a Number of employees by work contract and sex. 3.1 G4-10.b Number of permanent employees by type of work contract and sex. 3.1 G4-10.c Size of the workforce by employees, hired workers and sex. 3.1 G.4.11 Percentage of workers under collective agreement. 3.1 G4-13 Significant changes taking place during the period under analysis on size, structure, shares ownership or the Na organisation’s supply chain. G4-15 Principles or other external initiatives of economic, environmental or social kind subscribed or adopted by the 1.3 organisation. G4-16 Societies and organisations for national or international promotion which the organisation belongs to. 1.2 Material respects and coverage. G4-18.b Explain how the organisation has applied the Principles for the report compilation to determine the Content 1.3 of the report. G4-19 List the material Respects which were identified through the process of defining the 1.3 content of the report. G4-22 Describe the consequences of reformulating the information provided by previous 1.3 reports and its causes. Participation of interes groups. G4-24 List the interest groups connected with the organisation. 1.3 G4-25 Point out on what is based the selection of the interest groups the organisation works with. 1.3 G4-26 Describe the organisation’s approach on the interest groups’ participation. 1.3 G4-27 Point out what key questions and issues have arisen as a result of the participation of the interest groups and 1.3 describe the evaluation carried out by the organisation, within other aspects by means of its report. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 55 REPORT 2017 IND.GRI DESCRIPCIÓN APARTADO Profile of the report. G4-28 Period under report. 1.3 G4-29 Date from last report. 2016 4 G4-30 Cycle of reports presentation. Annually. 4 G4-31 Provide a point of contact to solve out doubts that may appear regarding the 4 content of the report. G4-32.a Point out what option «in agreement » with the Guide has been selected by the organisation. Essential. 4 G4-32.b Provide de Index of the GRI of the selected option. 4 G4-32.c Provide the reference to the external verification report if the report has undergone so. 4 No verification, but report. G4-33.a Describe the organisation’s current policy and practices regarding the external verification of the report. 4 Report on the principles. G4-33.b If they are not mentioned in the verification statement attached to the sustainability report, point out the 4 scope and basis of the external verification. Only report on the principles. Ethics and integrity. G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and rules, such as codes of 1.3 conduct or codes of ethics. Environmental dimension. G4-EN1 Materials by weight or volume. 3.2 G4-EN2 Percentage of the used materials which are recycled materials. 3.2 Aspect: Energy. G4-EN3 Internal energy use. 3.2 G4-EN4 External energy use. 3.2 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. 3.2 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy use. 3.2 G4-EN7 Reduction of energy demands for products and services. 3.2 Aspect: Water. G4-EN8 Water collection by source. 3.2 G4-EN9 Water sources being significantly affected by the water collection. 3.2 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water. 3.2 Aspect: Biodiversity. G4-EN11 Own, rented or managed operative facilities which include, are adjacent or located in protected areas or Na non-protected areas of high biodiversity value. G4-EN12 Description of the most significant impacts on the biodiversity of protected areas or non-areas 2.4 of high value in terms of biodiversity resulting from the activities, products or services. G4-EN13 Protected or restored habitats. 2.4 G4-EN14 Number of species included in the IUCN Red List and in national preservation lists, whose habitats are in 2.4 areas affected by the operations, according to its level of danger of extinction of the specie. 56 IND.GRI DESCRIPCIÓN APARTADO Aspect: Emissions. G4-EN15 Direct emissions of greenhouse effect gases. 3.2 G4-EN16 Indirect emission of greenhouse effect gases while generating energy. 3.2 G4-EN20 Emission of ozone-depleting substances. 3.2 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other atmospheric significant emissions. 3.2 G4-EN17 Other indirect emissions of greenhouse effect gases. 3.2 G4-EN18 Intensity of the emissions of greenhouse effect gases. 3.2 G4-EN19 Reduction of the greenhouse effect gases. 3.2 G4-EN23 Total weight of the waste being managed, by type and method of treatment. 3.2 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of the most significant accidental spillages. None. 3.2 G4-EN27 Mitigation of the environmental impact of products and services. 3.2 G4-EN28 Percentage of sold products, and their packaging materials, which are recovered at the end of their 3.2 useful life, by category. Aspect: Transport. G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts from products, other goods and materials transport, used by the organisa3.2 tion’s activities, as well as staff transport. Aspect: General. G4-EN31 Breakdown of expenses and investment on environment protection. 3.2 Aspect: Methods of environmental complain. Hero has formal methods of complaint available in accordance with its AENOR certification from the quality management system ISO 14001. 4. Social dimension. Work practices and decent employment. The Human Resources’ Policy at Hero aligns the several actions undertaken by the organisation to manage its workforce on the basis of a responsible managing model pursued by the institution. In this Policy, the Executive Board of Hero acknowledges, as an aim for the set of professionals being part of this institution, to offer appropriate working conditions for professional and personal development ensuring motivation and engagement of this workforce on the continuous improvement of the institution. This document compiles the corporate commitments within the different management scopes of human resources, the high executive officers being those who have assumed liability on the fulfillment and respect of these commitments, engaging themselves to lead and supervise the needed actions for its effective practice. Aspect: Employment. Regarding employment, Hero supports the attraction and retention of talent, stability and job quality. G4-LA1 Total number and rate of hiring and average turnover of employees, 3.1 by age, sex and region. G4-LA2 Social corporative benefits for full-time workers which are not offered to temporary or part-time employees, 3.1 broken down by significant activity implementations. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 57 REPORT 2017 IND.GRI DESCRIPCIÓN APARTADO Aspect: Relationships between workers and directive board. At Hero, there is a firm commitment to the balance of professional and personal lives, developing initiatives 3.1 fostering a flexible work environment, adapted to the personal needs of each employee, as well as the establishment of a pleasant and reliable work environment between workers and the Executive Board. Aspect: Health and safety. Hero endeavours to keep improving its Work Safety and Health Management System as a part of its strategy 3.1 of risk management with the aim of facing the constant legal changes and protecting its workforce. G4-LA5 Percentage of workers who are represented in formal safety and health committees both for the Executive 3.1 Board and workers. G4-LA6 Type and rate of injuries, work disease, missed days and absenteeism. 3.1 G4-LA8 Health and safety issues covered on labour union formal agreements. 3.1 Aspect: Qualification and education. Hero, through its Annual Training Plan, fosters a job position representing a favourable environment for 3.1 professional development, by which employees shall be able to acquire the necessary skills for the optimal performance of their activity and the preparation to new challenges, as well as ensuring the awareness of Hero’s strategy in its different areas of action. G4-LA9 Average training hours by employee. 3.1 G4-LA10 Skills managing programs and continuous training fostering workers’ employability and helping them to 3.1 manage their careers end. Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunities. Hero keeps an Equality Plan and guarantees equal opportunities and non-discrimination, by fostering an environment in which equal labour opportunities reach every member. G4-LA12 Composition of Executive Board and break down of the staff by professional category and sex, age, belonging 3.1 to minority groups and other diversity indicators. Aspect: Equal pay for men and women. Hero does not allow any discrimination whatsoever because of sex regarding salary and pay. Aspect: Assessment of suppliers’ work practices. G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers under examination according to their work practice criteria. 3.3 G4-LA15 Significant, real and potential impacts of the work practices within the supply 3.3 chain and actions undertaken. Human rights. Aspect: Investment. G4-HR2 Workers’ training hours on policies and procedures regarding those aspects of human rights relevant for their 3.1 activity, including the percentage of qualified employees. 58 IND.GRI DESCRIPCIÓN APARTADO Aspect: Non-discrimination. Hero shall tolerate neither internally nor on the part of its suppliers any kind of discrimination regarding recruiting practices, employment, training access, promotion and incentives on grounds of race, colour, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, political beliefs, nationality, social or ethnic origin, belonging to labour union or civil status. G4-HR3 Number of discrimination cases and corrective measures adopted. None. 4 Aspect: Freedom of association and collective negotiation. Hero has developed several Policies and assumed those necessary commitments to guarantee its workers are able to exercise their rights of freedom of association and collective negotiation. G4-HR4 Identification of institutions or suppliers at which freedom of association and right to belong to collective 3.3 agreements can be infringed or threatened. Aspect: Child Labour. Hero has the necessary measures available to avoid child labour at its workplace. G4-HR5 Identification of institutions and suppliers with a significant risk of child exploitation cases, and measures 3.3 adopted to contribute to the abolition of child exploitation. Aspect: Forced labour. Hero has the necessary measures to avoid forced labour at its workplace. Likewise, Hero demands suppliers not to use, tolerate or facilitate forced labour. Employees will be free to terminate their employment providing the established period of notice or, failing to do so, providing reasonable enough notice. Aspect: Security measures. G4-HR7 Percentage of security staff who has received training on policies or on the organisation’s procedures regar3.1 ding human rights applicable to their operations. Aspect: Indigenous population’s rights. G4-HR8 Number of cases of violation of indigenous population’s rights and measures adopted. n/a Society. Aspect: Local communities. Hero incorporates to its strategy and management those aspects beyond rules and social demands, allowing to keep and reinforce trust from customers. G4-SO1 Operations where development programmes have been implemented, assessment of impacts and participa3.3 tion of the local community. G4-SO2 Centres of operation with significant, possible or real, negative effects on local communities. 3.3 Aspect: Fight against Corruption. Hero incorporates mechanisms for customer service to its strategy and management, allowing to keep and reinforce trust from customers and workers. G4-SO3 Number and percentage of centres at which the risks related with corruption have been assessed and signifi3.1 cant risks identified. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 REPORT 2017 IND.GRI DESCRIPCIÓN APARTADO G4-SO4 Communication and training policies and procedures on the fight against corruption. n/m G4-SO5 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures adopted. n/m Aspect: Public policy. Hero will not take part in the development of public policies. G4-SO6 Values of the policies contribution, by country and addressee. n/m Aspect: Practices of unfair competition. G4-SO7 Number of legal proceedings because of reasons related to monopolistic practices and against free competin/a tion, and their results. Aspect: Compliance. Professionals at Hero shall comply strictly with the current law wherever they develop their activity, according 3.1 to the spirit and aim of these rules. In that way, they shall fully respect the commitment and obligations assumed by Hero in relationship with third parties. Also, they shall avoid any conduct which, even when lawful, may jeopardise this entity’s reputation and negatively affect its interests. Every employee shall know the Law affecting their work, requesting, if needed, the pertinent information to 3.1 the worker in charge or the corresponding department. Aspect: Mechanism of complaints because of social impact. Aspect: Health and safety of customers. G4-PR1 Percentage of categories of significant products and services whose impact in terms of health and safety has 2 been assessed in order to promote improvement. G4-PR2 Number of incidents as a result of failing to comply with the rules or the voluntary codes regarding products 4 and services impact on health and safety on their life cycle, broken down by the type of results of those accidents. None. Aspect: Products and services labelling. G4-PR4 Instances of non-compliances with the rules and voluntary codes concerning information and products and 4 services labelling, broken down by the type of results of those incidents. None. Aspect: Marketing Communications. G4-PR6 Prohibited products sale or in dispute. None. 4 G4-PR7 Instances of non-compliances with the rules and voluntary codes concerning marketing. None. 4 Aspect: Customers’ privacy. G4-PR8 Number of complaints based on customers’ privacy violation and data leakage. None. 4 Aspect: Regulatory compliance. G4-PR9 Monetary value of the significant fines as a result of the non-compliance with regulations regarding supply 4 and use of products and services. None. n/m: no material; n/a No aplicable 60 4.2. Verification Statement CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 61 REPORT 2017 CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Hero España S.A. Av. de Murcia, 1, 30820 Alcantarilla Murcia T: 968 89 89 00 www.hero.es CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017
