COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2018 Contents 1. Message from Managing Director 1-2 2. Principles No. 1 & 2 Goals no. 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 on Poverty, Hunger, 3-4 Human Rights Health, Education and Gender Goals no. 8 & 12 on Decent Work, 3. Principles No. 3, 4, 5 & 6 Economic Growth & Responsible 5-7 on Labor Issues Consumption & Production Goals no. 6,7, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15 on Water, Sanitation, Energy, Industry, Innovation, 4. Principles No. 7, 8 and 9 Infrastructure, Sustainable Cities and 8-11 on Environment Issues Communities, Climate Action, Life below Water and Life on Land Goals no. 6,7, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15 on Water, Sanitation, Energy, Industry, Innovation, 5. Principle No. 10 on AntiInfrastructure, Sustainable Cities and 12-13 Corruption Communities, Climate Action, Life below Water and Life on Land 6. Our Certifications & Membership 14 7. National & International Recognition 15-17 8. Our Buyers 19 9. Our Products 20 10. Other Important CSR Works 21 COP-2018|| YKIL || PageI Message from Managing Director “Good business is just some surpluses of good management towards people and environment in sustainable ways”Abdus Sobhan Businesses today operate in fast changing circumstances, clearly symbolized by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). At the same time global society faces serious issues that are becoming constantly more complex and challenging more than ever. Companies are expected to take an active part in finding solutions. In contributing to the realization of the sustainable society that the SDGs aim for, Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd conducts its business in line with “People, Planet and Profit” approach. Since its inception in 2007, it has been respectful towards human rights, environmentally-conscious, committed to workers and employees’ rights, protection and safety. By now we are aware that UNGC has also adopted 17 UN Global Goals in addition to its 10 former principles. I highly appreciate the newly adopted 17 UN Global Goals with their integrated approach for Sustainable Development. For the sustainable progress and enhancement, these 10 principles and 17 Goals would lead to the changes of the society, the countries and the world as a whole we live in. We are enthusiastically ready to extend our support directly or indirectly through our business places, projects and best practices. Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. has been involved with a number of projects which address the issues to environment, society, ethics and global goals. We are aware of the air emission and water discharge to the environment and put our sincerest efforts to maintain water footprint so that the environment is not contaminated anyway. What we sincerely believe is, we have to put all our efforts to give back to the world as it gives to us. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 1 For the safety and security of the employees, all-out efforts have been taken. All the buildings are connected along with the roof tops in order to have easy evacuation at the time of any unexpected crisis. We have taken all positive steps for the health and education for the children of our workers and staff. Efforts & focus have been given on training especially for their health and production related issues working with HER+ project for female workers and HIS Project for male workers. Training on nutrition and child-care have also been provided, 24 hours hospital and ambulance are available for the workers, staff and employees along with free medical support from affiliated hospitals nearby. We are whole-heartedly committed to continue performing our social, environmental, ethical and global responsibilities and working in order to spread UNGC principles and UN Global Goals among the mass community. Abdus Sobhan Managing Director Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 2 Principles No. 1 & 2 on Goals no. 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 on Poverty, Hunger, Human Rights Health, Education and Gender Assessment and Outcomes Yasin Knittex Industries Limited (YKIL) is committed to the UNGC principles of human rights and the newly adopted Global Goals on poverty, hunger, health, education & wellbeing. Human right issues like freedom of expression, access to economic, social & cultural activities, social security, good health, gender, race equality and educational access are being well addressed in Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. How YKIL maintains and looks after human right issues is as below: Brief Assessment and Outcomes 1) YKIL abides by all rules and regulations of existing laws of the Country, ILO, buyers’ requirements (COCs) and maintain Company’s self ethical business policy. 2) Efforts in policy making are highly given for better understanding and co-existence among Management, Officers, Staffs and Workers. 3) Harassment in the work place has come almost to zero level. 4) The knowledge and awareness about human rights and laws among workers and staff are increased through training sessions. 5) Each month ration with 5 kg rice, 1 pcs toilet soap, 1 pcs laundry soap, attendance bonus of Tk. 400/= is distributed. 6) Timely salary payment, all sorts of leaves including maternity leaves with pay, payments for overtime, encashment of earned leave and weekly holidays are ensured. 7) Elected workers’ Participation Committee (PC) is in full function. 8) All precautionary measures are taken for operational needs and occupational accidents are addressed seriously in our own Medicare Centre and even by sending outside two hospitals, if it demands. 9) Medical support for the parents is also offered. Besides, provision of health insurance and yearly heath checkup for all employees is arranged. 10) Welfare program through Health Enable Return (HER+) Project for female workers and Health Improved Society (HIS) Project for male workers is conducted. 11) Suggestions from all levels, top to bottom, are well-considered on rational basis. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 3 12) Human Resources and Ethical Policies of the Company have been prepared and maintained. 13) Female workers keep their children at Child Care Center where their kids are given nutritious food. A separate room for breast feeding is also there for the working mothers. 14) Yasin establishes educational institutes and provides with free computer training in remote parts of the country. 15) Distribution of blankets and giving financial aid for people affected by disasters/natural calamity are regular practices. Outcomes 1) With the knowledge and awareness about rights and responsibilities from training sessions, workers and staffs are now more confident, stress-free and responsible. 2) Through HR, Ethics, Compliance and CSR policies, our addresses to the needs of our workers, staffs and officials have fulfilled their minds, and ultimately they are well inducted in the Company with real team spirits. 3) Workers, staffs and officers are feeling fortunate to be with the Company and are more mentally involved to work in the alignment of Company policy. 4) Regular meetings between the Participating Committee and the Executive Committee have diminished gaps between Management and the workers. 5) Complying with the working hours and due payment for overtime work have minimized absenteeism considerably. 6) No more tension during the time of pregnancyPregnant employees are relieved with maternity leave with payment as per set rules & policy. 7) Women employees with children are working with relieves as their children are looked after here in Child Care Center with alphabetic education, scopes of play with toys, watching interesting TV programs and time to time nutritious foods. 8) Provision of medical services and insurance policy for workers and staffs has relieved and relaxed them from uncertainty and ultimately workers can concentrate to their works with more attention. 9) Educational institutes and training centers established by the Company are providing the country with educated and skillful people who are supposed to contribute to the socio-economic factors of the country. 10) Distribution of blankets and financial aid to affected people by disasters brings mental satisfactions to our workers and officials with positive implications. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 4 Goals No. 8 & 12 on Decent Work, Principles No. 3, 4, 5 & 6 on Economic Growth & Responsible Labor Issues Consumption & Production Assessment and Outcomes Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. is a believer in the right of workers in true sense. The Company has been conducting a number of projects with ILO, WRAP & BSCI addressing labors’ rights excluding other issues. We also maintain the rules and regulations of the Government, international agencies and our buyers. Auditors from those authorities come very often and audit us which help us broaden our related expertise. We have very deliberatively chosen to offer all sorts of facilities to our workers because the Company itself believes that a couple of hands with satisfied soul and passionate mind are very important for multi-folds reasons. Our total packages of compliant environment ensure decent work to our workers, staff and officers with steady growth of our business. So ultimately, we give efforts to play the roles of a responsible producer, and our buyers with their ultimate retailed purchasers act as responsible consumers. Brief Assessment and Outcomes 1) All the workers and employees are under coverage of two insurance policies, one is compulsory in terms of law and another is voluntary approach from the Company. 2) Elected Participation Committee continues working for the interest of workers. 3) Our buyers have been taking regular data about our compliance related issues and giving us feedback with inspiring scores. 4) There is a provision of giving profit share bonus (twice in a year) to our employees. 5) Providing provident fund benefits for employees working for more than 05 years is also there. 6) We have provision of 24 hours medical facilities including pathology, laboratory test and ambulance availability. 7) Yearly health checkup for workers and employees is also provided. 8) Scopes of providing free transports for workers are in practice. 9) Our buyers themselves or by their third parties arrange audit to our factory and check different social issues including labor rights. 10) Working with Better Work Bangladesh, IFC has added improvement to the working conditions, productivity, quality and competitiveness of factories in global supply chain. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 5 11) Besides health issues of the projects, HER+ Project for the women employees and HIS Project for male employees with their regular training programs are continuously making aware of rights of the labor among workers. 12) Recently, Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd received Certificate of Occupational on Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001) after a series of audits. 13) Financial assistance and stipend are given as needed to the children of poor workers for better education. 14) Donation for religious pilgrimage is sanctioned to workers as some extra benefits. 15) Birth day gifts for the workers and employees are also introduced. MALE DOCTOR FEMALE DOCTOR PATHOLOGY WARD FOR PATIENT Medical Facilities of Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 6 Outcomes 1) Through the elected Workers’ Participation Committee, workers are now more free to express their needs and top management are more aware of their requirements. 2) Two Insurance Policies have brought some reliefs to the minds of workers, staffs and officers. 3) Profit-sharing and provident funds help workers/staffs to meet their occasional financial needs. 4) Both HER+ and HIS Projects have helped the workers to be aware of their rights from the training given there. 5) Workers who are in severe financial crises are now relieved with the help from the Company to send their children to schools. 6) 24 hours medical facilities including all-time ready ambulance services are now considered a big relief for workers. 7) Health checkup annually by the Company for the workers has eased the pressures and tension among the workers, staff and officers. 8) Transportation facilities available for those who are in need and this has removed pressures from them. 9) Pilgrimage which once was a dream for poor workers and staffs has come to a reality in their lives. 10) Regular audits by our project partners, buyers, government agencies have made us more aware of the requirements of our workers. 11) The processes of our newly received certificate of Occupational Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001) have helped us to be more responsible about safety of workers. Training Sessions with HER+ Project COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 7 Goals No. 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 14 & 15 on Water, Sanitation, Energy, Industry, Innovation, Principles No. 7, 8 & 9 on Infrastructure, Sustainable Cities and Environment Issues Communities, Climate Action, Life below Water and Life on Land Assessment and Outcomes Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. believes in sustainable development meeting the need of present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet its own needs. It does understand that environment goes with the reaction theory-environment returns what we give to it. This is the approach from Company’s own self-conscience for long time. We must not practice anything which may cause damage our earth ignoring the temptations of shorttime benefits. Yasin strives hard to decontaminate the emitting air out of the factory, gives efforts to decompose every drop of contaminated water and devotes to enrich the soil along with other environmental practices. Environmental issues are addressed by Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. with some of its projects like Water Foot-print Network, PaCT, Better Cotton Initiative, Organic Trade Association, Clean Development Mechanism, Environmental Management System, Carbon Neutral Project, ISO 14001:2004, Green Project and 3R Project. Brief Assessment and Outcomes 1) Our participation in Better Cotton Initiative has put big impacts on all of our supply chain management. 2) Our involvement with Water Foot-Print Network has made us much aware of conscious uses of water in the factory operation. 3) We are committed to the principles of Organic Trade Association. The principles basically address the organic cultivation doing no damage to environment. 4) Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd has gone under serious of audits from the concerned authority of ISO 14001:2004 and received Certificate for ISO 14001:2004. 5) We have initiated new Project on Green Factory and 3Rs and are adding our expertise on them. 6) Yasin has studied thoroughly the key components of the Kyoto Protocol on Cleaner Development Mechanism. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 8 7) Yasin has its own projects on Environment Management System and Carbon Neutral Project. 8) With Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) Project with the Netherlands and IFCWorld Bank, we have converted 150 conventional motors of sewing machines to the servo motors. 9) With PaCT, we also converted inverter system from conventional motor for the Irons table and converted 2000 conventional T8 tubes to the energy saving T5 tube. 10) PaCT also helped us change the process of dyeing to save the underground water. 11) We insulated 400 meters of the steam lines to keep boiler feed tank temperature stored between 85-95 degree Celsius. 12) With purchase of advanced machineries, we reduced GHG (Green House Gas) emission 11%. Over the years, Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. has been working with some international organizations to undertake initiatives for promoting greater environmental responsibility and to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Higg Index German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ) Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Organic Trade Association (OTA) Water Foot Print Network Cleaner Production (CP) Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 9 Outcomes 1) Impacts of participation in Better Cotton Initiatives are worldwide through all supply chain management. It addresses not only environmental cotton cultivation practices but also social issues. 2) Our supports and association on organic farming through environmental management under the Project with Organic Trade Association induces better climate practices. 3) Water Foot-print Network has opened our mind about the importance of water uses worldwide and has certainly appealed us for better water use practices. 4) We have gone through series of audits on environment issues and hove come out successfully getting the Certificate, ISO 14001:2004. 5) Our coming Projects, Green Factory and 4Rs, are adding expertise to our environmental management knowledge. 6) Our in-depth study on Kyoto Protocol has broadened our vision on environment and has given a positive impact on our environmental practice. 7) Our self-initiative projects like Environment Management System and Carbon Neutral Project have increased our insights about the impacts of environment management. 8) Before introduction of PaCT Project, batch drops for fabric washing were 21 times and after PaCT implementation, batch drops are 12 times causing reduced water uses. Now we save annually 47% from total processed water. 9) Water liquor ratio has been substantially reduced to 1:8 which saves approximately 210 m3/ton of water per day. 10) Implementation of PaCT brought savings with setting up Servo machines. 11) In ETP, we have saved 77800.00/year by the process of minimization of water. 12) Cost saving for the fabric process optimization is USD 30822.00/year 13) Distribution of saplings twice a year to the employees has had some positive impacts to the environment. 14) Electricity load in terms of PaCT introduction during the process was optimized with 36000 Kw/hr. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 10 Partnership For Cleaner Textile (PaCT)  After successful participation in CP, ATG has been involved with PaCT in January 2013. It focuses on wet processes and energy savings.  After a deep dive assessment, ATG received 58 recommendations on different areas and out of them, 37 recommendations are already implemented.  The areas of work were data collection, total fabrics production, total reworks, total water consumption for dyeing-finishing, avg. water consumption, bulk right first time (rft ), insulating steam pipe line, etc.  Before PaCT implementation, we used 165 liters of water for per kg water treatment, now we need only 96 liters.  In CP and PaCT, we invested around US $ 20,000.00 and got returned it by less than 2 years. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 11 Principles No. 10 on AntiGoals No. 16 & 17 on Peace, Justice and Corruption Strong Institutions & Partnership for the Issues Goals. Assessment and Outcome Since its inception, Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. has been maintaining very strict practices related to ethics and corruption in effort to bring peaceful environment with cooperation from all partners. We are aware that ethics is about behaviorit is about doing the right thing. Driven by values, we believe in absolute transparency in its all decision and operational issues. No marginal tolerance is acceptable in this regard. We believe that we all have the duties to uphold the image and reputation of it. So we are committed to a set of principles of good corporate governance and justice which emphasize transparency, accountability and independence together with prudent enhancement and management of shareholder values. We have cooperation from our partners and all stakeholders in this regard. We share our policies and implementation policies each our which ultimately makes our company a strong institution. Brief Assessment and Outcomes 1) All the operation procedures are executed following our Company’s ethical business policy. 2) Standard Operating Systems (SOPs) for departments are prepared to be followed. 3) As per SOP, the committees like purchasing committee, quality control committee and marketing committee follow procurement procedures while audit committee certifies the procedures as per the SOP. 4) External Audit is conducted by a Bangladeshi Chartered Accountant Company. 5) Before procurement, a thorough study is carried out following Five Points Sources and then we carried a comparative analysis. The Five Points Sources are:  Individual knowledge  Local knowledge  Using Group knowledge  Internet searching  Users’ knowledge 6) In recruitment procedures, a comprehensive SOP which is strictly aligned with our ethical policy is maintained. Our old and new employees are trained about Company’s positions on ethics and corruption. 7) A comprehensive observation is carried out in order to find out the ethical behavior of the employees. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 12 8) Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd has an inter-exchange policy in the spirits of partnership with its stakeholders (buyers, suppliers, development agencies, project partners and the like) to strengthen different aspects of policy preparation. Outcomes 1) Because of the Company’s Ethical Policy, employees and workers have clear ideas and perceptions about standard processthere remains no grey area. 2) Standard Operating Systems (SOPs) for departments help maintain transparency in daily works. 3) All the committees especially involved in purchasing and selling have to maintain SOP which keep them out of controversy in all supply chain management and give relief while Company is benefitted with the competitive prices with quality products. 4) Our internal and external audits play important role in bringing transparency. 5) Our Five Points’ Sources, 1. Individual knowledge 2. Local knowledge 3. Using Group knowledge 4. Internet searching & 5. Users’ knowledge guide us very comprehensively to check out the best prices while purchasing. 6) With standard recruitment procedures, we have the capacity to hire the best as per our needs with not much cumbersome formalities. 7) Our inter-exchange policy about how we can develop our ethical policy and procedures has helped us tremendously to cover all the areas. 8) Right now, almost no favoritism or nepotism can take place through our detection policy. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 13 CERTIFICATIONS Over the years Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. has been awarded with a number of Recognitions and Certifications by national and international agencies on varieties of issues like Human rights, Social & Environmental practices, Safety and Security measures, Ethical & Anti-corruption Policies and Customs practices. COP|| YKIL || Page 14 National & International Awards & Recognitions Our Honorable Managing Director, Abdus Sobhan, was awarded with recognition as CIP (Commercially Important Person) by the Government of Bangladesh for his contribution in the field of Economy, Society and Environment for the consecutive years, 2013, 2014 and 2015 and also endowed with the country’s highest recognition “President's Award for Industrial Development 2016” as a successful enterprise in the category of small scale industry. CIP Award Received by Managing CIP Award Received by Managing Director for 2013 Director for 2014 CIP Award Received by Chairman on CIP Award, 2014 Received by Managing behalf of Managing Director for 2015 Director for Contributing to export COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 15 “President's Award for Industrial Development 2016” Received by Managing Director as a successful enterprise in the category of small scale industry. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 16 Social and Environmental Excellence International Quality Crown Award 2014 award 2014 “European Award For Best Practices 2016” ACCORD Recognition (YKIL) COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 17 NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL AWARDS & RECOGNITIONS Visits by Foreign Delegates  H.R.H Ms. Mary Elizabeth, The Crown Princess of The Kingdom of Denmark and Ms. Ulla Tornaes, Honorable Minister for Development Cooperation visited YKIL on 06th April, 2017  On 18th January, 2016 His Excellency Mr. Jorn Neergaard Larsen, Honorable Minister for Employment, The Kingdom of Denmark also visited the Factory.  On 18th March 2015, His Excellency Mr. Mogens Jenson, The Danish Minister for Trade and Development Cooperation visited this Factory.  H.E. Ms. E.M.J Ploumen, Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Corporation, the Kingdom of Netherlands on 19th Feb 2014. H.R.H Ms. Mary Elizabeth & H.E Ms. Mr. Jorn Neergaard Larsen on 18th Ulla Tørnæs on 6th April, 2017 January, 2016 Mr. Mogens Jenson on 18th March H.E. Ms. E.M.J Ploumen on 19th Feb 2014 2015 COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 18 OUR VALUED BUYERS Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. believes in win-win deals. Our each and every step is highly based on the mutual interests of all stakeholders. We devote ourselves to create quality and competitive products which help us get satisfied customers and they create customers for us. Over the business journey of last 15 years, ATG has now a number of respected buyers from around the world as below: COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 19 OUR PRODUCTS From its vertical set-up, Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. is devoted to produce multitypes of Knit, Dyeing, Printing, Washing, Embroidery OURproducts PRODUCTSwith 72,000 pcs production capacity per day in 42 sewing lines. All sorts of knit products ranging from Tops to Bottoms, Children to Adults, Basic to Fancy, Cotton to CVC, PC, Viscose, Modal, Rayon, Lycra, Mélange etc. are in our product list. T-shirts, Polo-shirts, Tank Top, Sweat-shirts, Shorts and Leggings are produced with different types of knitted fabrics like S/J, lycra-jersey, drop needle S/J, plaited S/J, plain rib, Design Rib, interlock, pique, Lacoste, terry, fleece, Y/D stripes, etc. ATG has plethora of variations in washing and printingwashes of enzyme, silicone, vintage, stone, acid, denim look, burnout, snow, and pigment dye, cool dye, rain-effect, dip dye, tie-dye, spray dye and prints of pigment, discharged, rubber, plastisol , highdensity, puff, velvet granite, foil, flock, jell, glitter, crack, heat transfer, burnout, solar active, sublimation, temperature, sunlight, etc. Our embroidery covers from sequence to chain stich, cross stich, high density embroidery, felt applique and fabric applique. Most importantly we have a big thirst to work with new multiple items to meet changing demands of different buyers round the globe. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 20 Other Important CSR Works of Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. considers to promote CSR initiatives for community people is not only for Government’s work but also the private organizations have the scope of contribution to promote them. In this regard, We are sincerely performing on CSR Commitments through “Sajid Sobhan Welfare Foundation” for the development and welfare of the society. Our business venture is based on the social well-being. YKIL initiated some remarkable projects entitled as such below:  Promoting Education Facilities  Promoting Social Safety-net for Sustainable Development  Better Health for Community People Promoting Education Facilities: Better Health for Community People: We deem education as a token or a golden To spread out the project “Better Health for coin that brings not only immensity in Community People: YKIL is maintaining a Mini knowledge but also superlative standard in Community Hospital with Full-fledged life. To ensure proper education for the Medical Facilities & Pharmacy. The students YKIL takes the initiatives to promote Healthcare, having more than 140 types of education.  Grants for Infrastructure Development medicines including lifesaving drugs, is  Grants for Laboratory Equipment available with presence of a registered male  Stipends for underprivileged poor doctor and a female doctor and 3 staff. It can students serve more than 150 patients per day from  Grants for Hostel Accommodation the local communities. Our Healthcare is always on strived to give the following Over the years Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. services to the people as given below; grants more than 100 millions BDT to  Providing medicines promote the education among the rural  Health Counseling students.  Providing minor operation services Promoting Social Safety-Net for Sustainable  Injury Treatment Development:  Provision of free Radiology, Pathology & To promote social safety-net YKIL has allocated Laboratory tests. some grants for housing the destitute &  Health Awareness Training subsidies for maintenance damaged houses, To ensure safety drinking water and Monthly allowance in cash and kinds for agedsanitation YKIL provides Arsenic Free Tubepoor people and widows, Donation in cash & kinds to the affected people during disaster or Wells and Toilets for the Poor People. Under natural calamities, Financial supports for the this project YKIL in collaboration with the orphanages to buy land and building houses and Government grants financial assistance some Distribution of blankets and cloths for rural poor amount of Tk 2600 to 50 poor families. people. COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 21 Yasin Knittex Industries Ltd. South Panishail (1 No. Ward), Zirani Bazar – BKSP, Kashimpur, Gazipur City Corporation Gazipur, Bangladesh www.auko-texgroup.com COP-2018|| YKIL || Page 22
