7 SUNMI1RK I%RCON/ Arcon-Sunmark A/S Skørping Nord 3 DK-9520 Skørping CVR: 10778530 Tel. +45 9839 1477 mailarcon-sunmark.com UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2017 FEBRUARY 2018 CONTENTS o Statement of Continued Support o Human Rights Principles o Labour Rights Principles o Environmental Protection Principles o Anti-Corruption Principles STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 21 February 2018 Arcon-Sunmark develops, manufactures, distributes and instalis large scale solar heating solutions for district heating and industrial processes. Arcon-Sunmark has a proven track record in the solar heating industry with more than 40 years of experience. I am pleased to confirm that Arcon-Sunmark A/S and its subsidiaries support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our CSR Policy as described in the Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption policy and Employee Handbook, is based on the Ten Principles and has been approved by the Board of Directors. We have identified prioritized areas of improvement, and have initiated the process of optimizing these. We will follow up on progress on an annual basis. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. •u incerely HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Commitment Arcon-Sunmark respects cultural differences and does not do business with any suppiler who practices discrimination based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or sexual orientation. No employee should ever be exposed to any physical punishment, threats or violence or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the work place or in work related situations. Arcon-Sunmark supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Arcon-Sunmark has a clearly defined Code of Conduct, which is communicated externally and internally. Likewise, Arcon-Sunmark has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment. Arcon-Sunmark sees no significant risks that the Company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Principles i and 2. Implementation Arcon-Sunmark is on an on-going basis, and in connection with renewals of contracts, in dialogue with large volume suppliers in which our policy is communicated, iii particular the Code of Conduct. We continuously collect information from our global divisions in order to ensure complete compliance to international and internal standards in regard to hours worked, wages and leave. Performance Evaluation Arcon-Sunmark’s Code of Conduct, which is in line with the VKR Hold ing Group’s Code of Conduct, has been introduced prior to 2017 and accepted by ali main suppliers at components for the production of solar panels. The Code of Cand uct has been presented to ali managers and emplayees with external cantact. Ali of these have confirmed to have read and understood the Code of Conduct. Arcon-Sunmark’s general cammitment to the UN Global Compact program, inciuding the 10 Principles and Arcon-Sunmark’s Code ofConduct, has in 2017 been communicated to the entire organization with the overall message at expected compliance. Resuits related to the working environment and absence are addressed under Labour Rights Principles below. At the end of 2017, empiayees with specific needs represent 3.0% of the workforce compared to the target at 2%. In the past years, Arcon-Sunmark has nat been subject to any investigations, legal cases ar incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents ar violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Management Team. LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Commitment Arcon-Sunmark commits to provide a salary package in line with local standards, a safe and comfortable working environment, openly communicated career paths and well im pie me ntati 0 n Arcon-Sunmark is on an on-going basis, and in connection with renewals of contracts, in dialogue with large volume suppliers in which our policy is communicated, in particuiar the Code of Conduct. lt is the policy that ali Arcon-Sunmark empioyees undergo annual performance reviews to set individual plans and targets. Performance Evaluation Arcon-Sunmark’s Code of Conduct, which is in line with the VKR Holding Group’s Code of Conduct, has been introduced prior to 2017 and accepted by ali main suppliers of components for the production of solar panels. The Code of Conduct has been presented to ali managers and employees with external contact. Ali of these have confirmed to have read and understood the Code of Conduct. Arcon-Sunmark’s general commitment to the UN Global Compact program, inciuding the 10 Principles and Arcon-Sunmark’s Code ofConduct, has in 2017 been communicated to the entire organization with the overall message of expected compliance. Arcon-Sunmark has in 2017 developed and implemented a working environment policy and initiated more than the annually targeted 20 defined activities to reduce risks of injuries in the work place, and will define activities to maintain a low level of sick absence. Substantial investments have been made to ensure clearly marked walk ways etc. around and between manufacturing areas to reduce risk of accidents. Overall absence due to sickness is at the same satisfactory level as in 2016. ln the past years, Arcon-Sunmark has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Labour Rights violations. No incidents or violations of the Labour Rights principles have been reported to the Management Team. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PRINCIPLES Co mm itm e nt Arcon-Sunmark supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Also, we encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We actively support a sustainable environmental progress through the development and distribution of solar heating solutions, which significantly reduces emissions of carbon dioxide. Overall, we consider our production process to have a relatively low impact on the environment. However, we do recognize that parts of our production and related transportation have a negative impact on the environment, and we constantly work to minimize these effects. Arcon-Sunmark sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact principles 7, 8 and 9. Implementation We are constantly working on product development to improve the relationship between consumption of resources and performance of our products. The different parts of the production process are evaluated to identify savings on use of energy, water and other resources. The geographical location of production is optimized in order to reduce transportation of finished goods. Performance Evaluation Arcon-Sunmark is focused on development, manufacturing and installation of large scale solar heating solutions. As such, Arcon-Sunmark’s overall activities contributes significantly to an improved environmental protection. Asa rule ofthumb, 10 square In the past year, Arcon-Sunmark has flot been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving violations of the Environmentai Protection principles. No incidents or violations of the Environmental Principies have been reported to the Management Team. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Commitment Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable deveiopment and free trade. Arcon-Sunmark supports the work against corruption in ali its forms, including extortion and bribery. Arcon-Sunmark acknowledges that minor business gifts and moderate entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways to build relationships and generate goodwill between business partners. This practice must however always be conducted in a transparent way, and only to an extent appropriate to our integrity guideiines and business ethics, inciuding the Anti-Corruption policy. Arcon-Sunmark sees no significant risks that the company or its suppiiers violate the UN Global Compact principle 10. Implementation Arcon-Sunmark is on an on-going basis, and in connection with renewals of contracts, in dialogue with large volume suppliers in which our policy is communicated, in particular the Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policy. Guidelines of handling issues of corruption, hospitality and donations (Anti-Corruption policy) are provided to ali employees with external contact. Arcon-Sunmark’s general commitment to the UN Global Compact program, including the 10 principles and Arcon-Sunmark’s Code ofConduct, has in 2017 been communicated to the entire organization with the overall message of expected compliance. In the past year, Arcon-Sunmark has flot been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving violations of the Anti-Corruption principles. No incidents or violations of the Anti-Corruption Principles have been reported to the Management Team.
