Marel – Annual Report 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 1 Marel – Annual Report 2017 CONTENT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 3 Chairman’s statement 4 Chief executive officer’s review 6 MAREL IN BRIEF 8 Who we are 9 Vision and values 10 Business model 11 Strategy 16 DELIVERING GROWTH 19 Poultry 20 Meat 25 Fish 31 Innova 37 Innovation 40 Sales and services 44 Global supply chain 45 INVESTORS 49 Shares 50 Financials 55 Investor relations 62 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 64 Corporate responsibility 65 Social 68 Environmental 72 Economic 76 Corporate governance 79 Board of directors 83 Executive team 87 Organizational chart 90 Risk management 91 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 2 Marel hf. – Annual Report 2017 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 3 Marel – Annual Report 2017 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT We are proud of the achievements of the Marel team in 2017. It was a great year with strong financial results. Revenues exceeded EUR 1 billion, operating profit margin was above 15% and net profit increased by almost 50% over 2016. Significant investments were made in strengthening Marel’s foundation and important progress achieved towards our growth targets, benefitting both customers and shareholders. This year, Marel celebrated the 25th anniversary of its listing on NASDAQ Iceland and 2018 will mark the 35th anniversary of its founding. Those of us who have the privilege of being part of Marel today are grateful for the courage and passion of those who paved the way and laid the groundwork for our great company, a leading global provider of advanced food processing systems and services. The unprecedented speed and magnitude of change today demands no less. Courage to challenge convention and explore new directions, spot opportunities and take calculated risks to reach strategic goals. Passion in believing we can accomplish great A strong foundation aspirations, such as transforming the way food is processed, Marel is well positioned for this journey. A broad product by continuously striving for excellence, doing more with less, offering, superior technology, global presence and significant being better than yesterday. investments in our infrastructure in recent years provide a strong foundation to build on. Revenues are well diversified Investing in profitable growth across business segments and geographies. Digitalization and At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, an ambitious growth further automation present new opportunities to work with strategy for the next 10 years was introduced. Marel targets our customers to advance food processing. Marel’s Innova 12% average annual revenue growth, both organic and food processing software has already been installed in over through acquisitions. Organic growth, driven by innovation 1,800 plants worldwide and offers countless opportunities. and market penetration, is expected to outstrip average market growth, and strategic acquisitions will further accelerate our Capital structure and distribution of profits full line product offering and market penetration. Earnings Marel’s financial position is strong. In 2017, EUR 15.3 million per share are expected to exceed revenue growth. In other were paid in dividends to shareholders, treasury shares were words, we are investing in profitable growth. purchased amounting to EUR 63.5 million and Sulmaq in Brazil was acquired for a combination of cash and treasury shares. Significant investments were made in solidifying the company’s footing as a global leader in its field and preparing for its future growth, including investments in: innovation; taking IT to the next level; expanding our existing manufacturing facilities; and improving the working environment of our employees. Strong operating results and debt reduction resulted in a leverage of 1.9 times debt to EBITDA at the end of the year, which is just below the lower end of the 2-3 times targeted leverage ratio. TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4 Marel – Annual Report 2017 In line with our capital allocation and dividend policy, the Board of Directors will propose to the 2018 Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 4.19 cents per share, corresponding to 30% of net profits for 2017, be paid to shareholders. Furthermore, the Board of Directors has authorized the purchase of treasury shares of up to 20 million To guide the organization on responsible conduct, Marel nominal value, which can be used as payment for potential has established a policy on corporate social responsibility, future acquisitions. which focuses on three areas: people, planet and profits. We are a signatory of the United Nations’ Global Compact and participated in NASDAQ’s Sustainable Markets Initiative in 2017. We are proud of the advancements made in corporate social responsibility reporting during the year and will continue on that journey in 2018. Shared value creation Calls for rethinking the role of businesses in society grow ever louder. Companies are continuously being pressured to play a more prominent role in addressing social challenges. The deSince its listing, Marel has created excellent value for mand for greater private sector involvement in achieving the shareholders. In 2017, the share price increased by close to United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals is a good 33%, measured in Icelandic krona, and 27% measured in euros. example. The combined forces of public, private and civil acThe number of shareholders increased from 1,907 to 2,206. tors are necessary to achieve the required scale and impact. Since its listing, Marel has created excellent value for shareThe immense societal challenges of sustainably feeding holders. In 2017, the share price increased by close to 33%, the world’s growing population can only be addressed with measured in Icelandic krona, and 27% measured in euros. The technology, innovation and changes in behavior. We simply number of shareholders increased from 1,907 to 2,206. must find ways to do more with less. This is the core of Marel’s business; increasing yields and quality, optimizing the use Corporate social responsibility of scarce resources such as water and energy, increasing food Marel’s Board of Directors is committed to good corporate safety and traceability, as well as improving employee satisfacgovernance and ethical business practices, promoting the tion and animal welfare. long-term interests of shareholders. We strive to be a good corporate citizen. We emphasize corporate social responsibility Our business is about creating economic value that also makes not least because we are convinced it is good business. A good a positive contribution to society. In partnership with our cusreputation, responsible use of resources, taking care of the tomers we are transforming the way food is processed. Our environment and having employees who take pride in their vision is of a world where quality food is produced sustainably work is good business. and affordably. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I congratulate the Marel team on their impressive results and achievements in 2017. We express our recognition of their dedication and hard work. We fully appreciate the continuing commitment and support of our shareholders. Asthildur Otharsdottir, Chairman of Marel’s Board TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 5 Marel – Annual Report 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude for the continuing trust and support of our shareholders, customers, partners and employees. Together we are transforming the way food is processed. Marel is a global leader in a dynamic growth industry with over EUR 1 billion in revenues and an EBIT margin of 15%. Our team of 5,400 dedicated members, located in more than 30 countries, serves poultry, meat and fish processors that have operations in more than 100 countries. Our core values are Unity, Innovation and Excellence. Our vision is of a world where quality food is produced sustainably and affordably. Robust operational performance In transforming the way food is processed we have also been growing and advancing Marel as a company. We are proud of our 2017 results with revenues of EUR 1,038 million and Clear vision and gradually expanding operational profits of 15.2%. Revenues are up by 6% yearplaying field on-year and we have now been operating at EBIT level of In our everyday work we are guided by our clear vision and set around 15% for eight consecutive quarters. With an innovative of values. Our playing field has been gradually expanding and portfolio and continued good partnerships with our customers our business operations continuously improved, reflecting our we had a record order intake of EUR 1,144 million in 2017, up core value of Excellence. 13% over last year. Our playing field has expanded from its original focus The strong cash flow from our operations enables us to invest solely on yield and throughput in the Icelandic fish sector in a stronger infrastructure to prepare for the future. to become the global leader of today, serving poultry, meat and fish processors from post-farm gate to dispatch of final In the past two years we have also acquired two companies, products. The emphasis is on increased value, quality, safety MPS and Sulmaq, at a cost of over EUR 400 million without and sustainability of production, in addition to high yield requesting any additional equity contribution from investors. and throughput. Innovative solutions that have recently We have continued to invest around 6% of revenues in been introduced also focus on taking animal welfare to new innovation and have purchased our own shares and paid standards. dividends in line with our long-term strategy. The financial position is strong at year-end with around two times net debt The Sulmaq acquisitions closed successfully in August 2017 and to EBITDA. I would like to restate my welcome to the Sulmaq team. Most of our acquisitions have been focused on closing application We are entering 2018 with a strong order book equaling to gaps in our full-line offering, in particular Scanvaegt, Stork and 45% of trailing twelve-month revenues. TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 6 Marel – Annual Report 2017 most recently MPS in 2016. A key driver behind the Sulmaq Marel is also situated at a crucial point in the value chain when acquisition was to gain foothold in the rapidly growing markets it comes to data collection. Connectivity of our processing of South and Central America and get access to the talent pool equipment has been a key element in Marel innovation from in those markets. Today the US and Canada, with 360 million the very beginning, helping our helping customers connect inhabitants, account for around 30% of our revenues while the dots. Latin America, including Mexico with 640 million inhabitants, accounts for around 8% of our revenues. We are already well By collecting and storing equipment information, Innova’s established in the poultry and fish industries and will continue advanced analytics software can translate data into action, to strengthen our position in the meat market. thereby enabling new services and new experiences for our customers. High quality of earnings Our customers range from small food processors to global Innova enables processors to maximize yield and throughput leaders in the field. Our customer base is well diversified with and ensure food safety, with traceability built into every step no single customer accounting for more than 4% of annual of the process. Our passion for innovation is driving new revenues. Our revenues are well balanced geographically, integrated technologies and improving resource efficiency. To consisting of a healthy mix of greenfield projects, that end, Marel’s software is a key element in harnessing the modernization and extension projects with steady recurring potential of digitalization and the Internet of Things. revenues coming from our maintenance business. A compelling growth story Marel shares were initially listed on the Icelandic Stock Exchange in 1992. In the 25 years since listing, annual compounded growth has been over 20% and our earnings quality is strong. The outlook is promising and in 2017 we introduced an ambitious growth plan for the next ten years with a target of 12% average annual growth. Organic growth is driven by We have prioritized investments and strengthened processes innovation and market penetration which is complimented by to be better able to deliver complex solutions to customers strategic partnerships. We have a compelling equity story. with the right quality at the right time. As evidence of our commitment to return value to our shareholders, earnings per Food is our passion share increased by 29% year-on-year. Marel is a global leader in providing advanced solutions and services for the poultry, meat and fish industries. It is energizing Marel connects the dots to work with all of Marel’s talented and dedicated employees Indeed, some 60 million people are becoming new active and on behalf of the team I would like to thank our customers consumers every year due to rapid urbanization and improved for their partnership contribution that is a cornerstone of our economic prospects. Consumers are demanding quality food at success. Together, we are advancing food processing. affordable prices. In developing as well as developed markets, consumers seek to increase their consumption of proteins and We are firmly committed to delivering increased value to our vegetables at the cost of simple sugars and grains. Marel is society, customers and shareholders by enhancing safe and positioned at the center point of these prevailing trends. sustainable food processing. That is our passion. Arni Oddur Thordarson, Chief Executive Officer TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 7 Marel hf. – Annual Report 2017 MAREL IN BRIEF MAREL IN BRIEF 8 Marel – Annual Report 2017 WHO WE ARE MAREL IN BRIEF 9 Marel – Annual Report 2017 VISION AND VALUES UNITED UNDER ONE VISION AND ONE SET OF VALUES In partnership with our customers we are transforming the way food is processed. Our vision is of a world where quality food is produced sustainably and affordably. MAREL IN BRIEF 10 Marel – Annual Report 2017 BUSINESS MODEL An innovative, high-tech approach has brought Marel to the forefront of the food processing equipment industry. As a leader in the field, we provide advanced equipment and systems to the fish, meat and poultry industries around the world. Our business model is to maintain a good balance across our industry segments and geographies. We design and make food processing Strong culture of innovation solutions We are a company defined by our dedication to innovation, Our customers are predominantly companies using advanced reflected in our extensive R&D investment. Marel began as an and high-end equipment; we serve producers looking to idea at the University of Iceland in 1977 and innovation is and increase the automation of their production processes. has always been at its heart. We invest around 6% of revenues in research and development annually, which translated into We give them full control over their production with Innova, EUR 58 million in 2017. our advanced, overarching food production software. As our lines are high-tech, software is an integral part of optimizing Our approach to innovation is not limited to mechanical production. engineering to optimize the performance of each application, but also encompasses integrated technologies Seamless flow and integration between different applications and connectivity. Data analytics and software control are result in higher overall efficiency and production capacity. becoming increasingly important. From the start, we have bundled software and equipment together. Today, Marel is We have a dedicated team of 5,400 employees working in the center point of information gathering for one of the most subsidiaries and offices in over 30 countries around the world. important value chains in the world. We also enhance our local presence with a network of over 100 agents and distributors. Marel is also known for applying its technology across industries. In 2017, we continued to leverage our strong Our customer base includes most of the world’s blue-chip innovation investments in one field to successfully develop food processors. Our partnerships are strong, built on cosolutions for other protein product groups, across processes operation and teamwork across industries and geographies. and geographies. Marel’s playing field is gradually expanding to cover the entire production process from farm to fork and from catch to consumer. MAREL IN BRIEF 11 Marel – Annual Report 2017 € 1 1 1,038.2 969.7 1000 10% 818.6 800 8% EUR million 600 6% 400 4% 200 2% 0 0% 2015 2016 2017 Revenues R&D expenses as % of revenue Three key industry segments Marel Poultry At Marel we focus our efforts on our three main industries of Marel Poultry offers the most complete product range and operation; poultry, meat and fish. Our teams analyze trends has the largest installed base worldwide. We provide in-line and anticipate processing challenges, enabling us to stay on poultry processing solutions for all process steps and all top of market conditions and changes in the industries we processing capacities for broilers, turkeys and ducks. serve. Marel Meat Marel Poultry, Marel Meat and Marel Fish are constantly Marel Meat supplies advanced equipment and systems to the working on new ways to improve existing processes, increase red meat industry. We focus on slaughtering, deboning and automation and streamline product processing. trimming, case ready and food service solutions. Our aim is to be a full-line supplier from farm gate to finished pack. Marel Fish Marel Fish is the leading global supplier of advanced standalone equipment and integrated systems to the fish industry. We provide innovative equipment, systems and software for processing whitefish and salmon, both farmed and wild, onboard and ashore. MAREL IN BRIEF 12 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Customer focus Our strong and long lasting relationships with our customers We expect automation in food processing to increase steadily, form the bedrock of our business model. We’re here to partner especially in emerging markets. This means higher growth with our customers. Together we innovate and create prodin advanced and high-end segments of the food processing ucts that set new benchmarks in the industry and achieve conequipment industry. Our expertise in this segment focuses on tinuous improvements in line with our customer needs. helping customers become more efficient, more sustainable, more profitable and get more from their businesses. This shared success creates higher margins and better value, both for our customers and for Marel. VERY HIGH-END EQUIPMENT FAST LINE SPEED FAST ADVANCED EQUIPMENT MEDIUM SLOW LOW-END EQUIPMENT NON-AUTOMATED SEMI-AUTOMATED FULLY-AUTOMATED DEGREE OFAUTOMATION Sales and service network Marel’s extensive sales and service network, spread out across We serve a diverse customer base around the world. Our more than 30 countries on all continents, is a key competitive professional team of field service engineers ensures the edge. The network is Marel’s first line of contact for customers uptime and reliability of our large installed base. Service level at the local level. It brings first-rate service, consistency and agreements, a dedicated service commitment and our track continuity to our partnership with our clients. record have translated to strong customer loyalty and repeat business. • Sales and service in over 30 countries • Global sales organization of over 500 employees • Global service organization of over 1,000 full time equivalent employees MAREL IN BRIEF 13 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Customer collaboration As a high-tech provider at the forefront of the industry, we have This example of a ten-year relationship with a customer in the built strong customer relationships based on collaboration meat industry is a good indicator of how we do business. It is and partnership. Our cooperation with customers in terms of also a good reflection of our revenue mix, where greenfields, innovation, new projects and process improvements further maintenance and service and spare parts account for around supports our ability to transform the industry and increase a third each. customer value in the advanced and high-end segments. • Customer starts in primary processing and then expands into secondary processing. • After-sales revenue from spare parts and service starts around year three. MAREL IN BRIEF 14 Marel – Annual Report 2017 A balanced revenue stream and high quality of earnings Our customers’ access to raw material and their requirements Our main revenue stream drivers are both turnkey projects, for optimal yield are some of the key factors influencing encompassing brownfields, greenfields, modernization our production. We are constantly pushing technological and maintenance, and the production of modular, standard boundaries to meet their needs. equipment and processing lines. The stand-alone, modular portfolio is the building block for larger projects and the entry Marel’s presence in multiple protein segments serves as a point for new customers. countercyclical buffer. It gives us flexibility and the opportunity to transfer technical know-how, solutions and expertise Our installed base is large and growing, effectively driving our across borders, both industrial and geographical. We strive to resilient service and parts revenues. capitalize on the technological advances made in one sector by implementing them in another. REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT REVENUES BY REGION AND COUNTRY REVENUES BY BUSINESS MIX 1% 1% 3% 13% 24% 44% 32% 54% 28% Poultry Fish Meat Others Iceland The Netherlands Europe other Greenfields & large projects North America Other countries Service & spare parts Modernization & standard equipment MAREL IN BRIEF 15 Marel – Annual Report 2017 STRATEGY Marel has set a target of 12% average annual revenue growth for 2017-2026, both organic and through acquisitions. Our growth plan involves capitalizing on our strong R&D investment to drive growth and market penetration. We will also focus on strategic partnerships and acquisitions to fill gaps in the value chain, and to accelerate our full-line product offering and market penetration. Leading global provider of systems and services Marel’s strategic objective is to be a full-line provider to the and monitoring of throughput and yield that is hard to poultry, meat and fish industries. Our focus is to bring our replicate. Seamless flow and integration between different advanced, automated systems and solutions to every step of applications result in higher overall efficiency and improved the production process and cover the relevant geographical yield. Marel has thus become a one-stop shop for the customer areas in our industries. Strong organic growth and strategic from an equipment, software and service standpoint. acquisitions have helped make Marel a leader in its field. In line with our growth strategy, we have actively reinforced Our full-line approach includes standalone equipment, our value chain in recent years. We will continue to fill the individual systems and full production lines all controlled and remaining application gaps in our value chain through integrated with Innova, our overarching software solution. innovation, organic growth, strategic partnerships and acquired growth. This offers our customers process control, real-time traceability MAREL IN BRIEF 16 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Investing in growth Acquired growth Marel aims to achieve an average of 12% annual revenue We will also supplement our full-line offering and accelerate growth in the next decade. Around a third of this will be market penetration through acquisitions. We believe our solid organic growth and two-thirds will be acquired growth. operational performance and strong cash flow can support 5-7% revenue growth on average through acquisitions. Organic growth Growth will not be linear but reflect opportunities and The market for food processing equipment is expected to economic fluctuations. grow 4-6% annually on average in the long term. Driven by our extensive innovation investment and market penetration, we aim to grow organically faster than the market. A good example: how Marel fills value GAPS Acquisition of MPS paved the way for entry into primary meat processing • Marel became a full-line provider to the meat industry • Complementary geographical presence and product portfolio • Integration is proceeding well with all meat solutions united under the Marel Meat brand MAREL IN BRIEF 17 Marel – Annual Report 2017 A good example: how Marel improves the geographical footprint The acquisition of Sulmaq strengthens Marel’s market • IImproved foothold in the rapidly growing meat market in presence in Latin America. South and Central America • Strong customer relationships enable further sales of complementary equipment • Solid workforce with strong engineering know-how • Future manufacturing hub that can be scaled to support the region Strong cash flow supports future growth Our solid revenue growth and strong cash flow have made it The recent acquisitions of MPS and Sulmaq in 2016-2017 were possible to make a significant investment to support organic financed with support from our banking partners, our strong growth by innovation, advancing our manufacturing facilities operational results and cash flow without issuing new shares. and updating our IT platform across geographies. It has also It is also worth noting that Marel undertook no new loans to allowed Marel to undertake strategic acquisitions that have finance the the acquisitions of Sulmaq. closed application gaps in our value chain or complimented existing product portfolio. The Scanvaegt and Stork Food Systems acquisitions in 20062008 were financed with an equity contribution of EUR 268 million. REVENUES FROM 2005 TO 2017 20% CAGR (7% ORGANIC CAGR) 1000 1,038.2 969.7 818.6 750 714 712.6 668.4 661.5 EUR million 600.4 540.1 531.7 500 289.8 250 208.7 129 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenues MAREL IN BRIEF 18 Marel – Annual Report 2017 DELIVERING GROWTH DELIVERING GROWTH 19 Marel – Annual Report 2017 POULTRY The poultry industry is one of our three key protein industries at Marel. With the most complete product range and the largest installed base worldwide, Marel Poultry is a leading global provider of advanced food processing systems and services for broilers, turkeys and ducks. Marel Poultry contributed EUR 560 million in revenue in 2017, or 54% of total revenues, translating to an EBIT of 19.5%. The consumer value of the global poultry, meat and fish equipment for poultry, meat and fish and its maintenance market is currently estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion, is estimated to be around EUR 10 billion. Of this, poultry with the poultry market accounting for EUR 400 billion. processing equipment is estimated to be around EUR 3 billion More specifically for Marel, the market for food processing – and is expected to grow annually by 4-6%. DELIVERING GROWTH 20 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Overview Products The year 2017 saw Marel Poultry go from strength to strength. Sales were good in 2017. Our approach is always customerOur state-of-the-art, high-tech processing systems supported oriented, aimed at preparing our clients for the future. Driven our strong position in the market. Our teams worked diligently by strong product development, we saw our regular sales on maintaining both our good customer connections grow significantly. In addition, Marel was also involved in large, and our innovative, solid equipment offering. The most greenfield projects and strengthening partnership initiatives. prominent trend we saw in the dynamic 2017 market was the diversification in broiler breeding, as the concept chicken The big picture gained considerable ground on the high feed-to-meat ratio Our upselling strategy worked well for both Marel Poultry and broilers that have been the standard in previous decades. The our customers in 2017. Marel Poultry always keeps the big concept chicken is a slower growing – sometimes heritage – picture in mind when selling solutions. It matters to us that breed that is organic and marketed under names like ‘Better our customers can seamlessly integrate the machinery they Life’, ‘Chickens of Tomorrow’ or ‘Label Rouge’ in Europe. The purchase and easily add new equipment to their line when same trend has been seen in the US, while the Chinese market they see the benefits of the initial installation. Our systems still prefers the standard yellow broilers. are designed to make these additions smooth and easy to perform. Upselling from a standalone machine to a completely Production flexibility new department is no exception. The increasing focus on sustainability in “local breeding and eating”, means that current processing facilities need to be A synergistic vision able to receive and process a more diverse range of birds, Marel emphasizes the synergies arising from transferring both in terms of size and weight. To meet this requirement, methodologies and solutions across industries. Our logistics Marel Poultry has focused on helping processors become and overhead deboning systems are great examples of just more flexible than ever. Our solutions are designed to provide this. Developments in logistic solutions initiated by Marel not only the throughput, yield and quality that the market Poultry are now welcomed by other industries. The modular demands but also ensure the diversity and flexibility needed configuration of our SystemFlex intelligent conveyor system for current processing challenges. has been widely acclaimed in the poultry industry. This new logistic concept has taken automation to a completely new Strengthening partnerships level and found its way across industry boundaries. The same Faced with the need for greater investments in advanced goes for the overhead conveyor deboning process. Originating food processing equipment and systems, the poultry industry in the poultry industry’s FHF and AMF deboning systems, the requires partners who are ready to listen to and work with DeboFlex meat solution adopted the same inline processing them; partners that can offer the technology that delivers the concept. throughput, quality and yield they need. Marel Poultry has proven to be that partner. DELIVERING GROWTH 21 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Innovation We are constantly seeking ways to automate the production Creating first-grade thigh meat process. In 2017, Marel Poultry rolled out its first ATLAS Consumers are no longer content with using only the breast supply system. Developed to offer full control of all aspects meat of carefully reared chicken and underrating the rest of the of live bird handling, the system operates in an efficient yet bird. Given the increasing attention being paid to sustainable humane manner to ensure animal welfare. Its connection to production, it is entirely logical to add as much value as the CAS SmoothFlow anesthetization is superior to that of all possible to each part of the chicken. Which is why the Marel other existing systems. When it comes to animal welfare, the Poultry Thigh Fillet System perfectly matches sustainability induction phase is the most important of all. Together, ATLAS goals. and CAS SmoothFlow ensure that the slaughtering process is humane and complies with most halal requirements. Deboning the thigh meat upgrades it to retail class A quality, equal to a breast fillet. Processors no longer need to downgrade Adaptive automatic filleting leg meat, freeze it and ship it as a low-priced by-product. With The new AMF-i breast filleting solution is the result of our system, they can add optimal value to benefit both their continuous development. This year we saw it reach a new level production and their customers. of perfection, thanks to its added intelligence. Projects Now the measurement unit of the AMF-i system automatically Some of our largest projects involved supermarkets around detects changing dimensions in incoming products. It sends the world that are looking for complete vertical integration its instructions to the downstream modules, which autoto keep production of primary products in their own hands. adjust their settings accordingly for adaptive automatic To gain full control of their value chain these companies are filleting. The result is accurately filleted breast caps without building their own poultry processing facilities. Our customer human intervention. Coles was the first one to establish its own processing plant in Australia and others have followed suit. AMF-i produces a wide range of breast fillet products for retail and industrial customers and harvests valuable by-products. New Costco Greenfield project In 2017, Costco Wholesale in the US planned a USD 300 The high-tech heart of poultry Processing million chicken processing facility in Fremont, Nebraska. In 2017, we highlighted the fact that processors at all stages Costco teamed up with Marel Poultry to realize this huge, of automation benefit from the Innova Food Production hypermodern greenfield project. It heralds the first US Software. The software is always promoted in tandem with installation of the ATLAS system with the CAS SmoothFlow relevant products, enabling us to display its benefits to a broad stunning application. The facility will also include a complete customer base over the course of the year. Our customers Marel Poultry evisceration department, a shock/maturation require the process control and monitoring that Innova air-chilling tunnel, two distribution lines with SmartWeigher provides. and IRIS, deboning with AMF-i and SensorX quality control. The Innova IMPAQT (Intelligent Monitoring of Performance, The entire factory will be tied together with our Innova Food Availability and Quality Trends) module has been extremely Processing Software, a fully integrated production control and well received, as customers find that it is more than just monitoring system that gives real-time overview of the entire an Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE) application. It process. far exceeds the usual functionalities of OEE software by pinpointing exactly the reasons for any production losses or Modernization in the Polish poultry industry variations in processing in real-time. Poland remained the leading producer of poultry meat in the European Union in 2017. Our efforts in 2017 resulted in Marel Poultry becoming the poultry processing equipment supplier with the largest market share in the country. We secured orders from several leading Polish companies, which intend either to modernize their existing facilities drastically or to equip fully new greenfield plants. All facets of poultry processing are covered by our solutions and services in these plants, from live bird handling to final product packs. DELIVERING GROWTH 22 Marel hf. – Annual Report 2017 CUSTOMER STORY Costco teams up with Marel Poultry Marel Poultry will supply Costco Wholesale and its newly formed poultry processing company, Lincoln Premium Poultry, with a full poultry processing line for a state-of-theart greenfield plant in Fremont, Nebraska. This order marks the largest single order for Marel to date and will be delivered by the end of 2018. State-of-the-art processing Marel Poultry will supply Lincoln Premium Poultry with three complete slaughter lines, from live bird reception to chilling. Each line will make use of ATLAS, Marel Poultry’s latest live bird reception system, designed to improve animal welfare and sustainability while retaining high levels of transportation efficiency. From there, the plant will run complete CAS stunning, killing and evisceration systems, all incorporating the latest technology, followed by chilling. Costco’s goal is to produce two million chickens a week (25,200 bph). The new Lincoln Premium Poultry facility will process birds of 2.7 kg (6.0 lbs) average live weight and will handle about a third of the raw and rotisserie products for the company. Innova Food Processing Software, fully integrated throughout the plant, will help management achieve full traceability and lift efficiency levels. From chilling to automated, smart packing For chilling, Marel Poultry will install three shock/maturation air chill systems. Two distribution lines complete with SmartWeigher and IRIS vision grading will be installed postchilling, allowing Costco to make well-founded decisions about downstream product allocation. After whole bird selection, all remaining products will be cut up on four Marel Poultry cut-up lines. Deboning will be done using five of the newest AMF-i cap deboners and two in-line Thigh Fillet Systems. Deboned parts will pass through one of five Marel SensorX machines for bone detection. A combination of Marel robots and Multihead Weighers will align cut portions automatically for thermoform packing. Metal detectors and full specification Marel weight-price labeling lines will box each pack in cartons. DELIVERING GROWTH 23 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Global production and trade trends Improved utilization of raw materials has become increasingly In 2018, global production of chicken meat is estimated to rise important as the world population grows and demand for by 1.2% and reach 91.3 million tons. Global trade in chicken protein increases. Our answer lies in the adage ‘waste not, meat is expected to grow by 3.3% and reach 11.4 million tons. want not,’ as our customers require systems that enable them to use every part of the broiler and obtain a better price for The US is expected to continue to be the leading producer in a more valuable product. Maximizing the value of every part 2018 with 21% of the total production, followed by Brazil with of the chicken is therefore high on Marel Poultry’s agenda; 15%. by so doing we contribute to both internal and external sustainability goals in the industry. In 2017, the European Union overtook China to become the third-largest producer of chicken meat in the world and is Growth drivers expected to hold that position in 2018. Market demand for higher throughput is our division’s main growth driver. We will continue to supply technological Brazil continues to be the world’s leading exporter of chicken solutions that increase automation and mechanization to meat with 4.0 million tons in 2017, expected to rise to 4.2 realize these requirements. million tons in 2018. Another growth driver is the demand for increased product value using an integrated inline process that can lower cost per product processed. Our approach is to create solutions that automate labor and improve yield, uptime and product quality, while increasing sustainability through lower water and energy consumption. DELIVERING GROWTH 24 Marel – Annual Report 2017 MEAT The meat industry is one of Marel’s three key protein industries. Marel Meat is a leading global supplier of integrated systems and advanced stand-alone processing equipment to the red meat industry – from live animal receipt to finished packs. Marel Meat contributed EUR 334 million in revenue in 2017, or 32% of total revenues, translating to an EBIT of 11.5% (operating income adjusted for amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets). The consumer value of the global poultry, meat and fish market market for food processing equipment and its maintenance is estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion. Meat is the largest for poultry, meat and fish is estimated to be around EUR 10 market segment, with an estimated value of EUR 600 billion, billion. Of this, meat processing equipment is estimated to be followed by poultry and fish. More specifically for Marel, the around EUR 5.5 billion and is expected to grow annually by 4-6%. DELIVERING GROWTH 25 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Overview Products Integration was the key theme for Marel Meat in 2017. Over Our product offerings link up to cover the entire value the course of the year we worked diligently on the integration chain. This was reinforced in 2017 with both the launch of of new team members into the front-line sales team as recent new products and improvements to previous machinery. acquisitions have made us a full-line supplier to the meat Marel Meat introduced a new design for the beef deboning processing industry. We unified our product offering and the StreamLine system that meets the latest hygiene standards team providing it. Our approach was simple yet effective: the and the SpeedBatcher by-product packing solution. We whole team was trained to be able to represent the full product released an optimized Trim Monitor reject-system for meat, line, from farm gate to final pack. Intra-company logistics and created a new paceline infeed and finalized the design of wastewater treatment were also areas of focus, with successful the I-Cut 130 for red meat applications. The I-Saw automatic projects undertaken in both fields. frozen portioning machine was released in 2017. Our launch of the DeboFlex pork fore-end deboning solution was very well Full-line supplier of primary, secondary and further received with new systems delivered to Brazil, North America processing solutions and Europe. The MPS (Meat Processing Systems) acquisition closed in 2016 and key elements in integrating the company were Intelligent processing successfully realized in 2017 and will continue in 2018. The Our highly effective Innova software was a key aspect in expertise and product offering of MPS support Marel’s growth the promotion of our full-line processing equipment. Our strategy in the meat sector. The acquisition has made Marel software is at the heart of many of our cutting and deboning a full-line supplier to the industry by closing the value chain solutions where product traceability is essential. It enables gaps previously existing in the primary processing segment. our customers to mitigate operational risk, providing full Extensive new, full-line projects undertaken in China, South traceability from farm to fork. America and the US are clear testimony to the success of the integration. Increased automation The efforts of 2017 have placed Marel Meat in a strong Improving geographical reach position in the market for automated solutions. Automation Another major milestone towards closing the remaining is employed on many levels of processing and can range from gaps in our product offering and geographical reach was simple machine installations to fully automated robotic lines, the acquisition of Brazilian meat processing equipment controlled by food production software that monitors and manufacturer Sulmaq in Q3. Sulmaq was operated as a standmanages the production. We saw increased opportunities for alone company in 2017 while Sulmaq and Marel developed automation at every processing step in both the pork and beef strategies to optimize the synergies of the partnership. sectors in 2017. A unified team Case-Ready and Food Service Sales and service have to go hand-in-hand and integration Marel Meat focused on supplying stand-alone systems and efforts for the Marel Meat service organization were a key equipment to the case-ready and food service sector. We focus in 2017. We brought all service activities under one have a strong foothold in this segment and flexibility and end management structure and further strengthened our regional product differentiation were key issues in 2017. We delivered support teams through repositioning and training. systems and solutions that help our customers keep pace with the ever-increasing demands of retailers and consumers for case-ready products at competitive prices. DELIVERING GROWTH 26 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Innovation In 2017, Marel Meat continued to work on innovative Our motto at Marel Meat is to keep our innovations on equipment and software solutions for the industry. As a the cutting edge of modern technology, while delivering company thriving on innovation and the development of the exact functionality, durability and production stability high-tech applications, Marel sees opportunities where our customers need to maintain their position in the meat others see challenges. Our teams at Marel Meat are adept at processing industry. turning ideas into reality; challenges into solutions. Intelligent software applications have become an integral part of the Projects meat production solutions we offer our clients. Thanks to strategic acquisitions and organic growth, Marel Meat now covers the entire value chain; from live animal intake Intelligent robotic slaughter lines to finished consumer product. Our projects in 2017 reflect this Increasing automation at some of our more high-tech scope, as larger installations and greenfield projects became customers was a key issue in 2017. During the year, Marel more prominent. Some of our largest greenfield projects took Meat developed practical and efficient solutions for every us to Spain, France, Mexico and Korea. level of automation. Each application was built on in-depth processing know-how, decades of experience and our We worked with GrupoJorge, one of Spain’s largest meat innovative approach to intelligent automation. Some of our producers, on extending the capacity of their existing factories, most successful projects in North America, Brazil, Europe, for example. In addition, Marel Meat developed completely Russia, China and Australia included our intelligent robotic new processing facilities for Granjas Carroll de Mexico in slaughter lines that have set a new standard in slaughter line Mexico and for PuKyung Pig Farmers Agricultural Cooperative robotization. in Korea. Greenfield projects like these are our specialty, as they enable us to utilize our processing and technological Meat processing software expertise to help our customers reach their goals. We continued to develop our overarching software solution, Innova. It is designed to control and monitor every aspect of meat processing to increase yield, quality and throughput. We work closely with our customers and other divisions within Marel to create systems and solutions that allow food to be processed in an affordable and sustainable way. DELIVERING GROWTH 27 Marel – Annual Report 2017 CUSTOMER STORY Seeing what the human eye cannot The Foyle Food Group supplies high quality beef to leading retailers, manufacturers, food service providers and butchers across the world. It has now installed Marel’s Trim Management System in three of its five processing plants and reports major advantages gained from the systems. “Our main reason for installing the Trim Management System was to be able to meet the increasingly varied requests for CL content,” says Michael McKay, General Manager at Foyle Food Group. The company can now measure and verify the fat/lean (CL) content in their meat supply and deliver final batches of meat of specified weight with a fixed CL as prescribed by the customer. The system also beats the human eye at detecting bones and other hazardous objects (down to 5 mm), enabling the company to meet increasingly high demands for food safety and hygiene. “That is a great benefit and makes a huge difference to profit. As a matter of fact, we have gotten new customers onboard because of the system’s efficiency,” says McKay. DELIVERING GROWTH 28 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Growth drivers Animal welfare is and will always be an issue of the utmost With different trends governing our sector, Marel Meat sees importance in the protein sector. Consumers are conscientious opportunities for expansion in both traditional growth and want products that are produced sustainably and markets and what some would call saturated markets. ethically. Marel Meat worked closely with customers in As a well-established provider with a full-line offering for 2017 on these issues, delivering systems and equipment primary, secondary and further processing, we see our basic that improve production sustainability, both in terms of raw growth being driven by traditional demands, for instance, for material utilization and energy and water consumption. We improvements in yield, quality and throughput. emphasize helping processors to be flexible in their product offerings, while simultaneously adhering to animal welfare In the more advanced sectors of the market, where automation standards in the primary part of their processing and ensuring and production optimization have already occurred, we see sustainability throughout the value chain. This applies to their growth opportunities in the need for a sustained margin. processing facilities and their equipment set-up. Our approach is to introduce new technologies to increase automation and boost yield. Marel Water Treatment Wastewater treatment is another area where Marel Meat We have witnessed a clear trend in recent years towards directly contributes to clients’ sustainability efforts. The Marel increased requirements for automated systems and processing Water Treatment division is a part of Marel Meat. This longprocedures. As processors face tougher competition with standing, internationally recognized division was integrated increased automation, they realize that they need to from MPS in 2017 and offers primary, secondary and tertiary implement new technologies to stay on track and meet treatments for all types of food processing wastewater. fluctuation in consumer demands. Marel water treatment systems are efficient, easy to use and characterized by low maintenance. 1 DELIVERING GROWTH 29 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Global production and trade trends Beef and veal In 2018, global production of beef and veal is estimated to rise The US is forecast to continue as the leading producer in 2018, by 1.9% to 62.5 million tons. Global trade in beef and veal is accounting for 20% of total production, followed by Brazil with expected to grow by 2.7% and reach 10.1 million tons. 16%. In recent years, India has been the world’s largest exporter On the import side, China (including Hong Kong) overtook the of beef and veal and is expected to remain in top place in US as the world’s largest importer in 2017. 2018, closely followed by Brazil. However, it should be noted that unlike the other major exporters, India’s beef exports are based on water buffalo meat, as export of cow, oxen and calf meat is prohibited by Indian law. Pork In 2018, global production of pork is estimated to rise by 1.8% The EU is the world’s largest exporter of pork, closely followed to 113.1 million tons. Global trade in pork is expected to grow by the US. by 2.6% and reach 8.5 million tons. China continues to be the largest importer followed by Japan, China continues to dominate the pork market, accounting for which it overtook in 2016. an estimated 48% of total production in 2018, followed by the EU with 21%. DELIVERING GROWTH 30 Marel – Annual Report 2017 FISH The fish industry is one of Marel’s three key protein industries. Marel is a leading global supplier of advanced standalone equipment and integrated systems for all stages of the fish processing value chain. Our systems range from single scales to integrated production lines and turnkey systems, onboard and ashore. Marel Fish contributed EUR 132 million in revenues in 2017, or 13% of total revenues, translating to an EBIT of 4.3% which is below long term targets. Marel Fish has been transformed in recent years and is on the right track as investments in innovation and standardization of the business has delivered good orders received and improved margins. The consumer value of the global poultry, meat and fish equipment and its maintenance for poultry, meat and fish is market is estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion, with estimated to be around EUR 10 billion. Of this, fish processing the fish market accounting for an estimated 200 billion. equipment is estimated at around EUR 1.5 billion and is More specifically for Marel, the market for food processing expected to grow annually by 4-6%. DELIVERING GROWTH 31 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Overview Products In 2017, Marel Fish focused on enabling fish processors Marel Fish revolutionized the cod processing industry yet again to generate higher value through better utilization of raw with the addition of a new pre-trim line and robot packing material and maximize throughput, quality and process solution for FleXicut that offers automatic pinbone detection control. The wild whitefish segment continues to occupy an and removal. FleXicut has been very well received, with sales important place in the Marel Fish portfolio due to its longto both land-based operations and onboard processing term use of technology and modern fishing and processing throughout Europe and North America in 2017. methods. Marine sourcing of wild fish is a relatively fixed resource with little potential for growth due to the state of In salmon, Marel continued to push the boundaries, developing fish stocks and quota limitations. Thanks to their investment innovative new primary plants in Norway and Denmark. As the in high-tech onboard solutions, whitefish processors are now year progressed, unusually high whole-salmon prices returned able to meet rising demand for products by improving the to a more moderate level, stimulating the trend towards utilization and value of their catch. consumption of filleted, portioned and sliced salmon – all added-value products in which Marel has invested heavily to Growth opportunities in the farmed fish sector create the leading processing equipment in the industry. Aquaculture has been the fastest growing food production segment in the last decade and Marel Fish has a strong An almost hands-free process foothold in the sector, especially in the salmon part of the Marel Fish demonstrated an almost hands-free process industry. We have also worked for many of the world’s largest throughout the production chain at our Whitefish Showhow processors of tilapia, sea bream and sea bass. Our efforts to with a new configuration of a FleXicut line. further our market penetration in this sector in 2017 have given us a strong position to continue this expansion in 2018 The concept, with a new pre-trim solution and packing robots and beyond. further down the line, means that pre-trim is the last place the fish is touched by human hands. The packing robots are yet another cross-industry application that was originally developed for poultry and is now applied to fish. Transferring technology between industries The FleXicut pinboning and portioning system is a perfect example of how Marel transfers technology between processes and industries. Its technology is the result of innovation and development of x-ray technology that started with the SensorX in 2004 – a machine that is now the quality assurance standard in the poultry industry – and image processing and computer applications that Marel started using in its intelligent slicing machines in the 1990s. This technological transfer has continued with FleXicut in 2017. Initially developed for whitefish, the equipment underwent extensive testing in 2017 for salmon applications. The successful results were demonstrated at the 2018 Salmon ShowHow in February. Smart software – smart factories Data is increasingly valuable in today’s high-tech processing environment. The ability to track and analyze data is key to competitiveness for fish processors. Innova was featured at ShowHows and other events during the year where customers could see machines generate data in real time and learn how Innova uses the data to provide full production control. A comprehensive Innova conference attracted a large group of fish processors in 2017. The aim was to help them stay on top of production control and realize the full potential of our overarching software solution. DELIVERING GROWTH 32 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Innovation Projects In 2017, visitors to several major exhibitions and Marel’s For Marel Fish, 2017 was a productive year with an increase in Whitefish ShowHow were given the opportunity to walk greenfield projects, which average 25% of our overall project through a computer rendered model and a 360° video from load, with standard equipment and system installations inside a high-tech cod processing plant equipped with a accounting for 75%. The whitefish segment had steady sales FleXicut line. The experience gives unique insights into fish of standard systems to current and new customers in all processing advances, without having to transport an entire our regions and the farmed fish team participated in large factory to various locations around the world. We also began greenfield projects in Scandinavia. The following examples using Virtual Reality (VR) in the development phase of products, illustrate the variety of those projects we undertook in 2017. saving engineering hours and shortening development time. The use of VR shows how we make full use of technology both Nordic hi-tech to develop and to demonstrate our products. In 2017, we undertook our largest ever project in this industry, a greenfield facility for Norwegian fish processing giant Leroy From one industry to another Seafood Group. Another major greenfield project involved a In 2017, we released the results of primary innovative work new, ultramodern whitefish plant for Primex, Norway, which undertaken to meet current market demands. We are known will set a new benchmark in the whitefish industry. The project for taking our technology across industries and this year we includes completely new robot technology that will improve transferred results from innovative work in robot technology product distribution and handling. from the poultry sector into fish processing. The solution is called RoboBatcher Flex. We use this award winning Fish in the desert robotic application for batching fixed-weight products and The Saudi Arabian processing giant NAQUA continued to automatically styling them into retail trays. This improves yield work with Marel to improve processing. In 2017, the company and greatly reduces giveaway. decided to double its already impressive throughput and install new packing lines and the Innova Paperless Quality Innovative applications Control (QC) system. This was an extensive project with The FleXitrim pre-trim line was another step forward for the multiple installation phases, most of which were completed whitefish processing industry in 2017. The new features during the year. of the FleXitrim, fully integrated with the current FleXicut system, make it the only solution on the market that offers the Cooperation across borders sophisticated combination of automated quality control and Marel, Icelandic processor Samherji and Dutch processor full traceability of individual portions all the way to the final Parlevliet & Van der Plas entered into a substantial partnership pack. The new M360 wrap-around labeler was well received in agreement to modernize the processors’ operations onboard the fish industry. It employs the latest technology in flexible, and onshore with FleXicut systems. Samherji and Marel have linerless labeling. worked closely together for decades on developing advanced fish processing solutions, and this extensive cooperation The MS 2720 salmon deheading machine, released on January contract reflects the two companies’ shared passion for 1, 2018, was pre-released at the Marel Salmon ShowHow in innovation. February 2017. This innovative solution offers some of the highest levels of throughput, yield and quality ever achieved for this process. DELIVERING GROWTH 33 Marel – Annual Report 2017 CUSTOMER STORY Largest processing facility in Brazil In 2017, C.Vale opened the largest and most advanced fish processing facility in Brazil, fitted with processing equipment and systems from Marel. The new modern factory is just over 10,000 m2 and has an initial processing capacity of 75,000 tilapia per day. “Our next goal will be to reach 300,000 per day. We have a consolidated customer base who are waiting for our fish products both in the domestic and foreign market,” says Alfredo Lang, the president of C.Vale. C.Vale and Marel have a long shared history spanning over two decades, mainly in the area of poultry and further processing. “This new project is not just a watershed in the fish industry in Brazil, it also reiterates and strengthens the partnership between the companies,” says Francisco Leandro, General Manager of Marel in Brazil. The plant is designed not just to meet current needs but also allows for the future expansion of productive capacity that C.Vale is planning in partnership with Marel in the coming years. DELIVERING GROWTH 34 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Marel Fish contributes both directly and indirectly to increased Changing dietary habits and a continuous rise in the demand, sustainability in the world of food processing. Our focus on not only for seafood in general but also for differentiated and improving product utilization and increasing yield serve susvalue-added seafood products are major growth drivers in the tainability in various ways. Improved raw material utilization industry. Innovative solutions in both salmon and whitefish preserves resources, both natural and economical. Our equipwill set a new industry standard in coming years, with major ment is designed for optimal energy and water usage and to faNorwegian and Icelandic processors leading the way. Watercilitate cleaning, all geared towards using resources sparingly. shed installations are already underway and will set the tone for others to follow. Growth drivers For Marel, the key factors for future market growth include the Changing dietary habits and a continuous rise in the demand, expansion of the farmed whitefish segment and the overall rise not only for seafood in general but also for differentiated and in automation in fish processing around the world. Processing value-added seafood products are major growth drivers in the volumes in farmed whitefish are expected to rise exponenindustry. Innovative solutions in both salmon and whitefish tially in the years to come. Currently automated factories will will set a new industry standard in coming years, with major increase their level of automation, highly automated players Norwegian and Icelandic processors leading the way. Waterwill look towards robotics and hands-free processing and an shed installations are already underway and will set the tone increase in entry level automation is expected. Reduction of for others to follow. manpower is the driver in Europe and North America, where companies are increasingly prepared to invest in technology to compensate for a diminishing supply of labor. DELIVERING GROWTH 35 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Global production and trade trends Salmon In 2018, global salmon production is estimated to rise by 7.6% 2018, followed by Chile with 29%. Salmon production in Chile to 2.6 million tons. Atlantic salmon is expected to account is forecast to increase by 11% in 2018, compared to an 8% for 94% of production. Norway continues to dominate increase in Norway. The market will continue to be dominated production with an expected 50% of the total production in by these two countries. Tilapia and catfish In 2018, global production of tilapia and catfish is expected to China continues to lead the market with a 25% share, followed rise by 2.6% to 6.5 million tons, of which catfish will comprise by Egypt with 15%. 1.3 million tons. Cod According to forecasts, global production of cod will shrink In 2018, the cod catch is expected to decrease in all leading to 1.7 million tons in 2018, a decrease of 5.4%. Atlantic cod is countries except Iceland. Icelandic production has increased expected to account for 75% of production. Russia continues each year from 2014, as stronger cod stocks have enabled to lead with a 27% share of the market, followed by Norway higher total allowable catches (TACs). with 22%. DELIVERING GROWTH 36 Marel – Annual Report 2017 INNOVA FOOD PROCESSING SOFTWARE Innova is our revolutionary food processing software that provides full production control and traceability, giving a complete overview of the product’s journey through processing from reception to dispatch. To date, we have around 1,800 Innova installations worldwide, software. Innova can be implemented as an all-inclusive with the result that many of the largest food processing production system, adapted for specific production units and companies in the world already use this leading-edge even connected to third party equipment. DELIVERING GROWTH 37 Marel – Annual Report 2017 The future of intelligent production control Streamlined order management Utilizing the latest technology and cloud analytics, Innova is Innova not only provides full production control and the future of intelligent production control. It enables plants to traceability, it also helps improve the entire order processing, manage, monitor and improve the entire production process, making it more streamlined and easy to manage. Innova allowing producers to spot inefficiencies on the factory floor by can optimize workflows, enable cost effective inventory presenting the information needed to maximize throughput, control and efficient order management. The system includes quality and yield. purchase orders, production orders, inventory orders and sales orders. Food producers need to be able to keep pace with everincreasing industry and regulatory demands for animal Innova connects to third-party equipment welfare, traceability and quality control. Innova provides Innova Food Processing Software is set up to work with efficient, high-performing software solutions that enable the third party equipment, systems and solutions that are them to do just that. independent of Marel equipment. That way, our customers can install a single software system to oversee production and Direct traceability integrate with their existing systems. Innova can be applied to every processing step, providing a complete overview of the product’s journey through It’s all in the label processing from reception to dispatch. It controls and monitors The label designer in Innova is a very powerful tool. All the the animal reception and registration, the production flow and traceability information on the product is collected through the deboning, packing and dispatching processes. processing and available on the final product label.The flexible system means you can easily design the labels to fit Having Innova manage the entire operation creates a direct the information and the final product package. line between the slaughtered animal and the customer, giving unique advantages. DELIVERING GROWTH 38 Marel hf. – Annual Report 2017 CUSTOMER STORY High-grade software for high-grade salmon The Mt Cook Alpine Salmon processing facility at Timaru in New Zealand opened in late 2013 and processes very high-grade salmon. The dynamic company is a fully integrated operation with its own supply chain and exports most of its salmon to discerning markets around the world. With a strong focus on the high quality of its end products, it is important to Mt Cook Alpine Salmon that they own and control all the steps from farm through to sales. Innova Food Processing Software has supported this from the start, providing traceability from farm to pack and ensuring that critical information is always on hand in real time. High-tech for quality products In modern salmon processing, high-tech equipment and food processing software is an absolute necessity. “We looked at various systems and approaches for managing our production,” says Brent Keelty, plant manager at Mt Cook Alpine Salmon. “We’re glad we decided to go with Innova from Marel; it’s a best-in-class solution for fish processing.” Return on investment Mt. Cook Alpine Salmon use Innova for receiving fish from farms to the factory and into production. They use Innova for order control and different stages of inventory management, as well as for weighing, labeling and packing of finished goods all the way through to the dispatch processes. This translates to order management, yield control and performance analysis across the plant. The overall gains in efficiency are valuable and, in particular, being able to produce to order adds a lot of value: “Innova helps us maintain optimum inventories and produce exactly to the orders,” says Keelty. “As a result, we minimize overand under-production and our products are always consistent and reliable.” The value of automation and traceability Keelty explains that the value of having the automated production system was quickly apparent. “It’s a robust system and provides us real-time production management and a powerful tool for maintaining traceability from our salmon farms to dispatch orders,” says Keelty. “We can monitor production performance in real time and make any changes on the go. It helps us improve throughput and reduce giveaway, and it gives us live production control.” Easy to use Despite the complexity and scope of some of the challenges it solves, Innova Food Processing Software is designed to be as user-friendly as possible. “Our operators like it because the system is easy to use and it’s consistent,” Keelty agrees. “We also use it for trend analysis in our production through live reports and dashboards, we can easily do aged analysis, reporting on various areas including sales, harvest volumes, production tonnages and fish size.” DELIVERING GROWTH 39 Marel – Annual Report 2017 INNOVATION Innovation is and has always been at the heart of Marel. We invest around 6% of revenues in research and development annually, which translated into EUR 58 million in 2017. With over 20 solutions introduced to the market in 2017, it is safe to say that innovation is simply in the DNA of our people. Our experts are relentless in their efforts to meet the next challenge in the market with an effective solution. We have over 700 dedicated technology professionals in 9 Data analytics and software control are becoming increasingly countries, working in partnership with our key customers to important. Our approach to innovation is not limited to mechange the way food is processed. People are our greatest aschanical engineering but also encompasses integrated techset in driving innovation: it is all about their mindset. You have nologies and connectivity. From the start, we have bundled to be creative, passionate and brave. software and equipment together. Today, Marel is the focal point of information gathering for one of the most important value chains in the world. DELIVERING GROWTH 40 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Keeping ahead of trends At Marel, we analyze current trends and anticipate processing In poultry the RoboBatcher is intelligently connected to the challenges as part of staying informed of the market I-Cut in the award-winning concept: ‘The robot with a knife’. conditions and changes in the industries we serve. Key trends The RoboBatcher Flex is a highly flexible system for automated that will continue to characterize the food processing industry fixed-weight batching and tray styling of poultry fillets. in coming years are the emphases on productivity and process Designed for high throughput and accuracy, the RoboBatcher optimization, together with demands for food safety and Flex can batch and style up to 300 fillets per minute depending sustainability. We work on these issues daily by putting our on the version and keep giveaway to a minimum. extensive product know-how and processing skills to work to provide the innovative solutions our customers need. The Robobatcher Flex has now been made available for fish, while the leading SensorX technology has been reinforced Strategic focus by adding SmartSort to its system for better handling of Innovation strategically focuses on three key areas: new downstream products. product development, modernization of existing product lines and creating a common core technical platform for Marel. The newly launched DeboFlex automatic deboning system has set a new standard in the meat industry. A large proportion of Marel’s development of new products creates breakthrough the time spent on deboning in a pace line is currently used innovations to meet the challenges facing customers. In for turning and moving products around. By reducing this addition to new equipment and solutions, product upgrades handling time DeboFlex increases the actual cutting time and and incremental additions to existing machines and systems boosts yield. make sure our equipment stays competitive. We also focus on modularization and standardization as drivers to maximize Another new release was the I-cut 130 PortionCutter, a nextsynergies available across the company. To that end, we are generation portioning machine. This new system provides committed to collaborative innovation with our customers superior programming flexibility and a variety of specialized and partners to ensure our products add value in a way that cutting patterns. It guarantees consistently superior accuracy suits their specific needs. and optimum usage of raw materials, resulting in high-quality products with maximum return on investment. Product launches 2017 In 2017, we released over 20 products onto the market. Among these successful product launches are the FleXicut for fish, the ATLAS live bird handling system, AMF-I and the Thigh Fillet System for poultry. DELIVERING GROWTH 41 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Product-focused innovation hubs R&D is organized around three innovation hubs, each of which field experience to reach the best results. Marel empowers its has its own specific technology and industry focus while also employees by fostering teamwork and connections between capitalizing on the synergies between product groups. Our the different hubs, providing training and good facilities, tools experts draw on their different educational backgrounds and and equipment to work with. Creating intelligent equipment for the smart Robobatcher Flex factory This year we successfully transferred our award winning From the early days of the digital revolution to the current robotic technology from the poultry sector to fish processing. opportunities opened up by what has been labeled the The RoboBatcher Flex batches fixed-weight products fourth industrial revolution, Marel has always linked together automatically and styles them into retail trays. This ensures software and automation to create innovative solutions to maximum batching flexibility and high product utilization food processing challenges. with virtually no give-away. Marel’s high-tech approach has led the way in using intelligent automation to increase yield, throughput and quality in food processing. In poultry, our recently launched AMF-i is the first intelligent breast filleting system using automatic adaption to breast cap size, resulting in higher yield, capacity and product quality. Our sophisticated sorting algorithms have been controlling our graders for decades, while the latest 3D laser vision systems work with advanced software to calculate the best cutting patterns for our automatic portioning systems. Technology is, SensorX however, advancing at lightning speed with rising computing Originally created to detect pinbones in whitefish, the SensorX power a major catalyst. Virtual Reality (VR) and Artificial bone and contaminant detection system has now become Intelligence (AI) will further transform our industry in the a staple in poultry factories around the world, working in future. In 2017, Marel started to build up the competencies tandem with the next generation of quality assurance systems needed to design and integrate use of these technologies in for ground meat and meat trim. The system uses advanced our products. X-ray technology to scan for bones in fish and poultry or analyze fat/lean content in meat. From one industry to another Marel is known for applying its technology across industries. In 2017, we continued to leverage our strong innovation investments in one field to successfully develop solutions for other protein product groups, across processes and geographies. SensorX and the RoboBatcher are two great examples of products that were developed for one industry but have been successfully adapted for all of Marel’s industries. We will continue to realize the synergies available to a company of our scale and scope, delivering innovative products for our customers and creating further growth opportunities. In particular, major opportunities lie in the secondary and further processing parts of the value chain, e.g. portioning, batching, weighing and marinating, where the processing steps become more homogenous across industries. DELIVERING GROWTH 42 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Innovation A TRUE PET PROJECT A testament to both the creative mindset of our innovation team and the excellent cooperation we enjoy with our strategic partners is the mewing story of FleXicut. Before officially launching FleXicut, a trimming robot for high precision bone detection and removal, we ran a prototype machine in close partnership with one of our key customers, Vísir. Not lacking in either creativity or imagination, the team members from both Marel and Vísir soon adopted the test machine as their pet project, in various senses of the word. The name FleXicut, aptly reflecting its flexible water approach to more efficient cutting patterns, was soon nicknamed the ‘Cut’ among the team. As the word ‘cut’ is pronounced exactly the same way as the Icelandic word for cat – kött – FleXicat quickly became the team’s pet project name. During the testing period, sometimes the cat was up and running, other times the kitty needed a bit of petting, cleaning or was hungry for spare parts. When a second FleXicut was rolled out, the team decided it was time to give their pets names. They became Puff and Inky from the classic children’s books by Pierre Probst, to better distinguish the two. Today, our innovation team can track all their cats in a real time environment – hopefully purring contentedly in their new homes and collect data on how to improve efficiency and service support. We believe that a working environment where creativity flourishes and innovative thinking thrives allows us to create new, smarter solutions for our customers. One global new product Development process New product developments follow a global progression with multi-disciplinary development teams and knowledgesharing throughout the company. Solid infrastructure ensures standardization and modularization of our equipment, as well as the proper tools to carry out high-quality engineering. To take full advantage of the scale of our business, we focus especially on leveraging common technologies across our product portfolio. To this end, we are working towards developing one technical platform for all Marel equipment to run on. This will ensure technical integrity in designing our solutions while at the same time making them more accessible for our customers. DELIVERING GROWTH 43 Marel – Annual Report 2017 SALES Marel’s global network of dedicated sales representatives is one of the company’s strongest and most visible assets. Our sales operation consists of local representatives in over 30 countries, 19 regional organizations and a global network of more than 100 agents and distributors. With such a large network, Marel can serve large and small Demo centers for customer demonstrations, food processors and food retail companies on location, wherconferences and training ever they are. Our industry specific segments – fish, meat and Marel operates four demonstration facilities for customers: poultry – are manned with specialized sales people, working one in Copenhagen, Denmark, another in Boxmeer, the in partnership with customers around the world. We are dedNetherlands and two in the USA, in Lenexa, Kansas and Des icated to bringing top-of-the-line services, consistency and Moines, Iowa. Three of the centers are built exclusively for the excellence to each project we undertake. purpose of customer demonstrations, conferences, training and internal meetings, while the innovation center in Des Moines is more focused on new product development. The facilities offer a hands-on environment where customers can see how Marel innovations can improve their food production, employee expertise and operational outcomes. Progress Point in Copenhagen Progress Point in Copenhagen is the flagship of our four demo centers. The 2,700m2 custom designed building, located on a 10,000m2 site, is a unique training and demo facility designed to bring customers and processing experts together to experience the full potential of Marel equipment and integrated systems in a hands-on environment. At Progress Point, we host four major events every year for the salmon, meat and whitefish industries and a bi-annual event for poultry. These unique events bring together processors from all over the world to explore the latest advances in food processing and hear guest speakers address some of today’s key processing challenges. The ShowHows give processors the opportunity to discover how Marel’s industry leading products can help them organize their daily production and address the critical factors that affect raw material utilization, processing times, labor costs and food safety. These events also give customers an opportunity to provide valuable input and exchange ideas with Marel employees. Marel also hosted its first Capital Markets Day at Progress Point on November 2, 2017. Over 100 investors and analysts attended the meeting, which was a great success. DELIVERING GROWTH 44 Marel – Annual Report 2017 GLOBAL SERVICES As a service-oriented operation, we focus on assisting our customers in maintaining optimal production flow, uptime and output. We run a global, well-organized service and maintenance operation that is and will continue to be one of the main sources of our revenue and growth. Delivering around 40% of the company’s revenues, the service and spare parts business is a clear growth opportunity, driving value for both customers and shareholders. Our focus is on proactive service that includes preventative The results were already evident in 2017, with ServiceMax maintenance, spare parts packages and long-term service providing us with the first consolidated, full range overview contracts. Our experience shows that an increasing number of the installed base, customers and workforce. Efficiency of customers prefer this model. Working proactively with has increased, as field data is shared with the office more customers prevents downtime in their production facilities quickly and the positive effects are evident in improved and ensures consistent peak productivity at all times. service delivery and sustainable growth. Response times have shortened, on-time performance has improved and there are Improved efficiency following consistent productivity improvements in the field. implementation of ServiceMax To improve service even further, Marel implemented one A key source of recurring revenues global field service management platform, ServiceMax, on a Service will continue to be a key source of revenue and company-wide basis in 2016. This was an important step in growth for Marel in the coming years. Major investments have advancing our global service strategy. Equipping all our field been made in business improvements in the last few years, service engineers with iPads and dedicated software enables including IT and employee development. This has created a them to coordinate schedules and projects and to deliver solid foundation for future growth and profitability from the regular service reports. By standardizing the company’s company’s service operations. processes and IT platforms, we aim to raise our service network to an even higher level. DELIVERING GROWTH 45 Marel – Annual Report 2017 GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN The global supply chain at Marel is responsible for procurement and manufacturing within the company and operates worldwide, integrating the company’s fish, meat, poultry and further processing industry units. A team of over 2,000 people supports product development We now run 12 manufacturing sites for machines and parts and with new equipment and service parts. Our experts make 4 main distribution centers for service parts. These changes sure that our modernization projects, large greenfields increase the reliability and consistency of productivity and developments and individual machine installations run output. on schedule and are delivered and serviced in line with agreements. We work closely with logistics services and key Quality, responsiveness and efficiency are the cornerstones material and parts suppliers around the world. of our operation. Our approach is based on the simple yet effective premise of ensuring that all parts and equipment are In 2017, we realized the benefits of previous restructurings delivered to the right place, at the right time and with the right and consolidation of the supply chain footprint. quality and cost. This applies to all phases of manufacturing and distribution as well as to our procurement and supplier’s processes. DELIVERING GROWTH 46 Marel – Annual Report 2017 ENABLING GROWTH With the benefit of unique scale and skills, Marel’s activities In order to improve this part of our operation we also have a major competitive advantage. In 2017, we experienced implemented a company-wide operating model, making a noticeable strengthening of our operational performance major changes to our KPI reporting. We took steps to reduce following the co-location of product manufacturing to the the number of suppliers and focus more on partnerships with best fitting site. This has improved supply chain performance key suppliers of parts, assemblies and equipment. and provides a sustainable base for growth. This year we also focused on strengthening our internal The 2017 acquisition of Sulmaq and the previous integration operations, improving processes and working procedures in of MPS into our meat unit create even further opportunities general to optimize the way we structure our supply chain. for global synergies in Marel’s supply base. To take advantage This enables us to meet demands of both market and product of these opportunities, our leadership organization has been development, creating the best possible supply chain for strengthened with new hires. This will further support our Marel globally. growth strategy for the future, allowing us to continue to benefit from and expand our global synergies and focus more Site competences utilized more effectively intently on our key competencies. Today, there are 12 manufacturing sites strategically positioned around the world. The refocusing program launched in 2014, Developing partnerships with our suppliers optimized the manufacturing footprint from 19 sites thereby The consolidation steps made in previous years continued to reducing complexity. This laid a cornerstone for the operational deliver benefits in 2017. We saw further improvement resulting excellence and scalability needed to support future growth. In from the reduction of suppliers and product standardization, particular, we have marked Brazil, Slovakia and China as our both of which delivered cost reductions and stronger supplier key growth platforms. relations. Optimizing manufacturing affected our site in Slovakia Marel’s suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers are critical parts considerably. The two locations were consolidated into a of our supply chain. Without them, we would not be able to single facility, improving the efficiency and efficacy of local deliver high quality products reliably to our customers. Just processes. Currently, our site in Slovakia accounts for about as internal efficiency is essential, so is working effectively with 10% of total production volume and we are ready to increase our suppliers. this to about 20% of our internal capacity. We focus on standard and mature products at this site, which is now more streamlined. It also offers opportunities for even better utilization in the future. DELIVERING GROWTH 47 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Supporting the launch and development The smart factory of new products automation and industry 4.0 All products produced at Marel have a designated home, Our factories are getting smarter as we contribute to the either a mother site or a co-location site. The mother site development and implementation of automation in the is responsible for product life cycle management and how food processing industry. We now have a global industrial the product is manufactured. Co-location sites are focused engineering approach leading to standardization in processes on scale manufacturing, producing large volumes in a cost and investments at all sites. effective manner in close proximity to the customer resulting in improved optimal lead-time and cost. As investments in IT We have always been a high-tech company, leading the systems progress, products will more easily be producible at automation of our industry and we are now exploring the co-location sites. potential of Industry 4.0. A good example of how successful cooperation between We see an abundance of opportunities that will enable us to multiple disciplines within the company can achieve improve supply chain expediency even further by utilizing this remarkable end results is the new live-bird handling system new reality. It will enable us to deliver more rapidly and flexibly for the poultry processing industry launched this year. under any conditions. With successful co-operation and a flexible production We continue our own automation efforts: this year, Marel’s platform, the supply chain was able to contribute significantly seventh manufacturing site purchased a robot welder. This to the success of this new product launch. On top of this, is part of our ongoing strategy to expand robot welding and improved automation drove the supply chain performance standardization in robot welding techniques, enhancing to a high and sustainable level on this project. We view this quality and making reproduction easier over all sites while achievement as a benchmark for future performance. minimizing costs. DELIVERING GROWTH 48 Marel – Annual Report 2017 INVESTORS INVESTORS 49 Marel – Annual Report 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The largest company on NASDAQ Iceland, Marel had a market capitalization of ISK 237.6 billion at year-end 2017, or EUR 1.9 billion. Since its original listing in 1992, Marel has created excellent Market capitalization value for its close to 2,200 shareholders. As the only large cap Marel is the largest company listed on NASDAQ Iceland by listed in Iceland, the company’s investor base is dominated market capitalization. The market value of the company at by Icelandic investors. Although capital restrictions were year-end 2017 was ISK 237.6 billion (EUR 1.9 billion) compared fully lifted in Iceland in 2017, the NASDAQ Iceland exchange to ISK 178.7 billion (EUR 1.5 billion) at year-end 2016, an maintains some specific market limitations. In particular, increase of ISK 58.9 billion (EUR 0.4 billion). the denomination of shares in Icelandic krónur (ISK) and the limited overall size of the domestic securities market. INVESTORS 50 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Share performance and liquidity The share price rose 33% over the year, in striking comparison Most actively traded to the modest 4.4% drop in the OMXI8 index for the top listed Indeed, Marel shares were the most actively traded on companies in Iceland. At year-end 2017 Marel’s share price NASDAQ Iceland in 2017, 18.2% of all trading in listed equities. stood at ISK 323.00, compared to ISK 243.00 at the end of 2016 Shares in Marel were traded 3,197 times in 2017 (2016: 2,654 (equivalent to EUR 2.58 per share at year-end 2017, compared times) for a total market value of ISK 114.5 billion (2016: ISK to EUR 2.04 at the end of 2016). Marel’s average end-of-day 70.3 billion), which corresponds to a turnover rate of 47%. spread was 0.97%. Since the company’s shares are traded in However, the daily turnover of the Icelandic exchange (allISK, fluctuations of the Icelandic krona during 2017 affected share index) is limited compared to the turnover on leading the market value when converted into euros. European indices. Market making Marel has agreements with Landsbankinn hf. and Kvika banki hf. for market making in its shares. The purpose of these agreements is to improve liquidity and to enhance transparent price formation of the company’s shares on NASDAQ Iceland. The agreements have an unspecified duration but can be terminated with one month’s notice. SHARE PRICE IN 2017 COMPARED TO OMX ICELAND 8 NOTE: INDEXED NUMBERS, SET AT 100 AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 2017 180 25 170 160 20 Share price index 150 Million shares 140 15 130 120 10 110 100 5 90 80 0 Jan '17 Apr '17 Jul '17 Oct '17 Jan '18 Marel shares in ISK Marel shares in EUR OMX Iceland 8 Volume '000 INVESTORS 51 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Shareholder structure According to its shareholders’ register, Marel had 2,206 HOLDINGS BY TYPE OF INVESTOR AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2017 shareholders at year-end 2017, compared to 1,907 at year-end 2016. As of December 31, 2017, Marel held 41,747,226 treasury shares. 5%6% 6% Eyrir Invest hf. is Marel’s largest shareholder, with 25.88% of 38% issued shares, followed by the Pension Fund of Commerce 19% (LIVE) (9.4%), and the Pension Fund for State Employees (LSR) and Pension Fund for Nurses (LH) (6.4%). 26% The ten largest shareholders held 64.6% of the total issued shares. In total, Icelandic pension funds held 38.2% of Marel’s issued share capital. International shareholders owned 5.2% Pension funds, Icelandic Retail investors, Icelandic at year-end 2017. The free float of Marel shares was 74% and Eyrir Invest International investors free float adjusted market value of the company was EUR 1.4 Other Icelandic institutional investors Treasury shares billion. INVESTORS 52 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Share capital At year-end 2017, there were 735.6 million Marel shares issued, Stock options are granted to management and selected key all in one class. Of the total share capital base, Marel holds employees. At the end of 2017 granted and unexercised stock 5.68% or 41.7 million treasury shares. options totaled 9.9 million shares, of which 1.7 million were exercisable at the end of 2017. The remainder will become During the year, Marel purchased 22.2 million treasury shares vested in the years 2018 to 2021. for a total amount of EUR 63.5 million to be used as a payment for potential future acquisitions. Marel sold 0.9 million treasury At the company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders shares for EUR 2.5 million to the management of Sulmaq as authorized the Board of Directors to increase the company’s part of Marel‘s acquisition of Sulmaq. The sold shares are share capital by 35 million shares to fulfill stock option subject to a lock-in period of 18 months from the date of agreements. This authorization is valid for five years following closing which was August 31, 2017. Marel also sold 1.1 million its adoption. No new shares were issued in 2017 under this treasury shares for a total amount of EUR 1.2 million to fulfill resolution. employees’ stock option schedules. INVESTORS 53 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Earnings per share Earnings per share (EPS), measuring the amount of net income earned per share of stock outstanding, was 13.7 euro cents in 2017, increasing by 29% over the previous year. Earnings per share are expected to grow faster than revenues. EARNINGS PER SHARE TRAILING TWELVE MONTHS, BY QUARTER 13.7 14 11.65 12.05 12 11.18 10.59 10 8.86 Euro cents 8.13 8.51 8 6 4 2 0 2016 2017 Dividends The Board of Directors has proposed that a dividend of 4.19 euro cents per share be paid for the operational year 2017, corresponding to approximately 30% of profits for the year. The proposed dividend is in line with Marel’s targeted capital allocation and dividend policy, i.e. a dividend policy of 20-40% of net results and a targeted capital structure of x2-3 net debt/EBITDA. INVESTORS 54 Marel – Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL RESULTS For the full year, revenues were over EUR 1 billion with 15% adjusted EBIT. • Orders received reached an all-time high • Production load was effectively managed • Strong earnings growth and healthy profit margin • Solid cash flow enables substantial investments in innovation and future platform Arni Oddur Thordarson, CEO: “We had a strong close to a great year. In 2017, we had record orders received of EUR 1,144 million, up 13% year-on-year. Our business is about advancing food processing, and in recent years we have also been moving Marel forward. We have prioritized investments and strengthened processes, enabling us to deliver complex solutions to customers at the right time and of the right quality. To cope with the increased load we have added resources: Today, we are team of 5,400 dedicated members in over 30 countries. Our committed team delivered record revenues of EUR 1,038 million in 2017, a 6% increase in revenues compared to the previous year. We continue to deliver strong earnings growth with a healthy profit margin of around 15% EBIT in the past two years. Marel’s target is 12% average annual revenue growth in the period 2017-2026. We drive organic growth and value creation with innovation and market penetration, supported by strategic partnerships and acquisitions. In partnership with our customers, we are transforming the way food is processed.” INVESTORS 55 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Good quality of earnings REVENUES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT REVENUES BY REGION AND COUNTRY REVENUES BY BUSINESS MIX 1% 1% 3% 13% 24% 44% 32% 54% 28% Poultry Fish Meat Others Iceland The Netherlands Europe other Greenfields & large projects North America Other countries Service & spare parts Modernization & standard equipment INVESTORS 56 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Robust earnings and profitability REVENUES AND EBIT ORDER BOOK AS PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE 1,038.2 969.7 1,006.1 1,143.7 1000 16% 1000 818.6 824.6 750 12% 750 EUR million 500 8% EUR million 500 250 4% 250 0 0% 0 2015* 2016* 2017* 2015 2016 2017 Revenues EBIT as % of revenues Orders received Order book * Operating income adjusted for amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets (PPA) in 2016. 2015 EBIT adjusted for refocusing cost and acquisition costs. REVENUES AND EBIT LEVERAGE AS PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE NET INTEREST BEARING DEBT / PRO FORMA LTM EBITDA Net interest bearing debt / Last twelve months EBITDA 192 200 175.4 3.0 150 135.8 2.2 1.9 EUR million 2.0 100 1.1 50 0 0.0 2015* 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 CASH FLOW EARNINGS PER SHARE 250 13.7 12 200 10.59 10 152.5 EUR million 7.93 Euro cents 150 8 126.6 6 100 80.5 4 50 2 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Operating cash flow Free cash flow Earnings per share INVESTORS 57 Marel – Annual Report 2017 MILESTONE A listed company for 25 years Listed on NASDAQ Iceland for over 25 years, Marel has created excellent value for its shareholders since the company went public in 1992. To mark its quarter century on the market, a Marel employee of 25 years, together with a 25-year-old Marel employee, symbolically rang the exchange bell. The listing in 1992 marked a significant milestone in Marel’s progress from a startup to its situation today as a leading global provider of advanced processing systems and services to the poultry, meat and fish industries. At year-end 2017, Marel had 5,400 employees working in over 30 countries and EUR 1 billion in revenues, a stark contrast to its 45 employees and revenues of EUR 6 million in 1992. With the continued support of our shareholders, Marel is well positioned to continue that exemplary progress in the years to come. STRONG CLOSE TO A GREAT YEAR Orders received were at an all-time high The order book stood at EUR 472 million at year-end, or close Marel is reaping the benefits of a steady flow of innovative to 45% of trailing twelve month revenues. This figure includes products with standard building blocks and a full-line offering. EUR 17 million from the acquired order book of Sulmaq. Orders received in 2017 were EUR 1,144 million this past Greenfields and projects with long lead times constitute the year, up 13% compared to EUR 1,013 million in 2016. Projects vast majority of these orders. were well distributed geographically and between different divisions. INVESTORS 58 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Production load was effectively managed The recently implemented co-location product strategy has Marel Fish enabled better production management of equipment load Marel Fish accounted for 13% of Marel’s total revenues in 2017. fluctuations. In order to deliver the right quality at the right Marel Fish generated EUR 132 million in revenues and EUR 6 time, production was ramped up and more focus placed on million in EBIT (4.2% EBIT margin) for the full year 2017. This is Sales and Operational Planning (S&OP) internally. Outsourca 4.1% increase in revenues and a 43.6% increase from the EBIT ing was a key success factor in improved management of the of EUR 4 million in 2016 (3.1% EBIT margin). Marel Fish has alproduction load. Our recently extended Nitra facility (Slovakia) most reached the same level of revenues it had before disconwill also contribute to further improvements in production tinuing its onboard customized solutions in Seattle that conload management going forward. tributed approximately a third of total fish revenues in 2015. The focus going forward for Marel Fish is on full line offering Solid earnings growth and healthy profit for wild whitefish, farmed salmon and farmed whitefish. margin We continue to deliver strong earnings growth with a healthy Strong cash flow enables substantial investments in innovaprofit margin of approximately 15% adjusted EBIT for eight tion and future platform quarters in a row. The fourth quarter of 2017 was one of the Cash flow was exceptionally good in 2017, where free cash best ever for Marel, mainly due to the ramp up of production flow amounted to EUR 153 million in 2017. Marel continues to capacity in poultry. Revenues in 2017 were EUR 1,038 million invest in the business to prepare for future growth and reach with an adjusted EBIT of EUR 157 million or 15.2% adjusted its full potential. Investment activities are expected to be, on EBIT margin. By comparison, pro forma revenues in 2016 were average, above normalized levels for the coming period. EUR 983 million with an adjusted EBIT of EUR 143 million or 14.6% adjusted EBIT margin. All industry segments delivered Net interest-bearing debt decreased by EUR 39 million in 2017, higher revenues in 2017 compared to the previous year. despite the fact that Marel acquired Sulmaq for an amount equal to the enterprise value of EUR 26 million and purchased Marel Poultry EUR 63.4 million worth of treasury shares. Of the treasury Marel Poultry accounted for 54% of Marel’s total revenues in shares bought, EUR 6.8 million were intended to fulfill obliga2017. Marel Poultry generated EUR 560 million in revenues tions of stock option agreements and the remainder to faciliand EUR 110 million in EBIT (19.5% EBIT margin) for the full tate future acquisitions. Net debt/EBITDA was x1.9 at year-end year 2017. This is a 9% increase in revenues and 28% increase 2017, compared to x2.2 at year-end 2016, fully in line with the from the EBIT of EUR 85 million in 2016 (16.6% EBIT margin). targeted capital structure of x2-3 net debt/EBITDA. Facilitated by good flexibility in the supply chain organization, orders recognized as revenues were at the highest level ever The net result in 2017 was EUR 97 million, up 28% compared in Poultry. to EUR 76 million in 2016, rendering EPS of EUR 13.70 cents (2016: EUR 10.59 cents). The Board of Directors has proposed Marel is reaping the benefits of a steady flow of innovative a dividend of EUR 4.19 cents per share for the operating year products with standard blocks and full line offering. 2017, the equivalent of approximately 30% of 2017 net results. Marel Meat In Q2 2017, Marel secured an extension of and amendments Marel Meat accounted for 32% of Marel’s total revenues in to its long-term financing on favorable terms and conditions, 2017. Marel Meat generated EUR 334 million in revenues and reflecting its financial strength and the current market condiEUR 39 million in EBIT (11.5% EBIT margin) for the full year tions. The all-senior loan facilities total approximately EUR 640 2017. Revenues were on par with pro forma 2016, with EBIT million with initial interest terms EURIBOR/LIBOR +185 bps that of EUR 52 million (15.6% EBIT margin). Marel strengthened its will vary in line with Marel’s leverage ratio (Net debt/EBITDA) position in South America with the acquisition of Brazilian priat the end of each quarter. The final maturity is in May 2022. mary meat processor Sulmaq in 2017. This provides Marel with increased strategic and operational flexibility to support the ambitious growth plan introduced at The focus going forward for Marel Meat will be on increased Marel’s Annual General Meeting in March 2017. standardization and modularization. INVESTORS 59 Marel – Annual Report 2017 INVESTORS 60 Marel hf. – Annual Report 2017 INVESTORS 61 Marel – Annual Report 2017 INVESTOR RELATIONS Marel is committed to providing stakeholders with comprehensive information on the company and its operations. Equal access to timely and accurate information disclosure, within the bounds of commercial sensitivity, is key to building a relationship of mutual trust with current shareholders and potential investors. Sources of investor information Marel aims to meet the highest standards in its investor Annual report relations by continuously improving the quality, transparency The annual report gives a comprehensive overview of Marel’s and consistency of its information disclosure. Investors can operations, plus a detailed description of the company’s follow annual and quarterly results presentations broadcast performance each year. The report is available in English and live over the Internet, in addition to having access to archived easily accessible online on a computer, tablet or mobile phone financial reporting, webcasts and other relevant investor at marel.com/annualreport. material at marel.com/ir. Financial reports Detailed quarterly and annual financial reporting and analysis, including comments on the progress of Marel’s operations, are available on the IR website. Upon the close of each financial quarter, senior management presents Marel’s results in English for analysts and investors. Following the live Internet webcast a recording is archived and available online in accordance with the requirements of NASDAQ Iceland. INVESTOR RELATIONS Capital Markets Day Marel held its first Capital Markets Day in Copenhagen on November 2, 2017. Over 110 investors and analysts attended the event, which was a great success. Members of Marel’s executive management team gave comprehensive presentations on the company’s business outlook, strategy, development and operations, as well as on future trends in the dynamic and growing food processing industry. INVESTORS 62 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Website The investor relations site at www.marel.com/IR provides Archived financial information available in Icelandic and extensive news and background information on Marel for English includes regulatory announcements, corporate events both analysts and investors. and equity information, share price data, shareholder lists, dividend policy and the financial calendar. MAREL'S LONG TERM SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 350 300 Share price index 250 200 150 100 50 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ISK Indexed EUR Indexed NASDAQ Iceland Marel has been listed on the Icelandic stock exchange NASDAQ Iceland since 1992 and all of its regulatory announcements can be found at www.nasdaqomxnordic.com. Tickers Information on Marel is on Bloomberg and Reuters under the MARL.IC tickers MARL1:PZ and MARL.IC respectively. Investor relations Contact us For further information, please contact Tinna Molphy by MARL1:PZ emailing investor@marel.com or by telephone +354 563 8603. INVESTORS 63 Marel – Annual Report 2017 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 64 Marel – Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Marel’s Board of Directors and Executive Team approved a corporate social responsibility guidance policy for the company in 2016. The policy, which implements the ISO 2600 standards, is now in effect. We are reporting on the company’s activities under the new corporate social responsibility policy for the second time. Marel does not operate as a business in isolation but is part of a larger society in which we have responsibilities, duties and rights. Our approach is to go beyond simply complying with laws and regulations. We look at our contribution to society as a whole and how we can add value where we operate. Turning words into action, we are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. In 2017, we were also part of the NASDAQ Sustainable Markets Initiative for the first time and are following the NASDAQ ESG reporting guidelines. In line with our corporate social responsibility guidelines, we continuously monitor how our operations and the systems and solutions we provide affect society, economies and the environment. Our relationship with the societies we operate in is symbiotic. We take responsibility for our actions and encourage our suppliers, agents, employees and customers to do the same. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 65 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Marel CSR guidance policy Social responsibility Social responsibility is a priority in our corporate culture. on creating new methods that minimize environmental We are dedicated to providing a safe and healthy working impact such as CO2 emissions and make the most efficient use environment with equal opportunities for all of our employees. of resources including raw materials, water and energy. When we engage with local communities, the focus is on innovation and education. Our employees have the right to Economic responsibility freedom of association and we have a zero tolerance policy Our goal is to generate value for our partners and shareholders towards human rights violations and illegal labor conditions. through fair trade practices. We seek to promote long-term profitability and good business practices along our entire Environmental responsibility value chain. Continuous improvements are made to make sure Together with our customers and suppliers, we strive to we are compliant with international law, anti-corruption rules increase yields and minimize waste in food production while and compliance regulations. We believe that all parties must promoting food safety, traceability, quality and animal welfare. contribute fairly towards the societies in which they operate. Sustainability is a key goal in our innovation process. We focus NASDAQ sustainable markets initiative In 2017, Marel participated in the NASDAQ Sustainable Markets Initiative for the first time and is following the NASDAQ ESG reporting guidelines. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 66 Marel – Annual Report 2017 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 67 Marel – Annual Report 2017 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Marel, our objective is to develop food processing solutions to help feed the needs of a growing world more safely and efficiently while minimizing the environmental impact. To meet these objectives, we need to act responsibly towards society, our employees, our customers and their social environment. Making Social Responsibility a priority of our corporate culture means we are dedicated to providing a safe and healthy working environment with equal opportunities for all of our employees. We feel it is important to foster individual and team development and to ensure the right of freedom of association for all of our employees. One aspect of our Social Responsibility is to engage with business, it helps spur innovation and education among our the local communities and stakeholders where we operate labor force. Naturally, human rights violations, including any to seek local participation and insights. We are investing in forced labor, under-age labor or illegal labor conditions, are these locations for the long term. This is not only good for our not tolerated under any circumstances. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 68 Marel – Annual Report 2017 MAREL EMPLOYEES MAREL EMPLOYEES AVERAGE NUMBER PER YEAR AVERAGE NUMBER PER YEAR 4,912 5,000 4,599 3,886 Number of employees 4,000 Netherlands 23% 29% U.S. 3,000 Iceland 2,000 Brazil 11% Denmark 1,000 13% Other countries 11% 0 13% 2015 2016 2017 Year-end 2017 Employees Human resources Our Human Resources mission is to engage competent We believe this will not only help our employees maintain a employees and to provide them with a supportive and creative and stimulating work environment but also foster ambitious work environment that motivates and encourages innovation and employee satisfaction that will benefit our them to make Marel’s vision their own. To do this, we provide company in the long run. excellent training and opportunities for further education and job development. We work hard to promote a spirit of teamwork In order to deal with seasonal fluctuations in order processing and co-operation throughout the whole organization. and other variances in project load Marel employs a number of temporary workers. In 2017 the ratio for full time temporary We recognize the value of cultural diversity, while at the same workers was 16.2% of the total workforce. time encouraging and strengthening our values of unity, innovation and excellence. A policy of open communication, as well as promoting a culture that seeks a healthy balance between work and personal life is important to us and we believe it is no less valuable for our employees. Social responsibility Career development and training in Brazil In Brazil, Marel has earned a reputation as a sought-after employer because of the training and career development opportunities that we offer. These opportunities are our way of showing our staff that we truly value their efforts and that we care about their well-being. We have created an environment that encourages staff to develop new knowledge, competences and abilities by offering English courses, technical specialization, business training at university level, open coffees with the management team, leadership and mentoring programs and teamwork training – to name just a few opportunities. In 2017, we held eight internal training sessions and one equipment demonstration and four field technicians completed a mentoring program. Marel also emphasizes cooperation with local educational bodies and has created a range of traineeships, internships and apprentice part-time programs that have resulted in the recruitment of many of our full-time employees. Last year we hired 12 interns and three apprentices through such programs. Marel takes its people and their career advancement seriously. We believe that an individual grows when in charge of their own career path and professional development. Therefore, we give them that opportunity. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 69 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Safety, health and environment against on the grounds of their gender, beliefs, nationality, Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all our race, sexual orientation, religion, color, personal finances, famemployees and contractors working in Marel facilities is the ily, age or on any other grounds. right thing to do and we take pride in doing it well. Safety, health and the environment concern everybody and we do We believe this policy will help make Marel a more desirable our utmost to make sure our employees have the necessary and responsible workplace that will, in turn, attract and keep competence, tools and instructions to perform their work prothe most qualified employees. Our global diversity policy apfessionally and safely. plies to all Marel employees and governance bodies, including the Board of Directors, its sub-committees and the Executive Every Marel employee is also accountable for his or her own Team. safety. Local management of all Marel entities are responsible for assuring that processes and procedures are established The diversity policy rests on the four following pillars, each within their entity that comply with Marel’s safety, health and equally important: environment policy and local laws. 1. Ensuring equal opportunity A Marel Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Support Team 2. Promoting a company culture of tolerance and integration monitors compliance with the Marel SHE Policy and facilitates 3. Acting strong and decisively against any bullying, violence the process for improvement. or harassment 4. Increasing the visibility of Marel Diversity A global diversity policy was adopted by the Board of Directors The data and statistics on diversity that we collect are systemin 2017 and will be implemented from 2018 onwards. Its obatically evaluated to ensure successful implementation of the jective is to ensure equality and diversity within Marel as well policy. The results will be presented in a clear and organized as increasing job satisfaction and well-being in the workplace. manner and used to help management understand where we We aim to make sure that employees are not discriminated need to improve and where we are performing well in terms of diversity. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 70 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Forced labor and under-age workers Engagement with local communities We have a zero-tolerance policy at Marel where human rights Our main involvement in local communities occurs through violations are concerned, including child labor and/or illegal our operations in the countries where we work. We focus labor conditions. All our employees must have reached the mainly on educational outreach in collaboration with local legal working age in the country where they work. None of educational institutions and through continuing education our facilities are allowed to be associated with illegal labor of our own employees. Many of our production facilities have conditions or forced labor. In 2017, we required all new internship and trainee programs to assist talented young suppliers to comply with the same standards as Marel does on professionals entering the workforce in developing their skills issues related to human rights and labor, as described in our in a professional and safe environment. Code of Conduct. Another aspect of engaging with local communities is No human rights violations were reported in 2017. our commitment to fast-track economic development in underdeveloped countries. By introducing new food Freedom of association processing technologies to these locales, we have immediate We are committed to respecting all employees’ freedom and radical effects on production capabilities, worker safety of association and right to collective bargaining without and food traceability. One of the main growth sectors for us discrimination, as established in the Freedom of Association is the creation of shared value through partnerships in new and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention (C. 87), and markets. We intend to deliver market-altering solutions that the Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining Convention increase both general well-being and economic progress in all (C.98). We ensure that these rights can be exercised by all the markets where we operate. our employees and those of our business partners directly associated with Marel’s services, products and operations. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 71 Marel – Annual Report 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Throughout our value chain we encourage and promote the most efficient use of resources to minimize environmental impact and prioritize environmental protection. Innovation is at the core of this strategy. We continuously focus on creating new methods for improving yields and minimizing waste in food production by reducing the use of scarce resources such as energy and water while promoting food safety, traceability and animal welfare. One of our sustainability goals is to help our customers use less In 2017 we added a Sustainability Scorecard to the product water and energy while minimizing their CO2 footprint during development process, which encourages inclusion of production. A number of projects have been implemented sustainable features from the beginning of the product to support precautionary approaches to environmental development process. challenges. We have undertaken initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility along our entire value chain. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 72 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Energy Projects that we have instituted to minimize energy consumption at Marel include installing car charging points for employees and visitors who own electric cars, replacing regular light bulbs with LED lighting where feasible and undertaking a number of local projects prioritizing energy efficiency. We are also constantly upgrading our own manufacturing equipment to increase its energy efficiency along with other capabilities. Our primary energy sources are natural gas and renewables with almost 47% of all electricity consumed by Marel produced by burning natural gas and 40% obtained from renewables. Environmental responsibility Promoting sustainable use of water One example of how we work to protect the environment and promote sustainability is our water treatment systems, which are designed to ensure the most efficient use of water. These include systems that treat waste water so that it can be re-used in food processing operations. Food processing requires significant amounts of water, both for the processing itself as well as for other functions. It inevitably produces large quantities of waste water. We have developed expertise in the treatment of such waste water through more than five decades of partnership with our customers. “A PLANT PROCESSING 650 PIGS PER HOUR OVER 16 HOURS (TWO EIGHT-HOUR SHIFTS) CONSUMES ON AVERAGE 2600 M³ OF WATER PER DAY ” A solution to fit every customer Marel’s Curieau® water treatment system is just one example of many systems we have designed for different specific water treatment purposes. Curieau® has been developed as a production or re-use system using biologically pre-treated waste water. The processed water can be used for cooling towers, truck and crate washing and other secondary systems with no direct contact with end products. As clean water becomes an increasingly scarce and valuable resource, being able to treat waste water so that it can be re-used in processing operations, as is done with the Curieau® system, rather than simply discharging it is one way we promote environmental sustainability. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 73 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Carbon emissions Despite our efforts to continually minimize our environmental footprint, overall carbon emissions have risen simply due to the fact that the company continues to expand. The two largest indirect contributors to our carbon footprint are energy consumption in Marel facilities and employee air travel. In order to better understand the indirect carbon footprint of the energy we consume in our facilities, all locations now report on the generation source of energy used to produce the electricity used in our facilities. This data is then processed by our collaborators from Circular Because Marel’s company network spans the globe, air travel Solutions who verify our carbon footprint. by Marel employees has a negative impact on the environment. As carbon emissions from the aviation industry are considered • Scope 1 emissions are very limited because no Stationary a leading contributor to global warming, we feel it is important Combustion occurs in facilities controlled by Marel and to understand our role and what we can do about it. Mobile Combustion is limited to only 150 vehicles. Scope 1 is therefore not measured. In 2016, we established a new travel platform to monitor • Scope 2 emissions data are solely from the electricity and the environmental impact caused by employee travel. By heating used in our offices and manufacturing facilities. collecting and visualizing this data we have already made • Scope 3 emissions are mainly the result of employee air improvements and identified possibilities for reducing our travel. Logistics are not included. carbon footprint when it comes to employee travel. In order to understand and minimize our indirect carbon Through our travel policy, we will strive to continuously lower footprint, all of our larger facilities are installing an energy our carbon footprint by actively encouraging employees to monitoring system from eTactica. Locations undergoing use alternative means of meeting and communicating with renovations are also installing solar cells on their roofs to each other and our customers. generate locally some of the energy consumed on site. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 74 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Total carbon emissions Animal welfare As yet, Marel lacks a complete overview of the organization’s Our commitment toward social responsibility extends total carbon emissions. We will nevertheless continue our beyond our employees and customers. Because we are in work on measuring our footprint and improve wherever the food processing business, animal welfare is high on we can our understanding of the company’s impact on the our agenda particularly for research and development. environment and efforts in response. In 2017, a sustainability scorecard was introduced as part of the company’s innovation process, where a number of Marel is currently not participating in carbon offsetting sustainability indicators play a role in deciding the feasibility programs or green energy certification. We will continue of taking projects into further development. By highlighting to increase the prevalence of renewable energy used by animal welfare in the sustainability scorecard we are ensuring procuring cleaner energy wherever possible as well as environmental and economic responsibility in the most crucial improving efficiency in our production processes, employee stages of the lifecycle of the product. By instituting good travel and other operations. animal welfare practices in general, we can increase the quality of products and production while simultaneously reducing the carbon footprint of food processors using Marel solutions. Over the years, we have introduced a number of innovative solutions that take animal welfare into greater consideration. These include: • CAS SmoothFlow stunner • ATLAS system • CO2 Stunning • Live Pig Handling Throughout the food processing industry, it has become mandatory for companies to follow guidelines of social responsibility and sustainability in their operations and to consider the effects they have on people, the planet and profits. We are determined to stay ahead of the general market trends and continue our focus on developing solutions that respect the highest standards of animal welfare. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 75 Marel – Annual Report 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Throughout our company we promote good business practices along our value chain through transparency, innovation and collaboration with all our partners. Long-term profitability and fair trade are vital aspects of how we want to conduct our business. Continuous improvements are made to make sure that we, our partners, customers and suppliers are compliant with international law, anti-corruption rules and compliance regulations. We believe that all parties must contribute fairly towards the societies in which they operate. Economic value generated We operate a global network of sales and service units and The contributions we make to the societies in which we operproduce a range of products that are manufactured in the ate consist of many different elements, including salaries paid Netherlands, the United States of America, Iceland, Denmark, to employees and goods and services purchased from local England and Slovakia. suppliers. The economic value generated by our operations in 2017 Salaries paid during the year, excluding related expenses, amounted to EUR 1038.2 million, consisting of sales and gains amounted to EUR 306.2 million, or 29.5% of the economic valon sales of assets. Furthermore, we directly employed an averue generated. age of 4,912 full-time employees in 2017. 2016 537 284 21 52 76 2017 560 306 13 62 97 Profit Tax and pension payments Interest on borrowings Salaries Operating expenses RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 76 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Tax footprint Taxes paid by Marel in 2017 amounted to EUR 59.7 million Total taxes and duties collected in 2017 amounted to EUR (2016: 52.2 million) or 5.7% of the economic value generated. 77.2 million (2016: 72.7 million). Employment taxes represented 46% of the levies during the In 2017, the total tax footprint amounted to EUR 136.9 period and 38% are corporate income taxes. In addition to the million (2016: 124.9 million). direct taxes, Marel collects and pays various taxes and duties on behalf of governments. 100 50 0 Borne Collected Tax footprint Employment taxes borne by employees Employment taxes borne by employer Total corporate taxes Taxes and duties on import (excl. VAT) Other expenses, net Economic responsibility New thigh filleting system adds value Improving quality, yield and throughput for our customers is one of our top priorities when developing new equipment and solutions. The Marel Poultry thigh filleting solution provides our customers with the opportunity to maximize the value of a leg by increasing yield per broiler, resulting in higher volumes and retail quality end-products from thigh fillets. The filleting solution also creates a new high-value product from the kneecap, a by-product in some markets but an in-demand delicacy in others. Increasing yield and creating new end-products The thigh filleting solution is a high-speed, fully in-line process for deboning legs and can process up to 14,400 thighs per hour, an unrivalled speed and volume in the industry. These volumes will allow the thigh meat market to grow and develop further. The new solution uses a well defined combination of deboning technologies, enabling proccesors to harvest retail quality thigh meat that can be sold as fillets. For maximum yield, meat is scraped off the kneecap and attached to the fillet, leaving the kneecap intact to be harvested separately. With competitors’ equipment, the kneecap remains attached to other parts of the leg or is cut and damaged, affording poultry processors a more limited variety of possible products and lower quality. Another advantage of the system is the reduced need for manual labor as well as low bone content, minimizing the amount of rework needed and increasing levels of food safety. All of which makes the entire process more efficient and cost-effective. Combined with various automated, high-speed slicing solutions, our efficient thigh filleting system offers very profitable product opportunities for our customers. They can now create a wider range of high quality, high-yield and in-demand poultry products, that have a positive impact on their bottom line. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 77 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Innovation Anti-bribery Innovation is the creation and delivery of new customer value Anti-corruption in the marketplace. In our experience, new innovations most We know that our company’s reputation is crucial to our often originate from the partnerships between customers and success. Therefore, compliance with global anti-bribery and our employees with the collaborative aim of solving problems anti-corruption laws and regulations is taken very seriously. and improving processing in a new way. The anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy adopted in January 2017 reinforces our commitment. It applies to all employees, We invested over EUR 58 million, or around 6% of revenues, in officers and directors as well as any contractors, consultants, creating and delivering new value for our customers through agents and other business partners engaged in business on innovation in 2017. These innovative efforts represent a full behalf of Marel. range: from breakthrough improvements in our products, to design upgrades and incremental additions to existing As an international company, we adhere to the anti-bribery machines and systems. By working closely with our customers and anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which we and employees we are making lasting equipment that stays operate around the world. competitive and meets the diverse needs of our customers. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES 1000 1,038.2 10% 969.7 818.6 800 8% EUR million 600 6% 400 4% 200 2% 0 0% 2015 2016 2017 Revenues R&D expenses as % of revenue RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 78 Marel – Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Icelandic law and the company’s corporate governance on the identification, description and handling of the business framework determine the duties of the various bodies within risks to which the company may be exposed. Material risks are the company. They define and dictate how the company is discussed in the Consolidated Financial Statements 2017. directed and controlled – including the interaction between the CEO, who is responsible for day-to-day management, Internal audit and control the Board of Directors, shareholders, regulators and other The company’s risk management and internal controls for stakeholders. financial processes are designed to minimize effectively the risk of material misstatements in financial reporting. Marel hf. (also referred to as the “company”) is committed to The company’s internal auditor reports to the Board’s Audit the general principles of good corporate governance. In 2015, Committee and plays a key role in internal control. Marel launched an external audit of its corporate governance structure and procedures, followed by a certification of the External audit same. In January 2016, the company received recognition An independent auditing firm is elected at the Annual General as “Exemplary in Corporate Governance” from the Center for Meeting (AGM) for a term of one year. The external auditors Corporate Governance at the University of Iceland. examine the company’s annual accounts in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and for this purpose 1. Corporate governance framework and inspect its accounting records and other material relating compliance to the operation and financial position of the company. The Marel’s corporate governance consists of a framework of external auditors report any significant findings regarding principles and rules, including its Articles of Association and accounting matters and any significant internal control the Guidelines on Corporate Governance issued in June 2015 deficiencies via the Audit Committee to the Board of Directors. by the Iceland Chamber of Commerce, NASDAQ Iceland and the Confederation of Icelandic Employers, accessible on the KPMG ehf. was elected as the company’s auditor at the website of Iceland’s Chamber of Commerce. company’s AGM held on 2 March 2017. Auditors on KPMG’s behalf are Sæmundur Valdimarsson and Hrafnhildur In general, the company is in compliance with the Guidelines Helgadottir, both Certified Public Accountants (CPAs). They on Corporate Governance, with the following exception: have audited and endorsed without reservation Marel’s consolidated financial statements for the year 2017. The company does not have a Nomination Committee. Marel’s Board of Directors regularly evaluates its work, composition 3. The company’s values, code of conduct and directors’ independence to ensure the members of the and social responsibility policy Board jointly possess the relevant knowledge, experience and skills to perform the Board’s tasks and responsibilities in the Values company’s best interest. The Board initiates discussions with Marel‘s company values are shared ideals and standards, the company’s largest shareholders on Board composition and providing direction in its everyday operations. The company’s long-term succession planning. employees took part in defining the values, which are: Unity, Excellence and Innovation. These values are continuously 2. Main aspects of internal controls and the promoted in daily operations. company’s risk management in connection with preparation of financial statements Corporate social responsibility (CSR) and diversity The CEO is responsible for ensuring sufficient internal control Marel’s CSR guidelines were approved by the Board of Directors and risk management in connection with financial reporting. and Marel’s Executive team in 2016. The Board of Directors has an ongoing dialogue with the CEO Further information on CSR and diversity policies are provided in the chapter on CSR in Marel’s Annual Report. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 79 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Code of conduct Regular board meetings are held with management over the The Board of Directors of Marel approved a Code of Conduct course of the year, including quarterly meetings coinciding with global application in October 2012, which was revised in with publication of financial results, two off-site strategy July 2016. It is closely linked to Marel’s company values and sessions and an operational planning meeting for the rests on four pillars, i.e. employees’ (including officers’ and coming year. On-site visits to company locations as well as directors’) commitment to: (i) each other; (ii) customers and the to customers are conducted each year. In addition, the Board marketplace; (iii) shareholders, and (iv) partners, communities of Directors meets at least once a year without management and the environment. to structure its own agenda and conduct a self-assessment. Additional meetings are convened as needed. All matters dealt 4. Composition and activities of the board of with at Board meetings are decided by majority vote, provided directors, its sub-committees, the CEO and that the meeting has been lawfully convened. In the event Executive Team of a tie vote, the Chairman casts the deciding vote. However, The company has a two-tier management structure consisting important decisions are not taken unless all members of the of the Board of Directors and Executive Team, led by the Chief Board have been given an opportunity to discuss the matter. Executive Officer. The two bodies are separate and no person serves as a member of both. The Board of Directors convened 12 times in 2017, with a weighted average attendance of 98%. Board of directors The company’s Board of Directors is the supreme authority in The Board of Directors has assessed which Board members the affairs of the company between shareholders’ meetings. are independent according to the Guidelines on Corporate It is elected by shareholders at the AGM for a one-year term Governance. All seven Board members, Ann Elizabeth and operates in accordance with applicable Icelandic laws Savage, Arnar Thor Masson, Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir, and regulations, the company’s Articles of Association and Helgi Magnusson, Margret Jonsdottir, Astvaldur Johannsson the Board‘s Rules of Procedure. The Board currently comprises and Olafur S. Gudmundsson, are considered independent seven Board members who were elected at the company’s of the company. Furthermore, five of the Board members, AGM on 2 March 2017. Ann Elizabeth Savage, Arnar Thor Masson, Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir, Helgi Magnusson and Astvaldur Johannsson, are The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s considered independent of the company’s major shareholders. organization, for promoting the development of its long-term performance and ensuring proper conduct of its operation Once a year, the Board of Directors evaluates the work, at all times. The Board decides all matters regarded as results, size and composition of the Board and the Board’s extraordinary or of major consequence in accordance with the sub-committees. In 2017, the Board engaged an external statutory division of responsibilities between the Board, CEO advisor to facilitate the evaluation, which included a thorough and executive team. The Board sets targets for the company anonymous questionnaire, a peer assessment and one-onreflecting its objectives and formulates strategic policy to one interviews with both members of the Board and senior achieve these goals. management. Furthermore, the Board evaluates the work and results of the CEO according to previously established criteria, including whether the CEO has prepared and carried out a business strategy consistent with the company’s established goals. The Board discusses the results of the assessment and decides on any actions to be taken. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 80 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Sub-committees The Board’s work is supported by its sub-committees, the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee. Subcommittee members are appointed by the Board of Directors for a term of one year, in accordance with the rules set for each sub-committee by the Board. Remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee is composed of three Board members unless the Board decides otherwise. The majority of the Remuneration Committee shall be independent of the company and possess the knowledge and expertise needed to 1 perform the Committee’s tasks. The Remuneration Committee is intended to assist the Board in ensuring that compensation arrangements support the strategic aims of the company and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of senior executives while also complying with legal and regulatory requirements. The Committee is responsible for ensuring that 1 the performance of the Board and CEO is evaluated annually and that succession planning is conducted. The current Board decided to appoint four members to the Remuneration Committee as of March 2017: Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir (Chair), Ann Elizabeth Savage, Arnar Thor Masson and Olafur S. Gudmundsson. The Remuneration Committee met 5 times in 2017. All meetings were fully attended. Audit committee The Audit Committee is composed of three or four Board members unless the Board decides otherwise. The majority of the Audit Committee shall be independent of the company and its external auditors and at least one member shall be 1 independent of shareholders holding 10% or more of the company’s total share capital. Members of the Audit Committee must possess the knowledge and expertise needed to perform its tasks. At least one member needs to have solid knowledge and experience of financial statements or auditing. Its work includes monitoring Marel’s financial status and evaluating 1 the company’s internal monitoring and risk management systems, management reporting on finances, whether laws and regulations are followed and the work of the company’s internal and statutory auditors. Members of the Audit Committee since March 2017 are Arnar Thor Masson (Chairman), Astvaldur Johannsson, Margret Jonsdottir and Helgi Magnusson. All members are independent of the company and its auditors, Arnar, Astvaldur and Helgi are independent of large shareholders. The Audit Committee convened 6 times in 2017. All meetings were fully attended. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 81 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Chief Executive Officer Arni Oddur Thordarson assumed the position of CEO of Marel II. The CEO is responsible for the work and results of the in November 2013. He has extensive international business Executive Team. experience within the industrial sector. Thordarson has served on the Board of Directors of Marel since 2005, for most of that III. The CEO shall act as Chairman of the Board in the time as Chairman. He has an MBA degree from IMD Business company’s material subsidiaries which are connected with School in Switzerland and a Cand. Oecon. degree in Business the sales and manufacturing activities and/or the core Administration from the University of Iceland. activities of the company, unless the Board decides otherwise. Thordarson is an Icelandic citizen, born in 1969. Thordarson and related parties hold 131,869 shares in Marel. He is a maIV. The CEO shall ensure that the accounts of the company jor shareholder of Eyrir Invest, which on 7 February 2017 held conform to law and accepted practices and that the treat 190,366,838 shares in Marel hf. (25.88% of total issued shares). ment of company assets is secure. The CEO shall provide any information that may be requested by the company’s I. The CEO is responsible for daily operations and is obliged Auditors. to follow the Board’s policy and instructions in that regard. The daily operations do not include measures which are un At least once a year the CEO shall evaluate the work and results usual or extraordinary. The CEO may only take such of the Executive Team, for which he is responsible, according measures if specifically authorized by the Board or unless it to previously established criteria. The CEO shall discuss the impossible to wait for the Board’s decision without results of the assessment with each member of the Executive substantial disadvantage to the company’s operations. In Team and decide on any actions to be taken. such an event, the CEO shall inform the Board of his/her actions, without delay. At least once a year, the Chairman and the CEO hold a meeting to discuss the results of the Board’s assessment of the CEO’s work and performance and any proposed actions in response. The CEO reviews with the Chairman the results of his/her evaluation of the Executive Team and what actions may be needed, if any. The Chairman reports to the Board of Directors on discussions with the CEO as he/she deems necessary and appropriate. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 82 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Upper left: Jesper Hjortshoj, David Freyr Oddsson, Vidar Erlingsson, Arni Sigurdsson, Linda Jonsdottir and Petur Gudjonsson. Lower left: Sigurdur Olason, David Wilson, Arni Oddur Thordarson, Folkert Bölger and Anton de Weerd. Executive Team 5. Communication between shareholders The company’s Executive Team is composed of eleven members: and the Board of Directors Shareholders’ meetings, within the limits established by the Executive company’s Articles of Association and statutory law, are the Arni Oddur Thordarson, Chief Executive Officer supreme authority in Marel’s affairs as well as the primary Linda Jonsdottir, Chief Financial Officer means of communication between shareholders and the Arni Sigurdsson, EVP Strategy and Corporate Development Board of Directors. The AGM is held each year before the end of August and other shareholders’ meetings are convened when necessary. The AGM is advertised publicly with at Business units least three weeks’ notice in accordance with Icelandic law. Anton de Weerd, Managing Director (EVP) of Poultry David Wilson, Managing Director (EVP) of Meat The Chairman is the Board’s authorized spokesperson. The Sigurdur Olason, Managing Director (EVP) of Fish Board of Directors does not engage in communication Jesper Hjortshøj, Managing Director (EVP) of Further Processing regarding details of the company’s operational matters and financial results, which is the responsibility of authorized Operations members of management. Petur Gudjonsson, EVP Commercial Folkert Bölger, EVP Supply Chain The Chairman communicates with the company’s Vidar Erlingsson, EVP Innovation largest shareholders on an annual basis with the David Freyr Oddsson, EVP Human Resources objective of exchanging view on matters related to corporate governance, as well as establishing trust and understanding. All communication with shareholders is governed by rules and regulations on price-sensitive and non-public information (insider information) and on other sensitive business information which could compromise the company’s competitive position. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 83 Marel – Annual Report 2017 From left: Asthildur Otharsdottir, Astvaldur Johannsson, Ann Savage, Arnar Masson, Olafur S. Gudmundsson, Margret Jonsdottir and Helgi Magnusson. Chairman of the Board Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir is an independent consultant and a board member of several companies. She has extensive business experience. She served as the Director of Treasury and Corporate Development at Össur hf. and as a Senior Account Manager at Kaupthing Bank (now Arion Bank), as well as a consultant at Accenture in Copenhagen. She is the Chairman of the Board of the investment fund Frumtak Ventures and a member of the Board of Directors of Icelandair Group. Otharsdottir is on the board of the University of Iceland and the Court of Arbitration at the Icelandic Chamber of Commerce. Education MBA, Rotterdam School of Management, The Netherlands, 1996. Cand. Oecon., University of Iceland, 1992. Elected 2013 Chairman of the Board. 2010 Board member. Holdings in Marel 32,000 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 84 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Vice-chairman of the Board Arnar Thor Masson Arnar Thor Masson is currently the Alternate Director at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London and serves as the Chairman of Marel’s Audit Committee. He has extensive experience in re-organization, strategy and project management. He served as Director General of the Department of Administrative Development at the Prime Minister’s Office in Iceland and Deputy Director General of the Financial Management Department at the Ministry of Finance. Masson held an adjunct lecturer position at the Department of Political Science of the University of Iceland from 2000 till 2008. Education MS, Comparative Politics, London School of Economics and Political Science, 1997. BA , Political Science, University of Iceland, 1996. Studied securities brokerage in 2007. High Performance Boards, executive course for supervisory board members and chairpersons, IMD Business School, 2014. Elected 2013 Vice-chairman 2001 Board member Holdings in Marel 0 Board director Olafur S. Gudmundsson Dr. Olafur S. Gudmundsson is the Head of Discovery, Pharmaceutics at Bristol-Myers Squibb, a global biopharma company. He has previously held various senior level management positions within R&D in the pharmaceutical industry, both for Bristol-Myers Squibb and Genentech Inc. He is also associated with the Pharmaceutical Chemistry department at Purdue University. Education PhD, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of Kansas. Cand. pharm., Pharmacy, University of Iceland. Elected 2014 Holdings in Marel 1,705,427 Board director Astvaldur Johannsson Astvaldur Johannsson has extensive international business experience, having served in various senior management positions at Össur hf., a global non-invasive orthopedics corporation, and as the Executive Director of the International Division of Valitor hf., an e-commerce payment solutions and services provider. He held a director membership of the executive team at Nyherji hf., an IT company, as well as being Managing Director of Penninn, an office and business supply chain. Johannsson has extensive experience as a system analyst expert within the IT sector, focusing on process design, development and leading projects in the field. Education MBA, University of Iceland. BS, Management Information Systems, Heriot-Watt University. Elected 2014 Holdings in Marel 0 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 85 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Board director Margret Jonsdottir Margret Jonsdottir is the Managing Director of Operations for Eyrir Invest hf. Previously, she was the Director of Finance at Edda Publishing. She also worked as the Director of Finance at Kreditkort/ MasterCard and the Manager of Accounts at FBA Investment Bank. Prior to that, she spent a decade as the Director of Finance at the Industrial Loan Fund (the FBA Investment Bank’s predecessor). Education MS, Accounting and Auditing, University of Iceland. Cand. oecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland. Elected 2006 Holdings in Marel 195,113 Board director Helgi Magnusson Helgi Magnusson is the Chairman of the Board of the Blue Lagoon, Harpa Holding and Husasmidjan. He also serves as a board member of several Icelandic companies, including N1 and Hofgardar. Magnusson was the Chairman of the Federation of Icelandic Industries from 2006 to 2012 and a member of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board of the Confederation of Icelandic Employers from 2006 to 2013. Magnusson has also been a board member of Islandsbanki hf., the Framsyn Pension Fund, the Pension Fund of Commerce, Siminn and the Icelandic Chamber of Commerce. He was the Managing Director of Harpa and HarpaSjöfn paint factories for several years and the Chairman of the Board of Harpa, HarpaSjöfn and Flügger Iceland. Education CPA, Certified Public Accountant, University of Iceland. Cand. Oceon., Business Administration, University of Iceland. Elected 2005 Holdings in Marel 2,779,044 Board director Ann Elizabeth Savage Ann Savage served as the Technical Director of Bakkavor Group, a leading international manufacturer of fresh prepared foods. Her main responsibilities included food safety, health and safety management, manufacturing excellence and environmental management. She was also a member of the company’s management board. Savage has held a variety of roles in technical and R&D departments within the retail and food industry over her 35-year career. She worked for the Cooperative Wholesale Society (CWS), Northern Foods from 1990 till 1999 and at Geest/ Bakkavor for over 16 years. Education Studied at the Open University. Post Graduate Diploma in Management Studies, Nottingham University. Elected 2013 Holdings in Marel 0 ALL HOLDINGS AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 86 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Chief Executive Officer Arni Oddur Thordarson Thordarson has extensive international business experience within the industrial sector. Before taking up his current position as Marel’s CEO in November 2013 he was the CEO of Eyrir Invest, which he co-founded in 2000. Thordarson served on the Board of Directors of Marel between 2005 and 2013, the majority of the time as Chairman. Education MBA, IMD, Switzerland, 2004. Cand. Oecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland, 1993. Holdings in Marel 131,869 Executive Vice President Global Supply Chain Folkert Bölger Bölger has extensive global managerial experience in supply, procurement and operational positions. Before joining Marel, he was Vice President of Operations and Procurement at Bang & Olufsen in Denmark. Bölger held various management positions at Philips and Siemens-VDO in Asia, Central Europe and Western Europe. Education MS, Mechanical Engineering, Delft University of Technology. CPIM, American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS). Holdings in Marel 17,862 Executive Vice President of Innovation Vidar Erlingsson Erlingsson took up his current post in 2014. He has been with the Marel innovation team since 2000 and has held various positions within the company. In 2010, he became the Product Center Inspection leader. Erlingsson has been instrumental in developing new technology within Marel and bringing it to commercial success. Education MS, Engineering, DTU in Denmark. BS, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Iceland. Holdings in Marel 65,000 Executive Vice President of Commercial Petur Gudjonsson Gudjonsson has decades of experience in the industrial sector. He took up his current position in 2016. He joined Marel in 1984 as a programmer for electronic design and has taken on numerous different roles at the company over the years. He was Managing Director of Sales and Service Offices, Sales Director for Marel Iceland and Denmark and General Manager of Marel Canada. Education BS, Electrical Engineering, University of Iceland. Holdings in Marel 219,430 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 87 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Managing director (EVP) of marel further processing Jesper Hjortshøj Hjortshøj joined the Executive Team in February 2017. He has been with Marel since 2006. Hjortshøj has extensive experience in the food industry and has held several different positions within the company. He served as manager in Marketing, Product Center and Strategy and Portfolio for Global Innovation. Education MBA, Aarhus University. MA, Communication and Media Studies, Aarhus University. Holdings in Marel 0 Chief financial officer Linda Jonsdottir Jonsdottir has served as Marel’s CFO since 2014. Before that, she was Marel’s Corporate Director of Treasury and Investor Relations. Prior to joining Marel, Jonsdottir worked in treasury and financing for Eimskip, Burdaras and Straumur Investment Bank. She was a board member of the Icelandic Enterprise Investment Fund from 2010 till 2015. Education MS, Finance, Reykjavik University. Cand. oecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland. Holdings in Marel 158,500 Executive vice president of human resources David Freyr Oddsson Oddsson took on his current role in 2013. He joined Marel in 2011 as HR Director of the International Sales and Service Network. Before joining Marel, Oddsson was Global Head of Human Resources and Corporate Services at Straumur Investment Bank from 2006 till 2011. Prior to that, he spent seven years as an HR consultant at Capacent. Education MBA, Reykjavik University. Cand. Theologius, University of Iceland. Holdings in Marel 135,000 Managing director (EVP) of Marel Fish Sigurdur Olason Olason started in his current position in 2014. He has extensive, international experience within the seafood industry. Olason worked in product development at Marel from 2001 until 2006, when he became Director of Business Development at Samherji, one of Iceland’s leading seafood companies. He rejoined Marel in 2014. Education MBA, Brisbane Graduate School of Business. BS, Computer Science, University of Iceland. BS, Mechanical Industrial Engineering, University of Iceland. Holdings in Marel 0 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 88 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Executive vice president of strategy and corporate development Arni Sigurdsson Sigurdsson has extensive experience in the finance and investment management industry. Before joining Marel in 2014, he was an associate at AGC Partners investment bank. Prior to that, he worked at the commercial bank Landsbanki Íslands, where he was instrumental in advising Marel on the acquisition of Stork Food Systems. Education MBA, Harvard Business School. BS, Industrial Engineering, University of Iceland. Holdings in Marel 100,000 Managing director (EVP) of Marel Poultry Anton De Weerd De Weerd took up his current post in 2007. He has decades of experience in the poultry industry, having been with Marel and its predecessors since 1982. During his time at Marel he has served in various sales and marketing positions, including as Commercial Director, Managing Director and as President. Education BS, Mechanical Engineering, Avans University. Holdings in Marel 15,000 Managing director (EVP) of Marel Further Processing David Wilson Wilson took up his current position in 2012. He has decades of experience in the food industry and has been with Marel and its predecessors since 1998. Wilson was Senior Vice-President for the Marel Poultry Industry Center in Gainesville, U.S. until 2012. Prior to that he served as Vice President of Sales and Marketing and as a Regional Sales Manager. Education MS, Animal Science, Aberdeen University. BS (Hons), Agricultural and Business Management, Aberdeen University. Holdings in Marel 27,300 ALL HOLDINGS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 89 Marel – Annual Report 2017 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART To further align execution with strategy, Marel’s organizational structure was simplified in 2014. The new organizational structure supports our goal of becoming a simpler, smarter and faster company. In the new structure, the poultry, fish, and meat industries will Innovation, Commercial and Supply Chain. The aim is to serve remain the three pillars of the company. These three industries the customer better, reduce time to market and penetrate are then supported by the company’s global divisions: markets faster and more efficiently. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 90 Marel – Annual Report 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT Effective risk management is the key to Marel’s sustainability and underpins the company’s long term relationship with its customers and other stakeholders. All risk management within the company is implemented through, and approved by, the Board of Directors. As part of the steady expansion of its enterprise risk Risk management process management process, Marel has launched a number of Marel has a vigorous risk management process which consists initiatives throughout the company. Each initiative will of 5 steps: contribute to achieving the company’s objectives with regard to efficacy and efficiency of operations, reliability of Risk appetite sets out the amount of risk the company is willing financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and to accept in pursuit of value. regulations. Risk assessment involves mechanisms for identification of Risk appetite risks, e.g. a brainstorming session to assess risk and controls. All business operations involve risk. Risk appetite expresses Risks are ranked by the likelihood of their occurrence and the aggregate level of risk that Marel is willing to assume in magnitude of their impact in a self-assessment document. order to achieve its business objectives, as defined by a set of minimum quantitative metrics and qualitative statements. Risk treatment is the process of selecting and implementing measures to minimize the probability of identified risks The Board of Directors approves the risk appetite and materialising and alleviate their potential effects. reviews this on an annual basis, or more frequently in the event of unexpected changes to the risk environment, to Monitoring is done through dashboard reporting and ensure it remains consistent with Marel’s strategy, business updating of the self-assessment document. and regulatory environment and stakeholder requirements. Reports relating to our risk profile and risk appetite are Communication of priority risks to the Board is made via presented regularly to the Board of Directors. a designated dashboard. Predetermined parameters are measured against the risk appetite to give a clear visual overview. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 91 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Risk categories Marel’s activities expose the company to a variety of risks, which are categorized in four categories: Strategic, Operational, Financial Reporting and Compliance. Each category has sub-categories that can be defined broadly as follows: Marel’s risk management has focused especially on financial risks (including market and credit risk), which are managed by the Treasury department. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 92 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Market risk Credit risk Foreign exchange risk Marel minimizes credit risk by monitoring credit granted to As an international company, Marel is exposed to foreign excustomers and by obtaining security to cover potential losses. change risk arising from various currency movements, primarThe company has policies in place to ensure that sales of prodily with respect to EUR/USD on revenues and EUR/ISK on the ucts and services are made to customers with an acceptable cost side. The general policy is to take advantage of natural credit history and that products are not delivered until paycurrency hedges by matching revenues and operational costs ments are secured. as economically possible. Marel does its banking with a diversified set of financial inThe company’s funding is denominated in its main operationstitutions around the world. Policies are in place to limit the al currencies to create natural hedging in the balance sheet. amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution. Where necessary, financial exposure is hedged in accordance with Marel’s general policy on permitted instruments and exLiquidity risk posure limits. Due to the dynamic nature of its underlying businesses, the company has prudent liquidity risk management to ensure Cash flow and fair-value sufficient flexibility of funding under the revolving part of Interest rate risk facilities agreements and by maintaining sufficient current fiThe company’s income and operating cash flows are substannancial assets. tially independent of changes in market interest rates. The interest rates of financial leases, to which the company is lessor Insurance policies or lessee, are fixed at their inception. These leases expose the The company maintains both global and local insurance polcompany to fair-value interest rate risk. The company reports icies. Coverage includes property damage, business interrupseparately an embedded 0% floor in its long-term EUR borrowtion, general and product liability, marine cargo/mounting, ing. The valuation of this embedded derivative is dependent directors’ and officers’ liability, employers’ practice liability, on market interest and is reported in the income statement. business travel, and accidents. The company believes its curThe company’s cash-flow interest rate risk arises from longrent insurance coverage to be adequate. term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the company to cash-flow interest rate risk, while borrowings issued at fixed rates expose it to fair-value interest rate risk. Marel manages its cash-flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting floating rate financing to fixed rates. The company raises long-term borrowings at floating rates and swaps a portion of them into fixed rates. The risk involved, measured as the potential increase in interest paid during the coming year based on a defined movement in interest rates, is monitored and evaluated regularly. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 93 Marel – Annual Report 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 94 Marel – Annual Report 2017 The Board of Directors' and CEO's On 31 August 2017, Marel closed an agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of Sulmaq Industrial e Report Comercial S.A. (“Sulmaq”) from a consortium of shareholders. Marel is a leading global provider of advanced equipment, systems and services for the Poultry, On 29 January 2016 Marel concluded the Meat and Fish industries. Marel has offices and acquisition of MPS and obtained control through subsidiaries in over 30 countries and a global acquiring 100% of the issued shares of MPS. MPS is network of more than 100 agents and distributors. a subsidiary of Marel Holding B.V. The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year The average number of full time employees was 2017 comprise the financial statements of Marel hf. 4,912 in 2017 (2016: 4,599). Total salaries and wages (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (together “the were EUR 306.2 million (2016: EUR 284.4 million). Group” or Marel”). The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with Based on the decision taken at the Company's 2017 International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) Annual General Meeting, a dividend was declared as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and and paid out to shareholders for the operational additional Icelandic disclosure requirements. year 2016 amounting to EUR 15.3 million; EUR 2.14 cents per share, corresponding to Operations in 2017 approximately 20% of net result for the year (2016: The consolidated revenues for Marel for the full a dividend of EUR 11.3 million; EUR 1.58 cents per year 2017 are EUR 1,038.2 million (2016: EUR 969.7 share, was declared and paid out to shareholders million). The adjusted result from operations for the for the operational year 2015). same period is EUR 157.4 million or 15.2% of revenues (2016: EUR 139.4 million or 14.4% of The goodwill of the Group was tested for revenues). impairment at year-end by calculating its recoverable amount. The results of these The bridge between adjusted result from impairment tests were that there was no operations and result from operations as shown in impairment as the recoverable amount of the the Consolidated Statement of Income is as follows: goodwill was well above book value. 2017 2016 In May 2017, Marel finalized an extension and Adjusted result from operations 157.4 139.4 amendment of its long term financing at favorable Adjustment amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible assets (17.1) (24.6) terms and conditions reflecting its financial Result from operations 140.3 114.8 strength and current market conditions. The all senior loan facilities are approximately The pro forma revenues for Marel, including MPS EUR 640 million equivalents and include a Holding III B.V. (“MPS”), are EUR 983.0 million for EUR 325 million revolving credit facility, a 2016. The pro forma adjusted result from EUR 243 million term loan as well as a operations for the same period is EUR 143.5 million USD 75 million term loan. The initial interest terms or 14.6% of revenues. are EURIBOR/LIBOR +185 bps and will vary in line with Marel’s leverage ratio (Net debt/EBITDA) at the According to the Consolidated Statement of end of each quarter. The final maturity is in May Financial Position, the Company's assets amounted 2022. This provides Marel with increased strategic to EUR 1,440.6 million at the end of 2017 (2016: and operational flexibility to support the ambitious EUR 1,392.4 million). Total equity amounted to growth plan introduced at Marel’s Annual General EUR 541.9 million at the end of 2017 (at year-end Meeting in March 2017. 2016: EUR 525.6 million) or 37.6% of total assets (at year-end 2016: 37.7%). Net interest bearing debt At 31 December 2017 the Company’s order book decreased from EUR 403.6 million at the end of amounted to EUR 472 million (at 31 December 2016 to EUR 365.0 million at the end of 2017. 2016: EUR 350 million). Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 1 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 95 Marel – Annual Report 2017 The management and the Board of Directors of the Marel sold 0.9 million treasury shares for EUR 2.5 Group believe that they are taking all the necessary million to the management of Sulmaq in relation to measures to support the sustainability and growth Marel‘s acquisition of Sulmaq. The sold shares of the Group’s business in the current environment. include a lock-up period of 18 months from the Accordingly they continue to adopt the going date of closing which was 31 August 2017. Marel concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and also sold 1.1 million treasury shares for EUR 1.2 Consolidated Financial Statements. million in order to fulfill obligations of stock option agreements. The management of the Company believes it is well placed to manage its business risks successfully During the year 2016, Marel purchased 4.0 million based on the present economic outlook. Further shares for EUR 8.1 million to fulfill future stock information is disclosed in note 22 to the option obligations and sold 2.6 million treasury Consolidated Financial Statements. shares for a total amount of EUR 2.7 million to fulfill the employees’ stock option schedules. In Share Capital and Articles of Association connection with the acquisition of MPS, Marel sold At year-end Marel’s issued shares totaled 735.6 10.8 million treasury shares for EUR 16.3 million to million, all in one class, and unchanged from the the previous owners of MPS. end of 2016. Thereof Marel holds, at year-end 2017, 41.7 million treasury shares (2016: 21.5 million Stock options are granted to management and treasury shares). The number of shareholders at selected employees. Total granted and unexercised year-end 2017 was 2,206 compared to 1,907 at the stock options at end of the year 2017 were end of 2016. 9.9 million shares (2016: 8.8 million shares), of which 1.7 million are exercisable at the end of 2017 The ten biggest shareholders were: (2016: 1.8 million) and the remainder will vest in the years 2018 to 2021. Further information is disclosed 2017 2016 in note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Number Number Statements. of shares of shares million % million % At the Company's 2014 Annual General Meeting, Eyrir Invest hf. Investment company 190.4 25.9% 215.4 29.3% the shareholders authorized the Board of Directors Lífeyrissjóður verslunarmanna Pension fund 69.4 9.4% 67.0 9.1% to increase the Company's share capital by 35 LSR A/B/S-div. and nurses Pension fund 47.4 6.4% 48.0 6.5% million shares to fulfill stock option agreements. No Gildi lífeyrissjóður Pension fund 47.0 6.4% 51.3 7.0% new shares were issued in 2017 (2016: no new shares issued). This authorization applies for five Birta lífeyrissjóður Pension fund 30.3 4.1% 31.9 4.3% years from its adoption. MSD Partners Luxembourg S.á.r Investment company 24.6 3.3% 0.0 0.0% Stefnir ÍS 15 Asset management 23.4 3.2% 32.1 4.4% The Board of Directors will propose at the 2018 Stefnir ÍS 5 Asset management 15.2 2.1% 20.1 2.7% Annual General Meeting that EUR cents 4.19 Stapi lífeyrissjóður Pension fund 14.5 2.0% 17.3 2.4% dividend per outstanding share will be paid for the Landsbankinn hf. Bank 13.2 1.8% 13.7 1.9% operational year 2017, corresponding to Top 10 total 475.4 64.6% 496.8 67.5% approximately EUR 29.0 million or 30% of net result Others 218.5 29.7% 217.3 29.6% attributable to Shareholders of the Company of Marel hf. Treasury shares 41.7 5.7% 21.5 2.9% EUR 96.8 million for the year 2017, and refers to the Total issued shares 735.6 100.0% 735.6 100.0% Consolidated Financial Statements regarding appropriation of the profit for the year and changes In 2017, Marel purchased 22.2 million treasury in Shareholders’ equity. This is proposed in shares for a total amount of EUR 63.4 million. accordance to Marel’s dividend policy, disclosed at Thereof 19.7 million treasury shares were Marel’s Annual General Meeting in March 2011. The purchased to be used as a payment for potential target is that the net debt/EBITDA ratio is 2 3 times future acquisitions and 2.5 million treasury shares EBITDA, excess capital to be used to stimulate were purchased to fulfill future stock options growth and value creation as well as paying obligations. dividend and that dividend or share buy-back is targeted at 20-40% of the net result. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 2 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 96 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Corporate Responsibility Statement continuously creating new methods for improving yields and minimizing waste in food production, Corporate Governance reducing the use of scarce resources such as energy The framework for the Company’s Corporate and water, and promoting food safety and animal Governance practices consists of the provisions of welfare. the law and regulations, the Company’s Articles of Association and the Icelandic Guidelines on Economical Responsibility Corporate Governance issued in June 2015 by the Marel promotes long term value creation, fair trade Iceland Chamber of Commerce, NASDAQ Iceland and good business practices in its value chain and SA Confederation of Icelandic Employers. In through transparency, innovation and collaboration compliance with the guidelines, the Board of with all its partners. Directors has prepared a Corporate Governance Statement. Our guidance policy on corporate responsibility implements the ISO 26000 standards, and we are The Board of Directors is comprised of 3 female signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. Directors and 4 male Directors, which is in accordance with the statutory gender ratio of In 2017, we took part in the NASDAQ sustainable Boards of Directors of Public Limited Companies in markets initiative for the first time, which makes use Iceland, with more than 50 employees (ratio of each of NASDAQ’s ESG reporting guidelines. gender shall be no less than 40%). The Corporate Responsibility Statement is Candidates for the Board of Directors of the explained and discussed in more detail in a Company have to notify the Board of Directors separate document distributed with the thereof in writing at least five full days before the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as beginning of the Annual General Meeting. The included in the Annual Report 2017. Company's Articles of Association can only be amended with the approval of 2/3 of casted votes and approval of shareholders who control at least 2/3 of the shares represented in a legal shareholders' meeting, provided that the notification calling the meeting thoroughly informs on such amendment. Non-financial information The Corporate Social Responsibility Principles, addressing environmental, social and ethical matters, can be summarized as follows: Social Responsibility Marel provides a safe and healthy working environment and equal opportunities. It fosters individual and team development and ensures the right to freedom of association for all its employees. Human rights violations, illegal labor conditions and illegal and unethical business behavior are never tolerated. Marel engages with local communities, where innovation and education serve as the main areas of social participation. Environmental Responsibility Marel encourages efficient use of resources in its value chain and promotes positive environmental impact and environmental protection. Innovation is Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 3 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 97 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Statement by the Board of Directors and the The report of the Board of Directors and CEO CEO provides a clear overview of developments and According to the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s best achievements in the Group’s operations and its knowledge these Consolidated Financial situation. Statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European The Board of Directors and CEO of Marel hf. hereby Union and additional Icelandic disclosure ratify the Consolidated Financial Statements of requirements for consolidated financial statements Marel hf. for the year 2017 with their signatures. of listed companies. Further according to the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s best knowledge, the Garðabær, 7 February 2018 statements give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 31 December 2017, operating performance and the cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2017 as well as describe the principal risk and uncertainty factors faced by the Group. Board of Directors Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir Chairman of the Board Arnar Þór Másson Ann Elizabeth Savage Ástvaldur Jóhannsson Helgi Magnússon Margrét Jónsdóttir Ólafur S. Guðmundsson Chief Executive Officer Árni Oddur Þórðarson Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 4 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 98 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditor's report Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Marel International Standards on Auditing (‘’ISAs’’). Our hf. responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of ethics for Opinion Icelandic auditors, which are based on the We have audited the Consolidated Financial International Ethics Standards Board for Statements of Marel hf. (‘’the Group’’), which Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional comprise the Consolidated Statement of Financial Accountants (‘’IESBA Code’’). We have also fulfilled Position as at 31 December 2017, the Consolidated other ethical requirements of that rules. We believe Statement of Income, the Consolidated Statement that the audit evidence we have obtained is of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Statement of Changes in Equity and the opinion. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and Notes to the Consolidated Key Audit Matters Financial Statements, including a summary of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our significant accounting policies. professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated of the current period. These matters were Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and 31 December 2017, and of its consolidated financial in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not performance and its consolidated cash flows for the provide a separate opinion on these matters. year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘’IFRSs’’) as adopted by the European Union (‘’EU’’). Key Audit Matters How the matter was addressed in our audit Goodwill Goodwill amounts to EUR 644m and represents 45% of We challenged the cash flow projections included in total assets as at 31 December 2017. the annual goodwill impairment tests. The book value of the Group's goodwill results from For our audit we critically assessed and tested the acquisitions in past years and in the current year. assumptions, methodologies, the weighted average Impairment of goodwill is a key audit matter due to cost of capital and other data used, for example by the high level of judgment required in assessing the comparing them to external and historical data, such inputs into a valuation model supporting as external market growth expectations and by management's assessment of impairment. analyzing sensitivities in Marel's valuation model. The most significant judgment incorporated in We included valuation specialists in our team to assist management's assessment of impairment include us with these procedures. forecasted cash flows, weighted average cost of capital and the assumptions underlying forecasted We specifically focused on the sensitivity in the growth. available headroom for the cash generating units, evaluating whether a reasonably possible change in assumptions could cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount and assessed the historical accuracy of management's estimates. We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 5 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 99 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Key Audit Matters How the matter was addressed in our audit Revenue recognition Recognition of the Group’s revenue is complex due to We audited the accuracy of the revenue streams by several types of customer contracts utilized, including testing on a sample basis the revenue amounts sale of equipment, standard and customized, service recorded in the general ledger against the underlying contracts and sale of spare parts. contracts and orders, invoices, payments and if relevant proofs of delivery. Revenue recognition for production contracts is based on 'percentage of completion' method. We performed margin analysis and compared current year margins with previous year and budget. The assessment of the stage of the contract is made by reference to the proportion of contract cost incurred We tested credit notes issued after year-end to verify for the work performed to the reporting date relative that revenue were not reversed after year-end. to the estimated total contract costs to completion. We performed a cut-off test per year-end. The recognition of revenue therefore relies on estimates in relation to the final outcome of expected We performed a test of details on per year-end open costs on each contract, which are judgmental and equipment projects. We selected projects based on could be susceptible to a material misstatement. size and risk assessment. We vouched the selected items to contracts, precalculations, invoices and Revenue recognition is therefore a key audit matter. payments. Refer to note 2.5 and note 5. We challenged the progress of per year-end open equipment projects and verified that the percentage of completion revenues are accurate. We considered specific revenue journal entries in the context of journal entries testing, eg. regarding manual entries on revenues. We assessed whether the accounting policies for revenue recognition and other financial statements disclosures were in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 6 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 100 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Other information misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to The Board of Directors and CEO are responsible for issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. the other information. The other information Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, comprises the information included in the Annual but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in Report of the Group, but does not include the accordance with ISAs will always detect a material Consolidated Financial Statements and our misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the arise from fraud or error and are considered Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover material if, individually or in the aggregate, they the other information and we do not express any could reasonably be expected to influence the form of assurance conclusion thereon. economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we the other information and, in doing so, consider exercise professional judgment and maintain whether the other information is materially professional skepticism throughout the audit. We inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial also: Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit • Identify and assess the risks of material or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, misstatement of the Consolidated Financial based on the work we have performed, we Statements, whether due to fraud or error, conclude that there is a material misstatement of design and perform audit procedures this other information, we are required to report responsive to those risks, and obtain audit that fact. The annual report is not available at our evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to reporting date but is expected to be made available provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not to us after that date. detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, CEO for the Consolidated Financial Statements intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or The Board of Directors and CEO are responsible for the override of internal control. the preparation and fair presentation of the • Obtain an understanding of internal control Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance relevant to the audit in order to design audit with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for such procedures that are appropriate in the internal control as they determine is necessary to circumstances, but not for the purpose of enable the preparation of Consolidated Financial expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of Statements that are free from material the Group’s internal control. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, accounting estimates and related disclosures the Board of Directors and CEO are responsible for made by management. assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going • Conclude on the appropriateness of concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related management’s use of the going concern basis to going concern and using the going concern of accounting and, based on the audit evidence basis of accounting unless they either intend to obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has related to events or conditions that may cast no realistic alternative but to do so. significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude The Board of Directors and CEO are responsible for that a material uncertainty exists, we are overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such Consolidated Financial Statements disclosures are inadequate, to modify our Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance opinion. Our conclusions are based on the about whether the Consolidated Financial audit evidence obtained up to the date of our Statements as a whole are free from material auditor’s report. However, future events or Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 7 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 101 Marel – Annual Report 2017 conditions may cause the Group to cease to From the matters communicated with the Board of continue as a going concern. Directors and the Audit Committee, we determine • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and those matters that were of most significance in the content of the Consolidated Financial audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Statements, including the disclosures, and the current period and are therefore the key audit whether the Consolidated Financial Statements matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s represent the underlying transactions and report unless law or regulation precludes public events in a manner that achieves fair disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely presentation. rare circumstances, we determine that a matter • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence should not be communicated in our report because regarding the financial information of the the adverse consequences of doing so would entities or business activities within the Group reasonably be expected to outweigh the public to express an opinion on the Consolidated interest benefits of such communication. Financial Statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of Report on other Legal and Regulatory the group audit. We remain solely responsible Requirements for our audit opinion. Pursuant to the legal requirement under Article 104, Paragraph 2 of the Icelandic Financial We communicate with the Board of Directors and Statement Act No. 3/2006, we confirm that, to the the Audit Committee regarding, among other best of our knowledge, the report of the Board of matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit Directors and CEO accompanying the Consolidated and significant audit findings, including any Financial Statements includes the information significant deficiencies in internal control that we required by the Financial Statement Act if not identify during our audit. disclosed elsewhere in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also provide the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee with a statement that we have The engagement partners on the audit resulting in complied with relevant ethical requirements this independent auditor’s report are Sæmundur regarding independence, and to communicate with Valdimarsson and Hrafnhildur Helgadóttir. them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our Reykjavik, 7 February 2018 independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. KPMG ehf. Sæmundur Valdimarsson Hrafnhildur Helgadóttir Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 8 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 102 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Consolidated Statement of Income In EUR million unless stated otherwise Not es 2017 2016 Revenues 5 1,038.2 969.7 Cost of sales 6 (631.5) (572.7) Gross profit 406.7 397.0 Selling and marketing expenses 6 (120.5) (128.5) Research and development expenses 6 (57.8) (63.1) General and administrative expenses 6 (71.0) (66.2) Other operating income 6 0.2 Adjusted result from operations*) 6 157.4 139.4 Amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible assets 4 (17.1) (24.6) Result from operations 140.3 114.8 Finance costs 7 (21.2) (26.0) Finance income 7 0.9 0.6 Net finance costs 7 (20.3) (25.4) Result before income tax 120.0 89.4 Income tax 10 (23.1) (13.6) Net result 96.9 75.8 Of which: Net result attributable to non-controlling interests 18 0.1 0.1 Net result attributable to Shareholders of the Company 11 96.8 75.7 Earnings per share for result attributable to Shareholders of the Company during the period (expressed in EUR cent per share): basic 11 13.70 10.59 diluted 11 13.63 10.54 *) Adjusted result from operations: result has been adjusted for amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible assets. The notes on pages 14-65 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 9 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 103 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income In EUR million Not es 2017 2016 Net Result 96.9 75.8 Items that are or will be reclassified to profit or loss: Currency translation differences 18 (7.5) 1.3 Cash flow hedges 18 1.8 2.0 Income tax relating to cash flow hedges 15 18 (0.4) (0.3) Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the period, net of tax (6.1) 3.0 Total comprehensive income for the period 90.8 78.8 Of which: Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 18 0.1 0.1 Comprehensive income attributable to Shareholders of the Company 90.7 78.8 The notes on pages 14-65 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 10 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 104 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position In EUR million Not es 2017 2016 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 12 144.7 119.0 Goodwill 13 643.9 635.2 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 13 262.7 277.5 Trade and other receivables 14 4.0 0.2 Derivative financial instruments 22 0.9 0.4 Deferred income tax assets 15 4.4 7.3 Non-current assets 1,060.6 1,039.6 Inventories 16 124.4 122.2 Production contracts 17 48.2 37.0 Trade receivables 14 128.9 115.3 Other receivables and prepayments 14 46.6 32.7 Derivative financial instruments 22 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 31.9 45.5 Current assets 380.0 352.8 TOTAL ASSETS 1,440.6 1,392.4 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 18 6.3 6.5 Share premium reserve 18 229.6 288.7 Other reserves 18 (8.2) (2.1) Retained earnings 18 313.9 232.3 Shareholders' equity 541.6 525.4 Non-controlling interests 18 0.3 0.2 Total equity 541.9 525.6 LIABILITIES Borrowings 19 370.7 425.0 Deferred income tax liabilities 15 61.3 63.5 Provisions 20 8.6 7.4 Other liabilities 23 3.6 Derivative financial instruments 22 2.7 4.9 Non-current liabilities 446.9 500.8 Production contracts 17 209.6 150.8 Trade and other payables 23 195.9 168.9 Current income tax liabilities 11.0 9.1 Borrowings 19 26.2 24.1 Provisions 20 9.1 13.1 Current liabilities 451.8 366.0 Total liabilities 898.7 866.8 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,440.6 1,392.4 The notes on pages 14-65 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 11 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 105 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Share ShareNonShare premium Other Retained holders' controlling Total In EUR million capital reserve 2) reserves 3) earnings equity interests equity Balance at 1 January 2017 6.5 288.7 (2.1) 232.2 525.3 0.2 525.5 Result for the period 96.8 96.8 0.1 96.9 Total other comprehensive income (6.1) (6.1) (6.1) Transactions with owners of the Company Treasury shares purchased (0.2) (63.2) (63.4) (63.4) Treasury shares sold 0.0 3.7 3.7 3.7 Treasury shares, transaction costs (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Value of services provided 0.6 0.6 0.6 Value of services provided released (0.1) 0.1 0.0 0.0 Dividend (15.3) (15.3) 0.0 (15.3) (0.2) (59.1) (6.1) 81.6 16.3 0.1 16.4 Balance at 31 December 2017 6.3 229.6 (8.2) 313.9 541.6 0.3 541.9 Share ShareNonShare premium Other Retained holders' controlling Total In EUR million capital reserve 2) reserves 3) earnings equity interests equity Balance at 1 January 2016 6.4 277.9 (5.1) 167.5 446.7 446.7 Result for the period 75.7 75.7 0.1 75.8 Total other comprehensive income 1) 3.0 3.0 3.0 Business combinations, note 4 0.1 0.1 Transactions with owners of the Company Treasury shares purchased 0.0 (8.0) (8.0) (8.0) Treasury shares sold 0.1 18.8 18.9 18.9 Treasury shares, transaction costs (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) Value of services provided 0.3 0.3 0.3 Value of services provided released (0.3) 0.3 Dividend (11.3) (11.3) (11.3) 0.1 10.8 3.0 64.7 78.6 0.2 78.8 Balance at 31 December 2016 6.5 288.7 (2.1) 232.2 525.3 0.2 525.5 1) Includes recognition of non-controlling interest. 2) Includes reserve for share based payments as per 31 December 2017 of EUR 1.4 million (31 December 2016: EUR 0.8 million). 3) For details on Other reserves refer to note 18. The notes on pages 14-65 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 12 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 106 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows In EUR million Not es 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Result from operations 140.3 114.8 Adjustments to reconcile result from operations to net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 11.9 9.8 Amortization and impairment of intangible assets 13 39.7 50.9 Changes in non-current receivables and payables 0.9 0.2 Working capital provided by / (used in) operating activities 192.8 175.7 Changes in working capital: Inventories and production contracts 44.1 3.8 Trade and other receivables (26.5) 2.2 Trade and other payables 25.6 2.5 Provisions 0.2 (5.2) Changes in operating assets and liabilities 43.4 3.3 Cash generated from operating activities 236.2 179.0 Taxes paid (26.2) (8.1) Interest and finance income 0.8 0.8 Interest and finance costs (15.2) (34.6) Net cash from operating activities 195.6 137.1 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (34.0) (21.0) Investments in intangibles 13 (23.9) (23.2) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 4.5 Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash aquired 4 (20.2) (368.4) Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities (77.7) (408.1) Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of treasury shares (63.4) (8.0) Sale of treasury shares 3.7 19.0 Proceeds from borrowings 130.0 365.3 Repayments of borrowings (177.2) (144.6) Dividends paid 18 (15.3) (11.3) Net cash provided by / (used in) financing activities (122.2) 220.4 Net increase (decrease) in net cash (4.3) (50.6) Exchange (loss) / gain on net cash (9.3) 3.1 Net cash at beginning of the period 45.5 93.0 Net cash at end of the period 31.9 45.5 The notes on pages 14-65 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 13 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 107 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Consolidated These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost Financial Statements convention, except for the valuation of availablefor-sale financial assets and financial assets and 1 General information liabilities (including derivative instruments) which 1.1 Reporting entity are valued at fair value through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Marel hf. ( the Company ) is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in Iceland. Details of the Group’s significant accounting The address of its registered office is Austurhraun 9, policies are included in note 2. Gardabaer. 1.3 Functional and presentation currency and The Consolidated Financial Statements of the exchange rates Company as at and for the year ended 31 Items included in the Consolidated Financial December 2017 comprise the Company and its Statements of each entity in the Group are subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group or measured using the currency that best reflects the Marel”). economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances relevant to that entity (“the The Group is a leading global provider of advanced functional currency”). The Consolidated Financial equipment, systems and services for the Poultry, Statements are presented in Euro (‘’EUR’’), which is Meat and Fish industries and is involved in the the Group's reporting currency and the functional manufacturing, development, distribution and sales currency of Marel hf. All financial information of solutions for these industries. presented in EUR has been rounded to the nearest million, unless otherwise indicated. All amounts are in millions of EUR unless otherwise stated. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in These Consolidated Financial Statements have preparing the Consolidated Statements are listed been approved for issue by the Board of Directors below for the most relevant currencies. and CEO on 7 February 2018. These Consolidated Financial Statements as presented in this report are Year-end Average Year-end Average rate subject to the adoption by the Annual General 1 euro = rate 2017 rate 2017 rate 2016 2016 Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on 6 March USD 1.19 1.13 1.05 1.11 2018. ISK 125.03 120.68 119.38 134.49 The Company is listed on the Nasdaq OMX Nordic Iceland exchange. 1.2 Basis of Accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and additional Icelandic disclosure requirements for consolidated financial information of listed companies in accordance with Icelandic Financial Statements Act No. 3/2006 and rules for issuers of financial instruments at the Nasdaq in Iceland. The accounting policies applied by Marel comply with IFRS and the pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee (‘’IFRIC’’) effective at 31 December 2017. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 14 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 108 Marel – Annual Report 2017 1.4 Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements are disclosed in note 3. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future period affected. A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities. The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. Further information about the assumptions made in measuring fair values is included in notes 2.13 and 22. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 15 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 109 Marel – Annual Report 2017 2 Summary of significant based on “first in, first out” or weighted average cost; accounting policies • Selling and marketing expenses relate to the 2.1 General selling and marketing of goods and services; • Research and development expenses consist The principal accounting policies applied in the of: preparation of these Consolidated Financial − research, which is defined as original and Statements are set out below. planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or Changes in accounting policies technical knowledge and understanding; The accounting policies set out in this section have and, been applied consistently for all periods presented − development, which is defined as the in these Consolidated Financial Statements. application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or (re-)design for the Prior-year information production of new or substantially The presentation of prior-year disclosures is in line improved materials, devices, products, with the current year disclosures. processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use; Specific choices with IFRS • General and administrative expenses relate to Sometimes IFRS allows alternative accounting the strategic and governance role of the treatment for measurement and / or disclosure. The general management of the Company as well most important of these alternative treatments are as the representation of Marel as a whole in the mentioned below: financial, political or business community. General and administrative expenses also Tangible and intangible fixed assets relate to business support activities of staff Under IFRS an entity shall disclose either the cost departments that are not directly related to the model or the revaluation model as its accounting other functional areas. for tangible and intangible fixed assets. In this respect, Property, plant and equipment are Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Cash measured at cost less accumulated depreciation Flows and accumulated impairment losses, if applicable. Under IFRS, an entity shall report cash flows from The useful lives and residual values are evaluated operating activities using either the direct method annually. The Company chose to apply the cost (whereby major classes of gross cash receipts and model meaning that costs relating to product gross cash payments are disclosed) or the indirect development, the development and purchase of method (whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the software for internal use and other intangible assets effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any are capitalized and subsequently amortized over deferrals or accruals of past or future operating their estimated useful life. cash receipts or payments, and items of income or expense associated with investing or financing cash Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Income flows). In this respect, the Company chose to Marel presents expenses in the Consolidated prepare the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Statement of Income in accordance with their using the indirect method. function. This allows the presentation of gross profit on the face of the Consolidated Statement of 2.2 Consolidation Income, which is a widely used performance Business combinations measure in the industry. The composition of the The Group accounts for business combinations costs allocated to the individual functions is using the acquisition method when control is explained as follows: transferred to the Group. The consideration • Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing transferred in the acquisition is generally measured costs (including raw materials, employee at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets benefits, and depreciation and amortization) acquired. related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 16 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 110 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Acquisitions by Marel as part of business Subsidiaries combinations will result in recognition of goodwill Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on or has rights to, variable returns from its assumptions and estimates about their fair values. involvement with the entity and has the ability to In making these estimates, management consulted affect those returns through its power over the independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are change in assumptions and estimates could change included in the Consolidated Financial Statements the values allocated to certain assets and their from the date on which control commences until estimated useful lives, which could affect the the date on which control ceases. amount or timing of charges to the Consolidated Statement of Income, such as amortization of Non-Controlling Interests intangible assets. Non-Controlling Interests (“NCI”) are measured at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition. impairment. Any gain on a purchase is recognized Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that in the Consolidated Statement of Income do not result in a loss of control are accounted for immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as as equity transactions. incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. Loss of control When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it The consideration transferred does not include de-recognizes the assets and liabilities of the amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing subsidiary, and any non-controlling interests and relationships. Such amounts are generally other components of Equity. Any resulting gain or recognized in the Consolidated Statement of loss is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Income. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is Any contingent consideration payable is measured lost. at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as Equity, Transactions eliminated on consolidation then it is not re-measured and settlement is Intercompany transactions, balances and accounted for within Equity. Otherwise, subsequent unrealized gains on transactions between Group changes in the fair value of the contingent companies are eliminated. Unrealized losses are consideration are recognized in the Consolidated also eliminated unless the transaction provides Statement of Comprehensive Income. evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been If share-based payment awards (replacement changed where necessary to ensure consistency awards) are required to be exchanged for awards with the policies adopted by the Group. held by the acquiree’s employees (acquiree’s award), then all or a portion of the amount of the Transactions and Non-Controlling Interests acquirer’s replacement awards is included in Transactions that result in changes in ownership measuring the consideration transferred in the interests while retaining control are accounted for business combinations. This determination is based as transactions with equity holders in their capacity on the market-based measure of the replacement as equity holders. awards compared with the market-based measure of the acquiree’s awards and the extent to which As a result, no gain or loss on such changes is the replacement awards relate to pre-combination recognized in the Consolidated Statement of service. Income but rather in Equity. Furthermore, no change in the carrying amounts of assets (including Details of the acquisition of Sulmaq Industrial e goodwill) or liabilities is recognized as a result of Comercial S.A. and of MPS Holding III B.V are such transactions. This approach is consistent with disclosed in note 4. NCI being a component of Equity. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 17 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 111 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Associates 2.4 Foreign currency translation Associates are all entities over which the Group has Transactions and balances significant influence, but not control or joint Foreign currency transactions are translated into control, over the financial and operating policies. A the respective functional currencies of Group joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group entities, and from there into the Group's reporting has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the the net assets of the arrangement, rather than dates of the transactions or valuation where items rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. are revaluated. Interests in associates and joint ventures are Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from accounted for using the equity method. They are the settlement of such transactions and from the initially recognized at cost, which includes translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign the Consolidated Financial Statements include the currencies are recognized in the Consolidated Group’s share of the profit or loss and Other Statement of Income, except when deferred in Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) of equity-accounted Equity as permanent loan, as qualifying cash flow investees, until the date on which significant hedges and as qualifying net investment hedges as influence or joint control ceases. explained in note 2.14. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash Unrealized gains on transactions between the equivalents as well as all other foreign exchange Group and its associates are eliminated to the gains and losses are recognized immediately in the extent of the Group's interest in the associates. Consolidated Statement of Income within 'Finance Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the income' or 'Finance costs'. transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of Group companies associates have been changed where necessary to The results and financial position of all the Group ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the entities (none of which has the currency of a Group. hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in are translated into the presentation currency as associates are recognized in the Consolidated follows: Statement of Income as part of Other results relating to investments in associates. • assets and liabilities presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that Consolidated Statement of Financial Position; 2.3 Segment information • income and expenses for each Consolidated An operating segment is a component of the Group Statement of Income are translated at average that engages in business activities from which it exchange rates, unless this average is not a may earn revenues and incur expenses, including reasonable approximation of the cumulative revenues and expenses that relate to transactions effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction with any of the Group's other components. dates, in which case income and expenses are Business activities reported in the core industries translated at the dates of the transactions; and reflect the recurring operational activities of those • translation results of the consolidation of segments. All operating segments' operating subsidiaries reporting in foreign currencies, as results are reviewed regularly by the Group's CEO well as a currency revaluation related to and strategic decisions are based on these financing of subsidiaries are recognized as a operating segments. separate component of Equity (Translation reserve). Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 18 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 112 Marel – Annual Report 2017 On consolidation, exchange differences arising sale have been resolved. The Group bases its from the translation of the net investment in estimates on historical results, taking into foreign operations, and of borrowings and other consideration the type of customer, the type of currency instruments designated as hedges of such transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. investments, are recognized in Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated in Revenue from fixed-price contracts for delivering Translation reserve. When a foreign operation is designed services and solutions is recognized partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences under the percentage of completion (“POC”) that were recorded in Other Comprehensive method. Under the POC method, revenue is Income are recognized in the Consolidated generally recognized based on the services Statement of Income for the period as part of the performed and direct expenses incurred to date as gain or loss on sale. a percentage of the total services to be performed and total expenses to be incurred. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets Interest income is recognized on a time proportion and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at basis, taking account of the principal outstanding the closing rate. and the effective rate over the period to maturity. In case of a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, the When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces relevant proportionate share of the translation the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, difference is allocated to the Non-Controlling being the estimated future cash flow discounted at Interests. When a foreign operation is disposed of original effective interest rate of the instrument, such that control, significant influence or joint and continues unwinding the discount as interest control is lost, the cumulative amount in the income. Translation reserve related to that foreign operation 2.6 Production contracts is reclassified to Consolidated Statement of Income as part of the gain or loss on disposal. When the Production costs are recognized when incurred. Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while When the outcome of a production contract can be retaining control, the relevant proportion of the estimated reliably and it is probable that the cumulative amount is reattributed to Noncontract will be profitable, contract revenue is Controlling Interests. When the Group disposes of recognized over the period of the contract. When it only part of its investment in an associate or joint is probable that total contract costs will exceed venture that includes a foreign operation while total contract revenue, the expected loss is retaining significant influence or joint control, the recognized as an expense immediately. relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to Other Comprehensive Income. When the outcome of a production contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is 2.5 Revenue recognition recognized only to the extent of production costs Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of incurred that are likely to be recoverable. goods and services net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts, after eliminating sales within the The Group uses the ‘percentage of completion Group. Revenue from the sale of goods is method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognized when significant risks and rewards of recognize in a given period. The stage of ownership of the goods are transferred to the completion is measured by reference to the buyer. contract costs incurred up to the reporting date as a percentage of total estimated costs for each The Group recognizes revenue when the amount of contract. Costs incurred in the year in connection revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable with future activity on a contract are excluded from that future economic benefits will flow to the entity contract costs in determining the stage of and when specific criteria have been met. The completion. They are presented as inventories, amount of revenue is considered to be “not reliably prepayments or other assets, depending on their measurable” until all contingencies relating to the nature. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 19 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 113 Marel – Annual Report 2017 The Group presents as an asset the gross amount Financial Position according to the nature of the due from customers for contract work for all asset. Operating lease income is recognized in the contracts in progress for which costs incurred plus Consolidated Statement of Income over the lease recognized profits or less recognized losses exceeds term on a straight line basis. progress billings. 2.8 Employee benefits The Group presents as a liability the gross amount Short-term employee benefits due to customers for contract work for all contracts Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the in progress for which progress billings exceed costs related service is provided. A liability is recognized incurred plus recognized profits or less recognized for the amount expected to be paid if the Group losses. has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by 2.7 Leases the employee and the obligation can be estimated Leases of property, plant and equipment where the reliably. Group has substantially obtained all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance Share-based compensation leases. Finance leases are capitalized at the The Group operates a number of equity-settled, inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value share-based compensation plans, under which the of the leased property or the present value of the entity receives services from employees as minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is consideration for equity instruments (stock options) allocated between the liability and finance charges of the Group. The fair value of the employee so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance services received in exchange for the grant of the balance outstanding. The corresponding rental stock options is recognized as an expense. The total obligations, net of finance charges, are included in amount to be expensed is determined by reference other long-term borrowings. The interest element to the fair value of the stock options granted, of the lease payment is charged to the excluding the impact of any non-market service Consolidated Statement of Income over the lease and performance vesting conditions (for example, period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an interest on the remaining balance of the liability for employee of the entity over a specified time each period. The property, plant and equipment period). Non-market vesting conditions are acquired under finance leases are depreciated over included in assumptions about the number of stock the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the options that are expected to vest. The total amount lease term. expensed is recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified Leases where a significant portion of the risks and vesting conditions are to be satisfied. rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made At reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of under operating leases, net of any incentives the number of stock options that are expected to received from the lessor are charged to the vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It Consolidated Statement of Income on a straightrecognizes the impact of the revision to original line basis over the period of the lease. estimates, if any, in the Consolidated Statement of Income, with a corresponding adjustment to Equity. In those cases where the Group is the lessor of a The proceeds received net of any directly finance lease, the finance lease is recorded in the attributable transaction costs are credited to Share Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as a capital (nominal value) and Share premium when receivable, at an amount equal to the net the stock options are exercised. The fair value of the investment in the lease. The Finance income is employee stock options granted is measured using recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income the Black-Scholes formula. based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the lessor’s net investment outstanding in respect of the finance lease. Assets held by the Group for operating leases are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 20 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 114 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Measurement inputs include share price on 2.9 Current and deferred income tax measurement date, exercise price of the stock The tax expense for the period comprises current options, expected volatility based on weighted and deferred tax. Tax is recognized in the average historic volatility adjusted for changes Consolidated Statement of Income except to the expected due to publicly available information, extent that it relates to business combinations, or weighted average expected life of the instruments items recognized directly in Shareholders' equity or based on historical experience and general stock in Other Comprehensive Income. In case of option holder behavior, expected dividends, and recording directly in Shareholders’ equity, the tax the risk-free interest rate based on government on this item is included in deferred taxes; the net bonds. Service and non-market performance amount is recognized in Shareholders’ equity. conditions attached to the transactions are not taken into account in determining fair value. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively Profit sharing and bonus plans enacted at the reporting date in the countries Under some circumstances, a liability for key where the Company’s subsidiaries and associates employee benefits in the form of profit sharing and operate and generate taxable income. bonus plans is recognized in other provisions when Management periodically evaluates positions taken it is management intention to settle the liability and in tax returns with respect to situations in which at least the condition is met that there is a formal applicable tax regulations are subject to plan and the amounts to be paid are determined interpretation and establishes provisions where before the time of issuing the financial statements. appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Liabilities for profit sharing and bonus plans are expected to be settled within 12 months and are Deferred income tax is provided in full on measured at the amounts expected to be paid temporary differences arising between the tax when they are settled. bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension plans Marel has several pension plans in accordance with Deferred tax is not recognized for: local rules and conditions. Based on IAS 19, • temporary differences on the initial recognition Employee Benefits, only one arrangement with of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not regards to early retirement rights can be classified a business combination and that affects neither as defined benefit pension plan until the moment accounting nor taxable profit or loss; of settlement expected in 2020 (VPL in the • temporary differences related to investments in Netherlands). Two other defined benefit obligations subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements refer to jubilee rights in the Netherlands and the to the extent that the Group is able to control postretirement medical benefit plan in the United the timing of the reversal of the temporary States of America. Because of their non-material differences and it is probable that they will not character, these arrangements are not disclosed reverse in the foreseeable future; and separately. • taxable temporary differences arising on the For the majority of its employees, the Group has initial recognition of goodwill. pension plans classified as defined contribution plans. Obligations relating to defined contribution Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates pension plans are charged to the Consolidated (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially Statement of Income as employee remuneration enacted by reporting date and are expected to expenses when the contributions are payable. apply when the related deferred income tax asset is Contributions paid in advance are presented as realized or the deferred income tax liability is assets to the extent that cash repayment or a settled. reduction in future contributions is available. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 21 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 115 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Future taxable profits are determined based on The assets’ residual values, depreciation methods business plans for individual subsidiaries in the and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if Group. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each appropriate, at each reporting date. reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it An asset’s carrying amount is written down is no longer probable that the related tax benefit immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s will be realized. Such reductions are reversed when carrying amount exceeds its estimated recoverable the probability of future taxable profits improves. amount (note 2.12). Unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at Gains and losses on disposals are determined by each reporting date and recognized to the extent comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These that it has become probable that future taxable are recognized within other operating income profits will be available against which they can be (expenses) in the Consolidated Statement of used. Income. 2.10 Property, plant and equipment Borrowing cost is expensed as incurred except Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and when directly attributable to acquisition or offices. All property, plant and equipment is construction of an asset that necessarily takes a measured at cost less accumulated depreciation substantial period of time to get ready for its and any accumulated impairment losses, except for intended use. Such borrowing cost is capitalized as land, which is shown at cost less impairment. Cost part of the cost of the asset when it is probable that includes expenditure that is directly attributable to it will result in future economic benefits to the the acquisition of the items. entity and the cost can be measured reliably. 2.11 Intangible assets Subsequent expenditures are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate Goodwill asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an future economic benefits associated with the item acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can of the net identifiable assets of the acquired be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and measured at cost less accumulated impairment maintenance are charged to the Consolidated losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity Statement of Income in the period in which they include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to are incurred. the entity sold. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on assets is Goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating Units calculated using the straight-line method to (“CGUs”) for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs over its estimated useful life, as follows: that are expected to benefit from the business combinations in which the goodwill arose. Land and buildings 30-50 years Plant and machinery 4-15 years Technology, research and development Vehicles and equipment 3-7 years Technology has been acquired as part the acquisition of MPS in 2016 (refer to note 4). Major renovations are depreciated over the Technology costs have a finite useful life and are remaining useful life of the related asset or to the capitalized and amortized using the straight line date of the next major renovation, whichever is method over the period of 20 years. sooner. Equipment included in rented buildings is depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related equipment or over the remaining rental period, whichever is shorter. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 22 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 116 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Research expenditure is recognized as an expense • it can be demonstrated how the software as incurred. Costs incurred on development product will generate probable future projects relating to the design and testing of new or economic benefits; improved products are recognized as intangible • adequate technical, financial and other assets when it is probable that the project will resources to complete the development and to generate future economic benefits, considering its use or sell the software product are available; commercial and technological feasibility, costs can and be measured reliably and the Group intends to and • the expenditure attributable to the software has sufficient resources to complete development product during its development can be and to use or sell the asset. Other development measured reliably. expenditures are recognized as an expense as incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, Directly attributable costs capitalized as part of the development expenditure is measured at cost less software product include the software accumulated amortization and any accumulated development employee costs and an appropriate impairment losses. portion of relevant overhead. Development costs previously recognized as an Other development expenditures that do not meet expense are not recognized as an asset in a these criteria are recognized as an expense as subsequent period. Development costs that have a incurred. Development costs previously recognized finite useful life and that have been capitalized are as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a amortized from the commencement of the subsequent period. commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected Computer software development costs recognized benefit, not exceeding five years. as intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which can vary from 3 to 5 Customer relationships, patents & trade name years. Customer relationships have been acquired as part of the acquisition of MPS in 2016 and Sulmaq in General 2017 and are capitalized and amortized using the Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only when it straight line method over their useful life of 20 increases the future economic benefits embodied years. in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure, including expenditure on internally Expenditure to acquire patents, trademarks and generated goodwill and brands, is recognized in licenses is capitalized and amortized using the the Consolidated Statement of Income as incurred. straight-line method over their useful lives, but not exceeding 8 years, or 11 years in case of trademarks. Amortization methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and Other intangible assets adjusted if appropriate. Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognized as an expense as Intangible assets with an indefinite use or that are incurred. Development costs that are directly not depreciated are tested annually for impairment. attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognized as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: • it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use; • management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it; • there is an ability to use or sell the software product; Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 23 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 117 Marel – Annual Report 2017 2.12 Impairment of non-financial assets or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized. Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for 2.13 Financial instruments impairment. Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or Financial instruments other than derivatives changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying The Group classifies its financial assets and liabilities amount may not be recoverable. Non-financial in the following categories: financial assets at fair assets other than goodwill that suffer impairment value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity are reviewed for possible reversal of the financial assets, loans and receivables and impairment at each reporting date. Assets held for available-for-sale financial assets. The classification sale which are valued at fair value, are reviewed at depends on the purpose for which the financial each reporting date. instruments were acquired. Management At each reporting date, the Group reviews the determines the classification at initial recognition. carrying amounts of its non-financial assets (other than inventories and deferred tax assets) to Financial assets at fair value through profit or determine whether there is any indication of loss impairment. If any such indication exists, then the A financial asset is classified at fair value through asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill is profit or loss if it is classified as held for trading or is tested annually for impairment. designated as such upon initial recognition. Financial assets are designated at fair value through For impairment testing, assets are grouped profit or loss if the Group manages such together into the smallest group of assets that investments and makes purchase and sale decisions generates cash inflows from continuing use that are based on their fair value in accordance with the largely independent of the cash inflows of other Group’s documented risk management or assets or CGUs. Goodwill arising from business investment strategy. Upon initial recognition, combinations is allocated to CGUs or groups of attributable transaction costs are recognized in the CGUs that are expected to benefit from the Consolidated Statement of Income as incurred. synergies of the combination. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the recognized in the Consolidated Statement of greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs Income. If the Group has the positive intent and to sell. Value in use is based on the estimated future ability to hold debt securities to maturity, then such cash flows, discounted to their present value using financial assets are classified as held-to-maturity. a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the Held-to-maturity financial assets risks specific to the asset or CGU. When the Group has the intent and ability to hold debt securities to maturity, then such financial An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying assets are classified as held to maturity. Held-toamount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable maturity financial assets are recognized initially at amount. fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, held-toImpairment losses are recognized in the maturity financial assets are measured at amortized Consolidated Statement of Income. They are cost using the effective interest method, less any allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any impairment losses. Any sale or reclassification of a goodwill allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce more than insignificant amount of held-to-maturity the carrying amounts of the other assets in the CGU investments not close to their maturity would result on a pro rata basis. in the reclassification of all held-to-maturity investments as available for sale, and prevent the An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not Group from classifying investment securities as held reversed. For other assets, an impairment loss is to maturity for the current and the following two reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying financial years. amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 24 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 118 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Loans and receivables flow analysis refined to reflect the issuer’s specific Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with circumstances. fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in The fair value of investments that are not traded in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 an active market is determined by using valuation months after the reporting date. These are techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods classified as non-current assets. The Group’s and makes assumptions that are based on market receivables comprise ‘trade receivables’ and ‘cash conditions existing at each reporting date. Further and cash equivalents’ in the Consolidated information is included in note 22. Statement of Financial Position and are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at Impairment of financial assets amortized cost using the effective interest method. The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a Cash and cash equivalents group of financial assets is impaired. In the case of Cash and cash equivalents can include cash on equity securities classified as available for sale, a hand, deposits held at call with banks and other significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of short-term highly liquid investments with original the security below its cost is considered as an maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts indicator that the securities are impaired. If any are shown within borrowings in current liabilities such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial on the Consolidated Statement of Financial assets, the cumulative loss – measured as the Position. difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that Available-for-sale financial assets financial asset previously recognized in profit or Available-for-sale financial assets are nonloss – is removed from Equity and recognized in the derivatives that are either designated in this Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income category or not classified in any of the other for the period. Impairment losses recognized in the categories. They are recognized initially at fair value Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and included in non-current assets unless for the period on equity instruments are not management intends to dispose of the investment reversed through the Consolidated Statement of within 12 months of the reporting date. Comprehensive Income for the period. Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are The carrying value less impairment provision of recognized on trade-date, the date on which the trade receivables is assumed to approximate their Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. fair values due to the short-term nature of trade Investments are initially recognized at fair value receivables. The fair value of financial liabilities for plus transaction costs for all financial assets not disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the carried at fair value through profit or loss. Financial future contractual cash flows at the current market assets are derecognized when the rights to receive interest rate that is available to the Group for similar cash flows from the investments have expired or financial instruments. have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of Non-derivative financial liabilities ownership. Available-for-sale financial assets are Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially subsequently carried at fair value. recognized at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial Fair value measurement recognition, these liabilities are measured at The fair values of quoted assets are based on amortized cost using the effective interest method. current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active (and for unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same and discounted cash Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 25 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 119 Marel – Annual Report 2017 2.14 Derivative financial instruments and Equity. The profit or loss relating to the ineffective hedging activities portion is recognized immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Income within Finance Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on income or Finance costs. the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently revaluated at their fair value. Amounts accumulated in Equity are recycled in the Embedded derivatives are separated from the host Consolidated Statement of Income for the period in contract and accounted for separately if the the periods when the hedged item affects profit or economic characteristics and risk of the host loss. contract and the embedded derivative are not directly closely related. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial The method of recognizing the resulting gain or asset (for example, inventory or non-current assets) loss depends on whether the derivative is the gains and losses previously deferred in Equity designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the are transferred from Equity and included in the nature of the item being hedged. initial measurement of the cost of the asset. The The Group designates certain derivatives as either: deferred amounts are ultimately recognized in cost • Hedges of a particular risk associated with a of goods sold in case of inventory or in depreciation recognized asset or liability or a highly in case of non-current assets. probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge); or When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or • Hedges of a net investment in a foreign when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for operation (net investment hedge); or hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss • Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss existing in Equity at that time remains in equity and are accounted for at fair value through profit is recognized when the forecast transaction is or loss. ultimately recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income. When a forecast transaction The Group documents at the inception of the is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain transaction the relationship between hedging or loss that was reported in Equity is immediately instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk transferred to the Consolidated Statement of management objectives and strategy for Income within Finance income or Finance costs. undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at (b) Net investment hedge hedge inception and on an on-going basis, of Hedges of net investments in foreign operations whether the derivatives that are used in hedging are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any transactions are highly effective in offsetting gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in items. Other Income and presented in the Hedge reserve in Equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective Movements on the hedge reserve in Equity are portion is recognized immediately in the shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes Consolidated Statement of Income within Finance in Equity. The full fair value of a hedging derivative income or Finance costs. is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than 12 months Gains and losses accumulated in Equity are and as a current asset or liability when the included in the Consolidated Statement of Income remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than when the foreign operation is partially disposed of 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as or sold. current asset or liabilities. (a) Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in Other Comprehensive Income and presented in the Hedge reserve in Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 26 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 120 Marel – Annual Report 2017 (c) Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 2.17 Share capital are accounted for at fair value through profit or Ordinary shares are classified as Equity. loss Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for of new shares or stock options are shown in hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any Shareholders' equity as a deduction, net of tax, from of these derivative instruments are recognized the proceeds. immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Income within Finance income or Finance costs. When any Group company purchases the 2.15 Inventories Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly Inventories are measured at the lower of historical attributable incremental costs (net of income cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined taxes), is deducted from Equity attributable to the using the weighted average method and an Company's shareholders until the shares are adjustment to net realizable value is considered for cancelled or reissued. Repurchased shares are items, which have not moved during the last 12 classified as treasury shares and are presented in months. The cost of finished goods and work in the treasury share reserve. Where such shares are progress comprise raw materials, direct labor, other subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration direct costs and related production overhead based received, net of any directly attributable on normal operating capacity but exclude incremental transaction costs and the related borrowing costs. income tax effects is included within Share premium. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of Private placements need to be approved by the completion and any applicable variable selling shareholders at the Company‘s Annual General expenses. Meeting. Based on such resolution, where the 2.16 Assets held for sale shareholders waive their pre-emptive rights, the Board of Directors can approve for a private Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising placement. assets and liabilities, are classified as held-for-sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered 2.18 Provisions primarily through sale rather than through Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims continuing use. are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, Such assets, or disposal groups, are measured at the it is probable that an outflow of resources will be lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to required to settle the obligation and the amount sell. Any impairment loss on a disposal group is can be reliably estimated. A provision for allocated first to goodwill, and then to remaining restructuring is recognized when the Group has assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, and the restructuring either has commenced or has deferred tax assets, employee benefits and been announced publicly. Restructuring provisions investment property, which continue to be comprise lease termination penalties and employee measured in accordance with the Group’s other termination payments. Provisions are not accounting policies. Impairment losses on initial recognized for future operating losses. classification as held-for sale and subsequent gains or losses on re-measurement are recognized in the The Group provides a guarantee on certain Consolidated Statement of Income. products and undertakes to repair or replace items that fail to perform satisfactorily. If the Group Once classified as assets held-for-sale, intangible expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example assets and property, plant and equipment are no under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is longer amortized or depreciated. recognized as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 27 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 121 Marel – Annual Report 2017 A provision for guarantee commitments is Marel will adopt IFRS 16 Leases as well on 1 January recognized when the underlying product and 2018. The transition approach for IFRS 16 is the services are sold based on historical warranty data cumulative catch up approach, as a result there is and a weighting of possible outcomes against their no impact on Retained earnings as at 1 January associated probabilities. Provisions are measured at 2018. the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax The estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 and rate that reflects current market assessments of the IFRS 15, as per 1 January 2018, on the Group’s time value of money and the risks specific to the equity as at 1 January 2018 is based on assessments obligation. The increase in the provision due to undertaken to date and is summarized below. passage of time is recognized as interest expense. 31 2.19 New standards and standards issued but December 1 January not yet effective 2017 1) IFRS 9 2) IFRS 15 3) 2018 4) Standards, amendments and interpretations to Retained earnings 313.9 4.1 (8.9) 309.1 existing standards that are not yet effective have 1) Retained earnings as presented in the Consolidated Statement not been early adopted by the Group. of Financial Position. 2) Estimated adjustments due to adoption of IFRS 9. 3) There were standards or amendments to existing Estimated adjustments due to adoption of IFRS 15. 4) Estimated adjusted opening balance at 1 January 2018. standards which had an effective date as of 1 January 2017. As part of the International The total estimated adjustment, net of tax, to the Accounting Standards Board Disclosure Initiative, opening balance of the Group’s equity at amendments to IAS 7 require disclosure that 1 January 2018 amounts to EUR 4.8 million enables users of financial statements to evaluate (decrease of Retained earnings). The principal changes in liabilities arising from financing components of the estimated adjustments are as activities, including both changes arising from cash follows: flow and non-cash changes. • IFRS 9: An increase in Retained earnings of EUR 3.7 million relating to modifications in the The following new standards apply to the Group’s Group’s loan facilities and an increase in Consolidated Financial Statements for the annual Retained earnings of EUR 0.4 million as a result periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The of a reduction in the impairment of Trade Group has not early adopted the following new receivables. standards in preparing these Consolidated • IFRS 15: A decrease in Retained earnings of Financial Statements: EUR 3.0 million due to later recognition of • IFRS 9 Financial instruments (1 January 2018). revenues (and some associated costs) for • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with standard equipment and a decrease in Customers (1 January 2018). Retained earnings of EUR 5.9 million due to • IFRS 16 Leases (1 January 2019). alignment of margins for all phases of the complete system or solution. Estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 and Further details on the estimated adjustments are IFRS 15 presented below. The Group is required to adopt IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 January 2018. The Group has assessed the estimated impact that the initial application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, as described below, will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 28 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 122 Marel – Annual Report 2017 IFRS 9 Financial instruments Under IFRS 9, loss allowances will be measured In July 2014 the International Accounting Standards based on the ECLs that result from all possible Board (“IASB”) issued the final version of IFRS 9 default events over the expected life of a financial Financial Instruments which has been endorsed by instrument. Marel’s financial assets are currently the European Union. The new version, with minor limited to trade receivables and contract assets amendments in 2017, includes revised without significant financing components and are requirements for the classification and as such always impaired based on lifetime ECLs. measurement of financial assets and liabilities and regulations on the impairment of financial The Group expects impairments losses to remain at instruments; with the new expected credit loss similar levels as they are currently going forward, (“ECL”) model losses are recognized earlier because although they become more volatile for assets in both existing and expected losses are recognized. the scope of the IFRS 9 impairment model. Based on the impairment methodology described below, The standard is effective for financial reporting the Group has estimated that application of IFRS 9’s periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018; impairment requirements at 1 January 2018 results earlier application is permitted. In general the new in a reduction of impairment losses of regulations must be applied retrospectively, but EUR 0.4 million for Trade receivables. various transition options are allowed. IFRS 9 contains a new classification and Impairment – Trade and other receivables, measurement approach for financial assets and including contract assets liabilities that reflects the business model in which The estimated ECLs were calculated based on assets are managed and their cash flow actual credit loss experience over the past five characteristics. years. The Group takes a holistic view of it financial assets and applies the same expected credit loss IFRS 9 contains three principal classification rate over all Trade receivables. categories for financial assets: measured at amortized cost, Fair Value Through Other The Group estimated that application of IFRS 9’s Comprehensive Income (“FVOCI”) and Fair Value impairment requirements at 1 January 2018 results Through Profit and Loss (“FVTPL”). The standard in a decrease of EUR 0.4 million over the eliminates the existing IAS 39 categories of held to impairment recognized under IAS 39. The following maturity, loans and receivables and available for table provides information about the estimated sale. exposure to credit risk and ECLs for Trade and Other receivables, including contract assets as at 1 Based on its assessment, the Group does not January 2018. believe that the new classification requirements will have a material impact on its accounting for trade Estimated receivables but will affect the carrying amount of gross Weighted Estimated borrowings as modifications of financing facilities carrying average loss will be accounted for differently under IFRS 9, amount loss rate allowance which will have impact on the modification, as Current (not past due) 82.6 0.08% (0.1) performed in 2017, of the Group’s financing facility. 1–30 days past due 22.0 0.33% (0.1) Impairment – Financial assets and contract 31–60 days past due 7.1 0.88% (0.1) assets 61–90 days past due 3.7 1.85% (0.1) IFRS 9 replaces the ‘incurred loss’ model in IAS 39 More than 90 days past due 19.8 8.55% (1.7) with a forward-looking expected credit loss model. 135.2 (2.1) This will require considerable judgement about how changes in economic factors affect ECLs, which will be determined on a probability-weighted basis. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 29 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 123 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Impairment – Cash and cash equivalents Transition The majority of cash and cash equivalents are held During the adoption of IFRS 9 the Group will take with bank and financial institution counterparties, advantage of the exemption allowing it not to which have a rating of A, based on Standard & restate comparative information for prior periods Poor’s ratings as at 31 December 2017. Marel holds with respect to classification and measurement majority of its cash and cash equivalents with (including impairment) changes. Differences in the financial institutions that are lending partners to carrying amounts of financial assets and financial the Group to minimize further credit risks. liabilities resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 will generally be recognized in Retained earnings and The Group does not expect any impairment on cash reserves as at 1 January 2018. and cash equivalents as the Group considers that its cash and cash equivalents have low credit risk IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers based on the external credit ratings of the In May 2014 the IASB issued the new standard IFRS counterparties. 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, endorsed by the European Union in September Classification – Financial liabilities 2016. The purpose of the new standard on revenue IFRS 9 largely retains the existing requirements in recognition is to bring together the large number IAS 39 for the classification of financial liabilities. of existing guidelines contained in various However, under IAS 39 all fair value changes of standards and interpretations. At the same time it derivative liabilities designated as at FVTPL are establishes uniform core principles to be applied to recognized in profit or loss, whereas under IFRS 9 all industries and all types of revenue transactions. these fair value changes are generally presented as A 5-step model is used to determine at which point follows: in time or over which period of time revenues are to • the amount of change in the fair value that is be recognized and in what amount. The standard attributable to changes in the credit risk of the also includes further detailed guidance and liability is presented in OCI; and, extended disclosure requirements. • the remaining amount of change in the fair value is presented in profit or loss. The standard is effective for financial reporting Under IFRS 9, entities will have to account for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Marel modifications and revisions on its financial liabilities has decided not to opt for early application of IFRS and report any (expected) gain or loss as a result in 15. The transition guidance of IFRS 15 permits a full the Statement of Income at the day of modification retrospective or a modified retrospective approach or revision. IFRS 9 transition requires a retrospective on initial application. application and as a result of the modification of the borrowings of 5 May 2017 the Group will The new standard is based on the principle that recognize an adjustment in Retained earnings in revenue is recognized when or as control of a good the opening balance sheet of 1 January 2018. This or service is transferred to a customer. will increase Retained earnings by EUR 3.7 million and reduce the carrying amount of borrowings by Sales of goods EUR 4.9 million. Revenue is recognized under IAS 18 and IAS 11 when the related risks and rewards of the goods or The Group’s assessment did not indicate any other services are transferred to the customer. Hence material impact regarding the classification of revenues are recognized at a point in time or over financial liabilities at 1 January 2018. time depending on the contractual arrangement with the customer. Hedge accounting When initially applying IFRS 9, the Group may In Marel’s business model, sales of goods relates to choose as its accounting policy to continue to apply sales of standard equipment and sales of complete the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 solutions or systems. instead of the requirements in IFRS 9. The Group has chosen to continue to apply the requirements of IAS 39. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 30 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 124 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Standard equipment requires no or minor Under IFRS 15, the total consideration in the service modifications as requested by customers. Sales of contracts will be allocated to all services based on complete solutions or systems require significant their stand-alone selling prices. The stand-alone modifications either requested by the customer or selling prices will be determined based on the list required to fulfill the customer’s needs. Under IFRS prices at which the Group sells the services in 15 revenue will be recognized when or as the separate transactions. Revenue relating to customer obtains control of the goods or services. maintenance services is recognized over time although the customer pays up-front in full for Revenues for standard equipment, currently these services. A contract liability is recognized for accounted for by the percentage of completion revenue relating to the maintenance services at the method in accordance with IAS 11, will have to be time of the initial sales transaction and is recognized later, as the IFRS 15 criteria for revenue recognized as revenue over the service period. recognition over time are not met. The estimated impact on Retained earnings at 1 January 2018 as a Based on the Group's assessment, the fair value and result of changes for standard equipment at that the stand-alone selling prices of the services are date is a decrease of EUR 3.0 million. broadly similar. Therefore, the Group does not expect the application of IFRS 15 to result in For the sale of complete solutions or systems, significant differences in the timing of revenue revenue is currently recognized over time. Revenue recognition for these services. is recognized as the Group manufactures the equipment. Under IFRS 15, the recognition of Commissions revenue for these categories will not change. Under The Group will apply the practical expedient in IFRS 15, all these complete solutions or systems are relation to the incremental costs of obtaining a deemed to not have an alternative use and Marel contract. The Group will recognize the incremental has an enforceable right to payment and therefore costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when related revenues will be recognized over time. incurred if the amortization period of the asset that the entity otherwise would have recognized is one Based on the Group’s assessment, the current year or less. Costs for obtaining a contract for which accounting practice of the Group for complete the contract exceeds one year will be capitalized solutions or systems is in line with IFRS 15 guidance. and amortized. Therefore the Group does not expect the application of IFRS 15 to result in differences in the Based on the Group’s assessment, the commissions timing of revenue recognition for such solutions or are not expected to result in significant differences systems. Under IFRS 15, complete solutions or in recognition of revenues nor costs. systems should have a similar margin for all components of the solution or system. As a result of Transition the adoption of IFRS 15 Marel will align the margins The Group intends to adopt the IFRS 15 standard for all phases of the solution or systems, which will using the modified retrospective approach which result in deferral of margins. The estimated impact means that the cumulative impact of the adoption on Retained earnings at 1 January 2018 as a result will be recognized in Retained earnings as of 1 of alignment of margins is a decrease of January 2018 and that comparatives will not be EUR 5.9 million. restated. Rendering of services The Group has also opted for the following practical The Group is involved in manufacturing of expedient: to apply the new IFRS 15 standard to equipment, as well as performing related only those contracts that are not considered maintenance services to the equipment. If the completed contracts under current standards at the services under a single arrangement are rendered date of initial application. in different reporting periods, then the consideration is allocated on a relative fair value basis between the different services. Revenue is currently recognized using the percentage of completion method. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 31 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 125 Marel – Annual Report 2017 IFRS 16 Leases As at 1 January 2018, the estimated additional In January 2016 the IASB issued the new standard assets and liabilities on the Statement of Financial IFRS 16 Leases, which is to replace the current lease Position will be in the region of EUR 36 million. In standard IAS 17, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an addition, the nature of expenses related to those Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC 15 Operating leases will now change as IFRS 16 replaces the Leases – Incentives and SIC 27 Evaluating the straight-line operating lease expense with a Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and of a Lease. The European Union has endorsed the interest expense on lease liabilities. The expected standard in October 2017. impact of the change is an increase of EUR 1.0 million in 2018 of total costs, mostly in the form of Apply of the new standard is mandatory for increased interest expenses. financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group will apply early adoption of this The Group does not expect the adoption of IFRS 16 standard and start reporting as of 1 January 2018. to impact its ability to comply with the revised maximum leverage threshold loan covenants. IFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees. A lessee recognizes a Transition right-of-use asset representing its right to use the As a lessee, the Group can either apply the standard underlying asset and a lease liability representing using a: its obligation to make lease payments. There are • Retrospective approach; or recognition exemptions for short-term leases and • Cumulative catch up approach with optional leases of low-value items. practical expedients. The lessee has to apply the election consistently to The Group has completed a detailed assessment of all of its leases. the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements. The Group will apply IFRS 16 initially on 1 January 2018, using the cumulative catch up approach and The most significant impact identified is that the measuring the amounts equal to liability at Group will recognize new assets and liabilities for its adoption, with no restatement of comparative operating leases of office buildings and vehicles information. The current requirement to differentiate between finance leases and operating leases under IAS 17 will therefore no longer apply for lessees. Under IFRS 16 for all leases the lessee must recognize a lease liability on the Statement of Financial Position in the present value of future lease payments of the respective lease plus directly allocated costs and at the same time recognize a corresponding right of use to the underlying asset. Over the term of the lease, the lease liability is adjusted using financial mathematics methods – similar to the rules for finance leases under the current IAS 17 – and the right of use is depreciated. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 32 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 126 Marel – Annual Report 2017 3 Critical accounting estimates The Group recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether and assumptions additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax Estimates and judgements are continuously outcome of these matters is different from the evaluated and are based on historical experience amounts that were initially recorded, such and other factors, including expectations of future differences will impact the income tax and deferred events that are believed to be reasonable under the tax provisions in the period in which such circumstances. The Group makes estimates and determination is made. assumptions concerning the future. The actual (d) Fair value of derivatives and other financial results will, by definition, seldom be exactly equal instruments to the related accounting estimates used. The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-theThe estimates and assumptions that have a counter derivatives) is determined by using significant risk of causing a material adjustment to valuation techniques. The Group uses its judgment the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within to select a variety of methods and make the next financial year are discussed below. assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. The (a) Purchase price adjustments Group uses discounted cash flow analysis for Acquisitions by Marel as part of business available-for-sale financial assets that are not combinations, which will be accounted for by the traded in active markets. acquisition method, will result in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts (e) Capitalized development cost assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are The recoverability of the capitalized development based on assumptions and estimates about their cost is tested regularly and is subject to the annual fair values. In making these estimates, management impairment tests, to verify if expected future consulted independent, qualified appraisers, if economic benefits justify the values captured in the appropriate. A change in assumptions and intangible fixed assets. The Group uses discounted estimates could change the values allocated to cash flow analysis for this purpose. certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the Consolidated Statement of Income, such as (f) Revenue recognition amortization of intangible assets. The Group uses the percentage of completion method in accounting for its revenues for production contracts. Use of the percentage of (b) Estimated impairment completion method requires the Group to estimate The Group annually tests whether the financial and the stage of completion to date as a proportion of non-financial assets, including goodwill, were the total work to be performed. impaired in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.11 and 2.12. The recoverable In the following table the book values of the assets amounts of CGU have been determined based on and liabilities which include an element of value in use calculation. These calculations require estimation are disclosed. the use of estimates (note 13). 2017 2016 (c) Income taxes and deferred income taxes Notes Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in Goodwill 13 643.9 635.2 determining the worldwide provision for income Other intangible assets 13 262.7 277.5 taxes. There are many transactions and calculations Current and deferred income taxes 15 4.4 72.3 7.3 72.6 for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Financial instruments 22 0.9 2.7 0.4 4.9 Production contracts 17 48.2 209.6 37.0 150.8 Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 33 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 127 Marel – Annual Report 2017 4 Acquisitions Under IFRS 3, up to one year from the acquisition date, the initial accounting for business 2017 combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect new Sulmaq Industrial e Comercial S.A. information that is obtained about facts and On 25 July 2017, Marel has signed an agreement to circumstances that existed as of the acquisition acquire 100% of the shares of Sulmaq Industrial e date and, if known, would have affected the Comercial S.A. (“Sulmaq”) from a consortium of measurement of the amounts recognized as of that shareholders. Sulmaq is domiciled in Brazil. The date. As a result of such adjustments the values of closing of the acquisition of Sulmaq took place on assets and liabilities recognized may change in the 31 August 2017. one-year period from the acquisition date. Sulmaq is involved in development of projects and The Purchase Price Allocation of Sulmaq has not yet supply of complete slaughtering, deboning and been finalized as we are still in the process of industrialized equipment lines for hog, cattle and finalizing the valuation of Property, plant and sheep processors according to each customer’s equipment. Expectation is that the Purchase Price needs and operates in Brazil and internationally. Allocation will be finalized in the first half of 2018. The acquisition enhances Marel’s position as a leading global provider of advanced equipment The following table summarizes the consideration and solutions to the Poultry, Meat and Fish paid for Sulmaq, the recognized provisional industries and is fully in line with the Company’s amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed previously announced growth strategy. This step at the acquisition date. supports Marel’s full line offering in the meat processing industry. 2017 Property, plant and equipment 6.5 In accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, Other intangible assets 3.7 the purchase price of Sulmaq was allocated to Inventories 6.1 identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Trade and other receivables, current and non-current 5.5 Provisional goodwill amounted to EUR 12.6 million Other receivables and prepayments 0.5 and is allocated to the Meat segment. The resulting Cash and cash equivalents 5.8 goodwill from this acquisition is primarily related to Assets acquired 28.1 the strategic (and cultural) fit of Sulmaq and Marel with highly complementary product portfolios and Long-term debt, current and non-current 5.0 geographic presence, new customers and Deferred and other tax liabilities 1.7 synergies. The goodwill is not expected to be Provisions, current and non-current 0.6 deductible for income tax purposes. Trade and other payables 7.4 Liabilities assumed 14.7 Sulmaq contributed EUR 9.1 million to revenues Total net identified assets 13.4 and affected result from operation positively. Consideration paid in cash for the transaction on 31 August 2017 26.0 Consideration transferred 26.0 The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets of Provisional goodwill on acquisition 12.6 EUR 13.4 million primarily relates to identified customer relationships. Amortization of identified Amortization of acquisition-related intangible intangible assets amounted to EUR 0.2 million from assets relate to the following lines in the the period from acquisition to 31 December 2017. Consolidated Statement of Income: The order backlog will be fully amortized before the end of 2018, the brand names will be amortized 2017 before the end of 2019 and the other identified Cost of sales 0.1 intangible assets will be amortized in 20 years. Selling and marketing expenses 0.1 Research and development expenses 0.0 0.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 34 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 128 Marel – Annual Report 2017 2016 Amortization of acquisition related (in)tangible MPS Holding III B.V. assets relate to the following lines in the On 29 January 2016 Marel concluded the Consolidated Statement of Income: acquisition of MPS Holding III B.V. (“MPS”) and obtained control through acquiring 100% of the 2017 2016 issued shares of MPS. Cost of sales 8.2 15.2 Selling and marketing expenses 2.7 6.9 MPS is a subsidiary of Marel Holding B.V. The Research and development expenses 6.0 2.5 purchase price was EUR 368 million on a debt-free General and administrative expenses 0.0 and cash-free basis. 16.9 24.6 MPS is a leading company in primary processing solutions for the pork and beef industry as well as in EUR 8.2 million (2016: EUR 15.2 million) related to innovative solutions in waste water treatment and the fair value lift up on the order back log, food logistics. The acquisition enhanced Marel’s EUR 8.7 million (2016: EUR 9.4 million) to position as a leading global provider of advanced amortization of identified intangible assets and a equipment and solutions to the Poultry, Meat and tax effect of EUR 4.2 million (2016: EUR 6.1 million). Fish industries and is fully in line with the The order backlog was fully amortized mid 2017, Company’s previously announced growth strategy. the brand names have been amortized before the This acquisition strengthened and complemented end of 2016 and the other identified intangible Marel’s full line offering in the meat processing assets will be amortized in 20 years. industry. The following table summarizes the major classes In accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, of consideration transferred, and recognized the purchase price of MPS was allocated to amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill at the acquisition date. amounted to EUR 246 million. The resulting goodwill from this acquisition is primarily related to 2016 the strategic (and cultural) fit of MPS and Marel with Property, plant and equipment 18.0 highly complementary product portfolios and Other intangible assets 199.0 geographic presence. The value of goodwill and Inventories 16.7 intangible assets acquired was high for the above Trade and other receivables 22.2 mentioned reasons. The goodwill is not tax Cash and cash equivalents 18.4 deductible. Assets acquired 274.3 Long-term debt, current and non-current 92.8 In November 2015, the Group entered into a new Deferred and other tax liabilities 51.2 EUR 670 million facilities agreement with eight Production contracts 43.6 international banks, led by ING bank, Rabobank and Provisions, current and non-current 9.5 ABN AMRO. The terms and conditions are generally Trade and other payables 27.7 in line with Loan Market Association corporate Liabilities assumed 224.8 standards. The new facility was utilized to repay the previous facility from 2010 as well as providing Total net identified assets 49.5 funds for the acquisition of MPS. The facility Consideration paid in cash for the transaction on 29 January 2016 295.1 converted the previous facility into an all senior Consideration transferred 295.1 facility, extended the term to 2020 as well as Goodwill on acquisition 245.6 provided funds for the acquisition of MPS. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 35 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 129 Marel – Annual Report 2017 5 Segment information Results are monitored and managed at the operating segment level, up to the result from Operating segments operations. The Group’s CEO reviews the internal The identified operating segments comprise the management reports of each segment on a three industries, which are the reporting segments. monthly basis. Fluctuations between quarters are These operating segments form the basis for mainly due to timing of receiving orders and managerial decision taking. The following summary completion of orders. Decisions on tax and describes the operations in each of the Group’s financing structures including cash and cash reportable segments: equivalents are taken at a corporate level, therefore • Poultry processing: Our poultry processing no financial income and expenses nor tax are product range offers integrated systems for allocated to the operating segments. The profit or processing broilers, turkeys and ducks; loss per operating segment is the adjusted result • Meat processing: Our Meat Industry specializes from operations (before amortization of in the key processes of slaughtering, deboning acquisition-related (in)tangible assets); finance and trimming, case ready food service and costs and taxes are reported in the column Total. bacon processing; • Fish processing: Marel provides advanced Intercompany transactions are entered into at arm’s equipment and systems for salmon and length terms and conditions comparable to those whitefish processing, both farmed and wild, available to unrelated parties. Information on assets onboard and ashore; per operating segment is reported; however, • The 'Others' segment includes any revenues, decisions on liabilities are taken at a corporate level result from operations and assets which do not and as such are not included in this disclosure. belong to the three core industries. The reporting entities are reporting their revenues per operating segment based on the industry for which the customer is using Marel’s product range. Therefore inter-segment revenues do not exist, only intercompany revenues within the same segment. 2017 Poultry Meat Fish Others Total Third Party Revenues 560.2 334.4 132.3 11.3 1,038.2 Adjusted result from operations 109.5 38.5 5.6 3.8 157.4 Amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible assets (17.1) Result from operations 140.3 Finance costs net (20.3) Result before income tax 120.0 Income tax (23.1) Net result for the period 96.9 Assets 640.3 642.4 115.8 42.1 1,440.6 Depreciation and amortization (19.7) (26.3) (5.6) (51.6) Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 36 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 130 Marel – Annual Report 2017 2016 Poultry Meat Fish Others Total Third Party Revenues 514.2 320.4 127.1 8.0 969.7 Adjusted result from operations 85.3 47.8 3.9 2.4 139.4 Amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible assets (24.6) Result from operations 114.8 Finance costs net (25.4) Result before income tax 89.4 Income tax (13.6) Net result for the period 75.8 Assets 670.9 560.2 106.0 55.3 1,392.4 Depreciation and amortization (19.3) (36.0) (5.3) (0.1) (60.7) Of which Impairments (2.2) (3.1) (0.2) (5.5) Geographical information Capital expenditure 2017 2016 The Group’s three operating segments operate in Iceland 7.6 6.9 four main geographical areas, even though they are The Netherlands 27.9 24.1 managed on a global basis. The home country of Europe other 16.5 7.1 the Group is Iceland. The three main operating North America 5.1 5.6 companies are located in Iceland and The Other countries 0.8 0.6 Netherlands, however, these companies realize 57.9 44.3 most of their revenues in other countries. The other main operating company in the United States of America is realizing most of their revenues in North America. Within the segments and within the operating companies Marel is not relying on major customers. Revenues, allocated based on country where the customer is located 2017 2016 Iceland 7.2 7.7 The Netherlands 33.6 30.9 Europe other 459.7 444.6 North America 291.7 268.9 Other countries 246.0 217.6 1,038.2 969.7 Total assets excluding Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 Iceland 118.0 117.4 The Netherlands 939.5 935.5 Europe other 146.9 121.8 North America 138.4 150.9 Other countries 65.9 21.3 1,408.7 1,346.9 Total assets exclude the Group’s cash pool which the Group manages at corporate level. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 37 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 131 Marel – Annual Report 2017 6 Expenses by nature and 8 Staff costs Adjusted result from Employee benefit expenses 2017 2016 operations Salaries and wages 306.2 284.4 Social security contributions 35.2 34.9 2017 2016 Expenses related to equity-settled share-based Cost of goods sold 359.8 338.7 payments 0.6 0.3 Employee benefits 363.9 339.5 Post retirement costs 21.9 19.9 Depreciation and amortization 51.6 60.7 363.9 339.5 Maintenance and rent of buildings and equipment 16.6 15.2 Other 106.0 100.8 The employee benefit expenses relate to 897.9 854.9 employees who are working on the payroll of Marel, both with permanent and temporary contracts. Management has presented Adjusted result from operations as performance measure in the Employee benefit expenses are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Income and believes Consolidated Statement of Income as follows: that this measure is relevant to an understanding of the Group’s financial performance. Adjusted result 2017 2016 from operations is calculated by adjusting Result Cost of sales 164.0 153.1 from operations to exclude the impact of Selling and marketing expenses 93.5 87.6 amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible Research and development expenses 59.6 52.3 assets. General and administrative expenses 46.8 46.5 363.9 339.5 Adjusted result from operations is not a defined performance measure in IFRS. The Group’s definition of Adjusted Result from operations may For further information on post-employment not be comparable with similarly titled benefit costs, see note 21 performance measures and disclosures by other entities. For details on the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors and the CEO, see note 26. 7 Net Finance costs The average number of employees in FTEs per cost 2017 2016 category is summarized as follows: Interest on borrowings (12.8) (20.7) Employees in FTEs 2017 2016 Interest on finance leases (0.0) (0.0) Cost of sales 2,380 2,248 Other finance expenses (4.9) (5.3) Selling and marketing expenses 1,028 957 Net foreign exchange transaction losses (3.5) Research and development expenses 446 416 Subtotal Finance costs (21.2) (26.0) General and administrative expenses 651 621 Finance income: Employees 4,505 4,242 Interest income 0.9 0.5 3rd party workers 407 357 Net foreign exchange transaction gains 0.1 4,912 4,599 Subtotal Finance income 0.9 0.6 Net Finance costs (20.3) (25.4) Employees consist of those persons working on the payroll of Marel and whose costs are reflected in the Employee benefit expenses table above. 3rd party workers consist of personnel hired on a perperiod basis, via external companies. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 38 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 132 Marel – Annual Report 2017 9 Fees to Auditors 11 Earnings per share The table below shows the fees to KPMG Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing attributable to the fiscal years 2016 and 2017. the net profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in 2017 2016 issue during the period, excluding ordinary shares Financial Statement audit fees 0.7 0.7 purchased by the Company and held as treasury Other fees, including tax services 0.2 0.1 shares. 0.9 0.8 Basic earnings per share (EUR cent per share) 2017 2016 10 Income tax Net result attributable to Shareholders 96.8 75.7 Weighted average number of outstanding Income tax recognized in the Consolidated shares in issue (millions) 706.6 715.4 Statement of Income 2017 2016 Current tax (24.4) (15.2) Basic earnings per share (EUR cent per share) 13.70 10.59 Deferred tax 1.3 1.6 (23.1) (13.6) The diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary The tax on the Group's profit before tax differs from shares outstanding to assume conversion of all the theoretical amount that would arise using the dilutive potential ordinary shares. weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of the consolidated companies as follows: The Company has one category of dilutive potential ordinary shares: stock options. For the stock options Reconciliation of effective income a calculation is done to determine the number of tax 2017 % 2016 % shares that could have been acquired at fair value Result before income tax 120.0 89.4 (determined as the average annual market share Income tax using Icelandic rate (24.0) 20.0 (17.9) 20.0 price of the Company’s shares) based on the Effect of tax rates in other jurisdictions (8.1) 6.8 (4.6) 5.1 monetary value of the subscription rights attached Weighted average applicable tax (32.1) 26.7 (22.5) 25.1 to outstanding stock options. The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number Foreign exchange effect Iceland (0.4) 0.3 1.2 (1.3) of shares that would have been issued assuming Research and development tax the exercise of the stock options. incentives 5.1 (4.2) 5.6 (6.1) Permanent differences 0.2 (0.2) 0.4 (0.5) Diluted earnings per share (EUR cent) 2017 2016 Tax losses (un)recognized (0.1) 0.1 0.0 Net result attributable to Shareholders 96.8 75.7 (Impairment)/reversal of tax losses 0.3 (0.2) 0.8 (0.9) Weighted average number of outstanding Effect of tax rate changes 1.1 (0.9) 0.3 (0.4) shares in issue (millions) 706.6 715.4 Others 2.8 (2.3) 0.6 (0.7) Tax charge included in the profit or Adjustments for stock options (millions) 3.8 3.5 loss for the period (23.1) 19.3 (13.6) 15.2 Weighted average number of outstanding shares for diluted earnings per share The Group believes that its accruals for tax liabilities (millions) 710.4 718.9 are adequate for all open tax years based on its Diluted earnings per share (EUR cent per share) 13.63 10.54 assessment of many factors, including interpretations of tax laws and prior experience. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 39 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 133 Marel – Annual Report 2017 12 Property, plant and equipment Land & Plant & Under conVehicles & buildings machinery struction equipment Total At 1 January 2017 Cost 130.1 93.4 1.6 41.0 266.1 Accumulated depreciation (41.8) (69.8) (35.5) (147.1) Net book value 88.3 23.6 1.6 5.5 119.0 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book value 88.3 23.6 1.6 5.5 119.0 Divestments (0.1) 0.0 (0.3) (0.4) Effect of movements in exchange rates (1.4) (0.7) (0.1) (0.3) (2.5) Additions 2.6 5.3 23.3 2.8 34.0 Business combinations, note 4 6.5 6.5 Transfer between categories 4.2 0.9 (5.1) 0.0 (0.0) Depreciation charge (4.3) (5.5) (2.1) (11.9) Closing net book value 95.8 23.6 19.7 5.6 144.7 At 31 December 2017 Cost 146.4 96.8 19.7 42.2 305.1 Accumulated depreciation (50.6) (73.2) (36.6) (160.4) Net book value 95.8 23.6 19.7 5.6 144.7 Land & Plant & Under conVehicles & buildings machinery struction equipment Total At 1 January 2016 Cost 106.0 63.5 3.4 40.8 213.7 Accumulated depreciation (38.0) (50.4) (36.3) (124.7) Net book value 68.0 13.1 3.4 4.5 89.0 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book value 68.0 13.1 3.4 4.5 89.0 Divestments (0.1) (0.0) (0.5) (0.6) Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.8 0.2 (0.0) 0.5 1.5 Additions 8.2 7.4 3.5 1.9 21.0 Business combinations, note 4 12.9 4.6 0.2 0.2 17.9 Transfer between categories 1.3 3.4 (5.5) 0.8 Depreciation charge (2.8) (5.1) (1.9) (9.8) Closing net book value 88.3 23.6 1.6 5.5 119.0 At 31 December 2016 Cost 130.1 93.4 1.6 41.0 266.1 Accumulated depreciation (41.8) (69.8) (35.5) (147.1) Net book value 88.3 23.6 1.6 5.5 119.0 Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 40 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 134 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The carrying amount of the assets recognized analyses as follows in the Consolidated Statement under finance lease is EUR 0.2 million (2016: of Income: EUR 0.1 million). 2017 2016 The insurance value of real estate is not materially Cost of sales 6.2 5.4 different from the replacement value (note 24). The Selling and marketing expenses 0.7 0.7 Group Insurance value of buildings amounts to EUR 130 million (2016: EUR 147 million), production Research and development expenses 0.4 0.3 machinery and equipment including software and General and administrative expenses 4.6 3.4 office equipment amounts to EUR 147 million Amortization of acquisition-related tangible assets 0.0 (2016: EUR 160 million) and inventories to 11.9 9.8 EUR 142 million (2016: EUR 142 million). 13 Goodwill and intangible assets Customer Technology relations, & developpatents & Other Goodwill ment costs trademarks intangibles Total At 1 January 2017 Cost (including transfers between categories) 635.2 218.9 172.8 63.9 455.6 Accumulated amortization (including transfers between categories) (102.1) (39.2) (36.8) (178.1) Net book value 635.2 116.8 133.6 27.1 277.5 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book value 635.2 116.8 133.6 27.1 277.5 Business combinations, note 4 12.6 0.4 3.2 0.1 3.7 Transfer between categories 0.0 0.0 0.0 Exchange differences (3.9) (2.2) (0.4) (0.1) (2.7) Additions 15.5 8.4 23.9 Amortization charge (15.8) (11.0) (12.9) (39.7) Closing net book value 643.9 114.7 125.4 22.6 262.7 At 31 December 2017 Cost 643.9 232.4 171.6 73.3 477.3 Accumulated amortization (117.7) (46.2) (50.7) (214.6) Net book value 643.9 114.7 125.4 22.6 262.7 Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 41 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 135 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Customer Technology relations, & developpatents & Other Goodwill ment costs trademarks intangibles Total At 1 January 2016 Cost 389.4 148.7 56.8 32.7 238.2 Accumulated amortization (82.2) (30.2) (18.8) (131.2) Net book value 389.4 66.5 26.6 13.9 107.0 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book value 389.4 66.5 26.6 13.9 107.0 Business combinations, note 4 245.6 53.7 137.0 8.3 199.0 Exchange differences 0.2 (0.2) (0.3) (0.3) (0.8) Additions 15.7 0.0 7.5 23.2 Impairment charge (5.5) (5.5) Amortization charge (13.4) (29.7) (2.3) (45.4) Closing net book value 635.2 116.8 133.6 27.1 277.5 At 31 December 2016 Cost 635.2 218.9 172.8 63.9 455.6 Accumulated amortization (102.1) (39.2) (36.8) (178.1) Net book value 635.2 116.8 133.6 27.1 277.5 Business combination for 2017 relate to the Amortization of intangible assets analyses as acquisition of Sulmaq and for 2016 to the follows in the Consolidated Statement of Income: acquisition of MPS. Further information on the acquisitions is disclosed in note 4 to the 2017 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements. Cost of sales 0.0 0.0 Selling and marketing expenses 1.6 1.5 The additions for 2017 predominantly comprise Research and development expenses 13.9 14.2 internally generated assets of EUR 23.9 million (2016: EUR 23.2 million) for product development General and administrative expenses 7.1 5.1 and for development of software products. 22.6 20.8 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 17.1 24.6 In 2016 an impairment loss of EUR 5.5 million is 39.7 45.4 reported to write-down development costs for unsuccessful development. Impairment testing Annually goodwill is tested for impairment at the The impairment charge in the intangible assets level of the CGUs. For Marel, the CGUs are based on analyses as follows in the Consolidated Statement the market oriented business model, Poultry, Meat of Income: and Fish, in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Poultry, Meat and Fish serve the 2017 2016 customer needs in primary, secondary and further Research and development expenses 5.5 processing. Only at the level of the operating 5.5 segments the connection can be made between the businesses for which the goodwill was originally paid and the results of the synergies after the acquisitions. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 42 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 136 Marel – Annual Report 2017 The annual impairment test includes Property, existing goodwill. Breakeven scenarios and the plant and equipment, Goodwill, Other intangible current scenario used show that there is sufficient assets and net working capital allocated to CGUs to headroom and that there are no triggers indicating determine the final recoverable amount. that impairment is necessary. For all three operating segments the recoverable amount The purpose of impairment testing is to determine exceeds the carrying amount by a substantial whether the recoverable amount exceeds the amount. A stress test was performed on the carrying amount of the above mentioned assets. impairment tests of the CGUs where the following The recoverable amount of an operating segment is items have been tested: the potential changes in determined as the present value of the future cash increase in pre-tax discount rates, decrease in flows expected to be derived from a CGU, based on compound long-term growth rates or decrease in amongst others: terminal value growth rates. This test showed that • the estimated future cash flows that the Group the conclusions of these tests would not have been expects the CGU to earn; different if significant adverse changes in key • possible variations in the amount or timing of parameters had been assumed. those future cash flows; • the time value of money, which is reflected by Key assumptions used in the impairment tests for using a discount rate based on the current the segments were sales growth rates, EBITDA and market risk-free rate of interest; the rates used for discounting the projected cash • the price for the uncertainty inherent in the flows. These cash flow projections were determined CGU. using managements’ internal forecasts that cover an initial period from 2018. Projections were The sales growth rates and margins used to extrapolated with stable growth rates for a period estimate future cash flows are based on of 4 years, after which a terminal value was management estimates that take into account past calculated. For terminal value calculation, growth performance and experience, external market rates were capped at the lower of the historical growth assumptions and industry long term long-term average growth rate and the long-term averages. The weighted growth rate for the period expected risk-free rate. 2019 to 2022 of forecast cash flows is between 4% and 7% for all CGUs, which is management’s best The sales growth rates and EBITDA used to estimate estimate. These growth rates are in line with cash flows are based on past performance, external external market predictions of the worldwide market growth assumptions and industry long-term industry for providing equipment and solutions for growth averages. EBITDA in all segments the protein industry as well. Revenues, operating mentioned in this note is expected to increase over results and cash flows beyond the 5 year forecast the projected period as a result of volume growth period are extrapolated using estimated growth and cost efficiencies. rates of 1.9% as shown in the table on the next page. The time value of money and price of The key assumptions used for the impairment tests uncertainty, calculated as the Weighted Average are listed below. Cost of Capital (“WACC”), are based on external market information about market risk, interest rates 2017 Poultry Meat Fish Total Goodwill 332.9 284.0 27.0 643.9 and some CGU specific elements like country risk. Infinite Intangible assets The post-tax discount rate is calculated at CGU level and is in the range of 6.9% 7.2% (2016: 7.5% Terminal growth rate 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 1) 7.7%) for all CGUs (refer to the table on the next Discount rate 7.2% 7.1% 6.9% 7.1% 2) page). The pre-tax discount rate for the three CGUs is calculated in the range of 8.7% 8.9% (2016: 9.4% 2016 Poultry Meat Fish Total Goodwill 335.4 272.4 27.4 635.2 9.7%). Infinite Intangible assets The Goodwill impairment test performed in the Terminal growth rate 1.8% 1.8% 1.8% 1.8% 1) fourth quarter, which was based on the numbers of Discount rate 7.7% 7.6% 7.5% 7.6% 2) 1) 30 September 2017, and is rolled forwarded to 31 Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond strategic plan period. December 2017, exceeds the recoverable value of 2) Discount rate applied to the cash flow projections. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 43 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 137 Marel – Annual Report 2017 14 Trade receivables, Other The aging of Trade receivables is as follows: receivables and prepayments 2017 2016 2017 2016 Gross Provision for Gross Provision for Trade receivables 135.2 120.6 amount Impairment amount Impairment Less: write-down to net-realizable value (2.3) (5.1) Not overdue 82.6 70.9 Trade receivables net 132.9 115.5 Up to 90 days overdue 32.8 38.1 Less non-current portion (4.0) (0.2) Over 90 days overdue 19.8 (2.3) 11.6 (5.1) Current portion of Trade receivables 128.9 115.3 135.2 (2.3) 120.6 (5.1) Prepayments 6.2 5.9 The carrying amounts of the Group’s Trade receivables (current portion) are denominated in Other receivables 40.4 26.8 the following currencies: Other receivables and prepayments 46.6 32.7 2017 2016 Total Trade receivables, Other receivables and prepayments 179.5 148.2 EUR 70.3 68.9 US Dollar 38.1 31.2 Non-Current receivables UK Pound 4.9 6.2 Non-Current receivables are mainly associated with Other Currencies 17.9 14.1 an escrow account regarding the acquisition of 131.2 120.4 Sulmaq for EUR 4.0 million (2016: EUR 0.2 million long term outstanding debtors). All non-current Write-down to net-realizable value (2.3) (5.1) receivables are due within one and five years. 128.9 115.3 Current receivables Movements on the Group Trade receivables The carrying amounts of Trade receivables and impaired to net-realizable value are as follows: Other receivables and prepayments approximate their fair value. 2017 2016 At 1 January 5.1 3.4 Trade receivables that are less than 90 days past Provision for receivables impairment 0.2 1.4 due are not considered impaired. As of 31 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (0.2) (1.5) December 2017, Trade receivables of Business combinations 0.3 2.3 EUR 32.8 million (2016: EUR 38.1 million) were past Reclassification to Production contracts and unsused amounts due but not impaired. In 2017 the write-down of reversed (3.1) (0.5) Trade receivables to net realizable value amounted At 31 December 2.3 5.1 to EUR 0.2 million (2016: EUR 1.4 million). These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. As of 31 The impairment to net-realizable value and December 2017, Trade receivables of reversals has been included in Selling and EUR 19.8 million (2016: EUR 11.6 million) were marketing expenses in the Consolidated Statement tested for impairment and written down when of Income. necessary. The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to customers, which are in The other classes within Other receivables and unexpectedly difficult economic situations. prepayments do not contain impaired assets. In anticipation of adoption of IFRS 9 in 2018, Marel Information about the Group’s exposure to credit reassessed the impaired Trade receivables. A part of and market risks, is included in note 22. the impairment related to product risk. This part has been transferred from Write-down of Trade receivables to Production contracts for an amount of EUR 3.1 million (see also note 17). Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 44 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 138 Marel – Annual Report 2017 15 Deferred income tax The deferred tax charge recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is as Deferred income taxes are calculated in full on follows: temporary differences under the liability method. 2017 2016 The gross movement on the deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets 4.4 7.3 account is as follows: Deferred income tax liabilities (61.3) (63.5) (56.9) (56.2) 2017 2016 At 1 January (56.2) (5.9) Deferred income tax assets are recognized for tax Exchange differences and changes within the Group 0.1 0.0 loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realization Consolidated Statement of Income charge (excluding tax rate of the related tax benefit through the future taxable change) 0.2 1.3 profits is probable. Based on future profits expected Effect of change in tax rates 1.1 0.3 in the strategic plan, the recoverability has been Business combinations, note 4 (1.7) (51.6) tested; a reversal of EUR 0.3 million (2016: a reversal of EUR 0.8 million) has been applied. Sensitivity Hedge reserve & translation reserve recognized in Other analysis on impairment of tax losses used the Comprehensive Income (0.4) (0.3) assumption of decreasing the forecast profit before At 31 December (56.9) (56.2) tax by 5%. Based on the outcome of this calculation the impairment is not substantially affected. The Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset Group has no unrecognized deferred tax liabilities. when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and Taxable effects of losses will expire according to when the deferred income taxes relate to the same below schedule: fiscal authority. 2017 2016 The deferred tax charged / (credited) in the Of which Of which Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Total tax not Total tax not in Other Comprehensive Income, during the period losses capitalised losses capitalised Less than 6 years 5.6 2.8 4.6 2.7 is as follows: Between 6 and 10 years 40.7 44.0 More than 10 years 1.4 5.8 Fair value reserves in Shareholders' equity 2017 2016 Indefinite 21.9 18.6 31.5 26.1 Employer's contribution social charges on stock option exercises 69.6 21.4 85.9 28.8 Hedge reserve (0.4) (0.3) (0.4) (0.3) Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 45 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 139 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: At 1 Recognized At 31 January in income December 2017 statement Other 1) 2017 Assets Liabilites Property, plant and equipment (7.5) 0.1 (0.5) (7.9) 0.6 (8.5) Intangible assets (67.5) 3.9 1.7 (61.9) 1.8 (63.7) Other financial assets 0.5 (0.4) (0.3) (0.2) 0.0 (0.2) Receivables (1.5) (0.9) 0.1 (2.3) 0.4 (2.7) Inventories 4.0 (0.6) (1.4) 2.0 2.4 (0.4) Current liabilities 2.4 0.3 (0.2) 2.5 0.8 1.7 Long term liabilities (0.3) 0.2 0.1 (0.0) 0.1 (0.1) Provisions for pensions 0.6 (0.0) (0.2) 0.4 0.4 0.0 Provisions for reorganizations (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) 0.0 (0.0) Provisions for guarantees 1.2 (0.2) (0.8) 0.2 0.5 (0.3) Provisions others 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.4 (0.1) Subtotal (67.9) 2.4 (1.4) (66.9) 7.4 (74.3) Subtotal tax losses 11.7 (2.6) 0.9 10.0 13.9 (3.9) Overall total (56.2) (0.2) (0.5) (56.9) 21.3 (78.2) 1) Other includes the movements of assets and liabilities recognized in OCI, which includes foreign currency translation differences, acquisitions and divestments. At 1 Recognized At 31 January in income December 2016 statement Other 2) 2016 Assets Liabilites Property, plant and equipment (5.4) (1.7) (0.4) (7.5) 0.6 (8.1) Intangible assets (20.3) 4.6 (51.8) (67.5) 4.8 (72.3) Other financial assets 0.7 0.1 (0.3) 0.5 0.6 (0.1) Receivables (2.2) 0.8 (0.1) (1.5) 0.3 (1.8) Inventories 2.7 0.9 0.4 4.0 4.5 (0.5) Current liabilities 1.1 1.3 0.0 2.4 2.5 (0.1) Long term liabilities 0.6 (0.9) (0.0) (0.3) 0.1 (0.4) Provisions for pensions 1.5 (1.0) 0.1 0.6 0.6 (0.0) Provisions for reorganizations 0.5 (0.5) (0.0) (0.0) 0.0 (0.0) Provisions for guarantees 0.2 0.2 0.8 1.2 1.4 (0.2) Provisions others 0.2 (0.1) 0.1 0.2 0.3 (0.1) Subtotal (20.4) 3.7 (51.3) (67.9) 15.7 (83.6) Subtotal tax losses 14.4 (2.4) (0.3) 11.7 17.3 (5.6) Overall total (6.1) 1.3 (51.6) (56.2) 33.0 (89.2) 2) Other includes the movements of assets and liabilities recognized in OCI, which includes foreign currency translation differences, acquisitions and divestments. The significant movement in Other relates to deferred income tax as a result of the acquisition of MPS, refer to note 4 for further information. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 46 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 140 Marel – Annual Report 2017 16 Inventories 18 Equity 2017 2016 Share Capital Outstanding Raw materials 16.0 13.7 Ordinary Treasury number of shares shares shares Semi-finished goods 95.4 98.8 (thousands) (thousands) (thousands) Finished goods 33.3 29.9 At 1 January 2017 735,569 (21,543) 714,026 144.7 142.4 Treasury shares purchased (22,200) (22,200) Treasury shares sold 1,996 1,996 Allowance for obsolescence and/or lower market At 31 December 2017 735,569 (41,747) 693,822 value (20.3) (20.2) 124.4 122.2 100.00% 5.68% 94.32% At 1 January 2016 735,569 (30,903) 704,666 The cost of inventories recognized as an expense Treasury shares purchased (4,000) (4,000) and included in Cost of sales amounted to Treasury shares sold 13,360 13,360 EUR 496.8 million (2016: EUR 483.4 million). At 31 December 2016 735,569 (21,543) 714,026 In 2017 the write-down of inventories to netrealizable value amounted to EUR 4.8 million (2016: 100.00% 2.93% 97.07% EUR 3.8 million). Class of share capital 2017 2016 There were no material reversals of write-downs to Nominal value 6.3 6.5 net realizable value. The write-downs recognized Share premium reserve 228.2 287.9 following a recoverability analysis are included in Reserve for share based payments 1.4 0.8 Cost of sales. Total share premium reserve 229.6 288.7 17 Production contracts The total authorized number of ordinary shares is 735.6 million shares (31 December 2016: 735.6 2017 2016 million shares) with a par value of ISK 1 per share. Ordered work in progress 419.4 355.8 All issued shares are fully paid. Holders of ordinary Advances received on ordered work in progress (581.0) (469.7) shares are entitled to dividends as declared from (161.4) (113.8) time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at shareholders meetings of the Company. All rights Cost exceed billing 48.2 37.0 attached to the Company’s treasury shares are Billing exceed cost (209.6) (150.8) suspended until those shares are sold again. (161.4) (113.8) Dividends In anticipation of adoption of IFRS 9 in 2018, Marel In March 2017 a dividend of EUR 15.3 million reassessed the impaired Trade receivables. A part of (EUR 2.14 cents per share) was declared for the the impairment related to product risk. This part operational year 2016 (in 2016, a dividend of has been transferred from Write-down of Trade EUR 11.3 million (EUR 1.58 cents per share)) was receivables to Production contracts for an amount declared and paid for the operational year 2015. of EUR 3.1 million (see also note 17). Treasury shares An amount of EUR 241.0 million (2016: In the beginning of the year 2017 Marel had 21.5 EUR 234.0 million) has been included in the million treasury shares. During the year 2017, Marel Revenues of 2017 as included in the Consolidated purchased 22.2 million treasury shares for a total Statement of Income. For this portion of the amount of EUR 63.4 million. Thereof 19.7 million revenues the conditions of sale of goods are not treasury shares were purchased to be used as a met, therefore the IFRS treatments of construction payment for potential future acquisitions and 2.5 contracts have been applied (IAS 11 Construction million treasury shares were purchased to fulfill Contracts). Construction contract revenue has been future stock options obligations. determined based on the percentage of completion method (cost based). Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 47 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 141 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Marel sold 0.9 million treasury shares for Options are conditional on the employee EUR 2.5 million to the management of Sulmaq in completing particular periods' / years’ service (the relation to Marel‘s acquisition of Sulmaq. The sold vesting period). shares include a lock-up period of 18 months from the date of closing which was 31 August 2017. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation Marel also sold 1.1 million treasury shares for to repurchase or settle the options in cash. EUR 1.2 million in order to fulfill obligations of stock option agreements. At the end of 2017 Marel had Stock options 41.7 million treasury shares. Movements in the number of stock options outstanding and their related weighted average In 2016 Marel purchased 4.0 million shares for exercise prices are as follows: EUR 8.1 million to fulfill future stock option obligations and sold 2.6 million treasury shares for a Average total amount of EUR 2.7 million to fulfill the exercise Stock price per options employees’ stock option program. In connection share (thousands) with the acquisition of MPS, Marel sold 10.8 million At 1 January 2017 EUR 1.339 8,796 treasury shares for EUR 16.3 million to the previous Granted in 2017 EUR 2.772 3,200 owners of MPS. At the end of 2016 Marel had 21.5 Exercised 2017 EUR 1.067 (1,079) million treasury shares. Forfeited in 2017 EUR 1.668 (1,033) At 31 December 2017 EUR 1.780 9,884 Stock options are granted to Executive Exercisable stock options at 31 December 2017 1,684 Management and to selected employees. The exercise prices of options granted in June 2012, in At 1 January 2016 EUR 1.139 10,549 December 2014, in August 2015 and in May 2016 Granted in 2016 EUR 1.924 2,160 are higher than the market price of the shares on Exercised 2016 EUR 1.053 (2,559) the date of grant. For options granted in March Forfeited in 2016 EUR 1.167 (1,354) 2017 the exercise price is the same as the market At 31 December 2016 EUR 1.339 8,796 Exercisable stock options at 31 December 2016 1,751 price at the date of grant. The option holders in the 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 programs are required to hold shares corresponding to approximately the net gain after tax from exercising the options, whilst employed by Marel. Stock options granted in the year 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 Stock options expire in year 2018 2021 2021 2022 2021 The exercise prices* per share after 31 October 2018 EUR 1.101 28 April 2018 EUR 0.907 28 April 2019 EUR 0.933 28 April 2020 EUR 0.959 28 April 2021 EUR 0.985 28 October 2018 EUR 1.440 28 October 2019 EUR 1.480 28 October 2020 EUR 1.521 28 October 2021 EUR 1.561 28 April 2019 EUR 1.881 28 April 2020 EUR 1.917 28 April 2021 EUR 1.953 28 April 2022 EUR 1.988 28 April 2020 EUR 2.779 *) Exercise prices after dividend payment in 2013; EUR 0.0097 per share, after dividend payment in 2015; EUR 0.0048, after dividend payment in 2016; EUR 0.0158 and after dividend payment in 2017; EUR 0.0214. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 48 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 142 Marel – Annual Report 2017 In 2017 the following shares were exercised: 390 The fair value of the employee stock options thousand shares at exercise price EUR 1.057 per granted is measured using the Black-Scholes share and 689 thousand shares at exercise price model. Variables used in the Black Scholes EUR 1.072 per share. No options were cash settled. calculation: In 2016 the following shares were exercised: 2,012 thousand shares at exercise price EUR 1.050 per share and 547 thousand shares at exercise price EUR 1.064 per share. No stock options were cash settled. Weighted Exercise average price per Expected Annual Expected remaining share term dividend risk-free Estimated contr. life in (EUR) (years) yield interest rate volatility months *) Option plan June 2012 60% exercisable > 31 October 2015 1.066 3.4 0.96% 3% 19.68% 10 20% exercisable > 31 October 2016 1.095 4.4 0.96% 3% 19.68% 10 20% exercisable > 31 October 2017 1.124 5.4 0.96% 3% 19.68% 10 Option plan December 2014 60% exercisable > 28 April 2018 0.949 3.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 40 20% exercisable > 28 April 2019 0.975 4.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 40 20% exercisable > 28 April 2020 1.001 5.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 40 Option plan August 2015 60% exercisable > 28 October 2018 1.477 3.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 46 20% exercisable > 28 October 2019 1.517 4.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 46 20% exercisable > 28 October 2020 1.558 5.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 46 Option plan May 2016 60% exercisable > 28 April 2019 1.902 3.0 0.00% 2% 21.52% 52 20% exercisable > 28 April 2020 1.938 4.0 0.00% 2% 21.52% 52 20% exercisable > 28 April 2021 1.974 5.0 0.00% 2% 21.52% 52 Option plan March 2017 100% exercisable > 28 April 2020 2.779 3.0 0.00% 2% 23.72% 28 *) Based on last possible exercise dates in each stock option plan. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 49 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 143 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Reserves EUR 65.3 million as at 31 December 2017 (31 December 2016: EUR 63.4 million). Share premium reserve The Share premium reserve comprises of payment Since the profits retained in Marel hf.’s subsidiaries in excess of par value of ISK 1 per share that can be distributed and received in Iceland, no legal shareholders have paid for shares sold by the reserve for any legal or economic restrictions to the Company, less payments in excess of par value that ability of affiliated companies to transfer funds to the Company has paid for treasury shares. the parent company in the form of dividends is According to the Icelandic Companies Act, 25% of required. the nominal value share capital must be held in reserve which cannot be paid out as dividend to The amount of the legal reserve for the share of shareholders. Marel is compliant with this profit of affiliates is reduced by dividends received requirement. from those companies and those dividends from them which can be claimed. Other reserves Other reserves in Shareholder's equity include the Therefore Marel could, based on its control as the following reserves: parent company, decide to let its subsidiaries pay • Hedge reserve: comprises revaluations on dividends. The dividends would lower the amount derivatives, on which hedge accounting is of legal reserves within equity and therefore leave applied. The value of 31 December 2017 and more room for Marel to make dividend payments to 2016 relates to derivatives for the Group, the its shareholders. The new provision of the act does interest rate swap contracts. not prevent Marel from making dividend payments • Translation reserve: comprises the translation to its shareholders in 2018 since the Company has results of the consolidation of subsidiaries sufficient retained earnings from previous years. reporting in foreign currencies, as well as a The legal reserves as required by Icelandic law are currency revaluation related to financing of required as of effective date 1 January 2016. subsidiaries. Non-controlling interests Hedge Translation Total other reserve reserve reserves Non-controlling interests (“NCI”) relate to minority Balance at 1 January 2017 (0.8) (1.3) (2.1) shares held by third parties in consolidated Group Total other comprehensive income 1.4 (7.5) (6.1) companies. The net income attributable to NCI Balance at 31 December 2017 0.6 (8.8) (8.2) amounted to EUR 0.1 million in 2017 (2016: EUR 0.1 million). Balance at 1 January 2016 (2.5) (2.6) (5.1) Total other comprehensive income 1.7 1.3 3.0 The NCI relates to MPS France S.A.R.L., France, in Balance at 31 December 2016 (0.8) (1.3) (2.1) which the managing director of MPS France holds an ownership percentage of 24%. Limitation in the distribution of Shareholders’ equity As at 31 December 2017, pursuant to Icelandic law, certain limitations exist relating to the distribution of Shareholders’ equity. Such limitations relate to legal reserves required by Icelandic law included under Retained earnings for capitalized intangible assets related to product development projects and for legal reserves relating to any legal or economic restrictions to the ability of affiliated companies to transfer funds to the parent company in the form of dividends. The legal reserve included under Retained earnings for capitalized intangible assets related to product development projects amounted to Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 50 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 144 Marel – Annual Report 2017 19 Borrowings 2017 2016 Bank borrowings 370.5 425.0 As of 31 December 2017, interest bearing debt amounted to EUR 411.6 million (31 December 2016: Finance lease liabilities 0.2 0.0 EUR 466.4 million), of which nothing (31 December Non-current 370.7 425.0 2016: EUR 465.5 million) is secured against shares Bank borrowings that Marel hf. holds in certain subsidiaries. Lease excluding bank liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the overdrafts 26.2 24.1 leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default. No assets have been pledged as security for Total borrowings 396.9 449.1 liabilities. Bank Borrowings 396.7 449.1 The Group loan agreements contain restrictive Finance lease liabilities 0.2 0.0 covenants, relating to interest cover and leverage. At 31 December 2017 and 2016 the Group complies Total borrowings 396.9 449.1 with all restrictive covenants. The Group has the following headroom in committed ancillary facilities: Floating rate 2017 2016 Expiring within one year Expiring beyond one year 150.2 144.5 150.2 144.5 Capitalized Finance 2017 Bank loans finance Embedded lease Total Annual maturity of non-current liabilities / revolver charges derivatives liabilities 2017 Between 1 and 2 years 30.3 (3.5) (0.7) 0.1 26.2 Between 2 and 3 years 30.4 (3.5) (0.6) 0.1 26.4 Between 3 and 4 years 30.4 (1.3) (0.6) 0.0 28.5 Between 4 and 5 years 289.2 (0.1) 289.1 After 5 years 0.5 0.5 380.8 (8.3) (2.0) 0.2 370.7 Capitalized Finance 2016 Bank loans finance Embedded lease Total Annual maturity of non-current liabilities / revolver charges derivatives liabilities 2016 Between 1 and 2 years 30.0 (4.7) (1.2) 0.0 24.1 Between 2 and 3 years 30.0 (4.3) (0.8) 0.0 24.9 Between 3 and 4 years 375.4 (0.4) 0.0 375.0 Between 4 and 5 years After 5 years 1.0 1.0 436.4 (9.0) (2.4) 0.0 425.0 Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 51 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 145 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: Derivatives Equity Interest Interest rate swap rate swap and and forward forward exchange exchange Share contracts contracts Capital and used for used for share hedging hedging premium Other Retained Borrowings –assets –liabilities reserve reserves earnings NCI Total At 1 January 2017 449.1 0.4 4.9 295.2 (2.1) 232.3 0.2 980.0 Changes from financing cash flows Proceeds from loans and borrowings 130.0 130.0 Purchase of treasury shares (63.4) (63.4) Proceeds from exercise of share options 4.1 4.1 Proceeds from settlement of derivatives 0.6 0.6 Repayment of borrowings (177.2) (177.2) Dividend paid (15.3) (15.3) Total changes from financing cash flows 402.5 0.4 4.9 235.9 (2.1) 217.0 0.2 858.8 Changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses 5.0 5.0 The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (11.7) (11.7) Changes in fair value (6.7) (6.7) Other changes Liability related (1.0) 0.5 (2.2) (2.7) New finance leases 0.2 0.2 Capitalised borrowing costs 1.8 1.8 Total liability-related other changes 1.0 0.5 (2.2) (0.7) Total equity-related other changes (6.1) 96.9 0.1 90.9 Balance at 31 December 2017 396.8 0.9 2.7 235.9 (8.2) 313.9 0.3 942.3 20 Provisions Guarantee Pension commitcommitRefocusing Other ments ments *) provisions provisions Total At 1 January 2017 9.0 7.6 3.9 20.5 Additions 1.3 1.0 0.1 2.4 Business combinations, note 4 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.6 Used (2.1) (0.2) (2.2) (4.5) Release (0.6) (0.2) (0.5) (1.3) At 31 December 2017 7.9 8.3 1.5 17.7 At 1 January 2016 6.5 6.4 2.0 1.0 15.9 Additions 2.7 1.5 2.3 6.5 Business combinations, note 4 1.4 0.1 8.0 9.5 Used (0.6) (0.4) (2.0) (4.8) (7.8) Release (1.0) 0.0 (2.6) (3.6) At 31 December 2016 9.0 7.6 3.9 20.5 *) Including the provision for early retirement rights, which has increased to EUR 5.0 million at 31 December 2017 (31 December 2016: EUR 4.0 million). Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 52 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 146 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Analysis of total provisions 2017 2016 The Company’s employees in the Netherlands, Current 9.1 13.1 1,471 FTEs (2016: 1,443), participate in a multiNon-current 8.6 7.4 employer union plan (“Bedrijfstakpensioenfonds Metalektro”, PME). This plan is determined in 17.7 20.5 accordance with the collective bargaining agreements effective for the industry in which Specification of major items in provisions: Marel operates. This pension plan is treated as a Nature of defined contribution scheme based on the obligation for following grounds: 2017 Country Maturity Likelihood Amount • It is an industry-wide pension fund, used by the Guarantee Netherlands Dynamic Dynamic 4.3 Company in common with other legal entities. Guarantee US Dynamic Dynamic 1.2 • Under the regulations of the PME, the only Guarantee Denmark Dynamic Dynamic 1.1 obligation for the affiliated businesses towards the PME is to pay the annual premium liability. Nature of • The affiliated businesses are under no obligation for obligation whatsoever to pay off any deficits 2016 Country Maturity Likelihood Amount the PME may incur, nor have they any claim to Guarantee Netherlands Dynamic Dynamic 4.8 Guarantee US Dynamic Dynamic 1.1 any potential surpluses. Guarantee Denmark Dynamic Dynamic 0.8 The multi-employer plan covers approximately Guarantee commitments 1,300 companies and 145,000 contributing The provisions for guarantee commitments reflect members. The plan monitors its risks on a global the estimated costs of replacement and free-ofbasis, not by company or employee, and is subject charge services that will be incurred by the to regulation by Dutch governmental authorities. Company with respect to products sold. The By law (‘’the Dutch Pension Act’’), a multi-employer Company expects the provisions to be utilized union plan must be monitored against specific mainly within the next year. criteria, including the coverage ratio of the plan’s assets to its obligations. This coverage ratio must Pension commitments exceed 104.3 percent for the total plan. Every Refer to note 21. company participating in a Dutch multi-employer union plan contributes a premium calculated as a Refocusing provisions percentage of its total pensionable wages and In the beginning of the year 2014 the refocusing salaries, with each company subject to the same plan of becoming simpler, smarter and faster was percentage contribution rate. launched. The plan’s objective was to serve The Company’s net periodic pension cost for this customers’ needs more effectively and to reduce multi-employer plan for any period is the amount of the annual cost base by EUR 20-25 million over the course of 2014 and 2015. The refocusing plan was the required contribution for that period. successfully closed in 2015. The coverage ratio of the multi-employer plan increased to 100.1 percent as per 31 December 21 Post-employment benefits 2017 (31 December 2016: 91.80). The increase is The Group maintains various pension plans caused by developments in the financial markets covering the majority of its employees. and the average interest rate. The coverage ratio is below the legally required level of 104.3. The The Company’s pension costs for all employees for “Recovery Plan”, which was approved by the board 2017 were EUR 21.9 million (2016: EUR 19.9 million). of the pension fund on 25 June 2015, indicates that This includes defined contribution plans for the coverage ratio will increase within 12 years to EUR 13.0 million (2016: EUR 11.6 million), as well as 121.2%. a pension plan based on multi-employer union plan for EUR 8.9 million (2016: EUR 8.3 million). Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 53 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 147 Marel – Annual Report 2017 In 2018 the pension premium will be 23.0 percent Derivative hedging is applied if the exposure is of the total pensionable salaries (2017: 22.9%), in outside of the risk tolerance band on a consolidated accordance with the articles of association of the basis. Currently all exposures are within risk Pension Fund. The coverage ratio is calculated by tolerance and the Group has no FX derivatives in dividing the fund’s capital by the total sum of place. pension liabilities and is based on actual market interest. Currency exposure arising from net assets of the Group’s major foreign operations (translation risk) is 22 Financial instruments and managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies as risks the policy is to apply natural exchange rate Financial risk factors hedging where possible. Economic risk is defined as This note presents information about the Group’s the extent to which currency fluctuations can alter exposure to each of the below mentioned risks, the a company’s future operating cash flows, that is Group’s objectives, policies and processes for future revenues and costs. Economic risk is not measuring and managing the risk. Further hedged. quantitative disclosures are included throughout these Consolidated Financial Statements. The year end and average rates used for the main currencies mentioned above are: Risk management framework The main financial risks faced by Marel relate to Year-end Average Year-end Average liquidity risk and market risk (comprising interest rate 2017 rate 2017 rate 2016 rate 2016 rate risk, currency risk, price risk and credit risk). Risk EUR/USD 1.19 1.13 1.05 1.11 management is carried out by a central treasury EUR/ISK 125.03 120.68 119.38 134.49 department (Group Treasury) under policies and with instruments approved by the Board of The following table details the Group’s sensitivity of Directors. Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and transaction and translation risk to a 10% increase hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the and decrease in the EUR against the relevant Group’s operating units. The Group’s overall risk foreign currencies. 10% is the sensitivity rate used management program focuses on the when reporting foreign currency risk internally to unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to key management and represents management's minimize potential adverse effects on the Group´s assessment of the reasonably possible change in financial performance. The Group uses derivative foreign exchange rates. financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures and does not enter into financial The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding contracts for speculative purposes. foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period-end for a 10% (a) Foreign exchange risk change in foreign currency rates. The Group operates internationally and is exposed to currency risk arising from mainly the USD and ISK, primarily with respect to the EUR, as the EUR is the Group’s reporting currency. Generally Marel maintains a good natural hedge in its operations with a good match between revenue and cost in most currencies although only a fraction of a percentage of revenues is denominated in ISK, while around 8.50% (2016: 7.64%) of costs is in ISK. Financial exposure is hedged in accordance with the Group’s general policy and within set limits. The Group monitors foreign exchange risk arising from commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities (transaction risk) that are determined in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 54 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 148 Marel – Annual Report 2017 The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the functional currency of the lender or the borrower. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit or loss or Equity where the EUR strengthens 10% against the relevant currency. For a 10% weakening of the EUR against the relevant currency, there would be a comparable impact on the profit or loss or Equity, and the balances below would be opposite. 2017 2016 USD ISK USD ISK impact impact impact impact Profit or (loss) (2.0) 0.8 (2.6) 0.7 Equity 0.0 0.0 Finance Capitalised Liabilities in currency recorded in EUR in lease finance Embedded Bank 2017 liabilities charges derivative borrowings Total Liabilities in EUR 0.0 (10.1) (3.0) 346.0 332.9 Liabilities in USD 0.0 (1.8) 0.0 63.3 61.5 Liabilities in other currencies 0.2 0.0 0.0 2.3 2.5 0.2 (11.9) (3.0) 411.6 396.9 Current liabilities 0.0 3.6 1.0 (30.8) (26.2) 0.2 (8.3) (2.0) 380.8 370.7 Finance Capitalised Liabilities in currency recorded in EUR in lease finance Embedded Bank 2016 liabilities charges derivative borrowings Total Liabilities in EUR (11.3) (3.6) 364.9 350.0 Liabilities in USD (2.4) 100.5 98.1 Liabilities in other currencies 0.0 1.0 1.0 0.0 (13.7) (3.6) 466.4 449.1 Current liabilities 4.7 1.2 (30.0) (24.1) (b) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk floating interest rate. The floating rates are fixed on The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on a quarterly basis. The Group adopts a policy of borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates ensuring that between 50 – 70% of its exposure to expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. changes in interest rates on core debt is hedged Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group with an interest rate swap with a maximum to fair value interest rate risk. The risk is managed maturity of 5 years. Currently around 39% (2016: by maintaining a mix between fixed and floating 36%) of the core debt has floating interest rates and interest rate on borrowings. Generally the Group the rest is fixed. As at reporting date a total of raises long term borrowings and pays a floating EUR 248.7 million (2016: EUR 298.0 million) floating interest rate. To hedge the resulting cash flow rate liabilities were swapped into fixed interest interest rate risk the Group uses interest rate swaps, rates. The weighted average fixed rate of the where it pays a fixed interest rate and receives a interest swaps currently is 0.48% (2016: 0.50%). Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 55 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 149 Marel – Annual Report 2017 In 2008 the Group started applying Cash flow The Group's debt to adjusted capital ratio at the hedge accounting to hedge the variability in the end of the reporting period was as follows: interest cash outflows of the 3 months EURIBOR/LIBOR Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes. 2017 2016 Total borrowings 396.9 449.1 Throughout the year 2017 as well as per year end Cash and cash equivalents (31.9) (45.5) the cash flow hedge accounting relationships were Net Interest Bearing Debt 365.0 403.6 effective. The amounts deferred in Equity at yearend are expected to affect interest costs within the Total Equity 541.9 525.6 Hedge Reserve (0.6) 0.8 coming 3 years. Adjusted Capital 541.3 526.4 At year-end 2017, if EURIBOR interest rates had Debt to adjusted capital ratio 0.67 0.77 been 25 basis points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year From time to time the Group purchases its own would have been EUR 0.4 million (2016: shares in the market. Primarily the shares are EUR 0.3 million) lower/higher. intended to be used for issuing shares under the Group's stock option plans. The timing of these At year-end 2017, if US LIBOR interest rates had purchases depends on the requirement to settle been 25 basis points higher/lower, with all other employee’s stock option exercises. Buy and sell variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year decisions are taken by the Board of Directors. Based would have been EUR 0.0 million (2016: on a motion approved in the Annual General EUR 0.1 million) lower/higher. Meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors can acquire up to 10% of its own shares at a price which Among the actions taken to monitor the interest is not higher than 10% over and not lower than rate risk are stress tests to establish sensitivity to 10% under the average price of shares in the possible movements in rates and how they might Company for the two weeks immediately preceding affect the Group's results. the acquisition. (c) Capital Management Secondarily, shares are intended to be used as The Board of Directors’ policy is to maintain a payment for potential future acquisitions, per the strong capital base in order to maintain investor, Company’s announcement on 29 April 2015. creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. (d) Insurance The Group maintains global and local insurance The Board monitors on leverage, defined as Net programs. The coverage comprises property Debt divided by EBITDA, as well as on the return on damage, business interruption, general and capital, which the Group defines as result from product liability, marine cargo/mounting, directors’ operations divided by total Equity. The Board also and officers’ liability, employers practice liability, monitors the level of dividends to ordinary business travel and accident. The Group believes shareholders. that its current insurance coverage is adequate. At present employees will hold 1.34% (2016: 1.20%) of the shares, assuming that all outstanding stock options are vested and / or are executed. The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns on equity that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security of a sound capital position. The Group uses the leverage ratio in their approach to capital management. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 56 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 150 Marel – Annual Report 2017 Credit risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if maintaining sufficient cash and committed credit a customer or counterparty fails to meet its facilities to give reasonable operating headroom. contractual obligations. Credit risk arises from cash Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying and cash equivalents, derivative financial businesses, the Group aims to maintain flexibility in instruments and deposits with banks and financial funding by maintaining availability under institutions, as well as credit exposures to committed credit lines. The Group has EUR 325.0 customers, including outstanding receivables and million of committed ancillary facilities, which can committed transactions. The credit quality of the be used both as a revolver and to issue guarantees customer is assessed, taking into account its for down payments. At year end the Group had financial position, past experience and other drawn EUR 133.0 million (2016: EUR 52.0 million) on factors. Each customer has a set credit limit and the the revolver, issued EUR 33.0 million (2016: EUR utilization of the credit limit is regularly monitored. 28.0 million) of guarantees under the facility and allocated EUR 7.2 million to the Group’s cash pool Exposure to credit risk (2016: EUR 0.0 million), therefore the total usage is The carrying amount of financial assets represents EUR 174.7 million (2016: EUR 80.0 million), leaving a the maximum credit risk exposure. The maximum headroom of EUR 151.8 million (2016: EUR 145.0 exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: million). All facilities are subject to operational and Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 2017 2016 covenants (interest cover and leverage). At the end Trade receivables 132.9 115.5 of 2017 there is sufficient headroom. Other receivables and prepayments 46.6 32.7 Cash flow forecasts are done at the local levels and Cash and cash equivalents 31.9 45.5 monitored by Group Treasury. Group liquidity 211.4 193.7 reports are viewed by management on a weekly basis. The Group has a cross border notional cash No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting pool with the aim of making better use of the period, and management does not expect any Group cash position and to further decrease the losses from non-performance by these amount of idle cash. counterparties (refer to note14). The table below analyzes cash outflows per The Group has no significant concentrations of maturity group based on the remaining period at credit risk. The Group has policies in place to ensure reporting date to the contractual maturity date. The that sales of products and services are made to amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual customers with an appropriate credit history and undiscounted cash flows. products are not delivered until payments are secured. The Group establishes an allowance for Less than Between 1 Over At 31 December 2017 1 year and 5 years 5 years impairment that represents its estimate of incurred Borrowings 26.2 370.7 losses in respect of trade and other receivables Interest on borrowings 7.1 23.8 (refer to note 14). Finance lease liabilities Trade and other payables 195.9 The Group has banking relations with a diversified Interest rate swaps 0.8 1.8 set of financial institutions around the world. The 230.0 396.3 Group has policies that limit the amount of credit At 31 December 2016 exposure to any one financial institution and has Borrowings 24.1 424.0 1.0 International Swaps and Derivatives Association Interest on borrowings 12.5 23.6 agreements in place with counterparties in all Finance lease liabilities 0.0 derivative transactions. Trade and other payables 168.9 Interest rate swaps 1.3 3.1 206.8 450.8 1.0 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 57 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 151 Marel – Annual Report 2017 In May 2017, Marel finalized an extension and Fair value versus carrying amount amendment of its long term financing at favorable The Group measures fair values using the following terms and conditions reflecting its financial fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of strength and current market conditions The Group the inputs used in making measurements: has a 640 EUR million equivalents facilities agreement with seven international banks, led by Level 1: ING bank, Rabobank and ABN AMRO. The terms and The fair value of financial instruments traded in an conditions are generally in line with Loan Market active market, such as trading and available-for-sale Association corporate standards. It is an all senior securities, is based on quoted market prices at the facility, which matures in 2022. reporting date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid The key elements of the financing are: price. • A five-year all senior loan and revolver, consisting of a EUR 243 million and a USD 75 Level 2: million term loan and EUR 325 million multiThe fair value of financial instruments that are not currency revolving credit facility, all with final traded in an active market is determined by using maturity in May 2022. valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of • Initial interest terms are EURIBOR/LIBOR + 185 methods and makes assumptions that are based on bps, which will vary in line with Marel’s market conditions existing at each reporting date. leverage ratio (Net debt/EBITDA) at the end of These valuation techniques are based on each quarter. observable inputs, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Derivatives are The Group has a financing structure which can valued by an independent third party based on accommodate the Group’s financing requirements market conditions, which takes into account Credit until 2022 with USD and EUR borrowings matching Value Adjustment and Debit Value Adjustment the Group’s exposure in these currencies to a large corrections. extent. Level 3: The facility has an embedded 0% floor in the Valuation techniques using significant EURIBOR and LIBOR rates. At the date of utilization unobservable inputs. of the loans (5 May 2017) the 5 year EURIBOR curve was negative and consequently the floor has The fair value of borrowings equals their carrying intrinsic value at the date of inception. In amount, as the impact of discounting is not accordance to IAS 39 Financial Instruments, Marel significant and is classified as Level 2 in the fair has separated the embedded derivative from the value hierarchy. The fair values are based on cash facility and reports the intrinsic value on a fair value flows discounted using a rate based on the basis as a financial derivative on the Consolidated borrowings rate of 2.16% (2016: 3.16%). Statement of Financial Position. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings in 2017, including effect of floating to fixed interest Fair value estimation rates swaps is 2.16% (2016: 3.16%). The Group generally does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value The fair value of the finance lease liabilities equals through profit or loss, and the Group does not its carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is designate derivatives (interest rate swaps) as not significant. The fair values are based on cash hedging instruments under a fair value hedge flows discounted using a rate based on the average accounting model. The only fair value instrument interest rate of 4.0% (2016: 4.0%). accounted for in the profit and loss statement is the 0% floor embedded in the EUR term loan and revolving facility. During 2017 the floor results in a profit of EUR 1.0 million in finance cost. If 3 months EURIBOR restores to values above 0% the result would be a profit EUR 2.6 million. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 58 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 152 Marel – Annual Report 2017 The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, are as follows: Cash flowOther Total hedging Loans & financial carrying 2017 instruments receivables liabilities amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents 31.9 31.9 31.9 Receivables 179.5 179.5 179.5 211.4 211.4 211.4 Interest rate swaps used for hedging (1.8) (1.8) (1.8) Bank loans (396.7) (396.7) (396.7) Finance lease liabilities (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) Trade and other payables (199.5) (199.5) (199.5) (1.8) (596.4) (598.2) (598.2) 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 45.5 45.5 45.5 Receivables 148.2 148.2 148.2 193.7 193.7 193.7 Interest rate swaps used for hedging (4.4) (4.4) (4.4) Bank loans (449.1) (449.1) (449.1) Finance lease liabilities (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) Trade and other payables (168.9) (168.9) (168.9) (4.4) (618.0) (622.4) (622.4) Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 59 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 153 Marel – Annual Report 2017 The table below analyses financial instruments, 2017 Currency Principal Maturity Interest % measured at fair value at the end of the reporting Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 -0.1% period, by the level in the fair value hierarchy into Interest rate SWAP EUR 40.0 2018 0.2% which the fair value measurement is categorized: Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 -0.1% Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 -0.1% Derivatives liabilities held for Interest rate SWAP USD 10.0 2020 1.3% risk management Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Interest rate SWAP USD 60.0 2018 2.2% At 31 December 2017 1.8 1.8 Forward starting interest rate SWAP EUR 80.0 2022 0.4% At 31 December 2016 4.4 4.4 Forward starting interest rate SWAP EUR 40.0 2022 0.4% Forward starting interest rate SWAP USD 60.0 2020 1.6% No financial instruments were transferred from Forward starting interest rate SWAP USD 50.0 2022 2.3% Level 1 to Level 2, or from Level 2 to Level 3 of the Embedded floor (0,00% cap on fair value hierarchy. interest rates in financing agreements) EUR 346.0 2022 0.0% Interest-rate swap FX EUR DKK interest rate SWAP (EUR To protect Marel from fluctuations in Euribor-EURfixed, DKK floating) EUR 1.1 2027 5.2% Reuters/Libor-BBA (‘’British Bankers Association’’) and in accordance with the interest hedge policy 2016 Currency Principal Maturity Interest % Marel has entered into interest rate swaps (the Interest rate SWAP USD 55.0 2017 2.4% hedging instruments) to receive floating interest Interest rate SWAP EUR 6.0 2017 0.8% and to pay fixed interest. Interest rate SWAP EUR 25.0 2017 0.1% This is in line with Marel’s risk management policy Interest rate SWAP EUR 55.0 2018 0.2% to have 50 70% of core debt fixed for 3 – 5 years. The notional principal amount of the outstanding Forward starting interest rate SWAP USD 60.0 2018 2.2% active interest rate swap contracts at 31 December Embedded floor (0,00% cap on 2017 was EUR 248.7 million (31 December 2016: interest rates in financing EUR 298.2 million). agreements) EUR 445.0 2020 0.0% Interest rate SWAP USD 10.0 2020 1.3% FX Forwards Interest rate SWAP EUR 150.0 2020 -0.1% With the acquisitions of MPS in January 2016, Marel Forward starting interest rate SWAP USD 60.0 2020 1.5% acquired FX forward contracts with principal of FX EUR DKK interest rate SWAP (EUR approximately EUR 2.9 million and market to fixed, DKK floating) EUR 1.1 2027 5.2% market value of EUR 0.05 million. The forward swaps were used for hedging purposes of projects in USD. These contracts will be held to maturity and 23 Trade and other payables Marel’s currency risk policy will be applied for future 2017 2016 transactions. Trade payables 90.0 73.0 Accruals 7.6 9.0 Personnel payables 48.6 43.8 Other payables 53.3 43.1 Total Trade and other payables 199.5 168.9 less noncurrent portion 3.6 Current portion of Trade and other payables 195.9 168.9 Information about the Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risks is included in note 22. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 60 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 154 Marel – Annual Report 2017 24 Operating leases, 25 Contingencies commitments and insurance Contingent liabilities At 31 December 2017 the Group had contingent Operating lease commitments liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees At the end of the reporting period, the future and other matters arising in the ordinary course of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable business from which it is anticipated that no operating leases are as follows: material liabilities will arise. In the ordinary course of business the Group has given guarantees 2017 2016 amounting to EUR 50.3 million (31 December 2016: Less than 1 year 8.3 8.1 EUR 42.6 million) to third parties. Between 1 and 5 years 16.6 15.5 More than 5 years 6.0 8.5 Legal proceedings Total operational lease liabilities 30.9 32.1 As part of doing business and acquisitions the Group is involved in claims and litigations, under During the year an amount of EUR 9.0 million was such indemnities and guarantees. These claims are recognized as an expense in the Consolidated pending and all are contested. Provisions are Statement of Income in respect of operating leases recognized when an outflow of economic benefits (2016: EUR 9.5 million). for settlement is probable and the amount can be estimated reliably. It should be understood that, in Commitments and Insurance light of possible future developments, such as (a) The Group has covered Business Interruption Risks potential additional lawsuits, (b) possible future with an insurance policy underwritten by an settlements, and (c) rulings or judgments in independent insurance company for a maximum pending lawsuits, certain cases may result in period of 24 months for Marel Stork Poultry additional liabilities and related costs. Processing B.V. and 18 months for all other Marel entities. The insurance benefits for Business At this point in time, we cannot estimate any Interruption amount to EUR 631 million for 2017 additional amount of loss or range of loss in excess (2016: EUR 628 million) for the whole Group. The of the recorded amounts with sufficient certainty to Group Insurance value of buildings amounts to EUR allow such amount or range of amounts to be 130 million (2016: EUR 147 million), production meaningful. Moreover, if and to the extent that the machinery and equipment including software and contingent liabilities materialize, they are often office equipment amount to EUR 147 million (2016: resolved over a number of years and the timing of EUR 160 million) and inventories to EUR 142 million such payments cannot be predicted with (2016: EUR 142 million). Currently there are no confidence. While the outcome of said cases, claims major differences between appraisal value and and disputes cannot be predicted with certainty, insured value. we believe, based upon legal advice and information received, that the final outcome will not materially affect our consolidated financial position but could be material to our results of operations or cash flows in any one accounting period. Environmental remediation The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to environmental laws and regulations. Under these laws, the Company and/or its subsidiaries may be required to remediate the effects of certain chemicals on the environment. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 61 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 155 Marel – Annual Report 2017 26 Related party transactions and information on remuneration At 31 December 2017 and 2016 there are no loans to the members of the Board of Directors and the CEO. In addition, there were no transactions carried out (purchases of goods and services) between the Group and members of the Board of Directors nor the CEO in the year ended 31 December 2017 and 2016. Bought Pension shares acc. Board of Directors' fee for the year 2017 contribuStock to stock Shares at and shares at year-end (EUR 1,000) Board fee tion1) options2) options2) year-end 2) Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir , Chairman 116 11 32 Arnar Þór Másson, Vice Chairman 81 8 Ann Elizabeth Savage, Board Member 45 4 Ástvaldur Jóhannsson, Board Member 45 4 Helgi Magnússon, Board Member 45 4 2,779 3) Margrét Jónsdóttir, Board Member 45 4 195 Ólafur S. Guðmundsson, Board Member 44 4 1,705 Board of Directors' fee for the year 2016 and shares at year-end (EUR 1,000) Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir , Chairman 107 9 32 Arnar Þór Másson, Vice Chairman 74 6 Ann Elizabeth Savage, Board Member 41 3 Ástvaldur Jóhannsson, Board Member 41 3 Helgi Magnússon, Board Member 41 3 3,779 3) Margrét Jónsdóttir, Board Member 41 3 193 Ólafur S. Guðmundsson, Board Member 33 3 1,705 Bought Share Pension shares acc. Key management remuneration 2017 Salary and based Incentive contribuStock to stock Shares at (EUR 1,000) benefits benefits payments tion1) options 2) options2) year-end 2) Árni Oddur Þórðarson, Chief Executive 3) Officer 581 198 83 960 132 4) Executive Management 2,838 795 728 309 7,645 432 739 Key management remuneration 2016 (EUR 1,000) Árni Oddur Þórðarson, Chief Executive 3) Officer 539 203 73 360 132 4) Executive Management 3,645 552 1,093 353 6,510 711 63 1) Pension contributions for all board members and the management are part of a defined contribution plan. 2) Number of shares * 1,000. 3) Margrét Jónsdóttir is the Managing Director of Operation of Eyrir Invest hf. and Árni Oddur Þórðarson is a major shareholder of Eyrir Invest hf., which on 31 December 2017 held 190,366,838 (2016: 215,366,838) shares in Marel hf. (25.88% (2016: 29.28%)) of total issued shares. 4) Marel has identified ten executives who have material significance for Marel's operations. This group consists of Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President (“EVP”) Poultry, EVP Meat, EVP Fish, EVP Commercial, EVP Further Processing, EVP Supply Chain, EVP Human Resources, EVP Strategy and Corporate Development and EVP Innovation. Two of them left the company in March 2017 and May 2017 and two joined in February 2017 and June 2017. In March 2016 two of them left the Company and one joined at the same time. Salaries and benefits include severance settlements to two ex-EVPs which are according to local laws and employment contracts. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 62 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 156 Marel – Annual Report 2017 2017 2016 Average Average exercise exercise Number of price EUR Number of price EUR Stock options 2017 shares * ) per share shares * ) per share Árni Oddur Þórðarson, Chief Executive Officer 360 1.902 360 1.924 600 2.779 Ten other Executives 405 1.094 885 1.079 1,800 0.923 2,025 0.944 1,600 1.464 1,800 1.485 1,440 1.902 1,800 1.924 2,400 2.779 *) Number of shares * 1,000. 27 Subsequent events Country of Ownership Incorporation Interest No significant events have taken place since the Marel Australia Pty. Ltd. Australia 100% reporting date, 31 December 2017. Marel Brasil Commercial e Industrial Ltda Brazil 100% Sulmaq Industrial e Comercial S.A. Brazil 100% 28 Subsidiaries Marel A/S Denmark 100% Butina A/S Denmark 100% The following lists presents the material subsidiaries as per 31 December 2017 representing Marel Salmon A/S Denmark 100% greater than 2% of either the consolidated Group Marel France S.A.R.L . France 100% sales, income from operations or net income Marel GmbH & Co. KG Germany 100% (before any intra-group eliminations). All of the Marel Iceland ehf. Iceland 100% entities are fully consolidated in Group financial Marel Holding B.V. Netherlands 100% statements. Companies are listed in alphabetical Marel Meat Processing B.V. Netherlands 100% order of the country of incorporation: Marel Stork Poultry Processing B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Townsend Further Processing B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Water Treatment B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Red Meat Slaughtering B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Meat Service B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Norge AS Norway 100% Marel Polska Sp. z.o.o. Poland 100% Marel Spain & Portugal S.L. Portugal 100% Marel Food Systems LLC Russia 100% Marel Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 100% Marel GB Ltd. UK 100% Marel Seattle Inc. USA 100% Marel Inc. USA 100% Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 63 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 157 Marel – Annual Report 2017 29 Quarterly results (unaudited) 2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Revenue 252.5 244.0 247.0 294.7 1,038.2 Cost of sales (153.0) (147.6) (153.0) (177.9) (631.5) Gross profit 99.5 96.4 94.0 116.8 406.7 Selling and marketing expenses (31.0) (29.1) (28.2) (32.2) (120.5) Research and development expenses (13.9) (14.2) (13.0) (16.7) (57.8) General and administrative expenses (16.9) (17.2) (15.3) (21.6) (71.0) Other operating income / (expenses) *) Adjusted result from operations 37.7 35.9 37.5 46.3 157.4 Amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible assets (6.2) (6.3) (2.2) (2.4) (17.1) Result from operations (EBIT) 31.5 29.6 35.3 43.9 140.3 Net finance costs (3.8) (6.7) (5.4) (4.4) (20.3) Result before income tax 27.7 22.9 29.9 39.5 120.0 Income tax (6.3) (4.3) (6.8) (5.7) (23.1) Result for the period 21.4 18.6 23.1 33.8 96.9 Result before depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) 46.0 44.2 45.8 56.0 192.0 2016 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Revenue 220.6 264.2 234.8 250.1 969.7 Cost of sales (128.0) (155.0) (140.8) (148.9) (572.7) Gross profit 92.6 109.2 94.0 101.2 397.0 Selling and marketing expenses (30.5) (33.9) (28.1) (36.0) (128.5) Research and development expenses (15.3) (17.9) (16.4) (13.5) (63.1) General and administrative expenses (15.8) (17.7) (16.1) (16.6) (66.2) Other operating income / (expenses) 0.1 0.1 0.2 *) Adjusted result from operations 31.1 39.7 33.4 35.2 139.4 Amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible assets (4.5) (6.6) (6.7) (6.8) (24.6) Result from operations (EBIT) 26.6 33.1 26.7 28.4 114.8 Net finance costs (8.9) (6.8) (5.8) (3.9) (25.4) Result before income tax 17.7 26.3 20.9 24.5 89.4 Income tax (3.9) (4.3) (3.6) (1.8) (13.6) Result for the period 13.8 22.0 17.3 22.7 75.8 Result before depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) 38.2 48.4 41.5 47.3 175.4 *) Adjusted result from operations: result has been adjusted for amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible assets. Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 64 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 158 Marel – Annual Report 2017 30 Definitions and abbreviations NCI Non-Controlling Interest BBA British Bankers Association OCI Other Comprehensive Income BPS Basis points POC Percentage of completion CGU Cash Generating Units SIC Standard interpretation committee EBIT Earnings before interest and tax WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization ECL Expected credit loss EURIBOR Euro Interbank Offered Rates FVOCI Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss FTE Full-time equivalent FX Foreign exchange GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles IAS International Accounting Standard IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 65 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 159
