SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 THE SOLUTIONIST CONTENTS About Bufab 1 Message from the CEO 2 Business model 4 Strategy 6 Focus areas 7 Sustainability governance 8 A sustainable global business 10 Responsible growth 13 Employees and relationships 14 Sustainability risks 16 About the Sustainability Report This is Bufab’s second Sustainability Report. The first report was pub­ The auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report can be found lished on 28 April 2017. The Sustainability Report comprises all compainside the back cover. nies in the Group unless otherwise stated. See page 41 of Bufab’s 2017 Bufab supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. This Annual Report for a complete list of our subsidiaries. Sustainability Report is Bufab’s Communication on Progress for 2017. The The Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the sustainability repat references GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. Swedish Annual Accounts Act’s sustainability reporting requirements. If you have any questions or comments about the Sustainability Bufab’s business model is reported on page 4 and risks are described Report, contact Jörgen Rosengren, CEO, Bufab, +46 (0)370-69 69 00, on page 16. See pages 8–12 for environmental disclosures, pages 14–15 jorgen.rosengren@bufab.com for social issues and employees, pages 9–12 for human rights, and page 9 for anti-corruption. ABOUT BUFAB THIS IS BUFAB Bufab is a trading company that offers its customers a full-service AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES solution as a Supply Chain Partner for sourcing, quality assurance PER REGION, 2017 and logistics for C-Parts. Bufab’s customer offering, Global Parts Productivity™, aims to improve the productivity in the customers’ value chain for C-parts, thus reducing their total costs. Bufab has a diversified customer base in several countries and sectors within the manufacturing industry. Bufab was founded in 1977 in Småland, Sweden and over time has developed into a multinational corporation with operations in 27 countries. Bufab has approximately 1,100 employees worldwide, who work with sales, sourcing, quality and logistics. The company’s head office is based in Värnamo. As a complement to its trading activities, Bufab also manufactures particularly highly technically demanding C-Parts in-house Sweden, 29% Eastern Europe, 13% at two facilities in Sweden, and one in the UK. United Kingdom, 18% Asia, 11% Sustainability is integrated with every aspect of Bufab’s operations – from how the company formulates and conducts Other Western Europe, 28% Other, 2% its business, to how it assesses risk. Bufab strives to maintain health, security and safety for its employees, suppliers and others affected by the company’s activities. Bufab’s sustainability practices are mainly governed by the company’s Code of Conduct and policies for employees, the environment, quality and anti-corruption. Bufab has signed the UN Global Compact and incorporated its principles. 2017 IN BRIEF SELECTION OF ACTIVITIES COMPLETED IN 2017 • Sales SEK 3,201 million (2,847) • D  eveloped the handling of sustainability aspects • Operating margin (EBITA) 9.7 percent (9.7) in Bufab’s management system • Sources more than 140,000 parts • Increased quality and intensity in our supplier audit programme • 3,000 suppliers in our supplier base • Improved communication with customers, suppliers • 13,000 customers worldwide and employees about sustainability • Bufab Academy strengthened in sustainability issues BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2017 was a successful year for Bufab. We implemented most of the planned activities and are now repositioning for 2018. TOWARDS WORLD CLASS SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS 2 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO “ During the year, we announced our ambition to become the leading player in our industry by 2020, and we have a clear vision of how to reach that goal. 2017 was a successful year for Bufab. We achieved positive These are: sales growth, deepened our customer relationships and im• Long-term, systematic sustainability efforts proved our supplier base. We strengthened our team, our organ• Responsible growth isation, and our processes and systems. We also made great • Sustainable global business progress in the sustainability area. In 2017, we submitted our first • People and relationships external report on Bufab’s sustainability efforts that have been ongoing for many years. We also described the activities that During the year, we announced our ambition to become the were required to improve our sustainability performance. We imleading player in our industry by 2020, and we have a clear plemented most of the planned activities during the year and are vision of how to reach that goal. We need to ensure we have the now repositioning for 2018. best internal processes, the best supplier base and that we are The cornerstones of Bufab’s sustainability efforts have been the most attractive employer in our industry. This means we have part of the company for many years. This includes, for example, substantially raised our ambition level for sustainability, which sourcing that achieves favourable business terms without will also require real efforts from all of our employees. However, compromising our responsibility for the environment and ethics. the long-term objective must not be allowed to affect our daily We are working methodically to consolidate the supplier base, work. Customers and quality must always be our primary focus. which provides more opportunities to focus on sustainability But we are also humbled by the complexity and difficulty of when working with suppliers. During the year, we recruited a the area. C-Parts is a particularly demanding field in regard to Global Sourcing Director to Group Management, which will these issues. Bufab has thousands of customers and suppliers improve our performance in this area. Efficient logistics, ethically worldwide, and annually manages billions of components with responsible relationships both within and outside the company, more than 140,000 different specifications. So we obviously have zero tolerance of corruption, respect for the central role of our a major task ahead of us – we are not perfect. What we can employees, the view that everyone has equal value and the guarantee, however, is that this issue is at the top of our agenda, principle of freedom with responsibilities are also cornerstones and that we are working methodically and resolutely to achieve of our sustainability efforts. continuous improvements. In 2011, we signed the UN Global Compact, and Bufab 2017 was a memorable year for Bufab. We are now tightening continues to incorporate the ten principles in the areas of labour, our grip and aiming for the leading position in our industry by human rights, environment and anti-corruption. Since then, we 2020! have structured and improved our sustainability efforts in our four focus areas. Värnamo, March 2018 Jörgen Rosengren President and CEO BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 3 BUSINESS MODEL Bufab is a trading company that offers its customers a full-service solution as a Supply Chain Partner for sourcing, quality assurance and logistics for C-Parts. BUSINESS MODEL Our customers make stringent demands on sustainability in the A changing market supply chain, and they choose suppliers based on an overall Our customers are driven by the need to reduce their costs and assessment of both direct and indirect costs. Bufab’s deliveries increase productivity through more efficient management of are to meet market demands in terms of quality and responsible C-parts that meet the market’s high demands on price and qualproduction – the costs of any defects in C-Part quality and delivity, and on consideration for people and the environment. Bufab ery precision can be substantial. takes total responsibility for our customers’ handling of C-Parts, and lowers their overall cost. That gives them time and energy to Suppliers focus on their core business. Demands on suppliers of C-Parts We have built up a global network of suppliers and source a total are increasing and only those who can deliver at top global level of 140,000 unique parts, mainly from Asia and Europe, that are will survive the current consolidation phase in the market. We stored in our own warehouses in some 30 different locations all see these increasing demands as a challenge and are aiming to over the world for fast and reliable delivery. Parts equivalent to be the market leader by 2020. approximately 45 percent of the purchase value are sourced in Asia, 10 percent in Sweden and the remaining 45 percent from Non-financial value creation the rest of Europe. As a complement to its trading activities, Because sourcing, quality assurance and logistics of C-Parts Bufab also manufactures particularly technically demanding are the actual core of Bufab’s business model, we are in a better C-Parts in-house at two facilities in Sweden, and one in the UK. position to manage the sustainability issues related to C-Parts than our customers. Through coordination and more efficient Customers transportation, we can often achieve a lower environmental Bufab’s customer base is diversified and comprises approxiimpact than if our customers conducted their own sourcing. We mately 13,000 customers in a range of different industries. These are also in a better position to demand that our suppliers follow customers are also geographically diverse, and can be found in our Code of Conduct and comply with our requirements for the Nordic region, the rest of Europe, Asia and the US. Bufab’s environmental consideration, health and safety, human rights customers vary in size, which also contributes to different sourcand other social conditions in production. ing behaviours and needs. We therefore offer flexible solutions at local level, and global solutions to national and international customers. Global supplier network Over 140,000 C-Parts Lower total cost Secured quality Reliable delivery In-house Less complexity production Saved time Customer satisfaction 4 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 BUSINESS MODEL C-Parts are components such as fasteners in metal or plastic (screws, bolts, nuts, rivets, cotters, washers, etc.), other small metal, rubber or plastic parts, such as wires, springs and electronic fasteners. WHAT ARE C-PARTS? In the manufacturing industry, the components used in manufacSustainability can be a particularly challenging issue for turing operations are classified as A-Parts, B-Parts and C-Parts. C-Parts. There are many parts, with unique specifications and C-Parts often represent a large share of all part numbers in a list quality requirements, they are ordered from many suppliers from of materials. C-Parts typically have a low unit cost, wide product all over the world, and every part has a low value. As a result, it variation, large volumes and many suppliers in the segment. is often difficult for our customers to guarantee sustainable and C-Parts are unique in that only a small part of the total cost ethical handling across the entire supply chain. This is where of the component is derived from the purchase price, often as Bufab comes in. As customers gradually increase demands little as 20 percent. The remaining 80 percent of the total costs on themselves and their suppliers, it will become even more are indirect costs, in the form of costs for logistics, sourcing and important for them to have a responsible partner for the supply quality assurance. of C-Parts. Value Number of components A-Parts B-Parts C-Parts The customer’s focus Bufab’s focus Bufab improves quality and sustainability for those products customers focus on least – products they lack the resources to manage efficiently. C-Parts have the lowest value of customers’ components, but are the most numerous. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 STRATEGY In 2017, we raised our ambition level and launched our vision to be the leading player in the industry. STRATEGY Over the past five years, we have successfully implemented an Quality and customer needs first extensive programme as part of our growth strategy. We have Due to a systematic stakeholder dialogue, we are well aware strengthened our customer relationships, developed a marketof what our customers are looking for. Customers expect good leading quality management system and built up a global qualityservice, products that do what they promise and on-time assurance organisation. We have also completed six acquisidelivery. They also require us to have a safe and sustainable tions. In 2017, we raised our ambition level and launched our supply chain, that we disclose the use of conflict minerals, use vision to be the leading player in the industry. a Supplier Code of Conduct and that we are certified according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Customers are our most important Bufab Best Practice stakeholder group and their requirements determine our goverBufab Best Practice (BBP) is our Group-wide management sysnance and continuous improvements. tem. The system is based on ISO 9001, and on the concept that Bufab’s customer offering, Global Parts Productivity™, aims to we should learn from each others’ experiences by sharing best improve productivity in the customer value chain for C-Parts. We practice, problem-solving and smart ways of working across help our customers reduce their overall costs, free up capital, the Group. This helps us to develop the operations and meet achieve consistent quality and stable deliveries. the market’s growing demands. With BBP, we have created a We promise our customers that we are credible, committed, platform for sustainable growth and a world-class supplier base, fast and flexible, and that we are “The Solutionist.” This means which are the prerequisites for achieving our vision. that we take total responsibility for our customers’ handling of Sustainability is also an important aspect when acquiring new C-Parts – small components at the bottom of the value chain. In subsidiaries. We only acquire subsidiaries with a similar view of doing so, we also take a global responsibility – by coordinating the values that are fundamental to our own approach. In addisourcing and transportation, we are in a better position to negotition, acquired companies can often make valuable contributions ate and can increase demands on sustainability in the supply to Bufab Best Practice. chain. In 2018, we will be investing heavily in “Digital Bufab,” a projHelping our customers to improve sustainability in the C-Parts ect that will make our processes and systems more digital. chain is an increasingly important part of our value proposition. Many of our competitors are weak in the sustainability area – small competitors often lack the resources, and not all major competitors have taken the issue seriously. Bufab sees an opening here. STRATEGY THE BUFAB EMPLOYEE: THE SOLUTIONIST 4XDOLW\DQG&XVWRPHU)LUVW Bufab’s employees do not see problems, we see :RUOG¶V%HVW 3UHIHUUHG3DUWQHU :LQ:LQ solutions. Our reliability forms the basis for the long-term, trusting customer relationships that the 6XSSOLHU company’s 40-year growth is founded on. Quality %DVH *URZWK $FTXLVLWLRQV is always our first priority. Our Swedish heritage stands for honesty, transparency and strong ethics. DO We are dedicated – the goal is to be our customGLJLW ers’ long-term partner. We take pride in finding the %XIDE%HVW3UDFWLFH best solution for our customers. Our partnerships 6XVWDLQDELOLW\ /RFDO3UHVHQFH *OREDO7HDPZRUN are based on good relations all around the world. Our customers know that we deliver with passion and care. Bufab comes from the entrepreneurial heart of Sweden. We believe in being close and flexible. 6 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 FOCUS AREAS Bufab has identified four focus areas for the company’s sustainability. The focus areas give us different perspectives on how we can achieve our vision. FOCUS AREAS FOR STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS LONG-TERM, SYSTEMATIC SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS To achieve our ambition to be the industry leader by 2020 we must also have the industry’s leading internal processes. A SUSTAINABLE Under the focus area: Long-term, systematic sustainability GLOBAL LONG-TERM, efforts, we have gathered our Code of Conduct, policies and BUSINESS SYSTEMATIC continuous efforts to refine our internal processes for sustainSUSTAINABILITY ability efforts. Bufab has signed the UN Global Compact and EFFORTS incorporated its principles. Read more on pages 8–9. A SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS To create a sustainable global business, we strive to consolidate our supplier base, reduce our environmental impact and PEOPLE AND continuously improve the quality of our products. This is also RELATIONSHIPS part of our work to achieve our vision of a world-class supplier RESPONSIBLE base by 2020. GROWTH Read more on pages 10–12. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH Bufab has an ambitious growth target. Growth is important for generating high returns for our owners, who are a key stakeholder group. However, responsible growth also benefits our other stakeholders: our employees, society at large and our suppliers. And most importantly, we achieve responsible growth for Bufab by improving sustainability in our customers’ sourcing, logistics and quality assurance of C-Parts. Read more on page 13. PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS With clear values and strong leadership, we want to be the most attractive employer in the C-Parts industry. The Bufab Academy is our toolkit for developing our employees to meet the market’s growing demands. Our approximately 1,100 employees are independent and systematic problem-solvers who engage in our environmental efforts and believe in greater diversity for a stronger Bufab. Read more on pages 14–15. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE With our Bufab Best Practice management system, Code of Conduct and policies, we are striving to create the best internal processes in our industry by 2020. LONG-TERM, SYSTEMATIC SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS Material sustainability issues indicators for Bufab’s material sustainability issues. The work To be as efficient as possible in our sustainability efforts, we was based on a gap analysis of our governance and monitorhave to focus on the right issues. In order to identify where our ing of the material issues that was performed by an external operations have the greatest impact and the factors that are party. By formulating targets for, and measuring, assessing and significant for the company and its continued success, we perprioritising, our work in relation to these material issues, we can formed a materiality analysis in 2016 that resulted in six material reduce our negative impact and take advantage of our opportusustainability areas. The assessment was conducted in collabonities for making a positive impact. Through this governance for ration with Bufab’s key stakeholders, using both qualitative and greater sustainability, we are building a stronger Bufab, ready to quantitative review methods and a benchmark of information meet the future. needs. In 2017, we added economic performance and market Our aim is to comply with the ISO 14001 standard globally. By presence to the list, two key areas for our continued growth. applying ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and being guided by ISO 26000, Our material sustainability issues are: we will create a leading Best Practice for sustainability gover• Anti-corruption nance in the supply chain for C-Parts. Using systematic sustain• Procurement practices ability governance, we can establish procedures for continuous • Supplier sustainability assessments improvements and achieve the requirements of external audits. • Emissions from transport activities Today, 18 of Bufab’s subsidiaries have locally certified quality • Training and education management systems in accordance with ISO 9001, while • Diversity and non-discrimination seven companies have environmental management systems • Economic performance in accordance with ISO 14001. • Market presence Bufab Best Practice Our Bufab Best Practice (BBP) management system provides Planned activities 2017 Results the platform for our internal processes. By raising the status of • Develop the handling of sustainability sustainability aspects, we will improve sustainability governance aspects in BBP under the leadership Implemented in our material areas at subsidiary level as we move forward. of the Best Practice Board Since 2017, BBP has been mandatory for all subsidiaries except those recently acquired. If required, the management system can • Produce performance indicators for be updated with local instructions. Our aim is that all subsidiaries Implemented sustainability efforts will make use of Bufab Best Practice. However, implementation will not be immediate in newly acquired companies, for obvious • Implement BBP according to plan Implemented reasons. Our overall policies on the other hand – including • Renewed external audit of endorsement of the Global Compact – apply to all companies Not implemented sustainability efforts in the Group. Work with BBP is conducted by comparing a desired situation • Publication of Bufab’s first Implemented with the current situation. Non-compliances are identified, Sustainability Report analysed and adjusted. In 2017, all subsidiaries performed a self-assessment in relation to BBP. The results led to a number of improvement projects, of which a reorganisation of Bufab’s Planned activities 2018 sourcing organisation is one of the largest. The sourcing de• Perform audits of subsidiaries to ensure that BBP partments will now be divided into a strategic section and an has been implemented according to plan. operational section, which was completed in the large subsidiaries during the year and will be rolled out in more companies • Roll out regional sourcing structures in the subsidiaries. during 2018. The Best Practice Board, comprising Bufab’s CEO and some • Continuous monitoring of our performance indicators. members of Group management, meets regularly and reviews • Information about Bufab’s anti-corruption efforts to the BBP status and action plans. During the year, the Best Pracemployees, customers and suppliers. tice Board focused on strengthening the Bufab Academy in the area of sustainability, improving procedures related to sustain• Anti-corruption training for all Managing Directors ability in supplier audits, refining the selection of suppliers, and and Group management. strengthening the governance and identification of performance 8 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Governing documents for sustainability Bufab encourages all its business partners to make continuous Bufab’s sustainability efforts are based on our Code of Conduct improvements in areas covered by the Code of Conduct, which and Group-wide policies. Bufab’s policies apply to all compainclude business principles, principles om human rights and nies in the Group and compliance is regulated in the instructions social justice, including freedom of association and collective for all Managing Directors. Each year, the Managing Directors agreements where applicable, principles related to the environsubmit a report on compliance with the policies in their subsidiment, such as the precautionary principle, quality and regulatory ary’s operations. compliance. Bufab’s policies include an anti-corruption policy, environmental policy, HR policy, quality policy and a whistleblower policy. To Anti-corruption support implementation and compliance, all of our policies are A prerequisite for sound business with both customers and accompanied by a policy manual. suppliers is our zero tolerance of corruption. An important part of Bufab’s anti-corruption efforts is our transparent business sysBufab’s Code of Conduct tem, which is available to all employees. Transactions that do not A key part of our sustainability efforts is to establish and maintain feel sound are questioned. Bufab’s approach to ethical business suitable processes for identifying suppliers that conform to the is described in the company’s Code of Conduct and anti-corruprequirements of our Code of Conduct and policies. Bufab’s Code tion policy. They have been communicated to the employees in of Conduct is based on the ILO Declaration on Fundamental all subsidiaries, and to customers and suppliers. Principles and Rights at Work, the OECD Guidelines for MultiWithin the framework of Bufab Best Practice, we have a national Enterprises and the Universal Declaration of Human systematic procedure for assessing and evaluating risk. All subRights. The Code of Conduct is available at www.bufab.com. sidiaries have evaluated their operations in regard to corruption, Bufab has signed the UN Global Compact and incorporated but no material risks have been identified. ISO 26000 – Guidance on social responsibility. JIM SUNDGREN, Axelent AB offers a complete safety concept for machinery, construction, warehousing and cabling. They are one of the leading PURCHASE MANAGER, AXELENT AB brands in the market for wire mesh partitions for industrial and warehouse environments. Axelent is based in Hillerstorp, which is also where all product development, production, storage and packaging takes place. Axelent has sales offices in more than 50 countries and sells it products all over the world. Bufab delivers fasteners and customer-specific, drawing board products to Axelent. Why is sustainability important for Axelent? Jim Sundgren, Purchase Manager at Axelent: Axelent aims to act and deliver products and services that are ethically, environmentally and socially sound. This is important for us as well as our customers. What sustainability requirements do you impose on your suppliers? Jim: We expect our suppliers to deliver products that are manufactured under good working and manufacturing conditions. It is important that our suppliers contribute to sustainable development in terms of the environment, climate, health and living conditions. Their products should also be as environmentally friendly as – or more than – similar products on the market. How well does Bufab live up to your requirements? Jim: Bufab meets our requirements very clearly in terms of sustainability. They offer a high-quality, sustainable supply chain without compromising on ethical, environmental or social aspects. Bufab also has a clear vision of how they want to work with sustainability issues to become a leading supplier and a future leader of their industry. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS As a global trading company with a large number of suppliers and customers, we are in an ideal position to make a difference from a sustainability perspective. A SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS We want to develop a world-class supplier base by 2020. To do quality, but also to create opportunities for focusing on the supso, we consolidate our sourcing to the suppliers that conform pliers’ sustainability aspects. to our high quality and sustainability standards. We are also We have established a global organisation for supplier goverendeavouring to reduce our climate impact from transport, nance and developed and established the necessary infrastrucensure that our components do not contain conflict minerals and ture in the form of a Supplier Management Module (SMM). SSM continuously improve our quality. is a supplier database with tools for self-assessment, capability Bufab’s greatest impact on sustainability is through our global audits and scorecards. Continued consolidation using SMM is a network of 3,000 suppliers. The suppliers are selected, evaluatpriority area for 2018. ed and developed using Bufab’s global supplier process, driven During the year, we recruited a Supply Chain Development by our global sourcing department, and our sourcing offices in Manager. In spring 2018, a Global Sourcing Director will also China, India, Taiwan, the UK, Poland and Sweden. become a new member of Group management. Some of our largest suppliers in terms of sales are in the highest supplier category, Preferred Supplier. The others belong Supply chain sustainability to the Approved Supplier category. The proportion of suppliers Our Supplier Code of Conduct has been signed by all major in the highest category increased during the year, but we need suppliers, and all significant new suppliers, since 2016. Despite to achieve more. Efforts to identify and qualify more suppliers as the amount of work remaining, the proportion of sourcing from Preferred Suppliers will continue in 2018. suppliers that have signed our Code of Conduct is therefore Some close supplier relationships, with suppliers from whom continuously growing. Bufab makes continuous purchases, develop into a partnership. The aim of partnerships is to achieve higher productivity and BUFAB’S SOURCING Sweden 10% Rest of Europe 45% Asia 45% SUPPLIER CATEGORIES We classify our suppliers into the following categories: • Preferred: Has signed both a sourcing agreement and Bufab’s Supplier Code of Conduct. This group also includes our strategic partners. • Approved: Has signed Bufab’s Supplier Code of Conduct. • Potential: Suppliers that are yet to undergo our approval process. • Blocked: Suppliers we do not work with, or that are being phased out. 10 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS With know-how and larger sourcing volumes, Bufab can The main principle is our own audit plan, followed by audits control C-Parts suppliers from a sustainability perspective more initiated by customers or internal stakeholders. easily than our customers. In efforts to develop our supplier reDuring the year, we substantially increased the number of lationships, we prioritise our largest suppliers where we see that general supplier audits that were performed, which include this work has the greatest impact. Suppliers that do not initially sustainability. We also performed three in-depth sustainability conform to our requirements are rejected. audits of suppliers in China and Taiwan. If we identify instances Adopting a long-term approach and having good relations of non-compliance, the supplier is responsible for creating an can reduce the risk in the supply chain – closer relationships action plan that we later follow up. We are convinced that this benefit both price and lead times, which influence profit, efficienprocess is better than disqualifying suppliers. cy and customer satisfaction. During supplier audits, we obtain information about a supplier’s production capacity in our suppliConflict minerals er management system, and thereby can discover new suppliers Conflict minerals include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, which and reduce the risk level in our production. For certain sourcing, are extracted in the Democratic Republic of Congo and other we have instead a “designated” supplier, which entails that our surrounding countries. The trading of minerals extracted in these customer has chosen and evaluated the supplier and is also countries can be used to finance armed groups in conflict zones responsible for sustainability aspects in the supplier relationship. and violations of human rights. Five percent of our suppliers are designated suppliers. All suppliers who have signed our Code of Conduct guarantee The fact that Bufab has a broad customer base and good that the components they deliver to us do not contains minerals relationships with both large and small customers across a from conflict zones. Upon request, the suppliers must be able to range of industries and market segments is also significant from identify and report the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold in a risk perspective. Today, no single customer accounts for more their products. than 5 percent of Bufab’s sales. Bufab has conducted a risk assessment and identified around 100 suppliers who deliver components containing minerals that Supplier audits could have been extracted in conflict zones. To control this, An important part of Bufab’s sustainability efforts is to perform Bufab uses the Conflict Mineral Reporting Template developed audits of our suppliers. Bufab has quality engineers employed by the Responsible Mining Initiative. Reporting obligations apply who, during a supplier audit, examine conditions in areas includto most of the relevant suppliers. In 2018, we will be launching a ing employees and sustainability, training, health and safety, new system to ensure that all relevant suppliers submit regular accident reporting, work with safety inspections, child labour, reports of their use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. environmental issues, waste and emissions, control of conflict If a supplier is suspected of using minerals from a conflict minerals and compliance with REACH and RoHS. During an zone, we block the supplier and initiate an investigation. If our audit, we also check production capacity. suspicions are confirmed, the supplier will be phased out in accordance with the applicable procedures. Planned activities 2017 Results Planned activities 2018 • Continued consolidation of our best • Continued consolidation of our best suppliers, Implemented, suppliers, commercially and from a commercially and from a sustainability perspective will continue in 2018 sustainability perspective • Monitoring suppliers in relation to conflict minerals • Establish deeper partnerships Partly implemented, • Continued increased quality and intensity in our with suppliers will continue in 2018 supplier audit programme • Increased quality and intensity in Implemented, • Implementation of the Bufab Supplier Management our supplier audit programme will continue in 2018 Process, including deeper partnership with key suppliers • Implementation of an improved supplier database • Sustainability policy for purchasing logistics services BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS Transport In 2018, Bufab will develop a sustainability policy for purThe environmental impact of Bufab’s operations is decreasing chasing logistics services, which will enable a categorisation of as consolidated transport produces lower emissions and a less transport firms. negative environmental impact than if customers sourced their Passenger transport accounts for a minor percentage of our own C-Parts. High fill rates guarantee the lowest-possible level carbon dioxide emissions from transport. Wherever possible, we of carbon dioxide emissions from transport. try to use video conferencing/Skype to minimise our passenger Deliveries from suppliers and regional warehouses mainly transport. take place by boat or truck, while deliveries to customers take place by truck due to the short distances. In 2017, we introduced Quality assurance Group-wide measurement and monitoring of the carbon dioxide Comprehensive quality efforts are required as a supplier to equivalents generated in the logistics chain. From 2018, we demanding customers worldwide. Quality in Bufab is fully will begin measuring changes in order to take the appropriate integrated with our Bufab Best Practice management system, measures. and is based on the quality management system ISO 9001:2015. Express deliveries by air, and sometimes even truck, are We have a process to identify, handle and follow-up quality used if there is a risk of delays, or for last-minute orders. We deviations. When a quality deviation has been rectified and also began to monitor these at Group-wide level in 2017. Bufab investigated, the case is presented for analysis for internal strives to reduce express deliveries by continuously refining its learning and then to Bufab Best Practice. product-flow planning. GWÊNAËLLE LEOPOLD, How do you perform a sustainability audit? Gwênaëlle: Before the audit, the supplier sends us documentaLEAD SUPPLIER AUDITOR, BUFAB tion to help us determine the supplier’s level of maturity in these issues. During the actual audit, we spend one day on-site with the supplier and go through everything, from the office and manufacturing to storage and canteens. It is important to remain vigilant and look behind all closed doors. You might find some surprises! We take photos to document what we have seen and to share our vision with all of Bufab’s employees. What are the most common instances of non-compliance? Gwênaëlle: In Europe, the most frequent area for improvement is waste management. The other requirements are usually covered by legislation. In Asia, we still come across factories with poor working conditions. In these cases, we demand that the supplier improves their workplace conditions or the employees’ safety. How do you follow-up the identified instances of non-compliance? Gwênaëlle: We share our audit report with the supplier and our lead buyer. Then the supplier sends us an action plan. It is vital that the supplier wants to improve their operations! One month later, we hold a follow-up meeting via e-mail or Skype, where the supplier can present evidence of the completed improvements. After another few months, we perform a follow-up revision to ensure that the measures have been implemented. The follow-up audits are performed by our Supplier Quality Engineers, who have completed sustainability training. 12 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 FOCUS AREA – RESPONSIBLE GROWTH We grow both organically and through acquisitions. Growth generate returns for our owners. But responsible growth is also important for increasing sustainability and our contribution to other stakeholders: employees, society at large, suppliers and customers. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH With Bufab Best Practice, we have created a platform for chain control, we do not acquire the company. This has happened sustainable growth. It forms the basis of our work for responbefore, and will happen again. sible growth, both for acquisitions, our own production and in We encourage our new subsidiaries to connect to our Bufab collaborations with our suppliers. Bufab aims to grow 10 percent Best Practice management system, but only on their own initiative. annually, both organically and through acquisitions. Growth is important for generating high returns for our owners, who are Suppliers a key stakeholder group. However, responsible growth also Our operations create jobs both within Bufab, and for our supbenefits our other stake-holders. Our employees benefit through pliers. Our large purchasing volumes make it possible for us to salary, pension and other benefits, as well as opportunities for impose demands on our suppliers in regard to the social and personal development offered by an employer that encourages economic conditions for their employees. We want everyone personal freedom and responsibility. Communities in the coun­ working in Bufab’s supply chain to be treated fairly and have a tries where we operate benefit from the growth for example safe and healthy workplace, and we work hard to ensure this through direct and indirect tax revenue. Our suppliers, which are happens. Bufab’s Supplier Code of Conduct is an important tool chosen for their ability to contribute to responsible growth can for this work. grow on their own. And finally, and perhaps most importantly, our customers improve sustainability in sourcing, logistics and Customers quality assurance of C-Parts. Responsible growth for Bufab often occurs when we take over a larger share of C-Parts handling from a customer. As part of Acquisitions this work, low-standard suppliers are often replaced by better When we acquire a company, we devote a great deal of time and alternatives, inefficient logistics by efficient logistics, in addition energy to evaluating the company’s supplier base and sustainit is also improvements in both delivery precision and quality. ability efforts to ensure they conform to our requirements. If we The overall productivity of our customers increases. At the same identify instances of non-compliance in the acquisition process time, customers acquire better control over their total sustainability in relation to corruption, environmental impact or lack of supply performance. The latter is an increasingly important reason for why customers choose to grow with Bufab. Communication Economic value generated and distributed We believe it is important to be clear about what we expect In recent years, Bufab’s growth has led to an increase in the from our suppliers, acquisition candidates and employees. With creation of economic value for its stakeholders – suppliers, our sustainability report, website, customer presentations and employees and shareholders. internal communication, we are spreading knowledge about our SEK million 2017 2016 2012 sustainability efforts and the values they create. Revenue – net sales 3,201 2,847 2,034 Other revenue 32 32 27 Total value generated 3,233 2,879 2,061 Planned activities 2017 Results Operating expenses –2,342 –2,071 –1,543 • Raised growth ambitions Implemented Salaries and remuneration to employees, excl. social security –407 –367 –257 • Integration of completed acquisitions Ongoing contributions • Improved communication to customers, Social security contributions –137 –126 –93 suppliers and employees about Implemented and pensions sustainability Costs, banks –26 –21 –87 Dividends –76 –65 0 Tax –65 –88 –21 Planned activities 2018 Total value distributed –3,053 –2,738 –2,001 • Continued focus on growth Economic value retained 180 141 60 • Integration of completed acquisitions BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 13 FOCUS AREA – PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS With clear values and strong leadership, Bufab wants to be the most attractive employer in the C-Parts industry. PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS Corporate culture and recruitment GENDER DISTRIBUTION IN GOVERNANCE BODIES With our approximately 1,100 employees and 37 subsidiaries Men Women worldwide, Bufab possesses valuable entrepreneurial capital. Our subsidiaries and their management teams are highly indeBOARD OF DIRECTORS pendent and take a large degree of individual responsibility. For 2017 71% 29% acquisitions, we have a long-term commitment to implementation 2016 75% 25% of the newly acquired company to nurture the entrepreneurship 2015 75% 25% we have acquired. When we recruit new employees, we look for committed and GROUP MANAGEMENT flexible team-players irrespective of position. They should be 2017 83% 17% able to handle, and appreciate a large degree of freedom with 2016 83% 17% responsibility. We have an open attitude towards our employees, as well as to new methods and solutions. Freedom requires the 2015 71% 29% ability to prioritise, but as we work close to management, supMANAGEMENT AND KEY EMPLOYEES port and guidance is always at hand. Bufab can offer major development opportunities, both glob2017 85% 15% ally and locally, and we prefer to recruit internally. People who 2016 85% 15% are driven by an opportunity to make a difference enjoy working 2015 85% 15% for us. To follow-up the performance and expectations of our employees, all employees have an annual performance review with their line manager. The Bufab Academy Interviews with Bufab’s employees show that many would The Bufab Academy was launched in 2014 and provides training appreciate greater workplace diversity, in terms of age, gender in sales, leadership, purchasing and technology. It plays a key and cultural background. This is something we are working on, role in our endeavour to become the most attractive employer for example, in our leadership training courses. in our industry and creates the right conditions for a developing Local involvement is important for us because it creates deeper workplace. Within the framework of the Bufab Academy, our relationships with the local community. Accordingly, we often employees completed a total of 3,342 (2,608) training hours in employ people who come from, or have long been active, in the 2017. During the year, we also strengthened the Bufab Academy region where the subsidiary is based. Most local employees have by adding sustainability elements to several training courses. extensive networks, which promotes Bufab’s local development. Our induction programme is an important feature of the Bufab Bufab’s local management teams and key employees comprise Academy. This induction programme is for all employees who, a total of 71 (71) people, of whom only 45 percent (48) are from as part of their work, will require knowledge about the entire Sweden. A total of 21 nationalities are represented in the Group. Group, such as salespeople, strategic purchasers and others. In 2017, sustainability and anti-corruption were integrated with the induction programme, thereby providing our new employees Planned activities 2017 Results with knowledge about sustainability and Bufab’s related focus • Launch of performance indicators for Partly areas. A total of 45 (22) employees completed the induction HR monitoring and governance implemented programme during the year. • Bufab Academy strengthened in Implemented sustainability issues • Work to formulate and communicate Implemented Planned activities 2018 Bufab’s core values • Special sustainability training for Group • Continued broad training around sustainability issues management and all of the subsidiary Implemented within the framework of the Bufab Academy Managing Directors • Anti-corruption training course • Focus on sustainability at the Managing Implemented • Active efforts to influence diversity issues and other Directors’ Conference HR performance indicators • Renewed information about the process Implemented • Development of new concepts for broad training for whistleblowing 14 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 FOCUS AREA – PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS Through Bufab Academy, Managing Directors of all of our sister Advanced sustainability training is also offered to selected companies have also gained access to a toolkit to support their employee groups. All of Bufab’s supplier auditors undergo an operational leadership and during the year, all regional managers ambitious training course in social sustainability, and our wareand Managing Directors were offered training in sustainability. house employees undergo comprehensive safety training when The topic was also presented at Bufab’s Managing Directors’ they commence their employment. Conference in spring 2017. Whistleblower function It is important that all employees feel they are able to report any TRAINING, HOURS suspected irregularities that arise at Bufab. Bufab’s whistle­ 3,500 blower function, which has been available to all employees since 2016, offers anonymity through a third-party process. The num3,000 ber of suspected irregularities reported via the whistleblower 2,500 function has increased in recent years, something that we see as positive. Suspected irregularities are investigated by either a 2,000 third party or by Bufab. If the investigation is carried out by 1,500 Bufab, the investigation is closely monitored by a third party. Action is taken based on the conclusions of the investigation. 1,000 In 2017, all employees who completed Bufab’s induction or 500 leadership programme were informed about the whistleblower 0 function and the third-party process. In addition, all regional 2015 2016 2017 managers were informed about the function and tasked with Induction programme Bufab Academy spreading the information in their own organisations. BUFAB’S VALUES We are entrepreneurs – with big hearts To succeed in business, you have to have a big heart Our values serve as a compass for our behaviour towards each other – and that is exactly what we have. Despite our size, we and our business partners, but also towards society at large. Drawing up have succeeded in keeping the feeling of a family business. our values is important to be able to grow while maintaining our corporate We work together and treat each other with respect. We are culture. Our values play a key role in our efforts to introduce new employresponsive to the needs of our customers and find creative ees and newly acquired companies. The values hold a natural place in solutions for them. Our passion is finding solutions – we are our induction training as well as the leadership training courses we offer entrepreneurs. all line managers with HR responsibility. We always deliver – as a team We provide professional, cost-efficient, sustainable busiWHO WE ARE ness and manage our customers’ resources as responsibly WE ARE FAST & FLEXIBLE ENTREPRENEURS as if they were our own. We believe in personal initiative – WITH BIG HEARTS to drive the business forward, and teamwork for success. Always considering what is best for our customer. HOW WE WORK WE ALWAYS DELIVER Our Our value DEDICATED – AS A TEAM We are a responsible partner values proposition: We want to help our customers with their C-Parts requirements, which involves taking complete responsibility for HOW WE CONTRIBUTE sourcing, logistics and quality. Our goal of becoming a WE ARE A RESPONSIBLE TRUSTWORTHY market leader means that we want to create added value PARTNER for customers, suppliers and employees and to always guarantee quality, a customer focus and sustainability. We SOLUTIONISTS are a responsible player. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Bufab’s objective is to identify risks, prevent risks from occuring and limit any damage arising from these risks. This applies to sustainability risks, operational risks and financial risks. Bufab’s risk management is based on Bufab Best Practice, read more on pages 6 and 8. SUSTAINABILITY RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk description Risk management SUPPLIER BASE Suppliers’ sustainability efforts Suppliers’ sustainability efforts (Social aspects, Bufab has a Supplier Code of Conduct. If Bufab’s Bufab performs continuous audits of new and environment and suppliers do not comply with the Code of Conduct, existing suppliers to ensure they conform to the human rights) the suppliers’ employees and the surrounding requirements of our Code of Conduct. We also environment may be adversely impacted. endeavour to consolidate our supplier base and The most common instances of non-compliance increase the proportion of Preferred Suppliers. in our supplier audits are related to health and Read more on page 10–12. safety, and waste management. The risk of human rights violations, and of forced and child labour, is not considered material. Conflict minerals Conflict minerals There is a risk that some components provided Bufab requests that suppliers using tin, tantalum, by Bufab may contain minerals extracted in a tungsten and gold in their products submit reports conflict zone. Trade in conflict minerals is used using the Conflict Mineral Reporting Template. The to finance armed conflicts. use of minerals and their extraction is continuously monitored. Read more on page 11. ENVIRONMENT Transport Transport Our freight transport, mainly from Asia, Bufab endeavours to work with fewer and larger contributes to carbon dioxide emissions with transport suppliers. Wherever possible, we use a negative environmental impact. maritime transport and our goal is to increase the fill rate of our deliveries to the highest degree possible. Read more on page 12. In-house production In-house production Three of Bufab’s subsidiaries conduct in-house The manufacturing companies continuously monproduction. At the end of 2016, the manufacturing itor energy consumption, emissions and transport companies were licensable under the Swedish in accordance with their environmental permit. Environmental Code. Bufab Lann and Bumax are certified according to the ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and ISO/TS 16949 standards. APEX is certified according to the ISO 9001 standard. EMPLOYEES Our employees networks and relationships with It is important that we can develop and motivate customers and suppliers are a prerequisite for our employees in order to benefit from their Bufab’s continued success. If we lost several key expertise and relationships. With the Bufab employees, Bufab’s relationships and financial Academy and other competency development position could be affected. programmes, we create the conditions for an attractive and developing workplace. Read more on pages 14–15. ANTI-CORRUPTION Bufab has more than 3,000 suppliers and over Bufab’s business relationships must be sound 13,000 customers. The inherent risk of corruption and transparent. To raise competency in this may be higher in some business relationships, area, our induction programme includes an particularly in vulnerable markets. This risk is anti-corruption training course. Bufab has not considered material. Corruption cases could conducted an anti-corruption risk assessment impact Bufab’s reputation and financial position, of all subsidiaries. and lead to legal consequences. Read more on page 9. 16 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders in Bufab AB (publ), corporate identity number 556685-6240 Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2017 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Värnamo, 21 March 2018 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Fredrik Göransson Authorised Public Accountant BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Box 2266 SE-331 02, Värnamo, Sweden. Visiting address: Stenfalksvägen 1, Värnamo, Sweden. Solberg Phone: +46 370 69 69 00 www.bufab.com
