2 04 CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE 06 RÖNESANS 06 About The Company 10 Companies 11 Mission, Vision, Values 11 Our Mission 11 Our Vision 11 Our Values 12 Organizational Management & Governance 14 About The Report 16 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 16 Human Rights Principles 12 16 Rönesans’s Human Resources Principles 18 Ethics 19 Health and Safety 20 HSE Recognition Programs 20 HSE Training 22 Labour Rights – Principles 3 – 6 22 Discrimination 22 Employees Workplace 23 Training Program and Competency 24 Environmental – Principles 7 – 9 24 Environmental and Social Management System(ESMS) 25 Environmental and Social Screening 25 Environmental Training 25 Waste Generation 26 GHG Emission Management 27 Stakeholder Management 28 LEED Certificated Projects (A page for each Project) 39 Anticorruption – Principle 10 40 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES 40 Rönesans Becomes the “Compass” for Young People 40 Design Sustainable Future (Sürdürülebilir Geleceği Tasarla) 42 REV Academy – Personal Development Program 48 MEMBERSHIP & AWARDS CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE 4 Since our inception in 1993, Rönesans has transformed into a giant world competitor consisting over 56,000 employees working in 24 countries. Our growth has responded responsibly to the changing dynamics of today’s resource limited world, by aggressively investing in sustainable frameworks and installing best management practices in all our projects. Twenty-four years of experience in leading the forefront of construction and trade has helped develop our corporate responsibility to the highest standards. Rönesans Holding, as a UN Global Compact Participant, adapts Environmental and Social Sustainability philosophy to protect particularly human health, natural and cultural heriatages in all activities throughout the projects’ lifecycle by positively influencing its stakeholders, communities and environment. As Rönesans, we also support continously Global Compact by making its principles part of strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company, and engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broder development goals of the United Nations. Our triple bottom line approach “people, the planet and economy” is at the heart of our business. We believe sustainable business practices not only have immediate positive impacts on environment and society, but also provide long-term economic benefits to future generations. This belief has established a foundation of trust and built symbiotic relationships with our stakeholders and local communities over the years. I would like to express my sincerest gratitude to our clients, who shared our vision, and for their continued support. At Rönesans, we solve sustainability challenges through the adoption of innovative measures in design, technology, and management. Most importantly, we listen to our stakeholders; through their active inclusion in every phase of our projects, we ensure our corporate social responsibility in achieving the triple bottom line. Our green vision is not only to be ranked in the top 10 construction companies in the world by our economic performance but also achieving this goal by being more and more respectful to the environment. I would like to thank all my colleagues who contributed this report which is a great way to express how much Rönesans cares environment and social life. Dear stakeholders, Your support and encouragement is key to meet the expectations of our company and, to serve our communities better by improving our sustainability approach. Thank you. İpek Ilıcak Kayaalp Chairperson of the Board RÖNESANS About The Company Rönesans Holding is established in 1993 by Dr. Erman Ilıcak, furnishes services as the main contractor and investor in 24 countries throughout the world. Operating in such fields as construction, real estate development, energy and health, the Holding is the 36th largest international contracting company of the world and the 9th largest contractor of Europe in the “Top 250 International Contractor List” announced by the Engineering News Record (ENR). Rönesans Holding currently constructs shopping malls, offices, hotels, houses, composite structures, heavy industry plants, infrastructure projects, manufacturing industry plants, chemical and pharmaceutical plants, food and beverage processing plants, automotive and machine factories, government buildings, health complexes and power plants with its 56,000 employees. Rönesans Holding currently operates in Russia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Algeria, Belarus, Germany, Nigeria, Switzerland, Austria, Iraq, Libya, Finland, Belgium, Mozambique, Sint Maarten, Luxembourg, Gabon, Curocao, Georgia, Uzbekistan, and Uganda aims at implementing new projects in the Commonwealth of Independent States, as well as the Middle East, African and European countries. 6 Rönesans Milestones 1993 2008 2012 • Dr. Erman Ilıcak establishes • Sochi International Airport, the first • Operations begin in Azerbaijan, Iraq, Rönesans Construction in St. infrastructure project, is launched in Belarus and Gabon. Petersburg, Russia. cooperation with Strabag. • Rönesans ranks 81st in ENR’s “Top • Renaissance Plaza, a Class A office 225 International Contractors” list. 1998 project, opens in St. Petersburg. Rönesans Healthcare Investment is • The company wins its ﬁrst largeOperations expand to North Africa established. scale construction tender, the Baltika and Middle East. • İzmir Optimum Outlet Shopping Beer Plant facilities. • Rönesans Middle East and Africa Center opens. (Rönesans MEA) is founded in 2000 Istanbul. 2013 • Rönesans Construction opens its • Rönesans gains recognition as Moscow Office. 2009 the largest international Turkish • A shareholding agreement is contractor in ENR’s list, in which it 2001 concluded with Porr AG. has risen to the 64th place. • The company enters the real estate • Qatar Office opens. • Rönesans Medical is established. Operations are launched in Nigeria. development sector. • Rönesans wins its first tenders in • The construction of Rönesans Libya. Pravda, LEED Gold certified by the US 2004 • Rönesans Energy starts operations Green Building Council, is completed. • Rönesans inaugurates its first at its first project, Yalnızca • RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office shopping center investment, Optimum Hydropower Plant. Project is completed. Outlet in Ankara. • Rönesans opens Samsun, • Renaissance House, Rönesans’ 2010 Kahramanmaraş and Şanlıurfa Piazza ﬁrst office building in St. Petersburg, • Rönesans launches operations in shopping centers. enters service. Turkmenistan. • İstanbul Optimum Outlet Shopping 2014 2005 Center is recognized as the best • Rönesans rises to the 53rd place in • The first of the eight Mega Shopping shopping center by International ENR’s list. Center projects in Russia enters Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) • Rönesans acquires Heitkamp service in Nizhny Novgorod. and Turkish Federation of Shopping Ingenieur und Kraftwersbau GmbH. Centers and Retailers (AMPD). • The construction of Ammonia and 2006 • Kozzy Shopping Center enters Urea Manufacturing Plant, the largest • Rönesans enters ENR’s “Top 225 service in Kozyatağı, İstanbul. industrial facility in Turkmenistan, is International Contractors” list. completed. • Rönesans undertakes the • Rönesans Real Estate Investment is 2011 development of the Gotthard Base founded in Ankara, Turkey. • Rönesans Heavy Industries is Tunnel Project, the world’s longest • Ankara Optimum Shopping Center founded. rail tunnel, which crosses through the expansion building enters service. • Rönesans Forum Business Center Alps. and Crown Plaza Hotel open in St. • TED Rönesans College is opened in 2007 Petersburg. cooperation with Rönesans Education • Rönesans becomes the second • Rönesans Energy becomes a partner Foundation (REV) and Turkish largest contractor in Russia. in Özlüce Hydroelectric Power Plant Education Association. • Rönesans Energy is founded and (HPP). • Rönesans purchases 19.9% stake becomes operational upon obtaining • ICBC recognizes Kozzy Shopping in the Netherlands-based Ballast the first hydropower plant certificate. Center as the best shopping center. Nedam, becoming the largest • A joint venture is established with • Adana Optimum is selected as the shareholder. Amstar Global, US-based real estate best shopping center in the outlet • LEED Platinum-certified Rönesans investment company, for an array of category by AMPD. Tower (Allianz Tower) opens in shopping centers. İstanbul. • Rönesans Infrastructure Consulting • REV provides 100 new university is founded. graduates with job opportunities at • Rönesans Real Estate Investment Rönesans Holding and its affiliated enters into a strategic partnership group of companies through its “Young with the Government of Singapore Discovery Program Pusula.” Investment Corporation (GIC). 2017 2015 • Rönesans rises to 38th place ENR’s • Rönesans becomes the world’s top global contractors list and ranks 37th largest construction company, 10th in Europe. and the 10th in Europe, according to • Yozgat City Hospital, Turkey’s first ENR’s rankings. PPP project, enters service after 19 • Rönesans undertakes the Liquefied months of construction. Natural Gas (LNG) Plant, its first • Ballast Nedam, one of Rönesans project in arctic Yamal Peninsula, group companies, prepares Russia. to undertake a PPP road and • RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office tunnel project in Rotterdam, the Project is acknowledged as the first Netherlands. LEED Platinum-certified campus • Mega Silk Way, built by Rönesans office project of Turkey and Europe. Construction specifically for EXPO• Adana City Hospital is recognized as 2017 in Astana, Kazakhstan’s capital the “Best PPP Healthcare Project of city, opens its doors to visitors. 2015” by Partnership Award. • İzmir Optimum becomes Aegean Region’s largest shopping center after 2016 transitioning away from an outlet • Rönesans places as Europe’s 10th concept and into a regular shopping largest contractor in ENR’s list. center with additional buildings. • European Bank of Reconstruction • Ballast Nedam, a Rönesans and Development (EBRD) and its Holding group company, assumes the partners award the best sustainable expansion of Castries Haven in Saint energy projects in Turkey. Lucia along the Caribbean Sea. • Sena hydroelectric power plant • Financial closure of İkitelli City receives the “Most Advanced Carbon Hospital, to be built by Rönesans Project Award”. Healthcare Investment, is completed. • More than 2,000 seismic isolators • Rönesans Holding becomes are set to be installed in the hospital, a signatory of the Women’s which, once finished, will be the Empowerment Principles platform, world’s largest building equipped with which was established under the seismic isolators. partnership of UN Global Compact and • A MoU is signed between Rönesans UN Women. Holding and Russian Direct • Rönesans Energy adds Şanlıurfa HPP Investment Fund (RDIF) along with to its production portfolio. the world’s leading state funds. Gotthard Base, the world’s longest • Neva Towers, built in Russia, chosen railway tunnel, is completed by a as “The Best International Multistory consortium that includes Rönesans Building Project in the World.” Construction. • Financial closure is amounting to • Rönesans signs a shareholding JPY 163 billion of Ikitelli City Hospital, agreement with IFC, a member of the one of the biggest hospitals of the World Bank Group. world, is completed. • Stoilensky Gok, Europe’s largest iron ore pelletizing plant, built by Rönesans Heavy Industries, commences production in Russia. • Following its financial closure, Elazığ City Hospital Project is confirmed as a Green and Social Bond by Vigeo EIRIS, which appraises environmental, social and governance-related aspects of projects in international markets. 8 2018 AT A GLANCE Rönesans becomes the world’s 36th largest construction company, and the 9th in Europe, according to ENR’s rankings. Izmir Optimum Shopping Center, the biggest mall in the Aegean Region, is chosen as the best in Europe. Piazza Maltepe Shopping Center, established with an investment of EUR 320 million, opened its doors to the visitors. Rönesans Holding received the title of “Brand of the Year” in the construction category. Hilltown was awarded the LEED Gold Certificate, one of the most prestigious green building certificates in the world. The highest point -462 meterof the Lakhta Center, the tallest building in Europe built in St. Petersburg, Russia, has been reached. Renaissance Business Park, implemented in St. Petersburg, has become the first LEED Platinum certificated project in Russia. The joint venture between Ballast Nedam and TAV Construction was awarded the construction contract for the new terminal at Amsterdam Schiphol Airport. A contract was signed with Maire Tecnimont for the construction works of Amur Gas Processing Plant to be one of the biggest in Russia and few natural gas processing plants in the world. Elazığ City Hospital, built within the scope of Public-Private Partnership by Rönesans Healthcare Investment, started its operations on August 1. Ikitelli City Hospital, with its financial closure amounting to JPY 163 billion, was chosen as the “PPP Contract of the Year” in Europe at the Project Finance International Awards organized by Thomson Reuters. Rönesans Real Estate appended its signature under a great achievement by receiving nine awards in total at the MarCom Awards, listed among the most important marketing and communication awards in the world. Adana City Hospital, built by Rönesans Healthcare Investment, was entitled to receive the LEED Gold Certificate. Lakhta Center St. Petersburg Russia Companies • Rönesans Construction (RC) is involved in engineering, procurement and construction contracts primarily as a construction company. Its primary focus is on large commercial and industrial projects such as shopping malls, hotels, business centers, hospitals, government & private offices and industrial plants for public and private clients. • Rönesans Heavy Industries (RHI) carries out its activities in the construction of petroleum chemicals, gas, energy, metallurgy, mining, and processing plants. The main service areas of RHI include engineering, procurement, logistics, construction, and test commissioning works. • Rönesans Real Estate Development includes Rönesans Real Estate Investment (in Turkey, RGY) and Desna Real Estate Investment (in Russia, Desna) and provides construction and development of residential and commercial real estate. • Rönesans Healthcare Investment Company (RSY) carries out investment in the healthcare sector under the public-private partnership scheme in Turkey. • Rönesans Energy (REN) carries out investment and development of energy projects, including renewable energy. • Rönesans Middle East & Africa (MEA) was established in 2008 and opened its first office in Libya. It now works in several countries building stadiums, hotels, residences, and hospitals. 10 Mission, Vision, Values OUR MISSION OUR VISION Is to contribute to the benefit of our employees and Is to maintain our leading position in Turkey and to be society through high quality and innovative projects that ranked among the top 10 construction companies in the we take on even under challenging and variable market world. We aim to be a unique and dynamic business in conditions. We implement our mission by virtue of being each target sector by maintaining sustainable growth. reliable and dynamic in rendering our services and by making a visible difference in each market sector where we are active. OUR VALUES INTEGRITY COMPETENCE We are committed to the values described in our Code of We believe that by employing competent people, we Conduct which puts integrity first. At Rönesans we are ensure the highest quality of our projects. Competent convinced that honesty is the best policy. We promote employees demonstrate a high level of knowledge and encourage honesty, integrity, and transparency in all and skills. They perform their work conscientiously, our business processes and corporate communications. thoroughly, and accurately. They feel confident when it comes to assuming responsibility; thus, they are • To Do Things Right is Rönesans perceived as reliable colleagues and strong team players. • Showing True Respect to All is Rönesans • Representing Trust is Rönesans • Being Aware and Extending Your Knowledge is Rönesans • Discovering for More Creativity is Rönesans • Challenging Yourself to Reach Excellence is Rönesans TEAMWORK CARE FOR THE FUTURE We understand the importance of team spirit and Rönesans is a dynamically growing company that follows teamwork. The most impressive results are achieved long-term development strategies and aims to establish by close-knit teams which, we believe, we have at solid relationships with its employees, clients and other Rönesans. We place great emphasis on coordination and stakeholders; by envisioning a clear destination and the harmonization of efforts of our team members because future of our company. Therefore, we ensure the right road this ensures success and great accomplishments for to arrive at the best results possible and even exceed our company. At the same time, we strive to provide the expectations which we have set. We are determined our employees with an encouraging and inspiring work to move forward without stopping, to set new goals and environment where everyone can fulfill their potential, expand our horizons in order to make people’s lives safer, develop their talents, and come up with the most efficient more comfortable, and more enjoyable. and creative solutions for our clients. • Giving a Chance is Rönesans • Building with Passion is Rönesans • Being A Bridge Between the Past and The Future is • Marching Together for A Greater Success is Rönesans Rönesans • Presenting The Same Quality Everywhere and Every Time is Rönesans Organizational Management & Governance Rönesans is governed and represented by a board of highly reputed industry leaders and professionals. Our Board of Directors determines the company’s management organization, establishes the necessary arrangement for financial planning, appoints senior management, strengthens risk management, creates the company committees, and oversees whether the persons involved in management comply with the laws, articles of association, internal guidelines, and the Board’s written instructions. The Board also holds General Assembly Meetings with the participation of the shareholders and ensures the implementation of decisions taken in General Assembly. The secretarial services, control, management and archiving of corporate documents of the Board is undertaken by Legal Affairs Department. Rönesans adopts the legality and the rule of law in its all works and in this way it provides the legality of the administrative affairs of the company. BUSINESS ASPECTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEM Rönesans has a corporate governance system that relies on a set of key components to operate and ensure accountability, efficiency, and the successful distribution of rights and responsibilities among different participants. These include the Performance, Process and Document, and the Strategic Management systems. The communication channels in these structures are bidirectional, and these frameworks also serve as a platform for individuals and groups to relay critical concerns to the highest governance body. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Rönesans has developed a well-structured performance management system to help the company achieve long-term strategic objectives. In the system, the overall Rönesans mission and vision are translated to the diverse business units and corporate functions while the business streams are planned in detail with the involvement of executive management. Subsequently, those plans are communicated across the company and linked to the short-term and long-term operations of the business units. As a result of the system, Rönesans’s overall strategy has been successfully translated into operational terms. 12 PROCESS AND DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Process Management System defines the structures of the business units and the organization as a whole, clarifies rights and responsibilities of each individual and standardizes the work processes through corporate procedures and standards, ensures compatibility among corporate functions, and minimizes ambiguity in operations while providing transparency and accountability. It minimizes redundant approval procedures and non-value adding control mechanisms involved in the company’s daily operations reducing extensive time spent, idle processes and waste of waiting. As a part of the process management system, standards related to the operations of diverse business units are developed. In the system, the operational roles and responsibilities of these functions are captured, work principles and authorizations are discussed, and process diagrams representing the sequence of these operations are established. CENTRALIZED DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Document Management System ensures that any information, knowledge, and documents can be successfully captured, classified, formatted, retrieved, reported, delivered, integrated, and secured; that is, wholly managed. STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Rönesans’s strategic management approach includes the formulation and implementation of the company’s goals over the long term based on the organizational strengths to enhance competitive advantage and meet customers’ and employees’ expectations. Rönesans formulates its strategy to give direction and establish the company’s scope of operations over the long term, and to maintain success in a changing and competitive environment while considering internal dynamics and the external operating environment. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is a keystone in implementing corporate, sustainability and social strategy. Rönesans attaches high importance to comply with law, transparency and accountability. Rönesans Risk Management is implemented to prevent any contingency with a potential negative impact on the attainment of qualitative or quantitative activities. Its aim is early identification and control of the risks including market risks, operational risks, financial risks and information security risks linked to Rönesans’ global business. In this way, the potential impact of identified risk can be minimized, and future threats to the company inhibited. About the Report This report covers the environmental and social performance of Rönesans during the period from September 2017 to September 2018 and illustrates our corporate culture is driving our achievements. We refer to the company’s subsidiaries and its joint ventures as “The Group” and use consolidated annual data from our global operations in all sectors and businesses to highlight our performance. This report also describes the practical actions that Rönesans has taken to implement UN Global Compacts ten principles in each of the four issue areas; human rights (1 and 2), labor rights (3, 4, 5, 6 and 10), environmental (7, 8 and 9) and anticorruption (3, 4, 5 and 6). The performance figures in our Green Projects was reviewed by the U.S Green Building Council as part of the LEED certification process. We did not employ an external agency to audit this report itself. This report was directed by Sustainability Office of Rönesans Holding. Please contact us via e-mail (sustainability@ronesans.com) for questions related to this report. 14 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Principles 12 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence. 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Rönesans’s Human Resources Principles • Conducting surveys and interviews about employee satisfaction • Allowing for career possibilities and skill development • Offering a workplace environment in which business and private lives are balanced • Awarding employees who deliver an outstanding performance • Providing fringe benefits Dynamism, Innovativeness and Team Spirit • Encouraging creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship • Ensuring a flexible and dynamic workplace environment • Cultivating a strong team spirit in order to achieve sustainable Success • Right Person for the Right Job • Selecting employees who are capable of adding value to Rönesans culture, vision and mission • Effectively assessing the education, knowledge, experience, and skills of candidates and employees Investment in Human • Adopting the principle of continuous and sustainable development • Organizing training for personal and Professional development • Making contributions to development of skills Diversity and Non-Discrimination Diversity and nondiscrimination are basic principles of Rönesans’s HR policy. The company does not tolerate any form of discrimination and promotes equal opportunities and equal treatment for all, regardless of race, nationality, social background, disability, political or religious beliefs, gender, and/ or age. An individual’s dignity, privacy and personal rights must be respected. Degrading employees through psychological stress or in other ways is under no condition tolerated. Conducting operations in various countries, Rönesans promotes staff diversity in terms of gender, professional, ethnical, and cultural backgrounds. Diversity helps the company to be closer to its local clients, partners and communities. 16 Gender Equality Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality Rönesans, having made a public commitment to 7 principles of Women’s Empowerment Principles since February 2016, aims to increase environmental and social corporate policies that will advance social gender equality. Women’s Empowerment Principles platform is one of the most prominent global initiatives of the private sector, aiming for the empowerment of women in order to enable them to have a place within the economic life, in all sectors and all levels. Women’s Empowerment Principles platform adopts 7 core principles. These are: • Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality • Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and nondiscrimination • Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men workers • Promote education, training and professional development for women • Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy Ethics Rönesans sees ethical standards as a key indicator for achieving long-term success at workplace. However, as a company who carries out activities worldwide, Rönesans is under the risk of internal and external ethical violations due to expanding field of activity and growing organization. In order to manage unethical actions brought to attention, Rönesans takes efficient actions and regularly controls the management and implementation of related actions. Ethical values of Rönesans are stated in Code of Conduct Agreement with related principles and defined responsibilities. According to the code: • Employees of Rönesans are committed to the principles of honesty and integrity in its relations with stakeholders. • Reliability is and essential necessity in Rönesans. Therefore, employees of Rönesans avoid any behavior which may damage the confidence to company’s activities. • Employees of Rönesans should respect the rights of the individuals and their cultural differences; any sort of harassment and peer pressure is forbidden in Rönesans. Employees should be open, respectful and responsible when sharing their ideas and opinions. • Rönesans pays special attention to the principle of equality both among its employees and in its business relations with third parties. • Rönesans values transparency in its transactions with third parties such as its employees, customers, suppliers, subcontractors, shareholders and affiliates unless otherwise regulatory requirement; and expects same manner from all parties in its value chain. All newly hired employees sign the Code of Conduct which is an attachment to the employment contract. Rönesans also expects its third-party stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, sub-contractors, etc. to follow its ethical standards. Compliance with the rules and principles is a permanent process and requires the employees to make conscious decisions, discriminative and unethical behaviors are strictly not tolerated. Implementation and monitoring processes are ensured by Internal Audit Department. Ethics Hotline is a major contributor in monitoring process. It is used for obtaining information about Rönesans’ ethics applications and reporting inappropriate behaviors. Internal Audit Department is responsible of conducting in-depth researches, studies, reviews, investigations, report evaluation and answering received questions. All complaints and reports are kept confidential and reviews/ investigational works are conducted in strict confidence. 18 Health and Safety At Rönesans, we are determined to make occupational health and safety an inseparable part of our corporate culture. We believe that every accident can be prevented through reliable risk analysis and a proactive health and safety management system. We are working continuously to improve health and safety management policies by constantly bridging the communication gap between the management, employees, subcontractors and clients. Rönesans established a centralized Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Department in 2014 to improve management between our network of offices and projects. This body consists of health and safety management representatives, construction safety steering committee, safety and environmental action committee, safety managers, safety advisors, and safety supervisors. The department exercises a state-of-the digital network system for health safety data collection, monitoring, and reporting. This implementation has resulted in a drastic increase in the quality, type, and frequency of incident reports. In all operation areas, project managers, site engineers and labor personnel are also better interconnected and more prepared to deal with incidents. Our HSE Management System incorporates guidelines and reporting standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) of the United States and the European Agency for Safety & Health at Work (EU OSHA). It operates via the following mechanism, • Provide mandatory HSE training to all employees, starting at the recruitment stage • Cover emergency protocols via dynamic educational courses not only for employees but also subcontractors • Train all site-specific employees on-site with HSE induction training and project-specific HSE training • Screen potential work-related health risks in employees who works on-site via medical checkups • Timely inspection of hazardous conditions on-site. • Validate the efficiency and accuracy of the HSE Management System by routine monitoring, data analysis, and regular internal/external audits • Comply with local and global industry standards in health and safety requirements related to handling of equipment and materials. In order to emphasize the commitment in Health, Safety & Environment, the top management of Rönesans and its group companies’ representatives continuously performed site visits, HSE walk-downs and meetings. Rönesans Holding’s successful Accident Prevention Program and commitment of Top Management and their visible leadership achieved a drastic reduction at incident / accident frequency rates. 2018 Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) Rate: 1.08 Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate= Total Recordable Cases*200000/Total Man-Hours (OSHA) TRIF Rate provided above is collated from the date between September 2017 September 2018 *U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics HSE Recognition Programs Rönesans Holding adopts a zero-accident culture throughout its projects. Rönesans Holding uses HSE campaigns and rewards in order to increase the employee awareness on HSE. Compliance with safety protocols and successful progression toward and achievement of their safety goals to develop and reinforce an organizational norm is recognized and rewarded by Rönesans. Besides the HSE Culture we created at Rönesans, one of our duties is to disseminate this culture with the standards we have designated within the sector and through campaigns and projects targeting the children and youth who are the assurance of our future. An HSE training was held by our Bursa RMI HSE Team in an elementary school. Through the HSE training, we aimed at creating awareness of our little friends who will be working in future projects. With this and similar projects, we are proud to pioneer the step by step development of our country regarding HSE and creation of a culture placing human life at its heart. That is why we would like to continue to build the future SAFELY as Rönesans. HSE Training Creating a healthy and safe working environment is the first priority of Rönesans Holding and the major supporting element is the competent workers, supervisors and managers at work. Considering awareness-raising as one of the preliminary steps into establishing a strong Safety Culture at Rönesans Holding, training launched every year with enhanced techniques and increased rates for everyone. In order to make these activities sustainable, since 2016, each project created training department. 20 In 2017, apart from orientation training and on-the-job training, 846.969 employees across group companies received 1,335,744 man-hours of training. 2017 was also a year which achieved 0.0071 training hours/man-hour, indicating the training ratio across the Group. Provided HSE Training data is collated from the date between September 2017 September 2018; 1,014,987 attendees across group companies received 1,573,537 man-hours of training. Adequate resources have been allocated for HSE training and training targets have been set for Rönesans Holding; as a result, rates doubled for training in last three years. *Training Rates provided above is collated from the date between September 2017 September 2018 HSE Leadership Workshop for Senior and Intermediate Managers was held by The British Safety Council in December 2017. The workshop, led by Adrian Vale and BSC Chairman Lawrence Waterman, highlighted the importance of Leadership in HSE Management and conducted an interactive study through visible leadership samples. To build up an effective leadership of our managers and supervisors “Safety Leadership” Training Program has been launched. In Rönesans projects and establishments, 296 managers and supervisors received training and the program is still going on with other projects in other countries and will continue for upcoming new projects. Labour Rights – Principles 3 – 6 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Discrimination The Rönesans Code of Conduct Agreement enforces that there is zero tolerance for discrimination due to race, color, national or social origin, religion, age, sex, and physical disability. Our hiring process within human resources is also dictated by the Rönesans Codes of Conduct Agreement, which provides equal opportunities and equal conditions. The Code outlines disciplinary regulations that making discrimination for the reasons of language, race, sex, political opinion, philosophical beliefs, religion and sectarian in the course of performing a task and acting as targeting the benefit or disadvantage of someone is a reason for discharge. Beyond these issues, it is also emphasized that performance and productivity will be taken into account for the criteria of accountings and promotions and a transparent, clear of discrimination and fair policy will be pursued in all kinds of processes (recruitment, promotion-transfer-rotation, payment, rewarding, training, social rights etc.). We fully support the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles, which are based on The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and The United Nations Convention Against Corruption. In addition, Johnson Controls supports the United Nations Framework on Business and Human Rights. Employees Workplace Headquarters Operation Locations • Rönesans Holding Turkey, • Germany • Switzerland Ankara • Saudi Arabia • Qatar • Rönesans Holding Russia, • Austria • Kazakhstan St. Petersburg • Azerbaijan • Libya • Belarus • Luxembourg • Belgium • Mozambique • Curacao • Nigeria • Finland • Russia • Gabon • Sint Maarten • Ghana • Turkey • The Netherlands • Turkmenistan • Iraq 22 Training Program and Competency Rönesans values its employee’s professional and personal success and development. Based on these strategies the Talent and Development Management processes have been applied. As a part of talent management, employees competency evolutions are repeated annually then after evaluations employees who were specified as high potential are attended Assessment Center. As a results of these processes; Rönesans’s high potential pool and employees’ strengths and development area are identified. Trainings and development activities in Rönesans are based on two major outputs. First one is strategies of the group, and the other one is talent and performance management evaluation results. And to increase the effectiveness of our trainings and development activities we use blended learning methods as in class, on the job and online trainings. For Rönesans creating own Leaders inside the group is one of the most important strategy and in parallel with this strategy; leadership development of our executives (top and mid-level management) are supported by Talent and Development Management. Accordingly; We have generated two different “Leadership and Executive Development Programs”. The first program designed for the manager and directors, is oriented into coaching and leading strategy has 3 modules and takes 6 days. Additionally, for mid-level managers a different program is applied which is oriented into team management skills and abilities. This program has 2 modules and takes 4 days. In addition to in class trainings, we are also supporting our leaders with Mentorship Program. The program includes our board members and top management. Not only the leaders but also our young talents are the target group. With this program, we aim to widespread our strategy and organizational culture to our young talents as well. Besides Leadership Program we also present our employees optional trainings and mandatory trainings in order to support their own development needs, optional trainings are presented each year. For this year some of the optional trainings are stated below. • Claim Management • Risk Management in Projects • Stress Management • Cost and Budget Management in Projects • Time Management • BIM Workshop • Emotional Intelligence and Communication • Project Management Workshop • Advanced Excel • Advanced Access • Excel Dashboard • Basic Access • Project Management Methods and Practices For technical development based on health and safety, quality and job specific needs, for this year some of the mandatory trainings are stated below. • All plan • Project Management with Primavera 6 (Basic) • Revit Mep • Project Management with Primavera 6 (Advanced) • Rönesans Orientation e-Learning Programs • Compliance • ISO 9001 Trainings • Leadership in Health and Safety In conclusion; between September 2017 and September 2018 we can refer our training and development activities with numbers as,38.560 hours, 17,29 employee/hour and 2,4 employee/day. REV Academy The Personal Development Program is an online training platform utilizing distance-training technologies to enable REV scholarship students to grow and develop in a versatile manner. A dynamic and interactive education environment, the platform eliminates the constraints of time and location to offer to them qualified and impactful education opportunities. The program is open to all current scholarship students, and involves trainings in three main areas of “Personal Development”, “Preparing for a Career”, and “Responsible Citizenship in the 21st Century”. Scholarship students received 2,600 hours of training via the REV Academy online platform in the 2017/18 academic year. Environmental – Principles 7 – 9 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental and Social Management System(ESMS) Environmental sustainability and social responsibility are deeply valued and adapted as core principles in Rönesans. Therefore, every step taken towards the company’s future, brings the need of continuous improvement on environmental and social actions. In order to fulfill the requirements of this improvement, Corporate Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) has been conducted since 2016. Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS); is the entirety of the documentation and systems that are established with the purpose of monitoring, management and improvement of environmental and social sustainability performances in the activities conducted by Rönesans Holding. All applications within the scope of Rönesans Holding ESMS are designed in parallel with international standards. Sustainability Department is responsible for the application, monitoring and supervision of the systems established within the body of ESMS in such a manner that is in accordance with the legal legislations in effect in the geographical region where the operations are carried out. The applications within the scope of Rönesans Holding ESMS are divided into 6: • Environmental and Social Sustainability Policy • Environmental and Social Management Procedures • Environmental and Social Management Documentation • Waste Register System • Energy Consumption Monitoring System • Greenhouse Gas Emission Management System Since the beginning of 2017, Rönesans has been ensured ESMS to adopt and perform as minimum requirement by all group companies within the body of its own. 24 Environmental and Social Screening Rönesans Holding Sustainability Department conducts audits properly to determine the risks and impacts of group companies’ projects on environmental and social issues related to RHOL Environmental and Social Management System requirements. In addition to identifying risks and impacts, Environmental and social audits are aimed to ensure stakeholder’s participation in terms of project activities and establishing an effective grievance mechanism, and helping to prevent and manage risks and impacts for sustainable operations. The audit checklist prepared by taking into consideration Rönesans Holding Environmental and Social Management System and IFC performance standards aims to help prevent, mitigate and manage risks and effects in the project. In order to understand the size of the impact that will arise from the project and to take the necessary precautions, the control list includes the main section such as water and wastewater management, stakeholder participation, waste management and biodiversity. Environmental Training Environmental awareness training prepared for the adoption of environmental and social sustainability culture in all activities. This training provides requirements such as sustainable management and control of greenhouse gas emissions, preparation and management of biodiversity, preparation of integrated waste management system plans like waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling. Waste Generation Waste Register System is established for effective monitoring and management of any waste originating from activities carried out in projects and operations within the body of Rönesans Holding group companies. Through this system, any information related with the type, quantity, transportation and disposal of the generated waste are regularly monitored. Waste Register System is developed in accordance with the international standards, laws and regulations and through the use of this system it is aimed to establish an effective waste management process in all projects and to define goals that could make a prospective difference in this field through regular monitoring of the waste. This system is created for the effective management and follow-up of waste generations from activities carried out within Rönesans Holding subsidiaries. This system contains waste type, amount, transportation and disposal information. The Department of Sustainability established requirements of the Environmental and Social Management System control and management. With the authorization provided in the application, more secure transfer of information, acceleration of the control process of input data and providing flexibility in the reports will be created. Waste 2017 Paper (ton) Wood (ton) Metal (ton) Plastic (ton) Electronic Hazardous 48,992.48 6,687.10 273,677.89 4,824.89 Waste (kg) Waste (kg) 624 346,749 * Data is taken from Annual Monitoring Report (AMR) consists January, 2017 through December, 2017 reporting period. GHG Emission Management It is estimated that construction of buildings has very important impact on the environment related to energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission. Rönesans considers environmental responsibility a strict requirement and has implemented several sustainable strategies in order to prevent probable damages that may be caused by its operations. Improvements related to greenhouse gas reduction or removal are made in accordance with TS ISO 14064-2 Standard that has scope as given below: Scope 1: Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions released from sources owned or under its control Scope 2: Purchased electricity, steam, heating, cooling etc. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Operations Scope 3: All other indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions not covered under Scope 2, e.g. Greenhouse Gas Emissions related to transportation activities where the establishment is not the owner and not directly controlled, Greenhouse Gas Emissions etc. which may be caused by recycling or disposal of the products used. Rönesans Holding GHG Management Procedure is applied regarding following purposes: • To ensure that all documents, data and references used in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions are properly and appropriately supplied and used • To ensure the data flow activities carried out under the annual greenhouse gas emission report are not misrepresented and the relevant activities are identified • Provision of guidance on measures and actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions production In 2017, Rönesans Holding began to calculate GHG emissions related to activities of all subsidiaries. Data on activities leading to greenhouse gas emissions are collected, recorded and reported by the enterprises and projects. All data are recorded on electronic data systems. The necessary data flow within the management activities of greenhouse gas emissions is provided through GHG Management Procedure. GHG emission calculations are carried out at the end of all these steps. In 2018, it is aimed to take actions for reducing GHG emissions which are arising from activities. 26 Stakeholder Management Rönesans attaches great importance to meet expectations collaboratively with all stakeholders. To share the Company’s values, support and encourage stakeholders for good relationship, Rönesans implements Stakeholder Engagement Procedure (SEP). SEP requires efficient management and implementation of resources and responsibilities. Rönesans identifies the stakeholders’ requirements, wishes, and expectations, addresses them discerningly, incorporates them into its business activities. Rönesans has many stakeholders including: • Customers • Employees • Suppliers • Business partners • Local and neighboring communities • Investors • Non-governmental organizations • Government authorities • Media • Academics • Social and environmental agencies Rönesans SEP aims to engage relevant stakeholders for a purpose to achieve accepted outcomes, manage their business more consciously for the well-being of all major stakeholders while fulfilling their highest business purposes, intercorporate vision, mission and values. Five main categories are identified in SEP to manage key issues of each stakeholder group in Rönesans value chain. • Material Channel: Tools and methods which includes necessary information in order to manage material issues • Material Issues: Key factors for each stakeholder • Impact Channel: Rönesans uses various methods depending on target audience in order to increase the efficiency of communication. Communication methods including consultation and disclosure channels are integrated to SEP as Impact Channels. • Impacts: Direct or indirect outcomes of Rönesans activities on stakeholder groups • Description: Main stakeholder groups of Rönesans are classified as Society, Employees, Investors, Business Partners and Customers. Scope of each main stakeholder group is provided in Description section. LEED Certificated Projects Rönesans, having embraced the continuous progress principle and the environmental responsibility mentality as an integral part of its corporate culture, is considered to be a pioneering and leading company in its sector with regards to designing, constructing and operating projects with sustainability principles. Rönesans, acting with a sense of environmental responsibility, has become one of the prominent actors in the sector through successful green building applications. Some of Rönesans’ buildings with LEED certificate are: Yozgat Education and Research Hospital (Gold LEED Award, August 2017) The Project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. Yozgat City Hospital is a top class city hospital located in Yozgat. This project is the first hospital in Turkey to receive Leed certification by the US Green Building Council. Yozgat City Hospital is a general hospital with 475 beds and includes Acute, Newborn Intensive Care Unit, Intensive Care Unit, Radiology, Angio Unit, Chemotherapy Unit, Nuclear Medicine Unit ve Physiotherapy Centre. The hospital, which has a construction period of 24 months, was built on a total construction area of 142.000 m2 and the gross building area is 128.118 m2. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 12/18 5/9 15/39 8/16 11/18 6/6 3/4 28 RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office Project Block C (Platinum LEED Award, June 2015) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. The implementation of sustainability in the architectural design and engineering of this A+ class Office Project led it to obtain Leed Platinum Certificate. It is located on E-5 in Küçükyalı, consists of three office buildings in A+ class standard. RönesansBiz Küçükyalı comes to forefront by its easiness of transportation, modern architecture and environment-friendly design. Compared to conventional buildings, significant amount of water saving is obtained due to selection of efficient water fixtures and smart landscape design. In addition, energy performance is optimized by the use of automation systems, energy-efficient lighting fixtures and integration of efficient electrical and mechanical systems. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 25/28 8/10 22/37 7/13 10/12 6/6 4/4 RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office Project Block A&B (Platinum LEED Award, May 2015) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. The implementation of sustainability in the architectural design and engineering of this A+ class Office Project led it to obtain Leed Platinum Certificate. It is located on E-5 in Küçükyalı, consists of three office buildings in A+ class standard. RönesansBiz Küçükyalı comes to forefront by its easiness of transportation, modern architecture and environment-friendly design. Compared to conventional buildings, significant amount of water saving is obtained due to selection of efficient water fixtures and smart landscape design. In addition, energy performance is optimized by the use of automation systems, energy-efficient lighting fixtures and integration of efficient electrical and mechanical systems. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 25/28 8/10 22/37 7/13 8/12 6/6 4/4 30 Rönesans Tower (Platinum LEED Award, September 2014) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. The Rönesans Tower is a Class A high-rise office and the first tall structure in Turkey to receive the Leed Platinum Certificate by the US Green Building Council. The 186-metertall Rönesans Tower is located on the Asian side of Istanbul, at the intersection of two major highways where the two continents connect. Rönesans Tower has a different appearance from every angle and is going to become a new symbol for the city. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 27/28 10/10 19/37 6/13 11/12 4/6 4/4 TED Rönesans College (Gold LEED Award, May 2014) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. The TED Rönesans College is a top class private school located in the district of Maltepe in Istanbul. This project is the first school structure in Turkey to receive the Leed certification by the US Green Building Council. The college is designed to house 1,254 students. The kindergarten has six classrooms, a gym, as well as indoor and outdoor playgrounds. The elementary school has physics, chemistry, biology, music, visual arts, and computer classrooms as well as club rooms. A band room, a dance hall and a physical education hall are planned to be shared high school and elementary school units. The college has a total outdoor area of 6,300 m², including ceremony grounds, sports fields and playgrounds. The college has an indoor sports facility for 284 people, a dining hall for 564 people and a multipurpose hall for 297 people. The administrative section covering a total area of 500 m² includes an executive board unit and offices. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 18/24 8/11 11/33 6/13 10/19 5/6 4/4 32 Renaissance Pravda Business Center (Gold LEED Award, September 2013) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. The Renaissance Pravda Class A business center is the sixth real estate project implemented in St. Petersburg. The office building is located in the heart of St. Petersburg, in the former St. Petersburg headquarters of the famous Pravda newspaper founded in 1912. A distinctive feature of the project is its unique architecture. The interior reflects the classical atmosphere of St. Petersburg: some balconies and street lights are placed in an impressive four-storey atrium. The Renaissance Pravda is designed to offer comfort and flexibility to its tenants, enabling them to plan their office space in accordance with their wishes and requirements. The Renaissance Pravda Business Center has become the first office building in Russia to receive LEED Gold Certification from the USGBC. In addition to this, the project won three prestigious awards at the International Property Awards ceremony held on September 24th, 2013, in London. The building was selected as the best office development project in Russia and the best commercial project both in Russia and in Europe. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 19/28 8/10 22/37 3/13 10/12 4/6 4/4 RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office Project (Gold LEED Award, November 2012) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office, has a difference making value by its position in Class A Office concept with its sophisticated technology and environment-friendly architectural understanding. With its interior garden and yard creating a sense of “outdoor space” the project offers to office employees habitable spacious business areas just in the center of the city. The Mecidiyeköy office project was developed on a 3,917 m² plot in Mecidiyeköy. The gross leasable area is 14,316 m². Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 22/28 8/10 15/37 4/13 8/12 5/6 4/4 34 Renaissance Plaza (Silver LEED Award, May 2012) The project was designed to meet LEED Silver standards. Renaissance Plaza” is one of the largest “A” class business centers of Saint Petersburg located in the historic part of the city. This 8-storeyed building with its imposing air was created with usage of fine architectural and most modern technological solutions. Renaissance Plaza Business Center is comprised of three buildings joined together by a well-furnished green internal yard. Renaissance Plaza is now the first LEED EBOM Certificated office building of Russian Federation. LEED EBOM (Existing Building Operation and Maintenance) certification system identifies and rewards current best practices and provides an outline for building’s to use less energy, water and natural resources; improve the indoor environment; and uncover operating inefficiencies. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 3/26 7/14 21/35 3/10 9/15 5/6 2/4 Renaissance Business Park (Platinum LEED Award, January 2018) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. Renaissance Construction was the general contractor of the Renaissance Business Park was the first project LEED Platinum certified building in Russia. Renaissance Business Park is a new Class A business center with gross building area is 28,320 m². The nine-storey facility offers a one-level underground parking lot for 160 vehicles. The business center building equipped with the most upgraded security alarm and fire-fighting systems, ventilation and air conditioning as well as an electronic access control system. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 24/2 10/1 21/3 6/13 11/1 6/6 4/4 36 Hilltown Shopping Mall (Gold LEED Award, January 2018) The Project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. Hilltown Shopping Mall Project by the USGBC LEED certification is the first shopping center. Hilltown has an area of 63 thousand square meters of leasable area, approximately 2 thousand square meters of recreational area plus an office block of 8 thousand square meters of leasable area. Hilltown’s concept architecture is American architectural office signed by Elkus Manfredi Architects. Hilltown has 200 stores, 9 movie theaters, 40 restaurants and parking for 2,400 cars. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 22/28 8/10 14/37 6/13 7/12 4/6 2/4 Adana City Hospital (Gold LEED Award, August 2018) The Project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. Adana City Hospital Project has been awarded USGBC LEED certification. The Project comprises of an integrated health campus with a total capacity of 1,550 beds consisting of 3 hospitals. These are the 1,300-bed Main Hospital, 150-bed Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Hospital and 100bed High Security Criminal Psychiatric Hospital. The Main Hospital consists of four patient tower blocks surrounding a common core. The Main Hospital will include:182-bed Oncology Hospital & 185-bed Cardiology and Cardiovascular Hospital, 349-bed Women/Maternity & Pediatrics Hospital, 584-bed General Hospital. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 10/18 7/9 23/39 8/16 8/26 3/6 3/4 38 Anti-corruption – Principle 10 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. AntiCorruption Rönesans operates in conjunction with the existing legislation within the countries it operates in, where corruption or criminal activity is subjected to sanctions, including imprisonment. In order to prevent such behavior and attempts related to bribery and corruption we monitor all of our business processes carefully associated entities carefully and investigate anyone acting on his/her behalf in order to avoid any behaviors and attempts of bribery and corruption pursuant to the sensitivity displayed for the issue. No employee of Rönesans can be in any action of offering or accepting bribes and/or any such action that would constitute an offense. Such incorporating offense activities used in order to gain any advantage have certainly been forbidden. Rönesans displays a similar approach to so-called “facilitating payments” abroad regardless of its name under which is made; and making such payments is certainly forbidden. PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Rönesans Becomes the “Compass” for Young People Rönesans Holding has taken on another educational support program through Rönesans Education Foundation (REV) as a mission in order to support the development of skilled young people, who will shape the future. “Young Discovery Program Pusula”, organized in 2016 for the first time, provided new university graduates with job opportunities at Rönesans Holding and its affiliated group of companies. The program, which already stands out as one of the best corporate social responsibility programs that provide new graduates with employment opportunities in Turkey, aims at developing professional competencies and qualifications of young people, as well as enabling them to adopt the business culture and prepare for the business life. Record Number of Applications Within the scope of the Compass program, which was held for the second time in 2017, thousands of genders were reached with seminars held at six universities in 6 provinces. The project, which received more than 14,000 applications from 169 universities across 81 provinces of Turkey, involved face to face interviews with 800 young people in Ankara. Following the evaluations, 120 new graduates from relevant departments of economics and administrative sciences, architecture and engineering faculties were employed for one year at Rönesans Holding and its group of companies, where they would prepare for the business life. In 2018, the program will again offer at least 100 young graduates the opportunity to start their career at Rönesans Holding and its group of companies and gain a unique experience at an international company. Design Sustainable Future (Sürdürülebilir Geleceği Tasarla) ‘Design Sustainable Future’ introduces principles of green building, environment friendly systems and sustainable architecture to future generations in Turkey. Rönesans organizes this competition since 2014 and in 2018, 2156 teams, 3260 students (both architecture and engineering students this year) from 144 different universities across the nation signed up for the event. Awards are presented at the third edition of the annual “Design the Sustainable Future” contest, held with participation of İpek Ilıcak Kayaalp, Chairperson of the Board at Rönesans Holding. Theme of this year’s contest, receiving over 3,000 student applications from 144 universities, was “Sustainable Cultural Center” in architecture. Staged at the TED Rönesans College, the award ceremony featured world renowned architects sharing their experiences on the “trends and sustainability in the construction sector”. Michael Pawlyn, acknowledged as a pioneer of biomimicry, roughly defined as the nature-inspired design, and also a TED Talks speaker, delivered one of the widely-acclaimed speeches at the award ceremony. Also speaking at the ceremony were Emre Arolat, Nevzat Sayın and Han Tümertekin, known for their architectural novelties. 40 Awards Like previous years, this year’s contest was held in two categories, namely architecture and engineering. Contestants’ designs and projects featuring eco-friendly systems that meet sustainability criteria were submitted to a jury of academics of different specialties at Gazi University, Yıldız Teknik University, İstanbul Teknik University and Mimar Sinan University. The judges rated the projects in terms of sustainability, recycling, energy efficiency, waste reduction, use of innovative materials, water efficiency, creation of sustainable living and educational environments. Students placed in the competition won prize money and the right to become an intern at Rönesans Holding. In the architecture category, 2018’s winners are Eskişehir Osmangazi University (1st place awarded 20,000 TL), Karadeniz Teknik University (2nd place awarded 16,000 TL), İstanbul Kültür University ve İstanbul Teknik University (3rd place awarded 14,000 TL) and honorable mention Uludağ University received 10,000 TL. Design the Sustainable Future Category 1st Prize ESKISEHIR OSMANGAZI UNIVERSITY 2nd Prize KARADENIZ TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY 3rd Prize ISTANBUL KÜLTÜR UNIVERSITY and ISTANBUL TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY Honorable Mention ULUDAĞ UNIVERSITY RGY (Rönesans Real Estate Investment) Special ABANT IZZET BAYSAL UNIVERSITY Special Awards Urban development and assessment ANTALYA BİLİM UNIVERSITY Urban development and assessment MIMAR SINAN FINE ARTS UNIVERSITY Innovative idea and detailed solution ISTANBUL TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY Visual design MEF UNIVERSITY Social sustainability YILDIZ TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY REV Academy – Personal Development Program Rönesans Education Foundation (REV) The Rönesans Education Foundation was established in 2009 to support the education and personal development of the youth and children. Since then, under its mission to support the future, REV has launched numerous education programs and social projects with a lasting impact to encourage the youth to realize their potential and to contribute to their growth as sophisticated, capable and productive individuals. REV Scholarship Program The Foundation carries out a Scholarship Program for all children without discrimination. Since its inception, the program has provided 6,500 young people with educational support, as well as significant opportunities for personal and professional development of the youth. 1,200 students received a scholarship in the 2017/18 academic year. Volunteerism All scholarship students in the REV’s Scholarship Program are encouraged to take part in volunteer efforts to enhance their social awareness. The concept of volunteerism is conveyed to the students through online and face-to-face trainings, and they are also provided with information on non-governmental organizations and guidance to start their social responsibility projects if they so desire. In the 2017/18 academic year, scholarship students of the foundation volunteered for 20,000 hours in total. Scholarship Student Meetups Every year, we organize meetups for scholarship students to get to know each other better, and to discuss the concepts of volunteerism and social innovation, with the attendance of expert guests from relevant fields. In the 2017/18 academic year, we organized scholarship student meetups in six cities. Career Talks We organize career talks for scholarship students to guide them into their professional career. In the 2017/18 academic year, we brought together the students of the Darende Bekir Ilıcak Vocational High School with expert architects, engineers, and draftspersons in a career talk event. Our guest speakers shared their experiences in construction site management and technical drawing and held interactive workshops. Webinars We have met with our scholarship students through webinars to eliminate the communication barriers, with expert volunteers from the company exploring the human resources processes. In the 2017/18 academic year, we organized eight webinars, amounting to 720 minutes in total. Designing Learning Cities Organized in collaboration with SogLAB Social Enterprise Laboratory as part of the REV Academy Personal Development Program, the Designing Learning Cities Workshop aims to instill in young people a design-oriented approach and a global perspective. The day-long workshops begin by providing information on Global Goals before focusing on “Quality Education” and “Sustainable Cities and Living Spaces” among the 17 goals specified. Through group activities, the scholarship students work together to identify the problem, brainstorm to explore potential solutions, and finally implement their solution concepts using small-scale models. The idea-production aspect of the workshop aims to instill in the participants the synergy of teamwork while also supporting the development of their problem-solving and critical and creative thinking skills. In the 2017/18 academic year, we reached 100 students through 4 workshop events in Ankara, Istanbul, and Malatya. 42 Room of Dreams The Room of Dreams is a social responsibility project aiming to support the education and personal development of preschool students. The project intends to introduce children to books in an atmosphere that will fuel their imagination to instill in them a love for reading from a young age and to bring quality learning environments to as many students as possible. As part of the project, we build engaging and immersive reading rooms in selected pre-schools with the help of REV scholarship student volunteers, and organize creative reading workshops for the children. In the 2017/18 academic year, we built 5 Rooms of Dreams in Istanbul, Ankara, Eskişehir, Denizli, and Izmir. Lasting Works Since its establishment, REV has built many lasting works, such as the TED Rönesans College, İnönü University Darende Bekir Ilıcak Vocational High School, TED University Ayşe Ilıcak Library, Keriman Çetinkaya Pre-school, Amasya University Yüksel Akın Vocational High School, Ayşe Ilıcak Religious Middle School and Girls’ Anatolian High School, and Gürsu Cüneyt Yıldız State Hospital. Each year, we pay visits to these lasting works to carry out events and continue our support. In the 2017/18 academic year, we visited the Keriman Çetinkaya Pre-school to enhance the existing nutrition program and support the school for its breakfast provisions, as well as offering stationery and winter clothes grants. The students of the school were also invited to a movie event at Piazza Shopping Center on occasion of the April 23 National Sovereignty and Children’s Day. Other activities at the school included donations to the school’s toy cabinet, dental hygiene product grants, and birthday celebrations. Meanwhile, at the Darende Bekir Ilıcak Vocational High School, the entire student body of which is provided with education grants, we organized the second annual Model Bridge Contest and awarded the winners with computers, tablets, and smart watches. Social Projects Sponsorships The books collected in the Book Collection Campaign, organized in partnership with shopping centers, were sorted by student volunteers in Istanbul and received by volunteer students in Malatya who then helped build a library in İzzetpaşa Middle School. The volunteers also helped furnish and organize the library, as well as renovate the school desks. We provided winter clothes to all students in the Hakkari Şemdinli Primary School. We organized a new year’s festival in 2018 with gifts to provide moral support for the children undergoing treatment in Dr. Sami Ulus Children’s Hospital, an institution we also worked with in the past to improve physical conditions. We provided financial support to the families of children in inpatient treatment at the oncology departments of seven hospitals in Ankara. The below lists shows REV Academy activities which were conducted in recent years. 1. Book Donatıon Campaign “Each Book is a New World” Rönesans Real Estate organized a book donation campaign in the shopping centers under their management in collaboration with Rönesans Education Foundation. With the goals of supplying school libraries with new books and recycling old and outdated ones, the project not only provides thousands of books for children and teenagers but also benefits the future by saving trees. Rönesans Real Estate Receives four awards from Marcom Awards In 2017, Rönesans Real Estate was awarded one platinum, one gold and two honorary awards for their book donation campaign, organized with the help of Rönesans Education Foundation, by MarCom Awards, a competition for nongovernmental organizations and the advertisement and public relations departments of the top companies in the world. 44 2. University Career Days – “Right Job, Happy Future” Rönesans Real Estate’s Şanlıurfa Piazza AVYM (Shopping and Living Center) has been organizing ‘’Şanlıurfa Career Days’’ for nine years with the goal of assisting young people taking the right steps for their future. Arranged in collaboration with Şanlıurfa Provincial Directorate for National Education and expert educators, the event help students make the best decisions for choosing the right university for themselves. ‘Career Days’ event has been held for the past nine consecutive years with at least 40 universities attending each year. Şanlıurfa Piazza AVYM receives Bronze Award in ‘’Best Brand Experience’’ Category from Stevie Awards Stevie Awards, the only international business award program of the world, recognized Şanlıurfa Piazza AYVM with a bronze award in ‘’Best Brand Experience Event’’ category for its Şanlıurfa Career Days, an event helping students making the right decisions for choosing the right school after university exams. 3. The “Kareler” (Frames) Photo Contest – “Winning Entrants Received their Awards” Launched by Rönesans Real Estate Investment in 2013 in cooperation with Creative Children’s Association and Fotopya Photography Art Portal, the photography contest Kareler has so far explored the themes of “Joy”, “Friendship”, “Children’s Rights”, “Animal Rights”, “Love”, and “Art”. Introduced six years ago and carried out each year with a different theme, the national-scale photography contest has seen participation from more than 15,000 adults and 10,000 young people from over 100 schools. The contest is organized in three age groups, with entries that place in the top three exhibited in Rönesans shopping centers across Turkey such as Optimum Outlet (İstanbul, Ankara), Optimum (İzmir and Adana), Kozzy, Hilltown, Piazza AVM (Samsun, Kahramanmaraş, Şanlıurfa). Moreover, at the end of each contest, 69 entrants were rewarded monetary prizes in various categories, totaling TL 22,650. By exploring key topics through contests for different age groups, the event series aims to both promote the art of photography and to raise awareness towards the selected themes. 46 4. İzmir Optimum El Ele Café Rönesans Real Estate and İzmir Optimum collaborated with the Anatolia Autism Foundation as part of the social responsibility project “El Ele Café”. The Anatolia Autism Foundation aims to create a successful example of a chain model that will serve as an example across Turkey, provide service and education for autistic people of all ages, and break new grounds in this area. The Shopping Center Management charges no rental and consumption (electricity, water etc.) fees for the El Ele Café project, which is set up in a café developed free of charge by Rönesans Construction (including construction costs such as architectural and mechanical development) in a leasable area of the shopping center. İzmir Optimum Receives Silver and Bronze Awards in Two Categories Through the El Ele Café project, which, for the first time in Turkey, employs children with autism in a shopping center setting to support their educational development, İzmir Optimum has won silver and bronze awards in two different categories for the “Best Consumer Event” and “Corporate Social Responsibility Program of the Year in Europe” in the 2018 edition of the Stevie Awards, the world’s only international business awards program. Memberships & Awards 2018 • Rönesans becomes the world’s 36th largest construction company, and the 9th in Europe, according to ENR’s rankings. • Izmir Optimum Shopping Center, the biggest mall in the Aegean Region, is chosen as the best in Europe. • Rönesans Holding received the title of “Brand of the Year” in the construction category. • Hilltown was awarded the LEED Gold Certificate, one of the most prestigious green building certificates in the world. • Renaissance Business Park, implemented in St. Petersburg, has become the first LEED Platinum certificated project in Russia. • Ikitelli City Hospital was chosen as the “PPP Contract of the Year” in Europe at the Project Finance International Awards organized by Thomson Reuters. • Rönesans Real Estate appended its signature under a great achievement by receiving nine awards in total at the MarCom Awards, listed among the most important marketing and communication awards in the world. • Adana City Hospital, built by Rönesans Healthcare Investment, was entitled to receive the LEED Gold Certificate. 48 2017 • Ranked 38th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • TISK GAN Award (‘The Young Discovery Program – Pusula’) • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – Yozgat Education and Research Hospital, Yozgat, Turkey • First LEED EBOM (Existing Building Operation and Maintenance) certified office buildingRenaissance Plaza, St. Petersburg, Russia • The Firm Generating the Highest Employment in Anatolia Award 2016 • International Finance Corporation (IFC) equity investment • Ranked 44th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Participant • European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Sustainability Award Most Advanced Carbon Credit Project for SENA HEPP 2015 • Ranked 37th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • European Property Awards The Best Office Interior Design • USGBC LEED Platinum Certification RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office Project • UN Global Compact Participant 2014 • Ranked 53rd on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • CRE Federal Awards Russia’s Best Large Shopping Center: Aura Shopping Center, Yaroslavl, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2014 • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – TED Rönesans College, Istanbul, Turkey • USGBC LEED Platinum Certification – Rönesans Tower, Istanbul, Turkey • Asia-Pacific Region International Property Awards Best Public Service Interior 2013 • Ranked 64th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • International Property Awards – Best Commercial Renovation/ Redevelopment Europe/ Russia; Best Office Development Russia: Renaissance Pravda Class A Business Center, St. Petersburg, Russia • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – Renaissance Pravda Business Center, St. Petersburg, Russia 2012 • Ranked 81st on ENR’s “Top 225 International Contractors” list • CRE Federal Awards Russia’s Best Large Shopping Center: Aura Shopping Center, Novosibirsk, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2012 • Shopping Center, Novosibirsk, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2012 50 Ankara, Turkey Portakal Çiçeği Sokak, No:33 Y.Ayrancı Ankara 06540 Turkey Phone: +90 312 840 10 00 Fax: +90 312 442 58 16 E-Mail: ankara@rencons.com Istanbul, Turkey Küçükbakkalköy Mahallesi, Kayışdağı Caddesi No:1 34750 Ataşehir Istanbl Phone: +90 216 430 60 00 E-Mail: istanbul@ronesans.com St. Petersburg, Rusya 26A Ulitsa Shatelena St. Petersburg, 194021, Russia © 2018 Phone: +7 812 740 63 70 Rönesans Holding / Sustainability E-Mail: stpetersburg@rencons.com 52
