Architecture that Empowers People A N N UA L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Table of Contents ABOUT WH ITE Power of Architecture! 3 2017 in Short 4 How We Work 7 Sustainability as Incentive 10 LABOU R Our People 13 Curiosity and Innovation 16 H U MAN R IG HTS The Human in Everything 19 E NVI RON M E NT Planning for Green and Blue 24 Climate action! 27 WH ITE I N FIG U R E S A Role Model 30 Effort Yields Results 33 Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 The Sustainability Report consists of the White Group and its subsidiaries, except subsidiaries Koggensgrand AB, White Tengbom Team (50 percent ownership) or dormant companies. If indicators, metrics or routines do not match this demarcation, it has been noted. The report is based on the requirements of the Annual Accounts Act, which means that it contains information on sustainability needed for understanding the company's development, position, results, and consequences of the operations. The report includes information on the environment, social conditions, labour, respect for human rights, and anti-corruption. The report relates to the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31, 2017. The report refers to our commitment under the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. It also constitutes our annual report on Communication on Progress and will be published on the UN Global Compact website, www.unglobalcompact.com. The report is also published on the White website, www.whitearkitekter.com. Pictures: Jenny Leyman, Sarah Blake Elmwall, Vladimir Ondejcik, Åke E: son Lindman, Adam Mørk, Ken Pils, Kalle Sanner, Annette Larsen, White and White View. Contact: Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability, anna.graaf@white.se W H I T E 2017 Power of Architecture! The headlines can be gloomy: Inequalities are increasing in cities, and wellbeing is decreasing. The effects of climate change are becoming apparent and throwing the planet out of balance. Political polarisation is increasing, both between and within countries. However, with social and environmental challenges come opportunities. We are convinced that through architecture, we can make a difference. The built environment affects us, sometimes We will also continue our international more than we think. By creating housing for venture with sustainable architecture as everyone, schools where students achieve a driving force. By having a presence in better results, hospitals that support the international arena, we can share our recovery and healing, and parks for play and Scandinavian approach and values with social interaction, we contribute to making other markets and countries. Simultanethe world a better place. ously, experiences from different countries By challenging ourselves and our clients and cultures will challenge and enrich us to move towards zero carbon projects, we as individuals and make White Arkitekter a can help to rescue the planet by advancing successful practice. the building industry. As wood is the only Working for sustainable development is renewable building material, we encourage part of who we are. We continue to develop its use as the primary choice for construction our practice and our projects based on the and also as a source of design inspiration. United Nations' Global Goals and Global In the future, the circular economy Compact. With architecture, we have the will be vital to identify new, sustainable power to change the world and create business models. It is already making an spaces that empower people! impact in our interior design projects and 2018 may well be the year that the circular economy gains momentum in the building materials industry too. Alexandra Hagen, Chief Executive Officer The coming year our focus will be on incorporating emerging technologies for designing buildings and developing cities. Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability 3 KB A AP OIUTTE LWRHUIB TERIK 2017 in short Total Employees le vs. Fem rcent of W Ma a Pe o le m en 46 % 54 Em ployees 55% in Execu tiv nageme e nt Ma 1 533 156 registered commissions 2017 Total Total Total Housing Healthcare Education and 25% Research 22% 8% New Employees in 2017 30 63% Research Projects via White Research Lab Reduced CO footprint since 2014 ² 4 W H I T E 2017 times aro a l 42 Tot un d the gl We have had a presence in 14 different countries in 2017 Kenya, USA, Canada, Finland, Latvia, The Netherlands, Italy, Germany, Austria, The United Kingdom, DR Kongo, Denmark (and Greenland), Norway and Sweden. a in e with tr 94% of all travels between Sweden, Norway, and Denmark is by train ob Percent of Environmentally 35 000 000 SEK Certified Commissions: 41% invested in Research and Development 1,54ton of CO per employee 1 082 420 webpage visits to white.se & whitearkitekter.com ² 5 OM WH ITE 6 W H I T E 2017 How We Work Our company’s vision is to create architecture with people in focus, inspiring a sustainable way of life. Strong social engagement is an integral part of White’s culture and it is through our projects, where we can push sustainable development forward. White was founded in Gothenburg in 1951 with social anthropologists, environmental and is one of Europe's largest architecspecialists, project managers, lighting designtural practices with 13 offices in Sweden, ers, energy experts, and interior designers. Denmark, Norway, and the United Kingdom. We see a growing trend for engineerWe work both in the public and private ing companies to extend their services to sectors. Our commissions range from include architecture. However, our strength housing, offices, hospitals, and schools to is that architecture is the starting point for urban planning, landscaping, interior design, us and not an addition – our interdisciplinary project management, and sustainability. approach helps us reach an even higher What makes White unique is that our potential. We believe that this diversity is employees own the company. Of 950 a prerequisite for maintaining our strong employees, there are 650 shareholders, position in the market. including 130 partners. This gives us the power to decide what investments to make S T R AT E G I C P L A N 2 017 – 2 019 and what projects to engage in. We have 2017 was the first year of the strategic the opportunity to conduct our practice plan that is in place until 2019. We employ from a long-term perspective, without being three main strategies to help us achieve our concerned about profits in the short-term. business goals by 2019: A collectively owned architecture practice of this size is unique, and it allows us to do Explore: We explore through practicewhat we believe in on a large scale: create based research and knowledge exchange inspiring architecture that empowers people. in our projects. Architecture is more than form and design; it is about creating sustainable socieChallenge: We challenge with new ties and a better world. Our goal is to be the perspectives, leading our clients into new leading, sustainable and innovative Nordic sustainable solutions. architecture practice on the international market. To meet today’s social challenges Inspire: We inspire with an evocative and to achieve our goal, we believe that architecture based on each unique context. diversity is crucial and this is the reason why In Quebec’s international competition, White won a we have developed our practice with different The targets which can be assessed on silver award for its proposal disciplines, experiences, and backgrounds for sustainability performance are specified in for a national urban park. many years. Our architects work side by side the following table: 7 ABOUT WH ITE OV E R A L L O B J E CT I V E S T I L L 2019 O B J E CT I V E S 2017 S TAT U S 2017 F O L LOW-U P 2017 By 2019 a majority of our research Focus on internally and externally 30 internal research projects. and development will be performed funded research projects. 20 external co-financed. in conjunction with our commissions and reinforced by external collaborations. Our research is openly available and Increase dissemination through 15 seminars. More than 700 external distributed externally. seminars, websites, conferences. participants. R&D on the website in development. By 2019, 5 percent of staff engaged 1,5 percent mentores and 1,5 percent Objective achieved. in White’s mentoring program as mentees. mentees and 5 percent more as mentors. By 2019 we have developed 30 Start minimum five projects. >5 projects with a goal of zero carbon. projects with a zero carbon Solidify White’s definition and working Definition + working methodology footprint. methodology. developed. Training that includes a focus on zero Training started. carbon. White leads one of the groups Lobby for a Swedish definition of zero Advancing Net Zero Buildings (Sweden carbon. Green Building Council). We have reduced CO2 emissions Objective achieved. for energy, travel, purchases, and 63 percent lower CO2 emissions per waste by an average of 30 percent, annual employee compared to 2014. compared with 2014. New business models contribute to 5 New sustainable business models: Several projects underway with reuse/ percent of our sales. Developing models for circular recycling +3 research projects. economy. Started cooperative product Develop at least one product from raw development. Achieved material waste. Partly achieved Strategic Plan 2017–19, objectives for sustainability I N T E R N AT I O N A L particularly interesting because it is a young P E R S P E CT I V E S O U T LO O K democracy and a hub for eastern Africa To increase our understanding of global where urbanisation is developing fast. By challenges such as climate change and working in different countries, we can integration, we need to operate in several engage in new types of commissions, diverdifferent geographic markets. In 2017, we sify our partnerships, and gain new perhad commissions in 14 countries. In Oslo spectives. This way of working is imperative and London, we develop carbon-neutral for the development of our architecture at projects and approach to urban design large and strengthens our practice. from a social perspective. Other focus markets are Germany, Canada, and Kenya. S T R O N G VA L U E S Our Nordic architecture, mastery of wood Since White is employee-owned, our core construction techniques, and expertise values come from within us. Initiated by in sustainable urban planning are highly our owner's directive, three strong values sought after in these markets. Kenya is permeate White’s practice: we should 8 W H I T E 2017 be exploratory, responsible, and act with Our annual comprehensive risk analysis involvement and respect. makes assessments from the perspecWe have three policies that inform our tive of the employee, the commission, the business practices: The Employee Policy, office, the practice, and stakeholders. It The Quality Policy, and The Sustainability is reviewed by the board of directors at Policy. Our Code of Conduct for SustainWhite. Our Code of Conduct is an essenable Business, based on The Ten Principles tial guide for minimising risk exposure of the UN Global Compact and White's concerning sustainability. policies, are essential guides to how we White conducts continuous follow-ups take responsibility. The Code mandates how for employees' health, economic developwe act and what expectations we have for ment, and commissions. Providing good ourselves and our partners. Our Qualityand working conditions and the opportunity to Environmental management systems, Whitedevelop as individuals are crucial compoWork, are certified according to SS-EN ISO nents to attract and retain skilled employ9001 and SS-EN ISO 14001. ees. Without highly competent employees, we risk not only our competitiveness but ETH I CS AN D ANTI-COR R U PTI ON also our brand and the practice's future. Responsibility, respect, and democracy are For all commissions, both a risk core values for White. Our employees act assessment procedure and a sustainability according to our Code of Conduct for Susanalysis are conducted to identify high tainable Business, which describe guidepriority sustainability issues and possible lines in the areas of human rights, labour, risks. It is based on whether the commisenvironment, and anti-corruption. Employees sion aligns with our business goals, brand, also follow the Swedish Public Building sustainability profile, and financial condiSector’s (Samhällsbyggnadssektorns) tions. The client and collaborating partners ethical rules as well as the ethical standards are carefully evaluated as well. stipulated by Sweden's union for architects, For commissions outside of Sweden, Architects Sweden. We oppose all form of Norway and Denmark, a country risk corruption, strive for competition on equal analysis is always performed. It is based terms and promote social responsibility in on reports and evaluation from three differthe value chain. ent organisations: Freedom House, EKN To ensure that the partners we collaboExport Credit Committee SE, and Transrate with act in accordance with our values, parency International. Their analysis covers we have a Code of Conduct for Clients the areas of risk we consider to be most and Suppliers. When signing a contract, important which are democracy, human the partner must certify that they have read rights, corruption and business risks assoRisk analysis performed the Code of Conduct and understood its ciated with the specific country. Involvefor commissions contents. This routine is new; a follow-up ment in corruption can result not only in performance indicator will be introduced legal consequences but also damage our during 2018. We have not identified any brand and contribute to economic uncerBusiness goal/ deviations from the Code of Conduct or tainties in both the short and long term. brand been involved in any form of corruption Finally, we conclude there is a low during the past year. risk for White to contribute directly to Sustainability Country (Code of a negative impact from a sustainability RISK Conduct) RISKS perspective. Conversely, we find that A N A LYS I S Our risk policy dictates that ...White takes White can contribute to reducing the limited and controlled economic and environmental impact and strengthening Collaboration/ Finances operational risks. In cases where the risks the conditions for an equitable society team are deemed to be extensive, a thorough risk through our work. See our Sustainable assessment procedure shall be conducted. Architecture Model on page 11. 9 ABOUT WH ITE Sustainability as Incentive For us, global sustainability is a driving force for creativity, innovation, involvement and better architecture. We are convinced that architecture can contribute each day to positive changes. G LO BA L C H A L L E N G E S each of our commissions are unique, we S E T O U R D I R E CT I O N always start with a sustainability analysis The UN Climate Agreements, the 17 Susbased on seven priority areas. tainable Development Goals (SDG), and Our sustainability policy clarifies how we our commitment to the Global Compact define sustainability. Our aim is to empower inform our engagement in the community, people, by creating buildings and communiour research, and our commissions. Six of ties that contributes to equity and improved the goals are in particular alignment with health and wellbeing. This vision cannot our business strategy and our daily work. be realised at the expense of the Earth’s As such, they can be sorted into five areas resources, nature, or climate. The underlying that define the cornerstones of our work. condition is that we operate within the planThis report provides a further description. etary boundaries. A truly sustainable society can only be achieved if social and environmenA S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S tal values always are taken into consideration Sustainability is today a starting point for in investments and financial models. many corporate strategic ventures because Our model for sustainable architecture is it drives innovations and new business based on the global goals, societal chalmodels forward. lenges, legislations, directives, our commitAt White, we can move sustainability ments, and the priorities of our stakeholders. issues forward every day, but to make real By creating a common vision and weighing impact, our clients’ and other partners’ investments towards long-term social and involvement is a vital prerequisite. Since ecological values and profits at an early White’s prioritised SDGs form five clear focus areas. S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q UA L S U S TA I N A B L E E N E R GY CIRCULAR PL ANNING FOR BLUE I N N OVAT I O N A N D CITIES FOR ALL A N D C L I M AT E AC T I O N ARCHITECTURE AND GREEN E N G AG E M E N T 10 W H I T E 2017 UN Global Compacts ten principles HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support Businesses should uphold the Businesses should support Businesses should work against and respect the protection freedom of association and the a precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, includof internationally Proclaimed effective recognition of the right environmental challenges; ing extortion and bribery. human rights; and to collective bargaining; Principle 8 Principle 2 Principle 4 undertake initiatives to make sure that they are not the elimination of all forms of promote greater environmental complicit in human rights forced and compulsory labour; responsibility; and abuses. Principle 5 Principle 9 the effective abolition of child encourage the development labour; and and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. White is associated with the UN Global Compact and has committed stage, we are achieving a sustainable project commissions. Most of these are already to following these ten and a sustainable business – for our customour prioritised focus areas, but in 2018 principles. ers, for us, for society and for the planet. we will further develop our work related to economic sustainability. S TA K E H O L D E R S By understanding and considering our What is most important to prioritise for stakeholders’ interests and opinions, we White’s practice? Our Sustainable can develop ourselves and take responsibil• Develop sustainable architecture Architecture Model ity within our sphere of influence. Our stake• Show economic benefits of sustainability includes seven primary aspects with several holders are end-users, developers, real • Offer the market environmental and subcategories. An estate owners, consultants, contractors, energy expertise analysis based on these municipalities, local communities, organisa• Counter discrimination; protect diversity aspects is performed in tions, academy, media and our employees. and gender equality every project. The most To verify that we make the right investimportant and relevant issues are summarised in ments, we conduct a brand survey every What is most important to prioritise in the a sustainability vision and two years. In all of our commissions, a projects? strategy. client survey is conducted. Our employ• Energy-efficient buildings ees' requirements and expectations are • Health and wellbeing addressed by, among other things, • Efficient use of land and space MATERIALS, CLIMATE HAZARDOUS appraisal talks and employee • Economic and sustainable long-term ADAPTATION SUBSTANCES & WASTE surveys. See page 13. solutions A 2017 survey among HEALTH & selected stakeholders Social media makes it is easy to reach and ECOSYSTEMS WELLBEING & WATER identified which sustainupdate our stakeholders as well as get MODEL FOR SUSTAINABLE ARCHITECTURE ability issues they consider quick feedback. We have seen a significant the most important and increase in traffic in social media in recent which should be prioritised years, and in 2017 the number of page views ENERGY EQUITY & CLIMATE & PARTICIPATION in both our business and on our websites was 1,082,420. LONG-TERM ECONOMY © White Arkitekter 11 W H I T E 2017 Our People Our employees are our most important asset. Their skills and dedication are essential to our success. White strives to be an attractive workplace for everyone and gives everyone the opportunity to develop both professionally and personally. Employee development equals development for White. S T R O N G E R TO G E T H E R office. These action plans are accompanied White is owned by its employees. Of 900 by reports and follow-ups by the office employees, around 650 are shareholders. directors, executive management-, and the All shareholders work at White and contribBoard of Directors. ute every day to drive the company forward. The result of the 2017 employee survey The collective ownership creates a sense showed motivated employees. A reported of responsibility and empowerment which 88 percent of employees expressed they has been crucial to developing our practice are proud to work at White (79 percent since its inception in 1951. being the benchmark for Swedish companies at large). On the other hand, White G R OW I N G AT W H I T E was below benchmark (61 percent at According to our Employee Policy, we White versus the Swedish benchmark of strive to attract and develop the best pro74 percent) concerning a healthy work-life fessionals in the industry. Each employee balance. The survey is fundamental for the should have the opportunity to develop development of our practice, particularly professionally as well as personally in the regarding the work environment, gender best way. equality, and our business. Managers conduct annual employee In 2017, we introduced a mentor performance evaluations with follow-up program to increase the exchange of assessments in between. The need for eduknowledge between our younger and cation, personal development, or change more experienced employees. The goal In conjunction with our to the working environment is surveyed at is for 5 percent of employees to complete 2017 Study Tours, we each office. Every other year, a companythe program by 2019. In the first year, 1.5 organised White Detail wide employee survey is conducted, which percent of employees participated in it. Hunt, a photo contest on forms the basis for formulating White’s Personal development, health and wellInstagram. Here are a approach concerning leadership, working being are important to us. Through White’s select few from the 1,600 contributions. climate, gender equality, values, and Staff Foundation, all employees are eligible business practices. Based on the survey, for grants to be used for anything from The whole company the HR department establishes action training, wellness and personal developgathered at Whitedagen in plans and steps for improvement for each ment to language and art courses. Gothenburg. 13 What do you value at White? Ulla Antonsson, Arya Azadrad, Lisa Wistrand, Lotta Sundell, at White since 1979 at White since 2016 at White since 2013 Returned to White in 2016 Architect and Partner Building Engineer Cultural Geographer Architect White is a company that has I like that human values get The best thing about working The best about White is the ambitions beyond the ordinary. space on White. I like how the at White is to be involved in high ambition, the strong We focus on research and projects raise aspects beyond building society, where the commitment to both human and development as well as on our efficiency and cost, but also social aspects are my most environment, and the broad employees. Being a collectively how we as a company develop passionate issues. To create a knowledge within the company. owned company isn’t just a and care for our employees city for everyone, we, as urban At White in Halmstad, I also get good business investment through healthcare and grants developers, need to challenge the best of both worlds the but also shows that we as for studies. Being collectively norms and raise perspecfeeling of a small, family run employees are loyal and believe owned means that we drive the tives that aren't usually heard. office with all the possibilities in White’s vision and values. company forward together, but Seeing the different needs of of a large practice! My best The best thing about 2017 was we also care about each other, the residents in everyday life is memory 2017 is when we won the inauguration of Chalmers both as colleagues and fellow important to me! the competition for the Halland School of Architecture, where human beings! Art Museum. I was a student, professor, and now Lead Architect for our project there. It was special! Ingmar Rahm, Sarah Dahman Meyersson, Åsa Haremst, Hans Forsmark, at White since 2012 at White since 2012 at White since 1984 at White since 1994 Cost Consultant Sustainable Engineering Interior Architect and Partner Architect and Partner My job is about understanding Designer I think White has a great history For me, White is a platform for the customer’s business from I lived in Paris when I heard while we remain future-oriented. running my own projects, but the project’s economy, but for about White – a good architecWhite consists of people with together with others. It gives the architect it’s also about tural practice with a stimulating different backgrounds and skills, me freedom. The fact that we creating value. The process environment. I sent my resume, which gives us unique capital are employee-owned imposes is both creative and iterative got the job and moved to and we are good at supporting expectations on White’s ambiand for me it was a whole new, Stockholm! The research and each other! Being employeetions and role as a practice. It exciting way to work. White is development effort and the work owned, we have a flat organisais a balance between business such a dedicated company and on gender equality are worth all tion and a sense of solidarity. I and passion that drives and has such fantastic projects, the challenges I've encountered started at White in 1984, and develops both White as a which I get an insight into. on the journey. At White, you there are many, many reasons practice and me as a person. It’s fun! can do the things you believe in, why I work here! That's why I've stayed for 24 and I am grateful for that! years. W H I T E 2017 WH ITE VS. TH E B E NCH MAR K 100% 50% 75% 82% 61% 0% Do you feel that you Do you feel motivated Do you have a good balance develop in your work? by your work? between work and leisure? White Benchmark for Swedish Companies G E N D E R BA L A N C E 46 54 45 55 50 50 52 48 White Total Board of Directors Executive Partners Management Women Men Lastly, we follow the industry's collective with applicable legislation in addition to bargaining agreement through the Swedish our employee policy. Our employee survey Federation of Consulting Engineers and shows that 86 percent of our employees Architects (STD), Architect Sweden (SA), experience White being an equitable the Swedish Association of Graduate workplace (compared to the Swedish Engineers (SI) and Unionen. benchmark of 79 percent). Our approach towards diversity in the D IVE R S ITY I S A STR E NGTH workplace is not limited to gender; we want A survey, conducted by the magazine co-workers with different back­grounds. Dezeen in the autumn of 2017, showed Today, about a quarter of our employees that among 100 architectural companies have a background outside of the Nordic around the world, only three companies countries. We are also convinced that (all Nordic) have a senior management we need many different skills, and that consisting of more women than men. cooperation between disciplines adds White is one of these. value and raises the quality of our projects. It is a result of a consistent and strucFor example, at White, architects and tured work during several years aiming construction engineers work together with for equal opportunities and supporting environmental experts, behavioral scientists, personal development. and economists. We desire diversity in all Our Equal Opportunities Plan aligns aspects at White. 15 LABOU R Curiosity and Innovation To be an attractive and successful company, we believe that it is crucial to be curious, challenge the status quo and constantly develop our skills and ways of working. As such, investments in research and development are important to us – in 2017 they totalled SEK 35 million. White Research Lab (WRL) is our R&D into practice. We see the need to develop organisation. For us, it is obvious to support new processes, methods and designs to the development of knowledge within archisecure public space as a common good. tecture and urban planning, as it affects Resource efficiency. We focus on people's everyday life and the development human needs and quality of life when of the society. Through WRL, all employees designing the built environment with have the opportunity to develop and share respect to our basic resources. their expertise through networking, and to Informed design. Our projects are develop cutting-edge knowledge in practibecoming increasingly more complex. cal project-related research. Informed design can make relevant informaOur research foundation, ARQ, contribtion readily available to the architect and utes to architectural research in collaboragive feedback on the consequences of tion with other fields, such as academia and decisions during the design process. industry. We also support six PhD students and have several employees working as In 2017, we have implemented approxiprofessors at Chalmers University of Techmately 30 different project-related research nology in Göteborg, Lund University and studies. The variation is high, with themes The Royal Academy of Technology in Stocksuch as digital design, daylight, wood holm. These partnerships help to establish construction, equitable spaces, urban long-term collaborations within academia to greenery, and reuse of materials. The further strengthen our practice. project about norm-creative visualisation offers solutions to make visual information a P R ACT I C E -BA S E D R E S E A R C H more inclusive and realistic portrayal of who In 2017, the WRL launched a new lives in our society. research program with three themes to During the year, we also participated develop by 2019: in four research publications which Equitable architecture. Equitable concerned green roofs, urban biodiverenvironments take individual characteristics sity, daylight, and the future of healthcare and needs into account to bring fairness architecture. 16 W H I T E 2017 Programming was used OPPORTU N ITI E S I N Whitedagen, the whole company gathers when designing the 60 D I G I TA L I S AT I O N to socialise, strengthen our culture, be meters long couch at Forum Digitalisation is gaining influence in archiinspired by guest speakers and have fun. Square in Uppsala. This admits design changes very tectural processes. It contributes to new An important part of both personal and late in the process. platforms for communication, collaboration, professional development is our annual and shared learning. It also affects how Study Tour. The 2017 theme was 'Details public and private spaces are used. Digital and construction technology'. 678 of our models are also used for simulations of 900 employees visited Switzerland, Austria, construction, daylight, energy, and wind. the Netherlands, UK, Italy and Germany. With Computational Design, programming becomes a natural part of COM M ITM E NT the creative process. It allows the architect It's important for us to share our knowlto create project-oriented digital tools and edge. It drives development forward new possibilities for design. An example and can contribute to new and perhaps is the curved facade of the Humanist unexpected collaborations. We participate Theater in Uppsala, which, with the aid of in the debate, organise seminars, attend computational design, could be punched conferences locally and globally, and we in a pattern in accord with artist Ann work broadly to reach people both within Lislegaard's graphic works. and beyond our own industry. During the year we have had ministerial visits and N E T WO R K I N G several employees have been engaged Networking is an important part of the as experts for the authorities. We are culture at White. We have 15 internal engaged in many organisations such networks in different areas of expertise. as the Sweden and Norwegian Green They are open platforms where everyone is Building Council, Sustainable Innovation, welcome to participate and share knowlthe think tank Global Challenge and Fossil edge, ideas and inspiration. Once a year, at Free Sweden. 17 W H I T E 2017 The Human In Everything The UN Sustainable Government Global Goals aim to reduce inequalities in society. Cities should be equitable, safe and inclusive. How they are designed affects human health and quality of life. As architects, we can make a difference by creating spaces that empower people. E QU ITAB LE PLACE S AN D R OOM S lenges were many: what does it truly mean Girls and women are affected by unevenly that a room is equitable? One result was distributed resources, oppression, and that the idea of a dark cave in a corner was social exclusion on a global scale. Prioritisrejected, girls would not feel safe in a place ing them in urban development is therefore like that. crucial for cities to become inclusive and sustainable. Our project Places for Girls HOUS I NG FOR ALL is entirely about creating space for girls to In Sweden 700,000 homes will be built in make the city's environments more equithe following years, but housing is becoming table. The architects behind the project more and more expensive. The risk is that presented at the World Urban Forum in this will increase socioeconomic gaps and Kuala Lumpur and also received an award segregation. It is a human right to have at the Swedish Architectural Awards for somewhere to live, but the lack of housing is their efforts to promote equality in the city. acute. Counteracting these trends requires Also, in 2017, White has been part of the developing new housing forms. #UrbanGirlsMovement project initiated by Relatedly, we notice an increased Swedish think tank Global Challenge. interest in new types of collective housing, Inclusive, equitable environments also for different target groups. Various reasons need to be created indoors. But how can make living together attractive: it is less such a space be designed? expensive, more fun, less lonely, and feels In Malmö, White, together with the safer than living alone. A modernised form organisation Tjejer i Förening (Girls United), of collective housing can entail a higher has worked with young people to design quality of life and contribute to a reduced At the Home of Heroes, the new youth department KRUT in the City environmental impact through better use of Norrland's University Hospital in Umeå, the family Library. Based on the themes of Gender shared resources. and the young patient can Equality, Creativity and Flexibility, young Our proposal, “The Dream Apartmeet for social gatherings in people developed their ideas about what ment”, gained attention at the Vallastaden a less constrained way. the new meeting place should be. The chalHousing Exhibition in Linköping, Sweden. Here, health is in focus! 19 H U MAN R IG HTS It is a 55 m² home that is especially The manifesto has played a vital role in suitable for families that have children at developing some of our recent projects: home only every other week. It can be The purpose of the new Agora Commuconverted from a studio with a kitchen and nity Building in Linköping is to be the local bathroom to five bedrooms with a kitchen district hub and to build bridges between and bathroom, via removable walls and different parts of the city. The building will smart storage. be a place for culture and social life with a We also have an ageing population. cafe, a stage, an art studio, a music studio, According to the WHO, the number of and a library. Everyone is welcome, just as inhabitants over 60 years will be 22 percent they are, regardless of age. by 2050, compared with 12 percent in The winning proposal for the expansion 2015. Thus, the need for housing for the of the Halland Art Museum, will give White elderly will increase dramatically over the the opportunity to contribute to yet another next few years. At White, we have already new inclusive culture hub in Halmstad. taken action, by investing in development of An art museum can reach a wide range homes for elderly. of people and is an attractive meeting Seniors today value a vibrant life filled place. White’s vision is to create an inviting with experiences, activities, and social space: a public building that engages gatherings. But most of Sweden's elderly people, the city, and the surrounding landpopulation live alone in the homes where scape; and where outdoor environments they raised their families. New types of are as important as the spaces inside. accommodation are needed, which take The vision for the new GoDown Arts into consideration the need for both Center in Nairobi is of a vibrant cultural solitude and social interaction, and where centre and a living room for the city’s there is service, security, and proximity inhabitants. It will be a residence for artists to transport. The accommodation needs and other creators, a free speech scene to offer qualities that make it possible for and a meeting place that both strengthens residents to remain for the rest of their lives. the citizens of the neighbourhood and attracts people from other parts of the city. I N J E CT I N G C U LT U R E GoDown will be an important democratic I N TO T H E C I T Y arena open to everyone. Culture makes cities both innovative and integrated; thus it should be central to the AR CH ITE CTU R E F OR WE LLB E I N G development of cities. We know that injectAwareness of the impact architecture ing culture into cities and neighbourhoods has on health and wellbeing is on the rise. contributes to more equitable environments. Daylight and air quality directly affect how Today, there are indexes for how many efficient we are at work and how easy it is to The new youth department green spaces or parking lots there need learn at school. Access to greenery makes KRUT at Malmö City Library to be in a city, but cities are rarely planned us calmer and places for children to play is has been designed by youths in the city based on the key with culture in mind. We rise to challenge an essential factor for public health in the concepts of Gender Equality, the municipalities to adopt a “cultural index”, long run. Creativity and Flexibility. It is a factor indicating how much culture there One example of an environment which a space that makes them feel needs to be in a city to create a socially has made an impact on people is Faerder good based on their terms. healthy environment. In 2017 we published High School in Tönsberg, Norway. It was With culture as a source of a cultural manifesto: “Six Steps for Cultural inaugurated in 2015, but now we can power, the extension of the Destinations”. see results in the form of higher grades, Halmstad Art Museum will be an engaged students, and pride in the school. attractive meeting place for all. 1. Inject the city with culture! In our Gårda Vesta Office project in 2. Dare to share the key! Göteborg, the focus expands beyond The GoDown Arts Center in Nairobi will be a cultural hub 3. Test new prototypes! the indoor environment. It also takes into that attracts creators from the 4. Let art thrive! account the WELL certification, which city and the whole country. A 5. Embrace the diversity! sets standards for the work environment to democratic meeting place, 6. Introduce culture outdoors! encourage a sustainable lifestyle. home to free speech. 20 W H I T E 2017 21 W H I T E 2017 The physical environment can also offices, hotels, culture and sports activibe of crucial importance for patients in ties. Central to the proposal is that an old psychiatric care. In Aabenraa Psychiatric railroad track is transformed into a new Hospital in Denmark, the nature, daylight, diagonal pedestrian and bicycle boulevard. and varied spatial sequences play a The proposal was awarded for its design significant role in recovery and contribute based on people’s different needs, with to positive results with reduced need for special focus on health and accesibility. restraints and medication. When a child is ill, the whole family D I G I TA L I S AT I O N D R I V E S suffers. The Home of Heroes at Norrland’s O U R B E H AV I O U R University Hospital is a temporary home It is all about digitalisation. All over society for families with children who suffer from the digital development is quickly changing long-term illness. The Home of Heroes our behavior in different ways. Home is designed to feel like being at their own deliveries, mobile preschools, healthcare home. Here, playing with friends or having via mobile apps and smart refrigerators are a cosy night at home with the family is already reality. Autonomous vehicles, and encouraged by the architecture. In this robotic psychologists are soon established. house, health is in focus. These types of technological developments In Queen Silvia’s Children’s Hospital in affect how we design housing, offices, and Gothenburg, the child’s perspective informs hospitals and how we plan our cities. the scale, colour setting, furniture, and the New technologies can help us live suslocation of different services. tainably, but they are not necessarily always Health and wellbeing is also about beneficial from a social and environmental creating conditions for people to meet, perspective. Therefore, companies must play and move in the outdoor environment. consider the long-term impact of technoObesity is a growing problem in many logical development. We take the digital countries. The plan for Södra Skanstull revolution seriously, but we do it with people in Stockholm includes 750 new homes, in focus and future generations in mind. Aabenraa Psychiatric Hospital won the Design & Health International Academy Awards 2017 in the category ’Mental Health Project’. The multiplex Agora in Linköping, Sweden, will be a place of culture and leisure that unifies different neighbourhoods and serves to make everyone to feel at home. The new plan for Södra Skanstull, Stockholm, won the World Architecture Festival’s special WAFX Award in the category ”Ageing and health” and Architects Sweden’s Planpriset 2017. 23 E NVI RON M E NT Planning For Blue and Green Increasing ecological and biological diversity is extremely important to strengthen the resilience of society and the planet. As urban density increases, ecosystem services and blue-green infrastructure and are crucial for the creation of more attractive cities supporting human wellbeing. Parks and green spaces function as few years, at the expense of existing green meeting places and valuable recreation spaces. We have taken an ecologically spaces. They also clean air and water, sensitive approach to this area’s developregulates temperature, absorb rainfall, ment: our planned neighbourhood of 180 and reduce noise pollution. They help to apartments constructed in wood will be alleviate the consequences of a changing entirely informed by nature. The green Årstafältet, Stockholm, climate by mitigating rainfall or elevated areas focus on biotopes with different includes 180 apartments constructed in wood, with water levels. In short, ecological processes themes: life by the water, life in the forest, green areas that support the in green spaces have visible, social, and life under the earth’s surface, nature and ecological diversity through economic benefits. For several years, White man, and life among flowers. A varied different themes: water, forest, has developed methods and concrete soluselection of plants, birdhouses, insects, soil, and flowers. tions for how to integrate urban ecosystem and butterfly feeders will contribute to Four Rivers, Quebec, services into the city planning via our biological diversity that in turn strengthen Canada: An urban city park research project “C/O City”. the ecosystems and creating a unique that connects the city with the When planning the new district Valcharacter for the area. water and the surrounding lastaden in Linköping, an existing creek took Green corridors are also vital to connect natural landscape. Second a central role. The water level in this area the city with the surrounding natural prize in an international competition. can fluctuate up to one metre during the landscape. In Quebec, Canada, White was day, so the creek’s critical function as water awarded the second prize for our proposal Broparken, Linköping: An drainage was left maintained. By adding to develop a city park which ties together example where climate docks, benches and native plant species, the city’s four rivers. Based on the idea of adaptation, biodiversity, we expanded the ecological diversity the Swedish Allemansrätten, the public’s and social components work together to define the while transforming the space into a lush right to free movement in nature, the park character of the whole area. communal living room. makes it possible for people to get closer to Tartu Bridge, designed by The area of Årstafältet in Stockholm the water – and for nature to get closer to White in collaboration with will be dramatically rebuilt over the next the people and enrich the city. artist Johan Kauppi. 24 W H I T E 2017 Climate action! To meet the global climate targets, we must reduce carbon emissions. White has set the goal to fulfil 30 projects with a zero carbon footprint by 2019. Achieving zero carbon buildings is not only a challenge for us, but for the construction industry as a whole. We aim to show the way! To achieve this goal, we have three stratGreen Building Council has set the goal egies for our projects: reduce energy that by 2050, all new buildings shall be net demand and convert to renewable energy; zero carbon concerning energy. White is reduce the climate impact of energy and taking action by leading the Sweden Green materials; and increase the use of renewBuilding Council’s work to obtain a certificaable materials. tion for “Advancing Net Zero”; and we align As architects, we can make a differourselves with The Roadmap for a Climateence already in the early design stage. By Neutral Construction Industry by 2045. integrating analysis such as daylight, energy In 2017 we have achieved our target of performance and life cycle assessments in starting five zero carbon projects. Lindethe design process, will make sustainability borgs Eco Retreat in Nyköping, (hotel and an integral part of the architecture. The conference), will be one of the first climateshape of the building, orientation, construcpositive projects in Sweden. Other projects tion, and facade design all affect energy aiming for zero carbon are the Visitor Centre performance; the embodied carbon in the Oset in Örebro, Sweden (a Passive House), materials also have a significant climate and the Climate Innovation District in Leeds, impact. Our definition for zero carbon is: UK (320 homes constructed in wood). “Carbon emissions from the producWO O D tion of materials and energy use in the The construction materials account for a building will be offset by renewable significant proportion of a building’s climate energy on the site.” impact and thus the choice of material plays an increasingly important role. As The definition differs from several other “net wood has significant lower carbon emiszero carbon definitions”, such as the one sions than many other materials, increasing in the UK, as it also includes the embodied timber construction can be an important carbon from materials. step towards zero carbon buildings. Our Skellefteå Cultural Center Many countries, organisations, and investment in advancing technologies using was shortlisted in the companies have long-term goals that aim to wood construction has shown results in “Future Culture” category be fossil free and climate neutral. The World recent years. in the 2017 WAF Awards. 27 E NVI RON M E NT Of White’s projects, about 15 percent here; the area will comprise 516 homes are wood framed constructions in 2017. when fully finished in 2022. Residential buildings account for the most Our proposal for the new Campus substantial proportion, but wood is also buildings at the University of Stuttgart increasing for public buildings. employ wood construction, which turned Our most remarkable project is the out to be a winning concept. In cooperation 19-storey Skellefteå culture house and hotel, with German partners and expertise from which will be one of the highest timber the University, we will realise our largest frame buildings in the Nordic countries. The international wood project thus far. project has a reinforced wood frame with a transparent glass facade and will set a new C I R C U L A R M AT E R I A L S standard for wood constructions. The future major challenge for the construcThe development of Frostaliden in tion industry is to adjust to a more circular Skövde consists of 1,200 residential units, economy. Globally, we are overconsuming which will make it one of the largest wood resources and humanity is currently using construction neighborhoods in Sweden. nature 1.7 times faster than ecosystems White has designed the first phase of 52 can regenerate. This means we would need apartments in 8 storeys, which will also 1.7 globes. The approach should be that make the buildings among the highest there is no such thing as waste, but that Swedish residential units in wood. The everything is a raw material that can be proproject is an example of a low carbon develcessed, reused, recycled and transformed opment using rational, industrialised timber into new products. construction methods. Therefore, White is investing in R&D to Wood architecture is also very attracmove the transition forward. We are curtive outside the Nordics. The Climate rently participating in three larger research Innovation District in Leeds will be one projects; Recycling of building materials, of the largest low carbon neighborhoods Re-use of interior building materials and New in the UK. We are designing 320 homes circular business models for furniture. Lindeborgs Eco Retreat, Nyköping, Sweden, will be White’s first climate-positive project. Chalmers Department of Architecture and Civil Engineering, Gothenburg, Sweden, has undergone extensive renovations, but much of the original materials have been retained. Wood frames were a winning concept at the international competition for new campus buildings at the University of Feuerbach in Stuttgart, Germany. The Climate Innovation District in Leeds will be one of Britain’s largest carbon-neutral neighborhoods. 28 WH ITE I N N U M B E R S A Role Model Real change begins with oneself. Through our actions, we demonstrate our sincerity and inspire the people around us to move towards a sustainable lifestyle. The trend is positive; over the last three years White’s carbon emissions have decreased by 62 percent. Our goal is to reduce CO2 emissions from adopting a more healthy and sustainable energy, travel, purchases, and waste by 30 life style. Most of the offices have bikes and percent by 2019 compared to our emiselectrical bikes for loan. The Gothenburg sions in 2014. office was awarded The Best Cycling Idea Every year we analyse the environmenin 2017 by the city. Other initiatives are tal and climate impact of our operations. biking repair days, clothes swap events and We follow up energy for heating and Sustainability weeks with inspiring lecturers. cooling, electricity, business travels by flight, car and train, purchases of office F O L LOW-U P O N O U R P R OJ E CT S supplies, paper, food, computers and Each year we follow up on the sustainability phones, and waste from our offices. In performace of our projects concerning 2017, the total emissions were 1,162 energy, certification systems, wood contonnes CO2 equivalent, which is in line struction and which sustainability aspects with 2016. This number corresponds to have been most significant. There is a 1,539 kg CO2 eq per full-time employee. clear trend that our buildings are becoming Since 2014, carbon emissions have more energy efficient, which is in line with decreased by 62 percent per full-time increased building regulations for near employee or 45 percent in total at White. zero-energy buildings. Wood construction To reduce the impact of transportations has also increased and accounts for 15 we have a very clear travel policy: train is percent of our residential commissions priority one! In 2017, 94 percent of our (compared to 12 percent in 2016). travel within Sweden, or from Sweden to According to a report from Sweden Denmark and Norway, was made by train. Green Building Council, environmental In total, this is the equivalent of 42 laps certifications of buildings have increased around the world by train! It is difficult significantly in recent years. Approximately to avoid flights for longer distances, and 700 buildings were certified in Sweden in although the number of flights is small, they 2017. By the end of 2017, 41 percent of account for the most significant climate White’s residential commissions had the impact. Business travel in 2017 contributed objective to adhere to an environmental to a total of 452 tonnes of CO2, equivalent certification (compared to 36 percent in to 26 percent of total CO2 emissions. 2016). The most common certification is We climate-compensate all our travel by the Swedish Miljöbyggnad (Environmental supporting the Kariba Forest Foundation in building), followed by Leed and Breeam Zimbabwe. (especially internationally). Other certificaWe also believe in that we, as a tion systems expected to increase in 2018 company, have a responsibility to encouris the Swedish CityLab and the internaage and supporting our employees into tional WELL and Living Building Challenge. 30 CA R B O N D I OX I D E E M I S S I O N S KG C O ² e / F U L L -T I M E E M P LOY E E 2014 2015 2016 2017 1630 1500 842 660 486 515 539 519 531 439 273 316 324 128110 232 160 92 73 150 21 13 11 12 Energy Flights Fligths Flights Purchases Waste Business Travel Study Tours Business Travel (electronics, Domestic International papers, food) (SE, NO, DK) D I S T R I B U T I O N O F CA R B O N D I OX I D E E M I S S I O N S 2017 TOTA L CA R B O N D I OX I D E E M I S S I O N S 2014– 2017 2 126 236 Electricity Heating 1 535 753 Domestic flights (se, no, dk) International flights 1 161 809 1 084 573 Study Tours, flights 4053 Train & Car travel Waste 2441 Electronics 1592 1539 Food Paper 2014 2015 2016 2017 kg CO ² e / full-time employee kg CO ² e total TOTA L C E R T I F I E D P R OJ E CT S 100% 47% 36% 41% The data is collected from property managers, electricity suppliers, travel companies, travel accounts, waste 50% companies and White’s own compiled statistics for purchases. 53% 64% 59% The key ratios for CO2 equivalents are based on data 0% from 2050 Consulting AB, applied and optimised for our 2015 2016 2017 operations. The branch in Denmark is not included in these figures. Certified Our practices in Oslo and London do not report energy, Not certified electricity, waste, nor purchases. W H I T E 2017 Effort Yields Results 2017 was an eventful year. We completed several major projects and won important competitions both in Sweden and internationally. We continued the development of our interdisciplinary office to ensure the importance of architecture in the development of a sustainable society. The result was better than expected due to During the year, key projects such as an increased volume of work, more employTäby City Hall, Carlanderska Hospital and ees and better business in general. Internal Chalmers Department of Architecture and investments have been made during the Civil Engineering were completed while year, primarily on entering competitions, new several of our projects and employees were premises, digitalisation and allocations to awarded prestigious prizes. The urban develresearch and staff foundations. Operating opment project for sustainable densification income for the Group amounts to SEK 54.9 in Södra Skanstull in Stockholm was awarded million and SEK 38.9 million before and after Architects Sweden’s Planpriset 2017 for best foundation provisions. This amount correurban planning, and was also recognised sponds to an operating margin of 6 percent with the WAFX Prize. At World Architecture and 4 percent respectively. The Group’s Festival in Berlin, another three of our projects equity ratio was 33.8 percent, and liquidity were shortlisted: the Queen Silvia Children’s was good with cash liquidity of 168 percent. hospital in Göteborg (“Future Health”), SkelThe Group has a total of 916 employees, lefteå Cultural Centre (“Future Culture”) and and we employed 156 new employees during Södra Skanstull (“Future Masterplanning”). the year. Half of the employees were hired Skellefteå Cultural Centre has also been after 2013. While these new employees presented at many international conferences, provide an opportunity for renewal, they for example in Sydney. also highlight the need for planning future Täby City Hall won the International generational change. This calls for reaffirmDesign Awards in the category “Municipality” “The Hub” at Uppsala Science ing White’s culture and values. and NKS won its first award at the European Park is a knowledge hub with The owner group received 103 new Healthcare Design Awards in the “Best 12,500 square meters of offices, shareholders during the year. Demand Future Healthcare Design” category. laboratories, restaurant, and conference. The entrance is a natural for equities is still high, and therefore an Aaben­raa Psychiatric Hospital won an meeting point for everyone in the emission of 10,000 shares was issued. award at the Design & Health International park. The Hub is certified Leed Total shareholding is now 230,000 shares. Academy Awards. Other commissions often Platinum. During the year 260 people bought a total of highlighted during the year were Kiruna 28,920 shares. City Relay, which has been the subject of Bølgen Swimming and Sports Centre is a new meeting place in The profitability of operations in Denmark lectures in London, Paris, and Yellowknife Drøbak, Norway, which opened has unfortunately been a significant chal(Canada); as well as Panzi Hospital in DR in 2017. The building is certified lenge for a long time, which meant that in Congo, nominated for the Africa ArchitecBREEAM NO: Very Good. the fall of 2017 we started a controlled ture Award. The interior design project for settlement of the Danish company. We telecommunication company Telia in Luleå, The Learning Center in Nairobi will be Africa’s first LEEDwill complete ongoing commissions and Sweden, has gained attention due to its certified project, level gold. The maintain projects that the office has done innovative re-use approach and has been inauguration is in 2019. over the years. nominated in the WIN Awards. 33 WH ITE I S I FFROR Financial information From the income statement, KSEK 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Operating revenues 964 010 892 156 824 278 759 466 764 670 Operating profit 38 909 60 280 42 605 64 354 43 261 Profit after financial items 40 003 60 307 47 020 63 693 42 893 Tax on profit for the year -8 075 -13 583 11 147 15 922 10 715 Profit for the year 31 928 46 724 35 873 47 771 32 178 Minority share of profit for the year 8 -272 83 65 35 Profit for the year 31 936 46 452 35 790 47 706 32 213 From the balance sheet, KSEK Intangible fixed assets 29 141 666 2 094 3 219 Tangible fixed assets 5 473 9 558 20 901 30 500 35 522 Financial fixed assets 728 985 1 190 2 394 2 567 Current receivables 402 295 303 560 271 188 284 688 245 083 Cash and bank balances, incl. short-term investments 36 586 57 076 40 400 37 927 13 841 Total assets 445 111 371 320 334 345 357 603 300 232 Shareholders’ equity 151 010 158 779 141 670 143 426 119 529 Minority share of equity 6 979 6 987 6 715 6 632 6 568 Provisions 25 154 23 957 19 973 20 819 20 959 Current liabilities 261 968 181 597 165 987 186 726 153 176 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 445 111 371 320 334 345 357 603 300 232 Key figures Return on shareholders’ equity (%) 20,6 31,0 25,1 36,3 27,4 Profit margin (%) 4,1 6,8 5,7 8,4 5,6 Revenues per employee (KSEK) 1 322 1 308 1 304 1 303 1 373 The equity / assets ratio (%) 33,9 42,8 42,4 40,1 39,8 Average number employees 729 682 632 583 557 Definitions Return on shareholders’ equity (%): Profit for the year after minority share as a percentage of benchmark equity excluding minority share. Profit margin (%): Profit after financial items as a percentage of operating revenues. The equity/assets ratio (%): Shareholders’ equity excluding minority share as a percentage of total assets. 34 W H I T E 2017 35 TALK TO U S! whitearkitekter.com @whitearkitekter
