WESFARMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTENTS Our Report 3 Sustainability at Wesfarmers 4 Our material issues 5 Managing Director’s welcome Our Principles Our Businesses People Bunnings 6 Safety 41 Bunnings 8 People development 11 Diversity Coles 45 Coles Sourcing 15 Suppliers Department Stores 18 Ethical sourcing and human rights 54 Kmart 58 Target Community 26 Community contributions Officeworks 29 Product safety 63 Officeworks Environment Industrials 31 Climate change resilience 67 Chemicals, Energy & Fertilisers 34 Waste and water use 70 Industrial and Safety 73 Resources Governance 37 Robust governance 74 Other businesses This is an edited extract of our 2018 Sustainability Report. Our full sustainability report contains numerous case studies and data available for download. It is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives Standards and assured by Ernst & Young. It is available at sustainability.wesfarmers.com.au Sustainability Report 2018 2 Our Report SUSTAINABILITY AT WESFARMERS WESFARMERS CONSIDERS SUSTAINABILITY At Wesfarmers we believe long-term value creation is only possible if we play a positive role in the communities we serve. Sustainability AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO DRIVE STRONG AND is about understanding and managing the ways we impact our community and the environment, to ensure we continue to create LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER RETURNS value in the future. Wesfarmers is committed to minimising our footprint and to This Sustainability Report presents Wesfarmers Limited delivering solutions that help our customers and the community (ABN 28 008 984 049) and its wholly owned subsidiary companies’* do the same. We are committed to making a contribution to the sustainability performance for the year ended 30 June 2018, how we communities in which we operate through strong partnerships performed, the value we created and our plans for the future. The and providing direct and indirect employment. We endeavour to Report focuses on what matters most to our stakeholders and our continuously improve our performance and publicly report on our business, namely the material issues. progress and challenges. Sustainability is a critical, Board level, governance and strategic “We aim to achieve satisfactory return issue at Wesfarmers. Management is responsible for assessing for shareholders by looking after our and managing sustainability risks and opportunities and both the divisional boards and the Board of Wesfarmers have oversight employees and giving them safe and of these risks and opportunities. We do not have a sustainability fulfilling working environments; taking care committee at a parent company Board level as it is considered a of our customers and meeting all of their critical, whole Board issue. needs; looking after our suppliers; taking Our reports are aimed at a broad range of audiences, including care of the environment and making sure employees, customers, suppliers, investors, governments and opinion formers in the fields of sustainability and business responsibility. that we are environmentally conscious in all of our activities; by acting ethically Wesfarmers divisions use a Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard environmental management system to gather, analyse and report data. and honestly in all of our dealings; and by Our previous reports can be viewed here. making substantial contributions to the communities in which we operate. The fact All dollar figures are expressed in Australian dollars (AUD) unless otherwise stated. is you’ll never achieve satisfactory returns All references to ‘Indigenous’ people are intended to include for your shareholders unless you do all of Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander people. those other things. That’s what corporate In March 2018, Wesfarmers announced the completion of the sale of sustainability is all about.” its Curragh coal mine and this Report includes data for that business – Michael Chaney AO, Chairman, Wesfarmers until 29 March 2018. *A full list of entities included in Wesfarmers’ consolidated financial statements can be found here. Sustainability Report 2018 3 Our Report OUR MATERIAL ISSUES This year customer privacy emerged as a new material issue. Human Our performance rights and ethical sourcing increased significantly in importance. All other material issues maintained their position on the matrix. We are proud of our progress in the following areas: Our people We maintain a relentless focus on providing safe workplaces. We provide opportunities for our people to enhance their job performance and develop their careers. We strive to create an inclusive work environment, with particular attention to gender diversity and the inclusion of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Sourcing We commit to strong and respectful relationships with our suppliers. We strive to source products in a responsible manner while working with suppliers to improve their social and environmental practices. Community We make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate. We are committed to providing consumers with safe products and protecting their privacy. Environment We strive to reduce the emissions intensity of our businesses and improve their resilience to climate change. We strive to reduce our waste to landfill and water use where possible. We acknowledge that we can improve our performance. Governance • We will continue to focus on ethical sourcing and human rights, especially supply chain transparency. Identifying critical We maintain robust corporate governance policies in all breaches in the factories which supply to our businesses and our businesses. require remediation is an important step in this process. • Wesfarmers’ workforce is made up of 54 per cent women and 46 per cent men. A key opportunity for the Group is to increase the percentage of leadership positions held by women. Over the last five years there has been a 5 per cent increase in women in management roles and a 5.5 per cent increase in women in senior roles. • We will continue to focus on climate change resilience, especially energy efficiency. We are proactive about managing risks associated with climate change because we believe this will deliver significant long term benefits for us all. • Year on year reductions in waste is hard to achieve as our businesses continue to grow. This year our waste to landfill decreased by four per cent. Sustainability Report 2018 4 Our Report MANAGING DIRECTOR’S WELCOME Video transcript WELCOME TO THE 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR WESFARMERS Long-term value creation is only possible if we play a positive role in the communities we serve. At Wesfarmers, sustainability is about understanding and managing the ways we impact our community and the environment, to make sure that we’ll still be creating value in the future. We believe sustainability is an opportunity to drive strong and long term shareholder returns. And we maintain our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s 10 sustainability principles which underpin our sustainability strategy. We are proud of our performance this year. We improved our safety performance with a 15% decrease in our total recordable injury frequency rate. While we’re seeing the benefits of our relentless focus on making our workplaces safer, we acknowledge that while any team member is injured at work, our safety performance still requires improvement. We’re the largest employer of Indigenous people in Australia...we now have more than 5,000 Indigenous team members. As Australia’s largest private sector employer, we believe we can provide Indigenous people with greater opportunities to participate in sustainable employment, and this remains the primary goal of our diversity policy. This year, 4,000 factories across our supply chain have been audited to make sure they were operating ethically. Where we identify breaches we act swiftly to remediate because any supplier not complying with our ethical sourcing policy is unacceptable. Directly and through our customers and team members, our community contributions were around $150 million. Wesfarmers has always believed that a strong business environment is underpinned by a cohesive and inclusive community environment. Gender balance has been a focus for some time and this year there was a 5% increase in women in management roles and a 5.5% increase in women in senior management. But with more than 54% of our workforce female and only 35% of management roles held by women, we still have an opportunity to increase the number of women in leadership. Our commitment to sustainability is ongoing and we’re always looking for opportunities to improve. We’re striving to look for more opportunities to save on energy and reduce our carbon footprint. We are proactive about managing risks associated with climate change because responding will deliver significant economic, social and environmental benefits for all of us. I’d like to thank all the team members that have contributed to our sustainability outcomes for the year and I hope you enjoy this report. ROB SCOTT Managing Director Sustainability Report 2018 5 Our Principles PEOPLE CSBP Process Operators Ken Twaddle and Brad Ripp. Wesfarmers is a business driven by people. As Australia’s largest private sector employer, some 217,000 people come to work in our offices, shops, plants and facilities every day. The safety of team members, customers, suppliers and visitors across all our sites is our highest priority. We continue to make improvements to safety. WE ARE FOCUSED ON CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENTS IN SAFETY LEADERSHIP, STRATEGIES TARGETING RISK REDUCTION AND IMPROVING THE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH OF OUR TEAM MEMBERS. We are seeing the benefits of this relentless focus on making our workplaces safer, but we acknowledge that as long as team members are injured at work, our safety performance still requires improvement. Safety performance To monitor our safety performance, we use total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) and lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), which show injuries per million hours worked by employees and long-term contractors. This year, our TRIFR decreased by 15 per cent from 28.71 to 24.4, with improvements across most divisions. Our LTIFR decreased nine per cent this year compared to last year. We were pleased that our workers’ compensation claims decreased by more than 500 to 5,863. In line with our commitment to improving our safety reporting processes, work was undertaken this year to improve the validation of all safety data with particular attention on workers compensation claims. 1 Restated due to the maturation of data Sustainability Report 2018 6 Our Principles PEOPLE Safety initiatives COMMUNITY Each of our businesses has undertaken safety initiatives this year that Wesfarmers target their particular safety risks. Some of those initiatives include: becomes a White • Bunnings launched a new cut-resistant glove for all team Ribbon workplace members to use as part of the ‘Protect Your Hands’ focus. Retractable barriers were deployed to reduce injury risk associated with falling stock at height. Forklift safety continued to be high on the agenda, with virtual reality experiences showcased to the team at the Bunnings Expos to help the team identify and manage forklift safety risks in all locations. PEOPLE • Coles focused on safety leadership and culture with more than 77,000 team members participating in role-specific Officeworks safety training. Due diligence training was also provided for develops a safety senior leaders emphasising the importance of proactive safety first framework management and the role of senior leaders in influencing safety improvements. Safety training was also reviewed to enable it to be more accessible and interactive. • Kmart introduced a new governance model to help target opportunities for improvement and increase supervision and monitoring through zone manager safety health checks. ENVIRONMENT Accountability has been increased through a combination of leading and lagging performance metrics and auditing. Managing electricity • Target’s key safety projects delivered for the year included the price risk exposure provision of due diligence training for senior leaders, the Target Asia Sourcing safety program and the maturation of Supply Chain Safety Management Processes. The focus for this coming year is to implement Safety Leadership Training for operational managers and improvements to the hazard reduction program to further improve Target’s safety performance. ENVIRONMENT • Officeworks implemented its Safety Starts with You training program, incorporating the Safety FIRST behaviours. These Innovative identify how every team member can promote safety whilst highlighting unacceptable behaviour. The Stay Safe system, technologies automate which is the Officeworks health and safety management system, inspections at CSBP was reviewed and updated to both simplify and better align the system to business requirements. This included the incident investigation process incorporating the Safety FIRST behaviours. • WIS implemented a 10,000-step physical activity challenge and delivered a health and wellbeing survey to inform program developments. In the operational excellence program, difficult to manoeuvre magnetic hoops which are used in embroidery processes were swapped in Blackwoods to reduce hazardous manual tasking on heavy garments. The initial scoping of distribution centre upgrades was completed utilising an ergonomic expert to inform design of tasks and physical environments. • WesCEF’s Safe Person Commitments program launched last year remains a primary tool to reinforce behavioural expectations for all employees when completing high-risk tasks. High potential hazard reporting increased by 53 per cent in the year. Sustainability Report 2018 7 Our Principles PEOPLE Wesfarmers corporate office team member Vivian Chiam. Wesfarmers is Australia’s largest employer with approximately 217,000 employees. Our businesses provide employment to approximately one in 60 working Australians. During the year, we distributed $9.3 billion in salaries, wages and benefits to our employees. OUR GREATEST COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE IS OUR PEOPLE AND WE ARE COMMITTED TO PROVIDING THEM WITH OPPORTUNITIES TO IMPROVE THEIR PERFORMANCE AND THEIR CAREERS. Our employees As at June 2018, we employed approximately 217,000 people globally, including around 210,000 in Australia, making the Wesfarmers Group Australia’s largest private-sector employer. Of our people, approximately 64 per cent are employed on a permanent basis and 36 per cent are employed on a casual basis. In addition to our employees, our divisions engage contractors in a range of roles. There are seasonal variations in employment numbers, with a peak throughout the Christmas/summer period in line with the broader retail industry. In the 12 months to 30 June 2018, we employed 66,310 new people across the Group in a range of permanent, part-time and casual roles. Over the same period we have had a net decrease in our overall employee numbers of approximately 5,600 people. A decrease in numbers resulting from the divestment of the UK Homebase business was offset in part by increases in employees at Coles and Officeworks. Our voluntary turnover rate for permanent employees across the Group was 15 per cent (2017:18 per cent). Where headcount reductions are necessary, our divisions seek redeployment opportunities and where this is unsuccessful, they offer redundancy packages and outplacement services to affected employees. We pay at least minimum wage in all locations in Australia as required by law and in no areas of operation does minimum wage vary by gender. Our 217,000 people are mostly located in Australia, with around 6,500 in New Zealand and 815 in other global communities. Sustainability Report 2018 8 Our Principles PEOPLE Training and development Wesfarmers’ divisions provide numerous job-specific and career development training opportunities that cover technical skills, customer service, team work, leadership, and much more. These programs are available to full-time, part-time and casual employees. At a Wesfarmers Group level, the talent team focus is on the potential and capability of our leadership teams and general managers, ensuring that they have the capabilities we require for today and for the future, as reflected in our values and leadership model below. We focus on setting standards for talent, leading cross-divisional talent development processes and supporting the individual development of our most critical and highest potential leaders. This year Wesfarmers has also launched a Group-wide investment in awareness and capability building associated with data analytics, in line with one of our strategic focus areas. Our processes for identifying, developing and retaining talent are Our key Group leadership development and talent managementcategorised into four work streams: Know, Grow, Connect, and related activities for 2017/18 include: Include, as shown below. • Facilitating twice yearly divisional talent reviews, focused on divisional leadership team bench-strength and succession; chaired by the Managing Director and Chief Human Resources Officer • Providing bespoke 360 degree assessments and individual development plans for more than 60 general managers and leaders in critical divisional leadership team roles • Developing a leader-led Wesfarmers Commercial Leadership program to be rolled out to all divisional leadership team members and GMs in FY 2018/19 • Providing training on analytics for leaders and a new role of ‘translators’ across all businesses • Delivering and distributing WEStalks – 15 talks on leadership challenges and personal storytelling accessible to all team members via a mobile platform • Launching an HR community of practice across the Group to share and strengthen practices Sustainability Report 2018 9 Our Principles PEOPLE Workplace relations GOVERNANCE More than 87 per cent of our workforce is covered by collective Wesfarmers Chairman agreements. We recognise the right of those we employ to negotiate on how superior either individually or collectively, with or without the involvement of shareholder returns are third parties. Collective agreements typically include provisions for consistent with being a notice periods and provisions for consultation and negotiation. We good corporate citizen also believe in maximising the flexibility of workplace arrangements available to our employees and their managers. During the year, workplace relations at Coles received some public attention. In 2017, Coles reached agreement with bargaining PEOPLE representatives for a new Store Team Enterprise Bargaining Agreement covering over 80,000 supermarket team members. Blackwoods helps The 2017 Agreement was approved by 90 per cent of participating team members plan team members in a ballot which concluded in February 2018, and subsequently by the Fair Work Commission in April 2018. The 2017 for the ‘time of their Agreement provides: life’ • for team members to be paid more than the Award at all times • certainty about future pay increases for each year of the Agreement PEOPLE • protections around take-home pay for existing team members • choice of superannuation fund Officeworks invests • the right to request increased contract hours or to be made in career pathways permanent and balanced • access to additional benefits, including a number that are above leadership the Award, such as two days paid Domestic Violence Leave and paid Compassionate Leave of up to five days. PEOPLE Target your Mind: Target’s mental health program COMMUNITY The Kmart Wishing Tree Appeal turns 30 COMMUNITY Wesfarmers becomes a White Ribbon workplace Sustainability Report 2018 10 Our Principles PEOPLE Officeworks believes diversity supports the development of an enhanced talent pipeline by enabling access to a broader pool of talent. Wesfarmers is committed to building an inclusive culture that harnesses the power of diversity of thought and experience in our teams. DIVERSITY ENABLES US TO BEST DELIVER ON THE NEEDS OF EACH OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND THUS DELIVER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS. While our commitment extends to all individuals, Wesfarmers is particularly focused on continuing to build gender balance and Indigenous representation across its workforce. Wesfarmers has developed and implemented a Diversity Policy that aims to foster diversity at all levels across the Group. Wesfarmers supports its divisions to build a gender-balanced Our businesses have policies that are right for their workplace. workforce in a number of ways. In 2018, independent external Coles, for example, has introduced its Gender Affirmation and gender audits identified opportunities to improve gender balance. Transition guidelines to ensure a supportive working environment Wesfarmers’ has developed its own gender tool kit which is a for its transgender and gender diverse team members. Coles resource to help our businesses identify opportunities to better participated in the Australian Workplace Equality Index in 2017 and harness the strength of male and female talent and capture the was awarded a Bronze Employer status, recognising its actions to business opportunities by better catering to both genders across our improve Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) customer base. The launch of a Wesfarmers cross-divisional Gender workplace inclusion. Areas identified for improvement included Balance Working Group, sponsored by our Group Managing Director, updating policies to reflect inclusive language, clearly defining the has enabled our divisions to share practices across the Group as LGBTI strategy and accountability, LGBTI training for team members well as hear from external experts. and participation in community LGBTI events. Each Wesfarmers division has developed its own gender diversity plan in line with the Wesfarmers Gender Diversity Policy, tailored WESFARMERS SUPPORTS THE RIGHTS OF to the specific circumstances of that division. The Policy outlines four core objectives which are used to measure our progress in this ALL OUR EMPLOYEES AND CUSTOMERS TO area. The objectives and progress in achieving these objectives are reviewed annually by the Board. LIVE AND WORK FREE OF PREJUDICE AND The four objectives and indications of progress achieved for all roles DISCRIMINATION. at manager level and above are outlined below, along with some illustrative examples: Gender balance 1. Foster an inclusive culture: While our workforce is balanced with 54 per cent of our team This objective seeks to leverage each individual’s unique skills, members female, there is room to strengthen the gender balance background and perspectives. in management roles. ‘Gender balance’ means that teams have a minimum of 40 per cent of any gender and at this time 28 per cent of At Wesfarmers, rather than fitting all team members to a traditional senior management roles are held by women. notion of a leader, our focus is on developing and rewarding the different strengths and leadership styles that people bring to our Building a more gender-balanced business that appreciates and workplaces. By doing so, not only do we know that our team members caters to the different strengths, preferences and needs of different feel comfortable bringing their best selves to our workplaces, but also team members and different customers is a source of competitive that we’re drawing on the power of diversity of thought across teams. advantage. A more gender balanced business helps enable us to Understanding the different needs – both personal and professional – deliver on our objective of satisfactory returns to shareholders. of our male and female team members is also critical to ensuring we Our board of non-executive directors comprises three women and give our team members the career path, flexibility, and support they six men. There is an opportunity to improve at the senior executive need in order to be their most fulfilled and productive. and management/professional level where women hold 28 per cent and 34 per cent of positions, respectively. Sustainability Report 2018 11 Our Principles PEOPLE Women are not equally represented in senior operations roles. By the focus away from experience. An emphasis on balanced candidate way of example, to build greater gender balance within its operations pools ensure careful consideration of non-traditional candidates. team, Target has taken a number of steps to actively support working Careful monitoring of candidate data throughout the applications, parents as they are promoted into more senior roles. Team members shortlist, interview, preferred candidate, and offer stages of the process are encouraged to discuss any perceived challenges with a broad has shown the HFL process has resulted in a proportion of offers that is group of colleagues and work through a sustainable approach balanced even when the proportion of applicants is not. to ensure they are set up for success. Where team members are To attract women into roles that typically receive fewer applications required to relocate for a promotion, visits have been arranged ahead from women than men, Wesfarmers Chemicals, Energy & Fertilisers of accepting the promotion to help assess whether the move was the has innovated its job advertisements by de-emphasising experience right decision for the team member’s family. Once promoted, team requirements and highlighting leadership values, detailing training members were provided additional support, face to face coaching, provided on the job, and using job titles that resonate with a broad and feedback from across the team. set of candidates. When its Kleenheat business made these changes Flexible working in all its forms is encouraged at Wesfarmers, and as and changed the job title of a “Ramp Hand” to a “Production Worker” at 30 June 2018, 57 per cent of our permanent workforce is employed it received nearly three times as many job applications overall and on a part-time basis. Some of our divisions provide competitive paid increased female applications from 5.6 per cent to 13.2 per cent. parental leave allowances, and of all managers that took parental leave in the 12 months prior to 30 June 2018, 92 per cent of these returned to our business. IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR, 50 PER CENT 2. Improve talent management: OF EXTERNALLY RECRUITED POSITIONS WERE This objective seeks to embed gender diversity initiatives into our FILLED BY WOMEN (2017: 49 PER CENT) AND broader talent management processes in order to support the development of all talent. 39 PER CENT OF EXTERNALLY RECRUITED Wesfarmers is taking a number of steps to ensure that our MANAGER AND ABOVE ROLES WERE FILLED BY development and promotion processes identify, support, and encourage a diversity of strengths, styles, and working arrangements WOMEN (2017: 37 PER CENT). for each of our male and female team members. The Group Managing Director meets twice a year with each division 4. Ensure pay equity: to discuss succession plans and the pipelines of high-potential This objective aims to ensure that women and men receive equal pay leaders and ways to ensure divisions are successfully attracting, for equal work across our workforce. retaining, and promoting current and future female leaders. In the 2018 Succession Updates/Divisional Talent reviews: Since 2010, a Group review of gender pay equity has been conducted annually, with results reviewed by the Board and divisional Managing • 36 women (25 per cent of all nominees) were nominated as Directors. successors to a divisional leadership team roles1 The 2018 review showed gaps of: • 4 women (30 per cent) were nominated to divisional Managing Director roles2 • Resulting in a combined 40 women (26 per cent) being nominated to these divisional Leadership roles3 For each of our divisions and across the Group as a whole, we closely monitor the gender balance of our teams by level as well as the proportion of General Manager promotions, new hires and exits Any apparent gaps are analysed to ensure that such gaps can be that are female. explained with reference to market forces which may include, for To give visibility across the business and facilitate regular discussion example, different rates of pay in different industries, location and on progress, Kmart discusses gender balance data with its the relative supply and demand for different qualifications, individual leadership team and Managing Director once per quarter. The data performance and experience. is broken down by department and region to a granular level so that Every year, Wesfarmers businesses lodge their annual compliance all managers can be made aware of where there is opportunity to reports with the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA). A copy improve in the talent management process. of these reports may be obtained via the WGEA website here. To support team members as they transition back to work following Wesfarmers is a signatory to the United Nations Women’s Empowerment a leave of absence, Coles conducts a quarterly Return to Work Principles. Our support of the principles is consistent with our ongoing Governance Forum in which the head of People and Culture reviews commitment to gender diversity and aligned to the work we are and discusses the return to work plan for all team members due to currently doing across the Group. return in the upcoming three months. As well as providing greater opportunity for team members to move into roles that further Employee standards develop their skills as they return from leave, since its inception, team members have cited a more positive return to work experience Wesfarmers is deeply committed to treating all employees with and have used more Keep In Touch days to attend team days and respect and fairness. The policies and frameworks that support the key stakeholder meetings. Group’s day to day operations are designed to ensure that all relevant universally recognised human rights are observed and safeguarded. 3. Enhance recruitment practices: Each division must comply with the principles of the Wesfarmers Equal Employment Opportunity Policy or incorporate these principles This objective is a commitment to hiring the best person for the job, into their policies and procedures. which requires consideration of a broad and diverse talent pool. Across the Wesfarmers Group, our businesses use a variety of tools 1 Divisional leadership team roles consist of roles which are direct reports to ensure hiring processes highlight the capabilities of all applicants of the divisional Managing Director as well as other major roles (Director and/or General Manager roles). Does not include the division’s Managing and their potential to enhance the existing skills in our teams. Director role. Nominees only counted once, regardless of the number of In its Hiring for Leadership Process (HFL), Officeworks has nominations received. implemented a number of processes to ensure that the strengths of 2 Nominees only counted once, regardless of the number of nominations to a both men and women are clearly visible throughout each applicant’s divisional Managing Director role received. journey. Hiring panels are designed to mitigate for bias to ensure the 3 Roles considered part of the divisional leadership team, or a divisional Managing Director role. Nominees only counted once, regardless of the best hiring decision for Officeworks. Interview guides shift some of number of nominations received. Sustainability Report 2018 12 Our Principles PEOPLE Birpai dancers perform during the Welcome to Country and smoking ceremony, outside the Kmart Port Macquarie Store. Indigenous engagement MORE THAN 5,200 INDIGENOUS TEAM Wesfarmers’ diversity strategy includes a commitment by every division to make its businesses places where Indigenous people feel MEMBERS EMPLOYED welcome and valued, as employees, customers and suppliers. To do this, Wesfarmers prepared and committed to its first Reconciliation Wesfarmers is the largest private employer of Indigenous people in Action Plan (RAP) in 2009. Our current RAP produced in 2017 Australia. Full Indigenous employee numbers can be found in the outlines specific measurable actions to be undertaken across the table below. Group, targeting Indigenous employment, business engagement, community partnerships and team member volunteering with Indigenous organisations. Our latest RAP report and commitments can be found here. This year, we made progress across all areas of our RAP, with the following highlights. Indigenous employment Since the launch of its RAP nearly ten years ago, Wesfarmers has sought to achieve a level of Indigenous representation in its workforce which reflects the communities in which it operates. As Australia’s largest private sector employer, we believe we can provide Indigenous people with greater opportunities to participate in sustainable employment, and this remains our primary goal. This year we employed 997 more Indigenous team members, and Indigenous team members now total 5,228 which is 2.5 per cent of Wesfarmers’ Australian workforce. NR means data was not recorded due to the sale of the Resources business during the year Sustainability Report 2018 13 Our Principles PEOPLE Indigenous procurement PEOPLE In addition to direct employment, Wesfarmers has created Indigenous employment opportunities through engaging local and national Kmart Ignites Indigenous suppliers. For example, Wesfarmers businesses work the Wonder with with Young Guns Container Crew, an Indigenous owned business Indigenous art in specialising in the packing and unpacking of shipping containers. Kmart stores We are a founding member of Supply Nation, Australia’s leading supplier diversity accreditation organisation. Indigenous partnerships Wesfarmers is committed to establishing community partnerships with PEOPLE organisations focused on improving the lives of Indigenous people. Officeworks invests We have supported The Clontarf Foundation since 2001 to improve in career pathways the education, discipline, life skills, self-esteem and employment prospects for young Indigenous men using football as a foundation. and balanced In 2015 we increased our financial contribution to assist the leadership Foundation’s national expansion. A number of our businesses are also engaged with Clontarf across Australia. We continued to support Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience (AIME) and The Graham (Polly) Farmer Foundation. COMMUNITY Wesfarmers also entered into the second year of its partnership with Reconciliation WA. Many divisions also have partnerships with Bunnings’ support organisations that support Indigenous communities, such as New for women in need at Start Australia, The Fred Hollows Foundation and The Australian Christmas Literacy & Numeracy Foundation. PEOPLE Blackwoods works towards a more inclusive workplace PEOPLE WesCEF creates opportunities for Indigenous people in its supply chain Sustainability Report 2018 14 Our Principles SOURCING Queensland vegetable grower Matt Hood from Rugby Farms worked with Coles to launch three new Coles own brand vegetable products zucchini noodles, sweet potato noodles and sweet potato chips, utilising vegetable pieces that typically would not be sold at retail level. Our relationships with approximately 18,000 suppliers across the Australian-first at Coles Group are very important to us. This year we paid approximately $47 billion to our suppliers. We want to provide value to our customers Coles is committed to building strong and collaborative relationships and sustainable growth for our suppliers and their employees. with Australian farmers, producers and growers. Striving for better efficiency in our consumer supply chains ensures Coles has an Australian-first sourcing policy to provide Australiantheir continued competitiveness. grown fresh produce as a first priority. BUILDING STRONG AND COLLABORATIVE IN FY18, 96 PER CENT OF FRESH PRODUCE RELATIONSHIPS WITH SUPPLIERS IS KEY AND 100 PER CENT OF FRESH LAMB, PORK, TO DELIVERING RESPONSIBLY SOURCED CHICKEN, BEEF, MILK AND EGGS WAS PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS WHICH SOURCED FROM AUSTRALIAN SUPPLIERS. SAFEGUARD ANIMAL WELFARE AND In line with the Australian-first sourcing policy, this year Coles MINIMISE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS. announced its aim to become the first Australian national grocery retailer to sell only Australian-grown lemons all year round. The Some of our supplier initiatives this year include: business is working with a Queensland supplier to fill the seasonal gap when Australian lemons were previously not available for • WesCEF has engaged its contractors and suppliers to seek new Coles’ customers. ways to provide opportunities for Indigenous people. Coles also supports Australian producers and growers with long• Coles announced the successful applicants from round four term contracts. In April 2018, Coles signed a 10-year agreement of the Coles Nurture Fund. These included farmers from with Laurent to provide Coles supermarkets with a range of artisanCoolac (New South Wales), Goulburn Valley (Victoria), Ovens style stone-baked sourdough bread. In recent years, Coles has also Valley (Victoria), Gippsland (Victoria), Ringarooma (Tasmania), signed ten-year agreements with TOP Pork Pty Ltd and Sundrop Launceston (Tasmania) and Kununurra (Western Australia) as well Farms, a nine-year contract with milk supplier Norco and an eightas a manufacturer in Sydney. year agreement with Manbulloo Mangoes. Coles also has a long • Coregas worked with Hydrogen Mobility Australia to accelerate term contract with Simplot to supply Australian-grown vegetables the commercialisation of new hydrogen and fuel cell technologies which were previously sourced overseas. for transportation, export, storage and stationary applications in Australia. Coles complies with country of origin labelling requirements which came into effect in July 2018, to provide transparency around product origin. Sustainability Report 2018 15 Our Principles SOURCING Sustainable timber and paper sourcing Coles’ support for Farmers’ fund Bunnings’ annual timber supply chain survey conducted in the In September 2016, Coles helped to establish an independent industry 2017 calendar year identified and risk-assessed 375 timber product fund managed by the Victorian Farmers Federation (VFF) to provide suppliers, representing over $1 billion of purchases annually. This practical support to dairy farmers in southeast Australia. To generate survey confirmed more than 99 per cent of business-wide timber proceeds for the fund, Coles and VFF jointly launched Farmers’ Fund products originate from low-risk plantation, verified legal, or certified milk exclusively in most Coles Supermarkets across Victoria, with 40 responsibly sourced forests. Within that, more than 79 per cent of cents from the sale of two-litre skim and full cream milk directed to the its total timber products are sourced from independently certified Fund. In addition, $1 million was donated to the Farmers’ Fund from forests or sourced with demonstrated progress towards achieving the Coles Nurture Fund in FY17. By 30 June 2018, 135 dairy farmers independent certification, such as that provided by the Forest had been provided grants of close to $1.8 million. Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement Coles also sells South Australian Dairyfarmers Association (SADA) of Forest Certification (PEFC). Fresh Milk and Western Australian Farmers Federation WA Farmers First milk where 20 cents a litre is provided to industry funds to BUNNINGS CONTINUED TO COLLABORATE support dairy farmers. WITH ENVIRONMENTAL NON-GOVERNMENT SINCE 2015, COLES HAS SOLD OVER ORGANISATIONS ON RAISING AWARENESS 6.4MILLION LITRES OF SADA FRESH MILK OF RESPONSIBLY SOURCED TIMBER AND AND NEARLY 4.1 MILLION LITRES OF WA WAS THE PARTNER FOR FSC FORUMS IN FARMERS FIRST MILK. MELBOURNE AND AUCKLAND. Coles’ Sustainable Timber and Paper Products Policy sets out Coles’ Farm animal welfare expectations regarding the use and supply of timber and timber Coles cares about how the food it sells is produced and sourced. pulp-based paper products for Coles own brand products. Customer The business is committed to working towards a sustainable future receipts at all Coles supermarkets, Coles Express and liquor outlets that supports local farmers and food producers, while looking after are certified to the Forest Stewardship Council Standard. Coles has the welfare of animals. committed to working towards using only timber or paper sourced from sustainable forestry operations independently certified by the Coles’ Animal Welfare Policy, which is based around the five Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), freedoms (freedom from hunger and thirst; freedom from discomfort; Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or recycled fibre by 2020. freedom from pain, injury or disease; freedom to express normal behaviour; and freedom from fear and distress), sets out Coles’ Officeworks is a leading retailer of office supplies so understands expectations regarding the treatment of animals and aquaculture the importance of sustainable sourcing of products that contain species in the meat, fresh produce and grocery products supply wood-fibre. Officeworks requires suppliers of paper and woodchains for all Coles own brand products. The Policy details Coles’ based products to disclose detailed information, including timber commitment to source animal and aquaculture products from species, before products can be ordered to ensure that no illegal farming operations that have a high standard of animal welfare and, timber enters the supply chain. In addition, Officeworks supports where appropriate, hold animal welfare certification. It also specifies FSC-certified products, which promotes responsible and sustainable that no Coles own brand products are to be tested on animals. management of the world’s forests, providing traceability via the chain of custody process to the origin of the raw materials. During The Coles Farm Program provides a mechanism for Coles to work the last year, 68 per cent of all paper products sold were either FSC with its suppliers to support continuous improvement. Under the certified or 100 per cent recycled. Program, species and product-specific steering committees have been established. Each year farmers complete a self-assessment Officeworks commitment to the sustainable sourcing of wood-fibre identifying challenges and opportunities to be addressed, such products has enabled the business to launch Restoring Australia, as on-farm energy management, animal welfare measures and an Australian-first initiative which aims to plant two trees for every integrated pest management. Suppliers are audited under the Coles one used, based on the weight of paper-based products purchased Farm Program against the information they have provided including by Officeworks customers. Launched in July 2017, during the past animal welfare practices such as low stress handling practices. Coles 12 months Officeworks, in partnership with Greening Australia, has undertakes audits of a minimum of 10 per cent of supplier sites each planted 197,000 trees throughout sites in Tasmania, NSW, Victoria year under the Coles Farm Program. and South Australia. This work is designed to restore degraded landscapes by planting native species that will, in turn, encourage Coles works with the RSPCA Approved Farming Scheme to offer wildlife to return and help protect seven threatened animal species customers a range of humanely farmed Coles own brand products around Australia. This initiative also helps landholders and farmers including fresh chicken, free range pork and turkey. The RSPCA improve their land by re-establishing trees that provide shade and Approved Farming Scheme establishes higher welfare standards shelter for livestock. (above the legislative requirements) and commercially achievable production standards for pigs, chicken and turkeys. Coles was the first national supermarket to launch RSPCA-Approved Coles own brand chicken in 2014, following with other products including turkey. Sustainability Report 2018 16 Our Principles SOURCING IN 2014, COLES WAS ALSO THE FIRST Certified products and labelling AUSTRALIAN SUPERMARKET TO DELIVER ALL Where Coles sources tea, coffee, cocoa and palm oil, for Coles own brand, it is committed to using independent and internationally COLES OWN BRAND FRESH PORK AS SOW recognised certification programs in order to support ethical practices and environmental protection in these supply chains. STALL FREE AND FREE FROM ARTIFICIAL Coles’ Palm Oil Policy outlines its commitment to support the GROWTH PROMOTANTS. COLES OWN BRAND production of sustainable palm oil through the use of certified sustainable palm oil and palm derivatives. Coles is a member of the FREE RANGE PORK IS THE ONLY RSPCARoundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil and has embraced its principles and criteria for sustainable palm oil production. All Coles own brand APPROVED FRESH PORK STOCKED NATIONALLY food and drink products now contain or support sustainable palm BY AN AUSTRALIAN SUPERMARKET. oil through the physical supply chain options including Identity Preserved, Segregated and Mass Balance. Coles is also pursuing sustainable palm oil and palm derivatives in Coles own brand All Coles own brand eggs have been cage-free since 2013. They are homecare, health, beauty and baby products. While these changes either barn-laid or free range. Coles is also working with proprietary are being made, palm oil in Coles own brand non-food products is egg suppliers to increase production of cage-free eggs. offset through PalmTrace certificates which support sustainable palm All Coles own brand beef in the meat departments has been 100 per oil farmers and processes. cent Australian sourced with no added hormones since 2011. Graze, Coles utilises independent certification programs in sourcing Coles beef speciality range, is 100 per cent Australian, grass-fed, cocoa, coffee and tea to ensure that these commodities are free to roam and with no added hormones. sourced ethically and sustainably, and to help grow a market for Coles also understands that the responsible use of antibiotics independently certified products such as Fairtrade, Rainforest in agriculture is an important issue for animal and human health. Alliance and UTZ. All Coles own brand loose tea and tea bags are In 2014, Coles was the first Australian supermarket retailer to from certified sources, and the business is committed to using implement a policy to remove the use of antibiotics for the purposes certified coffee and cocoa in all Coles own brand coffee, cocoa and of promoting growth in livestock and it only allows suppliers to use chocolate products by 2020. antibiotics for animal health purposes under veterinary supervision. Responsibly sourced seafood KMART AND TARGET HAVE IMPLEMENTED Coles understands that well-managed and responsible fishing is THEIR SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS ROADMAP. essential to maintaining healthy fish populations and habitats, and to ensure the future sustainability of marine ecosystems. KMART AND TARGET HAVE SET A TARGET All Coles own brand seafood has been responsibly sourced since TO SOURCE 100 PER CENT OF COCOA 2015. Different programs and certifications ensure potential impacts on marine health and the environment are carefully monitored. SUSTAINABLY BY 1 JULY 2019. All Coles own brand seafood products have Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) or Aquaculture Stewardship Council certification, or Building on this commitment, the first chocolate products marked meet Coles Responsibly Sourced Seafood criteria. with the UTZ sustainable cocoa certification were sold at Target at Christmas 2017 and at Kmart at Easter in 2018. Coles was awarded the MSC’s Best Sustainable Seafood Supermarket in Australia in September 2017. In mid-2017, Kmart announced its intention to source more sustainable cotton by 1 July 2020. Target followed this announcement by launching a project in late 2017 to source more sustainable cotton. Sustainability Report 2018 17 Our Principles SOURCING A factory supplying Kmart in Bangladesh. ETHICAL SOURCING AND HUMAN RIGHTS HAS Kmart has published details of all factories that directly produce Kmart apparel and general merchandise on its website. BEEN IDENTIFIED AS WESFARMERS MOST Coles has published details of the factories that supply its Mix MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE. clothing range on its website. Target has published details of all factories that directly produce Target apparel and general merchandise on its website. Our businesses directly source products from more than 18,000 suppliers in Australia, China, Bangladesh, New Zealand, India, Coles, Bunnings, Officeworks and Wesfarmers Industrial and Thailand, Vietnam and other countries. While our operations and Safety use Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) to streamline supply chains are complex, our aim is to ensure that human rights ethical compliance and monitoring, and provide efficiencies to their are understood, respected and upheld. We expect our partners suppliers. Sedex facilitates risk assessments and information-sharing and stakeholders to adhere to ethical business conduct consistent across its platform for social compliance audits. This maintains with our own, and are committed to working with them to fulfil this visibility and drives consistency across supply chains. common goal. Kmart and Target have a three-year ethical sourcing (ES) program We have a Group-wide Ethical Sourcing Policy, which sets the roadmap. The road map identifies six strategic areas and associated minimum standards expected of our divisions who sell goods for tasks to be actioned over the next three years. This is transitioning resale. Bunnings, Coles, Kmart, Target, Officeworks and Wesfarmers Kmart and Target’s program from an audit and compliance approach Industrial and Safety have their own ethical sourcing policies to a model with more focus on factory capacity building, supplier appropriate to their businesses. compliance ownership and industry partnerships. WesCEF has commenced a review of its supply arrangements to During the year our businesses undertook a number of initiatives to facilitate development of an ethical sourcing policy. further their ethical sourcing programs: During the year Wesfarmers continued to voice its support for • Bunnings direct supplier base increased by 4.3 per cent and 100 establishing a Modern Slavery Act in Australia. We believe the Act per cent were screened through its Ethical Sourcing Program. will improve transparency in corporate and public sector activities, Bunnings enhanced its Code of Conduct by expanding from and ultimately help to eliminate modern slavery across Australian product suppliers to also include service providers. The business entities’ operations and their supply chains. Our third Modern Slavery also conducted a review into green life supplier labour contract Statement is available here. hire, cleaning services, and commenced work on raw materials such as stone. Increasing supply chain transparency • Coles developed supplier capabilities to better manage risk Global supply chains are inherently complex, diverse and dynamic. within Australian agricultural and meat processing supply chains. During the year we continued to focus on supply chain transparency Coles also worked with Australian suppliers to support their as the key to ensuring modern slavery is not occurring in our supply understanding of the Federal and New South Wales governments’ chains. Our due diligence process has revealed unfair working modern slavery bills, and the Queensland, South Australian and conditions is a risk in supply chains all over the world including Victorian state governments’ labour hire licensing legislation. OECD countries such as Australia. • This year Target joined Kmart to become a buyer partner of the International Labour Organisation/International Finance Corporation Better Work Program. The Better Work program aims DURING THE YEAR TARGET, KMART AND to make sustainable improvements in working conditions within COLES MAINTAINED THEIR COMMITMENT the garment industry and make the sector more competitive overall. At the end of this year, 45 out of 60 of Kmart’s eligible TO SUPPLY CHAIN TRANSPARENCY BY factories had been engaged in the Better Work program. Kmart aims to have transitioned all eligible apparel factories in CONTINUING TO PUBLISH THE DETAILS OF Bangladesh, Cambodia and Indonesia to the program by the THE FACTORIES THAT DIRECTLY PRODUCE end of next year. Meanwhile,Target commenced transition of its eligible factories to Better Work in June 2018 and aims to THEIR OWN BRAND PRODUCTS. have transitioned all eligible apparel factories in Bangladesh to the program by the end of next year. The focus will then shift to transitioning Target factories in Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam. Kmart and Target’s ethical sourcing teams will work in partnership with the Better Work program on long-term improvement plans for factories. No critical issues have yet been identified to date. Sustainability Report 2018 18 Our Principles SOURCING • Officeworks developed a three-fold approach to ensure that suppliers are complying with its Ethical Sourcing Policy. MORE THAN 4,000 FACTORIES IN THE Firstly, Officeworks seeks to understand what policies and mechanisms suppliers have in place to ensure that they are AUDITPROGRAM adequately monitoring and addressing human rights within their own supply chain, and that it aligns to the Officeworks Ethical Factories are ‘conditionally approved’ if non-critical non-compliances Sourcing Policy. Secondly, if these policies don’t meet the same have been identified and notice has been given that they must be standards and requirements, suppliers are required to register fixed, or if it is a recently on-boarded factory that has not yet been with Sedex, and complete the self-assessment questionnaire. audited. If a factory then addresses a non-compliance, it can move This gives Officeworks an insight into the working conditions at to becoming an ‘approved’ factory. If critical breaches are identified, the site where the goods are produced. Finally, Officeworks may they must be addressed immediately. If they are addressed request third party audits that provide an independent detailed satisfactorily, a factory can then become approved. In this way, our assessment of the conditions in the factory. Upon review of these audit process is contributing to improving conditions for workers by audits, Officeworks seeks to work with its suppliers and factories working with factory owners to address any issues. If a factory is not to address any issues through a remediation process, which willing or able to address a critical breach, our business will cancel involves a follow-up audit to ensure that corrective actions have its order and not continue to buy from that factory. been implemented. At the end of this reporting period, there were 1,849 approved • Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety established a full-time team factories in our audit program. A further 1,815 factories were to execute its Ethical Sourcing (ES) strategy, which conducted conditionally approved and 257 were due to be re-audited. monthly meetings with the ES Governance group to ensure that During the year, we identified 114 critical breaches across 82 the strategy met divisional requirements and 271 team members factories in our audit program. The major critical breaches identified participated in ES training activities. included excessive overtime, transparency, safety, unpaid wages and unauthorised subcontracting. Where a non-compliance is identified, Ethical sourcing and human rights audit programs the factory is required to fix the issue, within an appropriate period of To mitigate the risk of unethical practices occurring in our supply time, depending on the nature of the non-compliance. chains, the Wesfarmers businesses procuring goods for resale We were able to remedy 43 of these issues immediately, 50 had apply a human rights and ethical sourcing audit program to certain action plans that were on-track at the end of the reporting period, suppliers. Suppliers are considered lower risk if they are supplying one was exited immediately and no further supply orders were recognised international brands. placed at the remaining 20. Our businesses regularly engage with workers in tier one factories THIS YEAR, OUR AUDIT PROGRAM COVERED in our supply chain through factory visits (either announced and unannounced), our audit program and our grievance mechanisms. 4,003 FACTORIES OR SUPPLIER SITES Through these engagements, we seek feedback on how well the IN AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS USED TO policies and procedures outlined in our Modern Slavery Statement work in practice. PRODUCE PRODUCTS FOR RESALE ACROSS Ethical sourcing and human rights training OUR RETAIL BUSINESSES. Wesfarmers businesses deliver training on ethical sourcing requirements to our team members, third-party auditors and suppliers to ensure they understand ethical sourcing risks and the standards expected by our divisions. OUR DIVISIONS DELIVERED MORE THAN 3,500 HOURS OF TRAINING TO MORE THAN 2,500 PEOPLE DEMONSTRATING OUR COMMITMENT TO IMPROVING OUR TEAMS’ UNDERSTANDING Factories in the audit program are required to have undertaken OF THIS ISSUE. an assessment as mandated by our business. They may then be required to undertake further assessments including having a current Our divisions continuously review and make enhancements to ensure audit certificate, which means they have been audited by us or our ethical sourcing programs run effectively and meet industry another party whose audits we accept. The audits identify a range of standards and the expectations of our customers and stakeholders. non-compliances, from minor non-compliances such as minor gaps The ethical sourcing teams in the divisions participate in forums in record keeping to critical breaches, such as incidences of forced and seminars and have regular discussions with other stakeholders labour or bribery. including retailers, industry associations, non-government organisations and third-party audit firms to understand emerging trends and risks. Our cross-business ethical sourcing forum meets quarterly to share best practice and audit program outcomes, and ethical sourcing practices are reported regularly to the Wesfarmers Audit and Risk Committee, a subcommittee of the Wesfarmers Board. We train 100 per cent of team members who work in ethical sourcing roles as well as key personnel. Training and capacity building is an area that requires ongoing focus. Sustainability Report 2018 19 Our Principles SOURCING 2018 Modern Slavery Statement of partners and stakeholders. Each entity in this chain has its own independent duty to respect human rights in all areas of its operations. for Wesfarmers Our businesses directly source products for resale and not for resale Wesfarmers Limited (Wesfarmers/the Group) opposes slavery in all from a range of locations with the largest volume sourced from its forms. This statement, which is intended to meet the requirements Australia, China, Bangladesh, New Zealand, India, Thailand and of s54 of the United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act 2015, s12 of Vietnam. With the exception of Australia and New Zealand, global risk the proposed Australian Modern Slavery Bill1 and s24 of the Modern and strategic consulting firm Verisk Maplecroft classify these countries Slavery Act 2018 (NSW)2, describes the steps taken by Wesfarmers as ‘high’ or ‘extreme risk’ for human rights risks.4 and all its wholly owned subsidiary businesses and divisions during the financial year ending 30 June 2018 to seek to minimise the risk of While our operations and supply chains are complex, our aim is to modern slavery3 occurring in our businesses or their supply chains. ensure that human rights are understood, respected and upheld. We expect our partners and stakeholders to adhere to ethical business At Wesfarmers we acknowledge our role and responsibility in seeking conduct consistent with our own, and are committed to working with to safeguard human rights through ethical and sustainable business them to fulfil this common goal. practices. We also recognise that human rights is an area of growing importance to our employees, shareholders, customers, and the The policies and frameworks that support the Group’s day to communities where we operate. There is therefore both a business day operations are designed to make sure all relevant universally and a moral case for seeking to ensure that human rights are recognised human rights are safeguarded. Consistent with the respected across the Group’s operations and supply chains. principles detailed in our Code of Conduct and Ethical Sourcing Policy, Wesfarmers is committed to making positive economic, social and We recognise we are on a journey to improve our modern slavery environmental contributions to society, consistent with the principles risk identification and mitigation and we are committed to continuous of honesty, integrity, fairness and respect. We prohibit discrimination improvement. and forced, trafficked and child labour and are committed to safe We support the following globally recognised declarations, principles and healthy working conditions, including the right to freedom of and goals: association and collective bargaining. We have a Group-wide Ethical Sourcing Policy, which sets the minimum standards expected of our • Universal Declaration on Human Rights divisions who sell goods for resale. Coles, Bunnings, Kmart, Target, • United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Officeworks and Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety have their own • United Nations Global Compact ethical sourcing policies appropriate to their businesses. During the year Wesfarmers Chemicals, Energy and Fertilisers (WesCEF) • International Labour Organisation Declaration of Fundamental commenced a review of its supply arrangements to facilitate Principles and Rights at Work development of an ethical sourcing policy. • United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles A key focus of the Group is ensuring that each of our divisions has • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals a strong management capability that is accountable for strategy development and execution, as well as day-to-day operational A consultation process with our wholly owned subsidiary businesses performance. Each division is overseen by a divisional board of was undertaken to draft this statement. Our businesses prepare an directors or steering committee that includes the Wesfarmers annual ethical sourcing report including details of factories audited, Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer, and is guided by a ethical sourcing training undertaken and any significant changes to Group-wide operating cycle and governance framework. their ethical sourcing programs. Information from those reports as well as examples of initiatives undertaken during the year, then feed Our governance of modern slavery risks is set out below. into this statement. This statement was then reviewed by the senior management of each business as well as the Wesfarmers Board during our 2018 Sustainability Report approval process. Modern Slavery disclosures formed part of Ernst & Young’s Assurance of our 2018 Sustainability Report, as detailed here. Wesfarmers’ businesses have adopted a risk-based approach to modern slavery due diligence and have primarily focused on the human rights of direct employees and the human rights of those in the tier one factories (factories producing the final product for resale) of our supply chains who are supplying own brand products for resale. When we began our ethical sourcing journey five years ago, we recognised this was the area where we could make the most significant contribution. Goods not for resale and services supply chains have been identified as potentially carrying modern slavery risks and although some of our businesses are already working on human rights in our goods not for resale and services supply chains as well as tier two and three factories, there is further work to be undertaken. Unless otherwise specified, this statement refers to goods for resale and our direct operations. Our structure, operations and supply chain This statement extends to all Wesfarmers’ wholly owned businesses described on our website here. From its origins in 1914, as a Western Australian farmers’ cooperative, Wesfarmers has grown into one of Australia’s largest listed companies. With headquarters in Western Australia, our diverse business operations cover: supermarkets, liquor, hotels and convenience stores; home improvement; office supplies; department stores; and an industrials division with businesses in chemicals, energy and fertilisers Potential modern slavery risks and industrial and safety products. We recognise that we must take steps to identify and address any Wesfarmers employs more than 217,000 people in Australia, New actual or potential adverse impacts with which we may be involved Zealand, the United Kingdom, Portugal, and several countries in Asia whether directly or indirectly through our own activities or our including Bangladesh and China. In the financial year ending 30 June business relationships. This table outlines the potential modern 2018, Wesfarmers paid its more than 18,000 suppliers AU$47 billion. slavery risks for our business. Wesfarmers’ businesses work within large, diverse supply chains Sustainability Report 2018 20 Our Principles SOURCING Table 1: Potential modern slavery risks for our business POTENTIAL MODERN SLAVERY RISK HOW WE IDENTIFIED THE MODERN SLAVERY RISK Non-compliance with Our businesses have different modern slavery risks depending on various factors, including the level of human rights protection our labour standards and enforcement in the countries where they operate or source from. With a high number of suppliers in countries where the in the supply chain level of maturity in the protection of human rights in regard to labour conditions is low, there is risk of harm to people. including health and Previously we considered non-compliance with our labour standards to be high-risk in all regions except for Western safety, working hours, Europe, Australia and New Zealand,4 however, our due diligence process has revealed unfair working conditions such as the wages, forced labour underpayment of sub-contracted workers and poor health and safety standards are potential risks in any region including and child labour, and Australia. freedom of association. Our due diligence process has revealed that there is an increased risk of unfair working conditions for people who are employed by third party labour hire companies. These third party labour hire companies are often contracted to provide agricultural harvest, call centre and cleaning services. Non-compliance with We have identified that some level of discrimination based on gender, age, race, disability, sexual orientation, cultural broader human rights background, religion, family responsibilities or other areas of potential difference is a potential risk in any business. which can be connected Australia has a gender pay gap of 15.3 per cent5. Since 2010, a Group review of gender pay equity has been conducted to or indicative of annually, with results reviewed by the Board and divisional Managing Directors. Over this period the company has moved to modern slavery risk, close any pay equity gaps. Any apparent gaps are analysed to ensure such gaps can be explained with reference to market including employee forces which may include, for example, different rates of pay in different industries, location and the relative supply and demand rights to equality, fair for different qualifications, individual performance and experience. pay, safety and privacy. We recognise the right of those we employ to negotiate their wages either individually or collectively, with or without the involvement of third parties. We also believe in maximising the flexibility of workplace arrangements available to our employees. Employee safety is our highest priority and while we are seeing the benefits of a relentless focus on making our workplaces safer, we acknowledge that if team members are injured at work, our safety performance still requires improvement. During the year, privacy has been raised as a material issue. We have systems and procedures in place to protect privacy but acknowledge that privacy protection requires ongoing significant resources. Actions taken to address modern slavery risks We regularly undertake the following actions to mitigate the potential modern slavery risks in Table 1. Table 2: Actions to mitigate potential modern slavery risks POTENTIAL MODERN SLAVERY RISK ACTION Non-compliance with our labour Action: Establishing which suppliers to work with standards in the supply chain Most of our businesses take a risk-based approach when making the decision to conduct detailed due diligence on including health and safety, a supplier of goods for resale, based on the goods or services, country of origin and vendor. Before we contract with working hours, wages, forced a new supplier we assess its risk against our criteria and require high-risk suppliers to complete a risk assessment labour and child labour, and questionnaire and/or be audited. We investigate the supplier to understand risks of human rights breaches. We also freedom of association. consider whether there may be any sanctions that may be in place against that supplier or the country in which it is located. Coles, Bunnings, Officeworks and Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety are at various stages of utilising the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) to streamline ethical risk assessment and monitoring, and provide efficiencies to their suppliers. Sedex facilitates risk assessments and information and social compliance audit sharing across its platform. This maintains visibility and drives consistency across supply chains. Coles requires suppliers of fresh produce, meat and Coles brand products to register on Sedex and complete the self-assessment for each site before the supplier is approved to supply Coles. Kmart and Target have a three-year ethical sourcing (ES) program roadmap. The road map identifies six strategic areas and associated tasks to be actioned over the next three years. This is transitioning Kmart and Target’s program from an audit and compliance approach to a model with more focus on factory capacity building, supplier compliance ownership and industry partnerships. Sustainability Report 2018 21 Our Principles SOURCING POTENTIAL MODERN SLAVERY RISK ACTION Action: Communicating our Ethical Sourcing Policy to suppliers who supply goods for resale We have a Group-wide Ethical Sourcing Policy, which sets the minimum standards expected of our divisions who sell goods for resale. Coles, Bunnings, Kmart, Target, Officeworks and Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety have their own Ethical Sourcing Policy appropriate to their business. During the year WesCEF commenced a review of its supply arrangements to facilitate development of an ethical sourcing policy. All suppliers engaged by our divisions to supply goods for resale must take all reasonable steps to comply with our minimum standards. Some of our businesses also apply their policies to suppliers providing goods not for resale while others are working towards this. Bunnings, for example has enhanced its Code of Conduct by expanding from product suppliers to also include service providers. We will only work with suppliers to supply goods for resale who operate in line with the divisions’ Ethical Sourcing Policies. Under the relevant Policy, all suppliers producing goods for resale must agree to comply with the following minimum standards in their agreements with our businesses: • No forced or bonded labour • No child labour • Transparent record-keeping of wages and benefits • Working hours must comply with applicable local laws • No discrimination • No harassment or abuse • Freedom of association • Working conditions: suppliers shall provide a safe and hygienic working environment that is without risk to health, taking into consideration knowledge of the relevant industry and any specific hazards • No bribery • Approved sub-contracting: there shall be no sub-contracting unless previously approved by Wesfarmers and/or divisions/business units6 • Environmental compliance While not all of these minimum standards are directly relevant to modern slavery, they are important to Wesfarmers’ holistic Ethical Sourcing Policy. Action: Mapping our supply chain To manage business and sustainability issues with such a complex supply chain we map our tier-one suppliers. Where possible, we are mapping tier-two and three suppliers (suppliers producing components which go into a final product) for high-risk products. For example: • Coles is engaging with its suppliers and mapping its supply chain beyond direct suppliers including sites that significantly contribute to the final form of the product. Examples of processes considered to significantly contribute to the final form of the product include (but are not limited to): –– Embellishing, pressing, fabric finishing; –– Partial garment cut and trim; –– Peeling, trimming, husking, de-hulling, filleting; –– Harvesting of fresh fruit, vegetables or seafood; –– Grow produce for retail sale; –– Pack produce for retail sale; –– Operate as an aggregator, distributor, broker or agent supplying produce for retail sale; and –– A direct supplier, a subcontract supplier or a co-packer. • Bunnings is mapping and engaging with suppliers for raw materials such as timber, and during the year commenced this process with stone. • Kmart and Target are mapping and engaging with cotton fabric suppliers. • Target, Kmart and Coles are continuing to publish the details of the factories that directly produce some of their own brand products. Sustainability Report 2018 22 Our Principles SOURCING POTENTIAL MODERN SLAVERY RISK ACTION Action: Building long-term relationships We aim to build long-term direct relationships with suppliers to work with them to safeguard human rights. This may have a number of additional benefits. For example, a long-term relationship may provide increased certainty for their businesses, may lead to increased efficiencies and productivity, and may result in the delivery of enhanced services and products. For example: • In 2016 Coles signed a 10 year deal with Sundrop Farms to provide sustainable truss tomatoes exclusively to Coles customers 365 days of the year for the next 10 years. • Coles formed the Coles Agronomy Group with approximately 20 growers volunteering their time to work together with Coles to address industry challenges around labour practices in the fresh produce industry, varietal development, sustainable farm practices and water use. • Bunnings merchandising team and buying agents are responsible for building long-term relationships with suppliers with a common vision towards a responsible and sustainably sourced supply chain. • Kmart and Target have joined the ILO/IFC Better Work Program as a buyer partner. The Better Work program aims to make sustainable improvements in working conditions within the garment industry and make the sector more competitive overall. Kmart and Target’s ethical sourcing team will work in partnership with the Better Work program on long-term improvement plans for factories. • Industrial and Safety is committed to building long-lasting supplier relationships that harbour a continuous improvement methodology. This is sustained by an established off-shore office in China (47% of WIS own-brand spend is Chinacentric), and partnered sourcing offices in Bangladesh and India further supporting the Industrial and Safety sourcing model by facilitating supplier interaction in local language wherever possible. Action: Collaborating with other businesses, government and non-government organisations Collaboration with industry-wide initiatives, government and non-government organisations is an important part of managing modern slavery risks. • Coles works with Australian suppliers to support their understanding of the Federal1 and New South Wales2 modern slavery bills, and the proposed Queensland, South Australian and Victorian state governments labour hire licensing legislation. • Bunnings is a key signatory to the European DIY Retailer Association (EDRA), linking DIY retailers together to share ideas on best practice in ethical and sustainable sourcing. The initiative allows retailers to come together to promote better labour and environmental conditions in the global home improvement supply chain. • Kmart and Target have continued their participation in the Action, Collaboration, Transformation (ACT) living wage collaboration. • Kmart, Target and WIS along with other brands and global unions, have signed an extension of the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh to 2021. • Industrial and Safety, Coles, Officeworks and Bunnings gain access to a number of Australian and world leading business as part of their Sedex membership. By attending member events, the businesses are able to connect, and share insights into ethical sourcing with other brands, retailers and suppliers alike. • Industrial and Safety, Bunnings and Officeworks have signed a letter of support to the Association of Professional Social Compliance Auditors (APSCA). APSCA’s mission is to govern and improve the standards and techniques used within the social auditing space. Governing this area enables auditors to reliably identify and remediate risks. • Workwear Group is a member of Ethical Clothing Australia (ECA®) an accreditation body that works collaboratively with local textile, clothing and footwear (TCF) companies manufacturing in Australia. The ECA voluntary accreditation program offers practical and affordable assistance to these businesses, and ensures that their Australian supply chains are fully transparent and legally compliant. Action: Auditing our suppliers To mitigate the risk of unethical practices occurring in our supply chains, the relevant Wesfarmers businesses (Coles, Bunnings, Target, Kmart, Officeworks; and Industrial and Safety) apply a human rights and ethical sourcing audit program to certain suppliers. Where non-compliance with our Ethical Sourcing Policy identified, the supplier is required to fix the issue within an appropriate period of time depending on the nature and severity of the non-compliance. Suppliers are ‘conditionally approved’ if non-critical non-compliances have been identified and notice has been given that they must be remedied. If a supplier then addresses non-compliance, it is deemed to be an ‘approved’ supplier site. In this way, our audit process is contributing to remediating supplier non-compliance and improving conditions for workers by working with supplier site owners to address any issues. If a supplier site is not willing or able to address a critical breach, our business will stop buying from that supplier site. Sustainability Report 2018 23 Our Principles SOURCING POTENTIAL MODERN SLAVERY RISK ACTION Action: Training and capacity building We keep our buying and sourcing teams up-to-date on our ethical sourcing and human rights commitments and how their actions may impact workers’ rights. The findings from our audit program and stakeholder engagements are fed into this training to ensure that our teams improve their understanding of ethical sourcing and human rights. We train relevant employees on how to incorporate respect for human rights into all business decisions, making employees aware of the impact their actions can have on human rights. For example, we train relevant team members about the implications of making short notice purchasing decisions on potential human rights risks. We deliver training on ethical sourcing requirements to relevant team members, third party auditors, suppliers and factories so that they understand ethical sourcing risks and the standards expected by our divisions. Cross-functional teams in our businesses regularly collaborate, as in regular ethical sourcing forums, to share lessons learned and continue to improve their knowledge. Training and capacity building is an area that requires ongoing focus. Action: Reporting and monitoring of grievance mechanisms We have established specific grievance mechanisms for workers in our supply chain. • Coles has set up the Coles Wages and Conditions Hotline for workers in Coles supply chains, including farms, factories and service providers. In Australia, employees who work for a Coles supplier can call 1300 532 515 between 8am and 8pm, seven days a week to understand more about their conditions of employment or to report unfair labour practices. For workers where English is not a first language, there is an email, wageline@coles.com.au. Workers can provide their telephone number, preferred language and a brief description of their concerns. • Bunnings buying agents are responsible for building relationships with suppliers and providing grievance channels. This is introduced within their Trading Terms, which includes specific expectations on Modern Slavery. Non-compliance with broader Action: Developing employee policies and standards human rights which can be We have policies which embed the importance of “respect for the rights of all”, including our employees. Wesfarmers connected to or indicative of strives to create a work environment which is inclusive of all people regardless of gender, age, race, disability, sexual modern slavery risk, including orientation, cultural background, religion, family responsibilities or other areas of potential difference. Each division/ employee rights to equality, fair business unit must establish and communicate policies, procedures and programs that are in line with our Equal pay, safety and privacy. Opportunity Policy. Some of our businesses have gone beyond the minimum expectations set out by Wesfarmers’ Equal Opportunity and Diversity policies, to develop policies specific to their workplace. • Coles, for example, has Gender Affirmation and Transition Guidelines in place to promote a supportive working environment for its transgender and gender diverse team members. • Bunnings has an established Respectful Workplace Policy, as its culture is founded on values that go hand in hand with diversity: respect and innovation. Bunnings recognises that a diversity of cultures, backgrounds, experiences and education provides for a diversity of thought. We have worked to grow the number of women at senior levels throughout the organisation and to close the gender pay gap by conducting a review of gender pay equity annually, with results reviewed by the Board and divisional Managing Directors. Any apparent gaps are analysed to ensure such gaps can be explained with reference to market forces which may include, for example, different rates of pay in different industries, location and the relative supply and demand for different qualifications, individual performance and experience. We recognise the right of those we employ to negotiate their wages either individually or collectively, with or without the involvement of third parties. We also believe in maximising the flexibility of workplace arrangements available to our employees. Employee safety is our highest priority and we continue to make improvements to safety in all our operations. Assessing the effectiveness of actions We measure Wesfarmers businesses’ performance in respect of ethical and sustainable practices through a number of mechanisms including: Table 3: Evaluating our performance MECHANISM FOR ASSESSING EFFECTIVENESS OF ACTION ACTION Ethical sourcing audit programs: Total factories in audit program We measure the coverage This year, our audit program covered 4,003 supplier sites used to manufacture own brand products for resale, across including the total number of our international and local supply chain. Audits are undertaken by third party audit firms or by our team. Factories in the factories in the audit program; audit program are required to have a current audit certificate, which means they have been audited by us or another the number and nature of critical party whose audits we accept. breaches; and the speed of Depending on the division’s policy for auditing high-risk suppliers, these audits are typically completed before an order remediation and improvement. is placed with a supplier and if no findings are made, it will be repeated each year. If critical breaches are found, an audit will be repeated within six months depending on the situation to confirm that any findings have been addressed. Total number and nature of critical breaches and remediation During the year, we identified 114 critical breaches across 82 factories in our audit program. The major critical breaches identified included excessive overtime (37 per cent), transparency (16 per cent), safety (12 per cent), unpaid wages (11 per cent) and unauthorised subcontracting (10 per cent). As set out in Table 2, where a non-compliance is identified, the factory is required to fix the issue, within an appropriate period of time, depending on the materiality of the non-compliance. We were able to remedy 43 of these issues immediately, 50 had action plans that were on track at the end of the reporting period, one was exited immediately and no further supply orders were placed at the remaining 20. Sustainability Report 2018 24 Our Principles SOURCING MECHANISM FOR ASSESSING EFFECTIVENESS OF ACTION ACTION Training and capacity building: We deliver training on ethical sourcing requirements to relevant team members, third party auditors, suppliers and We measure the number of factories so that they understand ethical sourcing risks and the standards expected by our divisions. During the financial training hours on human rights year ending 30 June 2018, our divisions delivered more than 3,500 hours of training. delivered and the number of Cross-functional teams in our businesses regularly collaborate, as in our regular ethical sourcing forums, to discuss what people reached. types of goods which we procure may present higher risks for modern slavery. Effectiveness of complaints We place importance on the provision of effective company-based complaints or grievance mechanisms to escalate or grievance mechanisms: issues wherever human rights impacts occur in our operations. We continue to build the awareness and knowledge We measure the number of of our employees on human rights, encouraging them to voice their concerns without fear of retribution and with full people who use our grievance confidentiality if required. Each division has external whistle blower grievance channels and the number and nature mechanisms and the nature of of the calls are reported regularly to the Wesfarmers Audit and Risk Committee. We also promote the provision and their grievances. implementation of effective grievance mechanisms by our suppliers. Our company-based complaints or grievance mechanisms are accessible by our employees, the external community and stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement: Our stakeholders regularly provide feedback about our performance. We regularly engage with our Non-government organisations stakeholders to understand Our divisions work collaboratively with non-government organisations (NGOs) on a range of projects. This year NGOs their expectations about our engaged with us on ethical sourcing and human rights generally as well as formally through collaborations. Our performance. stakeholders regularly provide feedback about our performance and help to drive our program to improve our modern slavery risk and identification and mitigation. Suppliers Our businesses are committed to building strong and collaborative relationships with suppliers. By supporting our suppliers and producers, and helping them to grow their businesses and become more efficient, we are further enabling the delivery of great products to our customers. Our businesses regularly engage with workers in tier-one factories in our supply chain through factory visits (both announced and unannounced), our audit program and our grievance mechanisms. Through these engagements, we seek feedback on how well the policies and procedures outlined in Table 2 work in practice. For example: • Coles’ Agronomy Group was active during the year, with approximately 20 growers volunteering their time to work together with Coles to address industry challenges around varietal development, sustainable farm practices, water use and labour practices in the fresh produce industry. • Kmart and Target’s membership of the ILO/IFC Better Work program as Buyer Partners sees the companies working even closer with suppliers. Together they will make sustainable improvements in working conditions within the apparel industry and make the industry more competitive overall. We are committed to continuous improvement and recognise we are on a journey to improve our modern slavery risk identification and mitigation. We will continue to track and publicly report on our progress annually in our Sustainability Report. Rob Scott Managing Director 13 September 2018 ¹ At the time of publishing, the Australian Modern Slavery Bill was before the Australian Federal Parliament. ² At the time of publishing, the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (NSW) was not yet in force and the proposed regulations under the Act had not been published. 3 Modern slavery is an umbrella term used to describe human trafficking, slavery and slavery-like practices, such as forced labour and forced marriage. 4 Verisk Maplecroft, 2016, ‘Human Rights Risk Index 2016’. Verisk Maplecroft is a global risk and strategic consulting firm. 5 Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) 6 Note this does not extend to Coles proprietary brand suppliers Sustainability Report 2018 25 Our Principles COMMUNITY Coles donated two million bananas to local Little Athletics centres across Australia during the year, helping to give little athletes a nutritional boost at training. Wesfarmers is a successful company, and one that creates value for all its stakeholders. As a result, we have a significant positive impact on the Australian economy. THE WEALTH CREATED BY THE GROUP DURING THE YEAR WAS $69.9 BILLION WHICH, IN ONE FORM OR ANOTHER, WAS DISTRIBUTED TO OUR VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS. Wesfarmers is Australia’s largest private sector employer with more than 217,000 employees. The vast majority of our shares are held in Australia, and we invest in the local communities where our businesses operate. In 2018, the Wesfarmers Group contributed $86.6 million in direct funding to community organisations across Australia and New Zealand and other regions where we operate. The Group also facilitated donations from customers and employees totalling $60.9 million this year. Wesfarmers is among Australia’s top 10 taxpayers paying more than $2.1 billion in taxes and royalties. Our Tax Contribution Report is available here. WESFARMERS HAS ALWAYS BELIEVED THAT A STRONG BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT IS UNDERPINNED BY A COHESIVE AND INCLUSIVE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT. Reflecting the divisional autonomy of the Wesfarmers Group, each of our businesses has its own approach and strategy to community investment. Information about each business’ community partnership program is contained in their sections of this Report, as well as in Our data. Sustainability Report 2018 26 Our Principles COMMUNITY Economic contribution to the community Below is a summary of how we distribute the wealth we create. Further details on our financial performance for the year can be found in our 2018 Annual Report. 1 Calculated as percentage of net profits including discontinued operations and excluding the following significant items (pre-tax): $931m of impairments, write-offs and store closure provisions in Bunnings United Kingdom and Ireland (BUKI); a $375m loss on disposal of BUKI; $306m of non-cash impairments in Target; and a $120m gain on disposal of Curragh. Our divisional contribution Wesfarmers’ contribution Directly and through support from our customers and team In addition to the millions of dollars invested in community programs members, our community contributions were nearly $150 million. by our various businesses, Wesfarmers also supports a number of Reflecting the Group’s divisional autonomy, our approach to organisations philanthropically. community engagement is driven and managed by our businesses The Wesfarmers Board approves partnerships focused on five areas: to ensure that contributions are made in ways that best fit with their medical research and health; Indigenous programs, particularly operations and geographic spread. targeting education and employment outcomes; education initiatives; Wesfarmers has a local footprint in many communities. Many of our community programs; and the Wesfarmers Arts program. divisions have major, long-term partnerships at a national level, such In 2018, approximately $9 million was contributed to our partners, as the enduring partnership between Kmart and The Salvation Army the majority of which are long-term commitments with West through the Kmart Wishing Tree Appeal, or Coles’ relationship with Australian-based organisations. national food relief charity SecondBite. This year marked the start of our renewed contract with Telethon Kids In addition to these major partnerships, a significant part of Institute, with an increased funding contribution from Wesfarmers our community investment is directed to smaller, not-for-profit to $1.5 million per annum. Wesfarmers has had a long partnership organisations operating locally. For example, Bunnings has supported with Telethon Kids, most recently through the establishment of the thousands of local community groups throughout the year by Wesfarmers Centre of Vaccines and Infectious Diseases. participating in activities such as fundraising sausage sizzles, handsWe have supported The Clontarf Foundation since 2001 to improve on projects, community workshops and product contributions. the education, discipline, life skills, self-esteem and employment Our retail businesses all support local community groups through prospects for young Indigenous men using football as a foundation. the provision of gift cards, products or facilitating the collection In 2015, we increased our financial contribution to assist the of customer donations for local fundraising initiatives. As a result Foundation’s national expansion. A number of our businesses are of these locally driven activities, there are a significant number of also engaged with Clontarf across Australia. community groups and programs who have received the support of In 2018, Wesfarmers continued to be a major partner with Harry our businesses across a wide range of areas. Perkins Institute of Medical Research, Australian Alzheimers Research The Coles Nurture Fund launched in April 2015 is continuing to Foundation, Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience, the Graham provide $50 million in grants and interest-free loans over five years Farmer Foundation, Reconciliation WA, Teach for Australia, WA to businesses in the food and grocery sector to help fund the Parks Foundation, Surf Life Saving WA, the General Sir John Monash development of new products, technologies and processes. So far Foundation, Mission Australia, and Leadership WA. the Nurture Fund has supported cutting-edge projects, from the development of chickpea tofu and early-season blueberries to the installation of cloud technology and automation equipment, with more innovation to come. Sustainability Report 2018 27 Our Principles COMMUNITY The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Art curatorial team of the National Gallery of Australia. Left to right: Curators Kelli Cole and Tina Baum, with Senior Curator, Franchesca Cubillo. Wesfarmers Arts A highlight of our Indigenous arts engagement is the commitment we make to respecting and supporting Indigenous culture through our relationships with the National Gallery of Australia and new partner, WESFARMERS HAS SUPPORTED THE ARTS IN Yirra Yaakin Aboriginal Theatre. Wesfarmers Arts was the Presenting AUSTRALIA FOR MORE THAN THREE DECADES. Partner of the National Gallery of Australia’s Defying Empire: 3rd National Indigenous Art Triennial. This landmark exhibition brought the works of 30 contemporary Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander artists Our engagement in the cultural life of the community embraces our from across the country into the national spotlight. long-term support for a wide range of premier performing and visual In 2018, we celebrated milestone 20-year anniversaries with two of arts organisations and the ongoing development of The Wesfarmers our long standing national arts partners: Bell Shakespeare Company Collection of Australian Art. and Musica Viva Australia and two Western Australian flagship arts From rare watercolours of the earliest years of European settlement, companies: WASO and West Australian Opera. New research into to the art of today across painting, photography, sculpture and digital international models of arts philanthropy has identified Wesfarmers’ media, The Wesfarmers Collection reflects the diversity of creative partnership with WASO to be the most long standing, ongoing Australia through the work of our country’s defining artists. During the relationship between a corporate entity and an orchestra anywhere in year, we shared works from our collection with museums and galleries the world. throughout Australia and online via Instagram, Facebook and the The depth and longevity of our partnerships in the arts received Wesfarmers Art Collection app. recognition in July 2017, with Wesfarmers Arts announced as the In 2018 the Wesfarmers Arts sponsorship program provided $3.3 winner of two Western Australian State Arts Partnership Honours and million in support of the activities of 14 leading arts organisations, an award for Outstanding Corporate Social Responsibility in the 2017 including the National Gallery of Australia, Perth Festival, Art Gallery AIM Pinnacle Awards. of Western Australia, West Australian Ballet, West Australian Opera, West Australian Symphony Orchestra (WASO), Black Swan Theatre Company, Co3 Contemporary Dance, Awesome Children’s Festival, Form Contemporary Craft and Design, the Australian Chamber Orchestra, through the nationally touring ACO Collective, as well as the Western Australian tours of Bell Shakespeare Company and Musica Viva Australia. Sustainability Report 2018 28 Our Principles COMMUNITY Officeworks Global Sourcing Merchandiser Leah Coleman, visits a supplier’s factory in China. All of the consumer products we supply must be safe and meet Product safety initiatives consumer guarantees under the consumer laws of the countries where we operate. We ensure that all our products comply with Each of our divisions has undertaken product safety initiatives this relevant mandatory standards before they are offered for sale and year that target their particular product safety risks. Some of those we do not sell banned products. As well as safety testing and initiatives include: compliance with required standards, our divisions implement product • Bunnings continued to proactively engage with suppliers to recalls where possible safety issues may arise. ensure adherence to product safety standards. As part of During the year as part of our materiality process data privacy this, Bunnings conducts regular product audits to ensure emerged as a key material issue for Wesfarmers and its businesses. conformance with relevant mandatory standards, and undertakes We are committed to complying with the Australian Privacy Act and independent safety tests on selected products to confirm all relevant legislation. compliance to safety standards and customer expectations. • Coles’ Manufacturing Supplier Standards for food were updated WE HAVE SYSTEMS AND PROCEDURES and then relaunched to suppliers in FY18. These standards cover product safety and quality, packaging and all claims, such IN PLACE TO PROTECT CUSTOMER AND as animal welfare and sustainability. They are based on world’s best practice and go beyond Australian regulatory standards. All EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND ACKNOWLEDGE factories supplying Coles Brand products are regularly audited to confirm compliance to product safety and quality standards. THAT PRIVACY PROTECTION REQUIRES • During FY18, Coles rigorous supplier testing program for Coles ONGOING SIGNIFICANT RESOURCES. THIS own brand products completed more than 49,000 checks covering allergens, imported food, residue, organic products, REMAINS A HIGH PRIORITY. authenticity and microbiology. Coles also performed quality checks on more than 5,000 products in FY18 and conducted During the year we continued to implement a number of controls more than 130,000 arrival checks at its fresh produce distribution to minimise risk, including enhanced monitoring and vulnerability centres and 38,000 checks for chilled products. testing of our systems and procedures. • Kmart continued to shift the reliance of quality inspections away from post-production final inspections to pre-production In June 2018, Coles, Kmart, Target and Officeworks were among meetings and during-production inspections to assist in a large number of Australian businesses which were notified that identifying quality improvements earlier in the manufacturing a data security incident at technology provider PageUp may have process. It also commenced formal in-store audits to survey the involved personal data of some candidates, their referees and team quality of goods being sold to customers. Kmart also increased members, as PageUp provided them with software services used in levels of pro-active engagement with regulators in Australia and recruitment and employment. All our affected businesses responded New Zealand to build constructive relationships and regulator swiftly to the incident, including suspending job portals for further trust in Kmart safety and compliance frameworks. recruitment, until satisfactory and independent assurances were received that the system was secure to use. • Target introduced a new strict button battery policy, aimed at battery avoidance and safety, to address ongoing customer While PageUp was unable to confirm who may have been concern around the dangers associated with button batteries specifically affected, current and past job applicants who might and the ease of accessibility to young children. The objective have been affected were informed as a precaution and advised what is to have removed 98 per cent of button batteries from Target action they should take. Wesfarmers businesses’ also engaged with products and strongly influence other brands to commence the Australian Government’s Joint Cybersecurity Centre, the Office removal. Target updated its metal contamination policy to of the Australian Information Commissioner and other data security include a penalty system and unannounced audits. Relevant bodies and experts to understand the extent of the issue, risk training has been given to internal team members and suppliers management and data protection options. on the new policy. Target also introduced measures to achieve full compliance with the Best Practice Guide for Furniture and Television Tip-Over Prevention prepared by the National Retailers Association. Target Product Safety & Quality manuals will be updated to reflect the new industry strategy and Target expects to be fully compliant within the next six months. Sustainability Report 2018 29 Our Principles COMMUNITY • WesCEF provides free safety advice and training to customers COMMUNITY handling its major chemical and energy products such as sodium cyanide, ammonium nitrate emulsion, LNG and LPG products. Quiet Hour at WesCEF also offer on-site emergency response training to many 70 supermarkets of its customers. across Australia • Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety developed a customised Own-Brand Quality and Compliance online tool for Blackwoods to house all information pertaining to factories for quality and technical audits, product testing and specifications, factory quality inspections and internal quality inspections, customer technical data sheets and incident management. This tool due COMMUNITY for implementation in FY19 will revolutionise how we approach product safety and allow for real time supplier performance Officeworks develops management and an agile response to customer requests. a safety first framework Product safety incidents and recalls During the year our divisions implemented product recalls where possible safety issues arose. Kmart ENVIRONMENT Two Kmart brand products were recalled this financial year. These involved a portable single burner stove and a stainless-steel toaster. Coles introduces There were injuries which were required to be reported to the ACCC reusable bags for the portable single burner stove. featuring design by Kmart’s customers reported 162 product-related injuries during Australian children the financial year. Similar to previous years, lacerations, burns and allergic reactions were the most common injuries reported. Where possible, Kmart investigated customers’ product samples to identify whether any improvements were required. ENVIRONMENT Product recalls are published here. Soft plastic Target recycling in all Coles There were five voluntary product recalls this financial year. The recalls involved a toaster, Halloween pumpkin wand, an oil heater, supermarkets children’s nightwear shorts, and denim coveralls. There were also 72 mandatory reports where the customer sought medical attention for a variety of reasons. Lacerations, burns and allergic reactions were the most common injuries reported. Where possible, Target investigated customers’ product samples to identify whether any ENVIRONMENT improvements were required. Product recalls are published here. Bunnings brings waste paint recycling to local Coles communities During FY18, four Coles own brand products were recalled due to undeclared allergens (two separate recalls), microbial contamination and possible foreign matter. Coles issued public communication and worked with regulators and its suppliers to mitigate any issues and make improvements and changes to reflect its commitment to provide safe and quality products. ENVIRONMENT Product recalls are published here. Innovative Bunnings technologies Product recalls are published here. automate inspections at CSBP Officeworks Product recalls are published here. Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety Blackwoods product recalls are published here. Sustainability Report 2018 30 Our Principles ENVIRONMENT Bunnings Warehouse Alice Springs, Northern Territory. We acknowledge the scientific consensus on climate change and the This year, the decrease in our emissions was driven by energyeffects it may have on our customers, our operations, the economy efficiency projects at Coles, Kmart and Officeworks which accounted and the communities in which we operate. for a reduction in more than 200 thousand tonnes of CO2e. Continued use of nitrous oxide abatement technology installed in CSBP’s nitric WE ARE PROACTIVE ABOUT MANAGING acid plants delivered reduced greenhouse gas emissions. An average 85.5 per cent total nitrous oxide abatement was achieved during the RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE year, which equates to a reduction of 1,157,738 tonnes of CO2e. The decrease is also related to the sale of Curragh coal mine as we have BECAUSE RESPONDING WILL DELIVER calculated the emissions related to our Resources business up until it was divested in March. SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND This year we have estimated Scope 3 emissions of 767 thousand ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS FOR US ALL. tonnes CO2e. This includes: • 32 thousand tonnes CO2e from air travel; Wesfarmers supports the recommendations of the Task Force on • 92 thousand tonnes CO2e in emissions from LPG, petroleum, Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) which has developed natural gas and diesel mostly associated with third party voluntary, consistent, comparable climate-related financial transport fleet; disclosures for companies. We have an ongoing commitment to provide stakeholders with useful information in relation to how we • 201 thousand tonnes CO2e in emissions that escape from waste are managing climate change risks and opportunities. In line with that is disposed to landfill; and the TCFD recommendations, our disclosures can be found in the • 442 thousand tonnes CO2e in emissions from electricity. Operating and Financial Review section of our Annual Report. Click here for more detail on our greenhouse gas emissions reporting. Managing our emissions The scale of the climate challenge is great but the International Panel on Climate Change highlights that the world has the means to address it. Our divisions are looking for ways to improve energy efficiency, reduce emissions across their operations and supply chains and invest in low-emissions and renewable technologies as we transition to a low carbon economy. We recognise our responsibility to all our stakeholders to play an active role in addressing climate change. We emit greenhouse gases both directly and indirectly. Our direct (Scope 1) emissions come from our industrial businesses, including the use of natural gas and diesel, and fugitive emissions from coal mining. Our main source of indirect (Scope 2) emissions is electricity used by our operations. We also estimate our Scope 3 emissions, which are other indirect emissions that occur as a result of our operations (e.g., staff air travel), but are not controlled by us. We are able to manage our emissions intensity (tonnes of emissions per one million dollars revenue) through various initiatives including technology improvements in our industrial processes and through energy-efficiency initiatives in all our businesses. Our emissions This year, we emitted a total of 3,945 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, which was three per cent lower than last year. This represents a 6 per cent reduction in emissions intensity from last year. Sustainability Report 2018 31 Our Principles ENVIRONMENT Our energy use Officeworks opened its first store with solar panels during the year. During the year electricity price risk exposure for our retail The North Lakes store was an Officeworks development that enabled businesses has received some attention. Over the past three years, the installation of a 100-kilowatt solar system on the roof to utilise the prices in the National Electricity Market (NEM) on the east coast of intense Queensland sunlight. Australia have surged. WIS has undergone a process of replacing inefficient fluorescent tubes To manage the risk associated with fluctuating energy costs and metal halide high bay lights with LED lighting as well as installing some of our Divisions work together to purchase electricity. This solar PV arrays across its branches and distribution centres. These function enables the Divisions to actively manage electricity price programs have saved more than 2,000,000 kilo-watt hours and over exposure rather than locking in a fixed price that is struck at the 2,000 tonnes of CO2e since 2015. This is equivalent to the annual commencement of a contract for the duration of the contract. energy use of approximately 300 average Australian homes. To optimise electricity consumption, Coles, Kmart and Target use Our divisions all replace lighting with light-emitting diode (LED) lights an electricity servicing centre. Through the use of smart meters where feasible. Coles began its LED replacement program in 2012 and monitoring store electricity usage against a base load profile, the plans to complete it in FY19, when every light in every supermarket energy centre is able to report back to store maintenance technicians will be LED. Kmart and Target replaced nearly 117,000 inefficient to rectify any anomalies. fluorescent tubes with LEDs at 72 stores during the year. Officeworks retrofitted 33 existing stores with LED lighting and in total 146 stores now have energy efficient lighting across the selling floor. INCREASINGLY, BUILDING ENERGY Our total energy use reduced by 10 per cent compared to last year MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (BEMS) ARE with an energy intensity for all energy consumed for 415 gigajoules per million dollars of revenue, 13 per cent lower than last year. RECTIFYING ANOMALIES IN NEAR REAL Targets TIME IN ALL OUR RETAIL BUSINESSES. With its business model centred around divisional autonomy, Wesfarmers does not set a Group-wide greenhouse gas Some of our retail Divisions include solar systems into new stores emission target. as standard and on existing stores where feasible and with landlord All our businesses run autonomously and set targets appropriate to agreement. Bunnings has installed solar photovoltaic (PV) systems at their operations. 23 stores across Australia, covering 25,000 square metres of roof area. DIVISION TARGETS AND BUSINESS PRIORITIES PROGRESS Bunnings Bunnings is accelerating energy reduction through more During 2018, nine stores had solar PV systems installed, taking the total renewable energy installations and lighting efficiencies, number of solar PV systems to 23 stores, covering 25,000 square metres and will roll out 25 solar PV systems and 19 LED retrofits of roof area. Bunnings also retrofitted LED lighting into 12 existing stores in the 2019 financial year. during the same period, with 26 stores retrofitted to date. Coles In 2009, Coles set a target to reduce its greenhouse gas Coles met this target four years early in 2016. Since 2009, Coles has emissions by 30 per cent by 2020. achieved a 35 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, including a 74 per cent reduction in scope one greenhouse gas emissions from refrigerant sources due to ongoing refrigeration and HVAC upgrades. Department Kmart has set an energy efficiency target of 20 per cent An overarching strategy of lowest cost abatement first, combined with Stores reduction of energy per square metre by December 2020 improved data collation, analytics, systems and processes, specifically compared to 2015. Target has set an energy efficiency around energy demand management, has enabled our Department Stores target of 25 per cent reduction of energy per square to drive energy efficiency projects. Kmart stores have reduced their metre by December 2019 compared to 2015. electricity usage by 15 per cent since 2015 equating to 20 per cent less greenhouse gas emissions per metre of store building area. Target stores have reduced their electricity usage by 32 per cent since 2015 equating to 36 per cent less greenhouse gas emissions per metre of store building area. Officeworks Officeworks has set a target of a 15 per cent reduction Officeworks has reduced electricity usage by 11 per cent since 2015 in greenhouse gas emissions from electricity usage equating to 17 per cent less greenhouse gas emissions. compared to 2015. Industrials Most abatement projects have already been realised As part of ongoing environmental licence compliance requirements all for the WesCEF business. The focus is on ongoing facilities must comply with stringent emissions, water quality, water improvements through a process of continuous review efficiency and air quality requirements. Under the Safeguard Mechanism and action. Industrial and Safety has an internal target of all facilities are below baseline and forecast to remain below, based a 10 per cent reduction in electricity used year on year. on legislation as it is currently enacted. Significant abatement projects have already been completed. A business-wide focus on energy, water and waste efficiency ensures that opportunities are constantly reviewed as part of ongoing process improvements at all facilities. During 2018, Kleenheat entered into a ten-year 30MW PPA to source renewable energy for its customers. Since 2015, Industrial and Safety (excluding Coregas Air Separation Unit in Mackay) has achieved a 25 per cent reduction in electricity through solar installations and LED retrofit projects. Sustainability Report 2018 32 Our Principles ENVIRONMENT Shadow carbon price ENVIRONMENT Wesfarmers has put a shadow price on carbon to help ensure Bunnings continues its investment decisions reflect all costs (including environmental solar rollout costs) and reduce our carbon footprint cost-effectively. Shadow carbon pricing is a method of investment decision analysis that adds a hypothetical surcharge to market prices for goods that involve significant carbon emissions. For example, if Wesfarmers is analysing an acquisition of new energy-using equipment, it would use expected energy costs of expected market prices plus a charge associated with the carbon dioxide ENVIRONMENT that would be emitted when the fuel is combusted. Innovative WESFARMERS APPLIES THE SHADOW CARBON technologies PRICE IN THE ANALYSIS OF INVESTMENTS AND automate inspections at CSBP OTHER STRATEGIC DECISIONS TO GIVE AN EDGE TO OPTIONS THAT ARE MORE EMISSIONS EFFICIENT, OTHER THINGS BEING EQUAL. ENVIRONMENT Wesfarmers’ shadow carbon price for capital expenditure decisions in Australia: Managing electricity price risk exposure This is based on a moderated view of necessary and likely carbon prices in Australia and overseas. There is a view that a formal tradeable price on carbon will be re-introduced in ENVIRONMENT Australia at some time in the medium-term. The underlying data behind the carbon price is reviewed annually. Officeworks plants Other environmental reporting more than 200,000 trees We are committed to transparent and open communications about our management of the environment, with a broad range of stakeholders including customers, employees, investors, governments and non-government organisations. The following information sets out other environmental reporting areas. ENVIRONMENT Carbon Disclosure Project We have an ongoing program of engagement with investors Coregas works to and continually look for opportunities to enhance our make low-carbon disclosure. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is the primary technology a reality investor benchmarking tool for climate change performance. Wesfarmers responds to CDP’s ‘Investor Request’ on climate change through our annual voluntary submission. Wesfarmers’ responses are available on the CDP website. National Pollutant Inventory WesCEF is required to report under the National Pollutant Inventory (NPI). Full details are available on the NPI website, with 2017/18 data available. Potential environmental non-conformances The activities of our divisions are subject to environmental regulation by various authorities throughout the countries where we operate. Licences granted to our divisions regulate the management of air and water quality and quantity, the storage and carriage of hazardous materials, the disposal of waste and other environmental matters associated with the entity’s operations. During the year, there have been no known material breaches of our divisions’ licence conditions. Sustainability Report 2018 33 Our Principles ENVIRONMENT During the year WesCEF reduced its water use by using dry ice rather than water to clean equipment where feasible. We are working to reduce our waste to landfill intensity rate and to divert as much as possible to recycling, both in our operations and for our customers. Water management is a material issue for Coles, WesCEF, Resources and Bunnings. Senior management of those businesses is responsible for assessing and managing water-related risks and opportunities and their divisional boards have oversight of these strategic risks and opportunities. We recognise that Australia is a highly water-stressed country and our focus is on using water more efficiently, reducing our water use intensity rate, ensuring dirty water is treated and replacing scheme water with reclaimed or recycled water where possible. This year, the Group recorded water use of approximately 13,422 megalitres. This represents a decrease in water use of 19 per cent due to the sale of Curragh coal mine as we have calculated the water use related to our Resources business up until it was divested in March. The decrease was also related to water efficiency projects at WesCEF. During the year CSBP changed its equipment cleaning process to include dry ice. Through the dry ice blasting method, carbon dioxide particles are propelled at high velocity using pressurised air to clean the surface of equipment. Dry ice blasting has many economic, safety and environmental benefits. It does not scratch, damage, or leave a profile on the surface being cleaned and can work at a much cooler temperature and lower pressure than traditional water methods. In addition, dry ice blasting does not create any secondary waste in the cleaning process making it an attractive alternative to water blasting. Sustainability Report 2018 34 Our Principles ENVIRONMENT Recycling and waste Helping customers recycle This year, we decreased our waste to landfill by four per cent to 154 Our retailers understand that our environmental responsibilities thousand tonnes and decreased our waste recycled by six per cent extend beyond the time a product leaves our stores and they to 351 tonnes. This was primarily due to waste diversion projects at continue to support the circular economy through customer recycling Coles, Target and Officeworks. programs. Some highlights of our customer recycling initiatives during the year include: • Bunnings stores across Australia and New Zealand continued to work with local councils to drive responsible waste disposal and recycling. Initiatives included stores hosting council run e-waste, paint and hazardous household waste collection days in the carpark. Support for local sustainability initiatives was also showcased at the National General Assembly of Local Government, where Bunnings engaged with local councils and presented on past and current local waste initiatives. • Coles announced the rollout of Plantic™ packaging for a wide range of Coles own brand fresh meat products. The packaging is both recyclable and made entirely from a combination of recycled and renewable materials. Plantic’s™ trays are made from recycled PET (rPET) with a thin layer of Plantic’s™ renewable barrier material, made from corn starch, which helps keeps the meat fresh. During the recycling process, the thin starch layer washes away, allowing the rPET tray to be recycled. Coles has used a previous versions of Plantic™ for Coles own brand fresh beef mince, pork mince and lamb mince since 2014. The previous version was recyclable but not made of 100 per cent recyclable or renewable product. • Since 2014, Coles own brand still water has been packaged in bottles made of 100 per cent recycled content which are also recyclable and in FY18 it introduced new heavy duty reusable carry bags made from 80 per cent recycled content. • Coles also plans to introduce fresh produce bags in 2018 made from 30 per cent recycled content that can also be recycled in-store though REDcycle. Coles will continue to look for other opportunities to include recycled content in Coles own brand Our main sources of waste are cardboard, food and plastic at product packaging. Coles. Coles is focused on innovating and improving its recycling • Coles’ partnership with REDcycle provides customers with a programs across these areas. The total amount of waste recycled simple and effective way of recycling soft plastics, including plastic by Coles decreased three per cent this year, while waste to landfill packaging and plastic bags. Customers can simply place their decreased eight per cent. Coles is combating food waste in stores soft plastics in a dedicated REDcycle bin at their local Coles store, and the supply chain by partnering with SecondBite. Through this where it will be collected and recycled into a range of products. partnership it ensures that edible, surplus food ends up on the plates • Officeworks takes a holistic approach when considering the of people in need instead of contributing to landfill. environmental impact of the products it sells, which includes how Coles has replaced some corrugated cardboard, waxed cardboard they are disposed of at the end of their life. The free electronic and expanded polystyrene boxes with reusable plastic crates across waste recycling service allows customers to dispose responsibly its supply chain. At the end of FY18, it had six million reusable plastic of unwanted items, ensuring that the raw materials can be used crates in circulation with over 400 suppliers being used for fruit, again. This year, Officeworks set a target to collect 10 per cent vegetables, poultry, red meat and pre-packaged salads. In addition more electronic waste from customers than was collected in the to removing cardboard, waxed cardboard and expanded polystyrene prior year. This resulted in 648 tonnes of ink and toner cartridges, from the supply chain, these crates help to reduce product damage computers and accessories, and mobile phones being diverted which cuts down on food waste. Coles plans to introduce additional from landfill. We work with government accredited suppliers to reusable plastic crates in collaboration with more suppliers in FY19. ensure that e-waste collected in our stores is recycled safely and Bunnings launched a container packaging app to gain greater appropriately. visibility of non-recyclable pallets in the supply chain. The app is now being used by Bunnings Distribution Centres across Australia, allowing the business to proactively work and engage with overseas IN MAY 2018, COLES MARKED A MILESTONE suppliers and agents to seek alternative, recyclable pallets to reduce pallet waste. WITH SOFT PLASTICS RECYCLING FOR Kmart and Target worked closely to undertake a detailed CUSTOMERS AVAILABLE IN ALL ITS investigation of their waste and recycling systems, processes and infrastructure. This included detailed waste and infrastructure SUPERMARKETS NATIONALLY. THIS WAS audits of 50 stores and Distribution Centres. The findings of this A FIRST FOR A MAJOR AUSTRALIAN investigation will be used to support key recommendations and actions in future waste diversion programs. Ahead of these changes, SUPERMARKET. a review of existing waste and recycling contractors was completed with a number of changes made to service provider contracts to ensure they support increased diversion of waste going to landfill. Sustainability Report 2018 35 Our Principles ENVIRONMENT Packaging ENVIRONMENT As retailers, many of our divisions can have an impact on waste Coles introduces by making changes to how products are packaged. All of our retail divisions have made commitments in relation to packaging under the reusable bags Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO). featuring design by APCO is a co-regulatory, not-for-profit organisation that partners with Australian children government and industry to reduce the harmful impact of packaging on the Australian environment. Wesfarmers reports annually on its progress and packaging initiatives. Our retail businesses all used APCO’s newly created Annual ENVIRONMENT Reporting Tool to review progress of their packaging programs. Officeworks continues its focus THROUGH THIS PROCESS, WE HAVE on recycling IDENTIFIED A NUMBER OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT AND HAVE DEVELOPED AN ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO ENVIRONMENT THE TARGET SET IN APRIL 2018 BY Officeworks plants AUSTRALIA’S ENVIRONMENT MINISTERS more than 200,000 TO MAKE 100 PER CENT OF PACKAGING IN trees AUSTRALIA REUSABLE, RECYCLABLE OR COMPOSTABLE BY 2025. While the majority of Coles own brand products are already in ENVIRONMENT recyclable packaging, by 2020 all packaging for Coles own brand products will be recyclable kerbside or in-store. Soft plastic Coles will also introduce the Australasian Recycling Label (ARL) recycling in all Coles launched by the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation, supermarkets PlanetArk and PREP Design. The ARL uses a nationally consistent packaging assessment tool to determine the appropriate recycling label for different packaging components. The majority of Coles own brand products already have recyclable packaging, but less than 20 per cent currently carry recycling information. ENVIRONMENT In FY19, Coles will introduce a program to reduce and optimise fresh produce packaging. While some packaging is required for transport, Electricity use drops to support product longevity and reduce food waste, Coles acknowledges there are areas where packaging can be reduced. By by 25 per cent over the end of 2018, plastic packaging will be removed from all Coles three years at WIS own brand bananas. Contaminated sites Some of our businesses are actively managing contaminated sites. Wesfarmers is involved in the remediation of a few contaminated ENVIRONMENT sites in Western Australia that were owned or leased by former Wesfarmers businesses that have now ceased operations at these Dry ice replaces water sites. Wesfarmers continues to undertake ongoing monitoring to clean equipment at and reporting obligations on the sites and in most cases active remediation activities have been completed. CSBP Sustainability Report 2018 36 Our Principles GOVERNANCE Chairman Michael Chaney AO addresses shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. The Board of Wesfarmers Limited is committed to providing a Key focus areas of the Board during the 2018 financial year satisfactory return to its shareholders and fulfilling its corporate included: governance obligations and responsibilities in the best interests of • Overseeing the implementation of strategy to address areas of the company and its stakeholders. This statement details the key underperformance and reposition the portfolio to deliver growth aspects of the governance framework and practices of Wesfarmers. in shareholder returns Wesfarmers regularly reviews its governance framework and • Approving the proposed demerger of Coles and overseeing the practices so as to ensure it consistently reflects market practice and proposed leadership change with Steven Cain to be appointed stakeholder expectations. as the next Managing Director of Coles to succeed John Durkan Set out below is an overview of selected aspects of Wesfarmers’ (March 2018) corporate governance framework and key focus areas of the Board • Overseeing a comprehensive review of strategic options to and its committees in 2018. improve shareholder returns for the Bunnings United Kingdom A copy of Wesfarmers’ full 2018 Corporate Governance Statement, and Ireland business and approving the divestment (May 2018) which provides detailed information about governance, and a • Approving the sale of the Curragh coal mine in Queensland for copy of Wesfarmers’ Appendix 4G, which sets out the company’s $700 million with a post-tax gain on sale of approximately $123 compliance with the recommendations in the third edition of the ASX million (December 2017) Corporate Governance Council’s Principles and Recommendations • Overseeing management’s performance in strategy (ASX Principles), is available on the corporate governance section of implementation the company’s website. • Monitoring the Group’s operating and cash flow performance, The Board believes that the governance policies and practices financial position and key metrics, including financial covenants adopted by Wesfarmers during 2018 are in accordance with the and credit ratings recommendations contained in the ASX Principles. • Reviewing business operations and the development plans Role and responsibilities of Board and of each division likely to impact long term shareholder value creation whether through portfolio management, consideration of management divestment options or other strategies The role of the Board is to approve the strategic direction of the • Monitoring the Group’s safety performance and overseeing Group, to guide and monitor the management of Wesfarmers and its implementation of strategies to improve safety performance and businesses in accordance with the strategic plans, to instil the core enhance workplace safety awareness values of the Group, and to oversee good governance practice. The • Reviewing talent management and development Board aims to protect and enhance the interests of its shareholders, while taking into account the interests of other stakeholders, • Monitoring and evaluating growth opportunities to complement including employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community. the existing portfolio In performing its role, the Board is committed to a high standard • Reviewing policies, reporting and processes to improve the of corporate governance practice and to fostering a culture of Group’s system of corporate governance compliance which values ethical behaviour, personal and corporate integrity, accountability, transparency and respect for others. Structure and composition of the Board The Group Managing Director has responsibility for the day-to-day Wesfarmers is committed to ensuring that the composition of the management of Wesfarmers and its businesses, and is supported Board continues to include directors who bring an appropriate mix of in this function by the Wesfarmers Leadership Team. Details of skills, experience, expertise and diversity (including gender diversity) the members of the Wesfarmers Leadership Team are set out in to Board decision-making. the corporate governance section of the company’s website. The The Board currently comprises nine directors, including eight nonBoard maintains ultimate responsibility for strategy and control of executive directors. Detailed biographies of the directors as at 30 Wesfarmers and its businesses. June 2018 are set out on pages 41 to 44. The current directors In fulfilling its roles and responsibilities, the key focus areas of the possess an appropriate mix of skills, experience, expertise and Board during the 2018 financial year are as follows. diversity to enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities and deliver the company’s strategic priorities as a diversified corporation with current businesses operating in supermarkets, liquor, hotels and convenience stores; home improvement; department stores; office supplies; and an Industrials division with businesses in chemicals, energy and fertilisers, industrial and safety products, and coal. Sustainability Report 2018 37 Our Principles GOVERNANCE Rob Scott was appointed as Wesfarmers Deputy Chief Executive The Board has reviewed the position and relationships of all directors Officer in February 2017, and joined the Board and assumed the role in office as at the date of the company’s 2018 annual report and of Group Managing Director in November 2017. considers that all eight non‑executive directors are independent. Former New Zealand Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Bill English KNZM was appointed a director on 30 April 2018. He Committees of the Board brings significant and valuable experience to the Board given his The Board has established a Nomination Committee, a outstanding record of financial management and government policy Remuneration Committee, an Audit and Risk Committee, and a development and given Wesfarmers’ extensive business interests Gresham Mandate Review Committee as standing committees in New Zealand. He guided the New Zealand economy through to assist with the discharge of its responsibilities. Following the the global financial crisis, initiated tax reforms, implemented partial resignation of Mr Graham from the Board in July 2018, the Gresham floats of four government companies and led the financing to rebuild Mandate Review Committee was disbanded in August 2018. Details Christchurch after the 2010 earthquakes. of the current membership and composition of each committee are On 23 July 2018, Wesfarmers announced that James Graham had set out in the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement. retired as a non‑executive director of the company to coincide with his appointment as Chairman-elect of the proposed demerged Coles Role of the Nomination Committee group. As part of the Nomination Committee’s oversight of Board succession planning, it is responsible for identifying suitable candidates to fill The Board skills matrix set out on this page describes the combined Board vacancies as and when they arise, or to identify candidates to skills, experience and expertise presently represented on the Board. complement the existing Board, and to make recommendations to the To the extent that any skills are not directly represented on the Board, Board on their appointment. Where appropriate, external consultants they are augmented through management and external advisors. are engaged to assist in searching for candidates. The Nomination Archie Norman, who has significant retail experience, was appointed Committee is responsible for scheduling formal performance reviews in 2009 as an advisor to the Board on retail issues. In this role, Mr of the Board and its committees at least every two years. The Board Norman attends Wesfarmers Board meetings as required and is a then undertakes an evaluation process to review its performance director of the Coles and Target boards. Mr Norman will step down which is facilitated by an external consultant. More details about from this role to become an advisor to the proposed demerged Coles Wesfarmers’ review process for both the Board and its committees are Board, continuing his strategic contribution to that business. set out in the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement. David Cheesewright who has extensive experience in international Key focus areas of the Nomination Committee during the 2018 retailing and manufacturing, including 19 years with Walmart, will financial year included: be the Wesfarmers nominee on the Coles Board in recognition of its • Identification and nomination of Bill English as a new nonretention of a shareholding interest. Mr Cheesewright is also to be executive director for election to the Board bringing skills, appointed an advisor to the Wesfarmers Board. experience and expertise to augment those of current directors Skills, experience and expertise • Identification and nomination of Chairman-elect and non• CEO level experience executive directors for the proposed Coles demerged entity • ASX-listed company experience • Consideration of feedback from major shareholders during the Chairman’s Roadshow conducted prior to the 2017 Annual • Capital markets General Meeting • Finance and banking • Strategy and risk management Role of the Remuneration Committee • E-commerce and digital The role of the Remuneration Committee is to review and make recommendations to the Board in relation to overall remuneration • Governance policy. Full details of the remuneration paid to non-executive • Human resources and executive remuneration and executive directors, and senior executives are set out in the • Financial acumen and transaction experience remuneration report on pages 77 to 96 of the 2018 annual report. • Marketing/customers/retail Senior executives comprising members of the Wesfarmers • Regulatory and government policy Leadership Team have a variable or ‘at risk’ component as part of their total remuneration package under the Key Executive Equity • Resources and industrial Performance Plan (KEEPP). The mix of remuneration components • International business experience and the performance measures used in the KEEPP have been • Corporate sustainability chosen to ensure that there is a strong link between remuneration earned and the achievement of the Group’s strategy and business • International and domestic political experience objectives, risk management and, ultimately, generating satisfactory • Crisis and disaster management and recovery returns for shareholders. • Community engagement Annual performance reviews of each member of the Wesfarmers • International trade experience Leadership Team, including the Group Managing Director, for the 2018 financial year have been undertaken. More details about Wesfarmers’ Director independence performance and development review process for senior executives is Directors are expected to bring views and judgement to Board set out in the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement. deliberations that are independent of management and free of any Key focus areas of the Remuneration Committee during the business or other relationship or circumstance that could materially 2018 financial year included: interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent • Reviewing and making a recommendation to the Board in judgement, having regard to the best interests of the company as relation to the fixed and variable remuneration of the Group a whole. Managing Director and his direct reports The Board’s assessment of independence and the criteria against • Reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in which it determines the materiality of any facts, information or relation to the Wesfarmers variable remuneration plans, including circumstances, is formed having regard to the ASX Principles. In recommending to the Board the vesting outcomes of the 2014 particular, the Board focuses on the factors relevant to assessing Wesfarmers Long Term Incentive Plan shares, based on the the independence of a director set out in recommendation 2.3; achievement of the performance conditions as at 30 June 2018 the materiality guidelines applied in accordance with Australian • Reviewing the succession and transition plans for the Accounting Standards; any independent professional advice sought Wesfarmers Leadership Team, including the transition plans for by the Board at its discretion; and developments in international the newly appointed Group Managing Director and Group Chief corporate governance standards. Financial Officer Sustainability Report 2018 38 Our Principles GOVERNANCE • Reviewing the senior executive remuneration framework and Role of the external auditor policies, including terms of employment such as notice periods, The company’s external auditor is Ernst & Young. The effectiveness, restraint and non-solicitation clauses performance and independence of the external auditor is reviewed • Reviewing the expected implications of the proposed demerger annually by the Audit and Risk Committee. Darren Lewsen is the of Coles from the Wesfarmers Group on the long-term incentive lead partner for Ernst & Young and was appointed on 1 July 2013. In plans in operation within the Group accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001, the • Reviewing and making a recommendation to the Board on nonAudit and Risk Committee approved Mr Lewsen to act as the lead executive director fees partner for a sixth year in 2018/19. • Reviewing and monitoring diversity targets and gender pay equity Ernst & Young provided the required independence declaration to the Board for the financial year ended 30 June 2018. The independence Role of Audit and Risk Committee declaration forms part of the directors’ report and is provided on page 76 of the 2018 annual report. The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in overseeing the company’s financial reporting, Risk management compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the setting and reviewing of risk parameters of the Wesfarmers Group, and Wesfarmers is committed to the identification, monitoring and proactively managing the Group’s systems of internal control and its management of material financial and non-financial risks associated financial and non-financial risk management framework. with its business activities across the Group. Key focus areas of the Audit and Risk Committee during the The Board recognises that a sound culture is fundamental to an 2018 financial year included: effective risk management framework. Wesfarmers promotes a • Monitoring the Group’s cyber security framework, including data culture which values the principles of honesty, transparency, integrity, protection management, third party data risk management and fairness, constructive challenge and accountability, and these values the reporting structure and escalation process on information are reflected in the Group’s Code of Conduct. security risks These elements are necessary to support effective risk management • Monitoring the ethical sourcing of products for resale through and awareness, and to support appropriate behaviours and the Group’s retail networks to ensure that there are appropriate judgements about risk taking. safeguards and processes in place Management is responsible for the Group’s day-to-day compliance • Reviewing and assessing the Group’s processes which ensure with risk management systems. Management monitors compliance the integrity of financial statements and reporting, and associated with, and the effectiveness of the risk management systems compliance with accounting, legal and regulatory requirements and controls at a divisional level. Senior management across the • Reviewing the processes and controls around the recognition of Wesfarmers Group is responsible for reinforcing and modelling the commercial income by the retail divisions to ensure recognition is key behaviours required to maintain a sound risk culture, including in accordance with Accounting Standards and accepted industry encouraging constructive challenge and transparency. Wesfarmers’ practice senior management reports to the Board on the adequacy of the risk management systems and processes on a consolidated basis • Monitoring the retail shrinkage control measures and reporting across the Group. Divisional Managing Directors are accountable procedures in the Group’s divisions for risk management outcomes, and day-to-day compliance in their • Reviewing and evaluating the adequacy of the Group’s insurance respective divisions. During the second half of the 2018 financial year, arrangements to ensure appropriate cover for identified the Group formalised its approach to the review and consideration operational and business risks of operational risks within each division through the establishment • Monitoring the Group’s tax compliance program both in Australia of divisional audit and risk committees. These committees ensure and overseas, including crossborder intra-Group transactions, management has access to timely information about emerging and to ensure its obligations are met in the jurisdictions in which the existing risks and provides management with a dedicated forum to Group operates facilitate constructive debate and challenge regarding operational risk management. The committees further strengthen operational risk management and support the divisional boards and management and ENVIRONMENT have become an increasingly important component of the Board’s assurance framework on risk and governance. Coles introduces reusable bags Risk management framework featuring design by The Risk Management Framework of Wesfarmers is reviewed by Australian children the Board on an annual basis and was approved in May 2018. This framework details the overarching principles and risk management controls that are embedded in the Group’s risk management processes, procedures and reporting systems, and the division of the key risk management functions between the Board, Group Managing ENVIRONMENT Director and Chief Financial Officer, Audit and Risk Committee, divisional management and Group Assurance and Risk, including: Bunnings continues its • the Group Code of Conduct; solar rollout • established Group and divisional structures, reporting lines and, appropriate authorities and responsibilities, including guidelines and limits for approval of all expenditure, including capital expenditure and investments, and contractual commitments; • Operating Cycle and Divisional Reporting Requirements documents that clearly set out the Board, Board committees and ENVIRONMENT divisional board activities and reports; • a formal director induction program and a directors’ program Dry ice replaces of annual site visits to Wesfarmers’ operations to enhance the water to clean Board’s understanding of key and emerging business risks; equipment at CSBP • a formal corporate planning process which requires each division to assess trends that are likely to affect and shape their industry, perform scenario planning and prepare a SWOT analysis; Sustainability Report 2018 39 Our Principles GOVERNANCE • Group policies and procedures for the management of financial ENVIRONMENT risk and treasury operations, such as exposures to foreign currencies and movements in interest rates; Kmart and Target • a Group compliance reporting program supported by approved commit to sourcing guidelines and standards covering safety; the environment; more sustainable legal liability; information technology; ethical sourcing; taxation compliance; risk identification, quantification and reporting; and cotton financial reporting controls; • a comprehensive risk financing program, including risk transfer to external insurers and reinsurers; COMMUNITY • annual budgeting and monthly reporting systems for all businesses which enable the monitoring of progress against Wesfarmers performance targets and the evaluation of trends; becomes a White • appropriate due diligence procedures for acquisitions and divestments; Ribbon workplace • crisis management systems and business continuity processes for all key businesses in the Group; and • external and internal assurance programs. COMMUNITY Investor engagement Wesfarmers recognises the importance of providing its shareholders Bunnings’ support and the broader investment community with facilities to access upfor women in need at to-date high quality information, participate in shareholder decisions Christmas of the company and provide avenues for two-way communication between the company, the Board and shareholders. Wesfarmers has developed a program on investor engagement for engaging with shareholders, debt investors, the media and the broader investment community. In addition, the company’s shareholders have the ability to elect to receive communications and other shareholder PEOPLE information electronically. Officeworks develops Governance policies a safety first The corporate governance section of the company’s website framework contains access to all relevant corporate governance information, including Board and committee charters, and Group policies referred to in the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement. Ethical and responsible behaviour COMMUNITY Wesfarmers’ primary objective is to deliver satisfactory returns to shareholders through financial discipline and exceptional Coles partners with management of a diversified portfolio of businesses. The Wesfarmers Little Athletics Way is the framework for the company’s business model and comprises our core values of integrity, openness, accountability and entrepreneurial spirit, details of which are published on Wesfarmers’ website. The Wesfarmers Way, together with the Code of Conduct and other policies, guide the behaviour of everyone who works at Wesfarmers as we strive to achieve our primary objective. The Board and senior executives of the Group strive to ensure that their own COMMUNITY actions and decisions are consistent with Wesfarmers’ core values. Blackwoods supports Anti-bribery Policy Fred Hollows Wesfarmers is committed to complying with the laws and regulations Foundation with $1M of the countries in which its businesses operate and act in an ethical manner, consistent with the principles of honesty, integrity, fairness donation over 12 years and respect. Bribery and the related improper conduct are serious criminal offences for both the company and any individuals involved. They are also inconsistent with Wesfarmers’ values. GOVERNANCE Our Anti-bribery Policy can be found here. Wesfarmers Chairman on how superior Political donations shareholder returns are consistent with being a Our Anti-bribery Policy stipulates that political donations must not be made at business unit or divisional level. good corporate citizen Any political donations made by Wesfarmers Limited must be authorised by the Wesfarmers Board and disclosed as required by law and recorded in the Wesfarmers Group accounts. Any donations above a level determined in Federal legislation must be disclosed annually to the Australian Electoral Commission and will be published on its website here. Sustainability Report 2018 40 Our Businesses – Bunnings BUNNINGS Bunnings team member Emily McCormack with students at Catherine Fields Preschool, Gregory Hills, New South Wales. Bunnings is the leading retailer of home improvement and outdoor The small-scale systems, up to 100 kilowatts, are generating living products in Australia and New Zealand and a major supplier between 10 and 20 per cent of each store’s energy needs, and to project builders, commercial tradespeople and the housing those stores with larger scale systems are producing up to 35 per industry. cent of each store’s energy needs all from renewable energy. At year-end Bunnings employed more than 43,000 team members In addition to this, the solar PV system at Bunnings Warehouse and operated a network of 259 large warehouse stores, 78 Alice Springs was expanded from 100 kilowatts to 475 kilowatts, smaller format stores, 32 trade centres and three frame and truss and battery storage was introduced; the first of its kind in the manufacturing centres. network. The system and battery storage are expected to provide 80 per cent of the store’s energy needs. Bunnings defines sustainability as being actions that are socially responsible, environmentally aware and economically viable. At the end of the financial year solar PV systems were installed at 23 stores across Australia, covering 25,000 square metres of roof In 2018 solar PV systems continued to be installed at a further nine area. Further installations will continue over the next 12 months. stores, taking the total number of stores with solar PV systems to 23 by the end of financial year, covering more than 25,000 square Bunnings also continued to install energy-efficient LED lighting metres of roof area. in new stores and upgraded stores progressively, and retrofitting selected existing stores. 12 existing stores had LED lighting During the year Bunnings stores helped raise and contribute installed throughout the year, with 26 stores retrofitted to date. more than $46 million through over 83,000 community activities in Australia and New Zealand. Highlights included Share the Further new generation solar PV systems and LED retrofits are Dignity’s “It’s in the Bag” campaign, which saw 107,000 bags filled planned for the coming financial year. with hygiene products collected at Bunnings stores for women experiencing homelessness and domestic violence, and the Emergency Services Volunteers BBQ, with over $550,000 raised and contributed for local emergency services groups in Australia and New Zealand. Bunnings focused on the following material issues during the year: • Accelerating energy reduction through more renewable energy installations and lighting efficiencies. • Providing more information and education and drive more product initiatives to help customers make sustainable living choices. • Further increasing our efforts to reduce supply chain resource waste and achieve greater packaging and transport efficiencies. • Continuing to work closely with suppliers to maintain ethical supply chains. • Maintain positive safety performance improvement momentum. Energy efficiency Bunnings remains committed to implementing more energyefficient ways to operate its business. During the financial year, a further nine stores had solar photovoltaic (PV) systems installed including Wangara, Australind and Esperance in Western Australia, Prospect, Seaford and Munno Para West in South Australia, Cairns Central and Rockhampton in Queensland; and Bellambi in New South Wales. Sustainability Report 2018 41 Our Businesses – Bunnings BUNNINGS Stakeholder engagement Bunnings continued to drive product stewardship initiatives in local communities. This included continuing to support paint stewardship Throughout the year, Bunnings continued to actively seek ways by collaborating with Paintback, an initiative designed to divert to collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders on community unwanted paint and paint packaging from ending up in landfill and awareness and sustainability initiatives. This included working closely waterways. This support saw 20 Bunnings stores across Australia host with state and national authorities to educate communities on locally one-day drop-off events in the store carpark, giving local residents the relevant emergency preparation and disaster response measures. opportunity to bring in unwanted paint and paint packaging. Bunnings supported the New Zealand Ministry of Civil Defence and Through these events, over 170,000 kilograms of paint and paint Emergency Management’s Get Ready Week for the second year, packaging were collected, with the packaging recycled and the which aimed at raising awareness of how households can prepare waste paint treated in a number of ways including energy recovery for emergencies such as floods, storms, earthquakes, tsunamis and for solvent and liquid/solid separation for water-based paint. volcanoes. In-store displays, information tables and D.I.Y. Workshops were provided in every store to help families engage with the Bunnings stores in Adelaide supported Electronic Recycling campaign. Australia, an arm of social enterprise Minda. From May 2017 to June 2018 over 290,000 kilograms of e-waste was dropped off by Bunnings stores also supported a number of extreme weather customers, which was then sorted and dismantled by people with a preparedness, bushfire preparedness and fire safety campaigns disability before being recycled. throughout the year. Campaigns supported included Tasmania Fire Service’s Get Ready Weekend, NSW Rural Fire Service’s Get Ready Ten Melbourne Bunnings stores continued to provide a battery Weekend, the Queensland Government’s Get Ready Campaign, the collection service for customers. At the end of the financial year Victorian Government’s Powerline Bushfire Safety Program, and Fire customers had brought in over 20,000 kilograms of batteries since & Emergency New Zealand’s Winter Fire Safety Campaign. Bunnings began participating in Batteryback in 2009. Bunnings continued seek ways to provide asbestos awareness Stores across Australia and New Zealand also continued to work through their stores throughout the year. During Asbestos Awareness with local councils to drive responsible waste disposal and recycling. Month in November 2017 Bunnings supported the Asbestos Initiatives included stores hosting council run e-waste, paint and Diseases Research Institute’s ‘Betty the Asbestos Education House’ hazardous household waste collection days in the carpark. Support which was hosted at selected Bunnings stores across New South for local sustainability initiatives was also showcased at the National Wales, Victoria and Tasmania. General Assembly of Local Government, where Bunnings engaged with local councils and presented on past and current local waste In Western Australia, all Bunnings stores supported Water initiatives. Corporation’s Waterwise Garden Rewards Program for the second year, which aimed to help households build and maintain a healthy Bunnings will continue to actively drive more product stewardship waterwise garden. During the year more than 11,000 Waterwise initiatives to help customers make sustainable living choices in the vouchers were redeemed across the state, with over 20,000 next financial year. vouchers redeemed throughout the two-year program. 1 Based on cubic metre of waste recycled instead of sent to landfill Waste reduction and packaging Bunnings is committed to pursuing sustainability throughout its business operations, including sending less waste to landfill. While new waste reduction initiatives were introduced, a number of other, countervailing factors impacted results including international import restrictions. As a result, Bunnings increased its waste to landfill intensity rate at 2.7 tonnes of landfill per $1 million of revenue, compared to 2.5 tonnes the previous year. Nonetheless, in total, 55 per cent of waste was diverted from landfill across the business1. THROUGH THE USE OF MATERIAL RECOVERY FACILITIES, METRO ADELAIDE STORES DIVERTED OVER 98 PER CENT OF WASTE FROM LANDFILL. A container packaging app was launched in January 2018 to gain greater visibility of non-recyclable pallets in the supply chain. The app is now being used by Bunnings Distribution Centres across Australia, allowing the business to proactively work and engage with overseas suppliers and agents to seek alternative, recyclable pallets to reduce pallet waste. Polystyrene recycling was assessed during the year, with a trial running at four Bunnings stores in Brisbane. Over 2.4 tonnes of polystyrene was diverted from landfill during the 12-month trial, with polystyrene recycling being offered to all stores moving forward. Green Teams were relaunched in every Bunnings store, with environmentally passionate team members coming together to drive waste reduction initiatives. Ideas implemented included giving timber pallets to not-for-profit groups in the local community, such as Men’s Sheds. Sustainability Report 2018 42 Our Businesses – Bunnings BUNNINGS Ethical sourcing and product safety Safety Bunnings continued to work closely with its suppliers to strengthen Safety continued to be a key focus with Bunnings striving to ensure sourcing practices throughout the year. everyone goes home safely, every day. This was reflected in a 19.2 per cent reduction in the number of injuries recorded and a 24.5 per cent WHILE BUNNINGS’ DIRECT SUPPLIER BASE reduction in the total recordable injury frequency rate. Additionally, the lost time injury frequency rate reduced by 23.6 per cent. INCREASED BY 4.3 PER CENT, 100 PER CENT A number of initiatives were launched throughout the year, focused WERE SCREENED THROUGH THEIR ETHICAL on increasing safety awareness and reducing risk in key areas. A refresh of core team member and leadership safety training SOURCING PROGRAM. programs, and development of simplified tools helped to drive safer outcomes through better learning experiences, simpler systems and the use of applications. This included an online tutorial for the During the year, Bunnings enhanced its Code of Conduct by ‘Hazard Spotter’ and the launch of the ‘BSAFE Training Portal’. expanding from product suppliers to service providers. The business also conducted a review into green life supplier labour contract hire, A new cut resistant glove was launched for all team members to use cleaning services, and commenced work on raw materials such as as part of the ‘Protect Your Hands’ focus, as were retractable barriers stone. to reduce injury risk associated with falling stock at height. Forklift safety continued to be high on the agenda, with the use of virtual The business began to map out its quarried supply chain as well reality experiences being showcased to the team at the Bunnings as conduct a trial on contracted cleaning businesses across the Expos to help the team identify and manage forklift safety risks in all network. Opportunities were discovered to strengthen cleaning locations. contracts and enhance visibility of the raw material supply chain. These initiatives will continue in the next financial year. A strong focus on care continued throughout the year for the Bunnings team. Initiatives included providing mental health training All direct sourcing suppliers to Bunnings are screened by our Ethical for leaders, defibrillators installed in all Bunnings locations, and Sourcing program utilising a country risk matrix. Manufacturers Mind Matters cards launched to enhance the team members’ from low risk origins are required to complete a risk based selfmental wellbeing and build resilience. A second trial was conducted assessment while medium and high risk manufacturers are required for a physiotherapy program. Due to the success of the trials the to register on Sedex and complete an ethical audit. physiotherapy program will be made available to all team members During the year, Bunnings became a supporting signatory to the in the next financial year. Australian Professional Social Compliance Auditors (APSCA) scheme, a proactive initiative which provides a standardised certification, training and professional standards for social compliance auditors globally. Bunnings also continued to work with the European DIY Retailers Association (EDRA) and Global Home Improvement Network (GHIN) DIY platform. The main focus was on mutually recognised supplier audits and coming together with opportunities to share best practice and tackle emerging supply chain issues. Bunnings is confident that more than 99 per cent of timber products are confirmed as originating from low risk sources including plantation, verified legal, or certified responsibly sourced forests. Within that, more than 79 per cent of its total timber products are sourced from independently certified forests or sourced with demonstrated progress towards achieving independent certification, such as that provided by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). Bunnings continued to collaborate with environmental non-government organisations on raising awareness of responsibly sourced timber and was the partner for FSC forums in Melbourne and Auckland. Bunnings also continued to proactively engage with suppliers to ensure adherence to product safety standards. As part of this, Bunnings conducts regular product audits to ensure conformance with relevant mandatory standards, and undertakes independent safety tests on selected products to confirm compliance to safety standards and customer expectations. ¹ Restated due to the maturation of data Bunnings remains focused on continuing to work with our supply chains to, improve manufacturing quality assurance processes, monitor product compliance in accordance with changing regulatory requirements and strengthening risk controls around storage of hazardous chemicals. Sustainability Report 2018 43 Our Businesses – Bunnings BUNNINGS Community support Bunnings is committed to supporting the communities in which it operates by contributing to local, regional and national causes, charities and organisations throughout Australia and New Zealand. DURING THE YEAR BUNNINGS STORES HELPED RAISE AND CONTRIBUTE MORE THAN $46 MILLION THROUGH OVER 83,000 COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES. A diverse range of local community organisations were supported through activities including fundraising sausage sizzles, hands-on projects, community workshops, product contributions and other local fundraising initiatives. This included more than 26,000 activities in rural and regional communities, helping to raise and contribute over $12 million for local causes and community groups. More than 4,000 sustainability-related activities were conducted, including more than 2,600 school visits and activities as part of Bunnings’ Schools Sustainability Program. The decade-long program provides students with the opportunity to actively participate in recycling and composting, worm farms, tree planting, native animal nest box building and grow your own gardening. This program will be expanded in the next financial year through a frog identification and pond building project run in conjunction with the Australian Museum. 2018/19 priorities Bunnings continued to support local emergency services with all stores in Australia and New Zealand getting behind the sausage sizzle Bunnings will focus on the following material issues during the year: at the Emergency Services Volunteers BBQ on Saturday 20 January • People – Maintain and promote a safe and inclusive workplace 2018. Through the generous support of customers, volunteers and for team and customers team members, over $550,000 was raised and contributed for local volunteer groups including fire brigades, SES units, St John units and • Community – Increase our support for the communities where Surf Life Saving clubs. we operate • Environment – Drive more energy reduction, waste minimisation During the year Bunnings also supported Australian charity Share the and water conservation actions Dignity’s “It’s in the Bag” Christmas campaign for the first time. From Saturday 18 November to Saturday 2 December 2017 every Bunnings • Supply chain and packaging – Accelerate efforts to reduce store across Australia had a collection point where customers could supply chain resource waste and achieve greater packaging and donate a handbag filled with essential items such as pads and transport efficiencies tampons, personal hygiene products, and everyday luxuries. During • Sourcing – Continue to work closely with suppliers to maintain the two-week period over 107,000 bags were collected and distributed ethical supply chains to women in the local community by Share the Dignity volunteers. Sustainability Report 2018 44 Our Businesses – Coles COLES Coles team member Brenda at Coles in Malvern, Victoria. Coles provides fresh food, groceries, general merchandise, liquor, Supporting Australian farmers, producers and fuel and financial services through its national store network and growers online channels. It operates a national network of 809 supermarkets, 711 convenience outlets, 899 liquor stores and 88 hotels. During FY18, an average of COLES IS COMMITTED TO BUILDING 21.7 million customer transactions were recorded each week across the Coles businesses. STRONG AND COLLABORATIVE Coles employs more than 112,000 team members¹ across Australia. RELATIONSHIPS WITH AUSTRALIAN Coles focussed on the following sustainability issues during FY18: FARMERS, PRODUCERS AND GROWERS. Supporting farmers, suppliers, community and team Coles has an Australian-first sourcing policy to provide Australianmembers: grown fresh produce as a first priority. In FY18, 96 per cent of fresh • Supporting Australian farmers, producers and growers; produce and 100 per cent of fresh lamb, pork, chicken, beef, milk • Partnering with the community; and eggs was sourced from Australian suppliers. • Strengthening diversity and inclusion; In line with the Australian-first sourcing policy, in FY18 Coles announced its aim to become the first Australian national grocery • Prioritising health, safety and wellbeing; and retailer to sell only Australian-grown lemons all year round. The • Providing a secure and rewarding workplace for team members. business is working with a Queensland supplier to fill the seasonal gap when Australian lemons have previously not been available for Offering customers great products: Coles’ customers. • Sourcing ethically, with a focus on human rights; Coles also supports Australian producers and growers with long• Sourcing responsibly, with a focus on animal welfare and the term contracts. In April 2018, Coles signed a 10-year agreement environment; with Laurent to provide Coles supermarkets with a range of artisan• Ensuring quality, safe products; and style stone baked sourdough bread. In recent years, Coles has also signed ten-year agreements with TOP Pork Pty Ltd and Sundrop • Promoting health and nutrition. Farms, a nine-year contract with milk supplier Norco and an eightyear agreement with Manbulloo Mangoes. Coles also has a long Reducing environmental impacts: term contract with Simplot to supply Australian-grown vegetables • Minimising waste and promoting recycling; which were previously sourced overseas. • Championing sustainable packaging; and Coles complies with country of origin labelling requirements which • Using energy efficiently and reducing greenhouse emissions. came into effect in July 2018 and provide transparency around product origin. On 15 March 2018 Wesfarmers announced its intention to demerge its Coles division, subject to shareholder and other approvals. 1 Store and employee numbers are at 30 June 2018. Sustainability Report 2018 45 Our Businesses – Coles COLES Coles Nurture Fund than 63 million meals. Between 2010 and 30 June 2018, Coles donated the equivalent of more than 17 million meals to Foodbank. COLES SUPPORTS SMALL BUSINESS TO In addition to food donations, Coles raises funds for SecondBite through the sale of $2 donation cards and reusable shopping bags. INNOVATE AND GROW THROUGH THE In FY18, $2.2 million was raised by Coles’ customers and team $50 MILLION COLES NURTURE FUND. members through the sale of these products. Coles also supports SecondBite through team member volunteering, and technical and corporate expertise. The Nurture Fund was established in April 2015 and supports small-to-medium businesses in the food and grocery sector with Coles partners with national cancer charity Redkite to provide the development of new market-leading products, technologies support to children and young people with cancer and their families. and processes. Innovation is one of the primary drivers of competitiveness. Coles recognises that smart, energetic and agile small businesses can be IN FY18 COLES, ITS TEAM MEMBERS AND a launch-pad for great product innovation, with Australian customers CUSTOMERS PROVIDED REDKITE WITH $5.3 reaping the benefits of new and exciting ventures in the food industry. Since its launch, Coles has offered more than $12 million in grants or MILLION IN SUPPORT. interest-free loans to 27 different producers. Coles’ Redkite Christmas campaign featured Gerry the Gingerbread, During FY18, Coles announced the successful applicants from round with 20 cents from every Gerry the Gingerbread sold donated to four of the Nurture Fund and opened applications for round five. supporting Redkite. Since 2013, Coles has also donated five cents Successful applicants from round four included farmers and food from the sale of every loaf of specially marked Coles Brand and producers from: Coolac (New South Wales); Goulburn Valley, Coles High Top bread to Redkite. Ovens Valley and Gippsland (Victoria); Ringarooma and Launceston Coles also partners with Guide Dogs Australia, supporting it with (Tasmania); Kununurra (Western Australia); as well as a manufacturer funds raised by team members and customers, as well as through in Sydney. collection dogs located at Coles supermarkets. Support for Farmers’ Fund To help young people live healthy, active lives, Coles entered into a partnership with Athletics Australia and Little Athletics Australia In September 2016, Coles helped to establish an independent industry in late 2017 to provide support and resources to more than 500 fund managed by the Victorian Farmers Federation (VFF) to provide athletics centres across Australia. Coles also donated two million practical support to dairy farmers in southeast Australia. To generate bananas to local centres during the Little Athletics 2017/18 season. proceeds for the fund, Coles and VFF jointly launched Farmers’ Fund milk exclusively in most Coles Supermarkets across Victoria, with 40 In late 2017, Coles partnered with Clean Up Australia by becoming cents from the sale of two-litre skim and full cream milk directed to the involved in Clean Up Australia Day and through the design of Coles’ Fund. In addition, $1 million was donated to the Farmers’ Fund from community bags. the Coles Nurture Fund in FY17. By 30 June 2018, 135 dairy farmers In conjunction with Clean Up Australia, Coles ran a bag design had been provided grants of close to $1.8 million. competition and invited primary and secondary students across Coles also sells South Australian Dairyfarmers Association (SADA) Australia to design Coles’ new range of reusable community bags Fresh Milk and Western Australian Farmers Federation WA Farmers which went on sale in June 2018. The reusable bags were launched First milk where 20 cents a litre is provided to industry funds to as part of Coles’ transition away from single-use plastic bags and support dairy farmers. Since 2015, Coles has sold over 6.4 million to help raise funds for community groups, with a portion of sales litres of SADA Fresh Milk and nearly 4.1 million litres of WA Farmers provided to Clean Up Australia, SecondBite, Little Athletics and First milk. Guide Dogs Australia. In addition to these national partnerships, Coles also supports a Partnering with the community range of state and local initiatives which help reduce disadvantage, Coles is proud of its 104-year contribution to Australia and is drive improved health outcomes, reduce environmental impacts, committed to serving the communities in which it operates. support the food and grocery sector and support schools and community groups. Coles’ contribution to the community goes beyond being one of Australia’s largest employers. The business provides significant financial assistance and in-kind donations to national, state and local community partners. IN FY18, COLES DIRECT COMMUNITY INVESTMENT WAS MORE THAN $67.7 MILLION WITH AN ADDITIONAL $9.3 MILLION CONTRIBUTED BY CUSTOMERS, TEAM MEMBERS AND SUPPLIERS. This is 24 per cent increase in direct community investment compared with FY17 and a five per cent increase in contributions from customers, team members and suppliers. Coles’ national community partners are SecondBite and Redkite. In partnership with SecondBite, Coles donates unsold edible food from its supermarkets and distribution centres to 1,300 community groups supporting disadvantaged Australians. In FY18, Coles donated more than 9 million kilograms of unsold edible food to SecondBite, equating to more than 18 million meals. Between 2011 and 30 June 2018, Coles had donated more than 31 million kilograms of unsold edible food to SecondBite, equating to more Sustainability Report 2018 46 Our Businesses – Coles COLES Strengthening diversity and inclusion In March 2018, Coles supported the annual Big Gay Day celebrations in Fortitude Valley, Brisbane. Coles owns the Wickham Hotel where Coles recognises the importance of providing an inclusive the event is held each year. Coles team members volunteered at environment for its team members and customers that encourages the event and Coles also provided a $10,000 donation that was diversity. Launched in September 2017, Coles’ Better Together distributed equally to the four Big Gay Day charity partners to program aims to promote diversity by creating a supportive and support the LGBTI community in Queensland. inclusive environment for team members and customers. On 17 May 2018, Coles recognised International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia (IDAHOT) across the Coles’ THE PROGRAM INCORPORATES FIVE PILLARS: businesses. The purpose was to build awareness of the importance ACCESSIBILITY, GENDER BALANCE, PRIDE, of LGBTI inclusion in the workplace and provide team members with an opportunity to join Coles’ Pride Network. FLEXIBILITY AND INDIGENOUS. Flexibility In September 2017, flexibility was launched as a standalone pillar of Accessibility Better Together to help shift the perception that flexible working was In June 2018, Coles launched its second Accessibility Action predominantly for working mothers and to recognise that every team Plan (2018 2020) which aims to improve the accessibility of member can benefit from flexible working. Coles’ stores, sites, workplaces and digital assets for people with Coles offers a Flexible Working Guide and supporting resources to disability. The Plan, developed with support from the Australian make it easier for team members and their line managers to have Network on Disability (AND), makes 16 commitments including conversations about flexible working. It has also established a expanding Quiet Hour to additional stores, implementing disability Flexibility IT Working Group to review and update IT infrastructure to awareness training and exploring ways to further improve the enable team members to work remotely. accessibility of marketing material. Coles also offers paid parental leave for permanent full-time and Over recent years, Coles has implemented many accessibility part-time team members with a minimum of 12 months of continuous initiatives including establishing a team dedicated to digital service. This includes 12 weeks of paid parental leave for primary care accessibility, modifying car parks in new stores to allow better givers and one week of paid leave for secondary care givers. access and recognising International Day of People with Disability. Coles also participates in AND’s Stepping Into Program, a paid Indigenous internship scheme that matches university students with disability Coles’ Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Plan, first launched in with roles in Australian businesses. 2011, outlines its commitment to provide more opportunities for In FY18, the Coles’ Accessibility Steering Committee completed Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, communities and its first Access and Inclusion Index. Created by AND, the Index organisations to engage with the business. The plan, which aligns measures an organisation’s maturity on the journey towards disability with Wesfarmers’ Reconciliation Action Plan, focuses on three key confidence, focusing on 10 key areas: commitment, premises, areas – employment, supplier diversity and community engagement. workplace adjustments, communications and marketing, products and services, information communication technology, recruitment and selection, career development, suppliers and partners, and COLES IS ONE OF AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST innovation. The findings helped determine the areas Coles needs to focus on to maximise its impact around disability inclusion for team CORPORATE SECTOR EMPLOYERS OF members and customers. INDIGENOUS AUSTRALIANS WITH ALMOST Gender Balance 3,600 INDIGENOUS TEAM MEMBERS When Better Together was launched in 2017, the focus area, Women in Leadership was re-positioned to Gender Balance. NATIONALLY, REPRESENTIWNG 3.2 PER CENT OF TOTAL HEADCOUNT. THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT BY THE END OF FY18, 33 PER CENT OF ACHIEVEMENT CONSIDERING THAT WHEN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AT COLES WERE THE ORIGINAL PLAN WAS LAUNCHED IN 2011, HELD BY WOMEN. THERE WERE ONLY 65 INDIGENOUS TEAM Other FY18 highlights included an eight per cent increase in women MEMBERS ACROSS COLES. in senior leadership positions (General Manager level and above) across Coles, five functions that are in the ‘gender balance zone’ One hundred and seventy of Coles Indigenous Australian team with at least 40 per cent representation of one gender across members hold skilled and leadership positions, including 28 store leadership positions and progress was also made with women in and site managers across Coles supermarkets, Coles Liquor and roles in traditionally male-dominated areas in supply chain and Coles Express. Retention for Indigenous team members is higher operations. than that for non-Indigenous team members. Coles also continues to increase opportunities for Indigenous Pride suppliers, with over 40 Indigenous businesses engaged throughout Coles participated in the Australian Workplace Equality Index in 2017 the past year across categories including design, recruitment, and was awarded a Bronze Employer status, recognising its actions professional services, printing, facilities management, liquor and to improve Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) fresh produce. workplace inclusion. Areas identified for improvement included As part of the implementation of an organisation-wide remote and updating policies to reflect inclusive language, clearly defining the rural location strategy, formal partnerships have been established LGBTI strategy and accountability, LGBTI training for team members with Aboriginal organisations in Broome, Darwin, Kalgoorlie and and participation in community LGBTI events. Kununurra to assist in creating stronger connections to the local community and drive improved employment outcomes. Sustainability Report 2018 47 Our Businesses – Coles COLES Prioritising health, safety and wellbeing These three pillars will continue to drive the health, safety and wellbeing strategy. In FY19, key programs will include leadership Maintaining a safe workplace for team members and keeping risk-based decision-making, contractor management, threatening customers, suppliers and other visitors safe is a paramount situations, manual handling and mental health. Coles will continue consideration across all Coles’ businesses. to create a culture where health, safety and wellbeing is proactively reported and discussed, while also simplifying processes to drive COLES’ TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY efficiency and improvements. FREQUENCY RATE (TRIFR) FOR FY18 WAS 33.3, A 14.2 PER CENT IMPROVEMENT ON THE PREVIOUS YEAR. In FY18, there was continued focus on safety under the pillars of Leadership and Culture, Critical Risk Reduction and Mind Your Health. The focus on leadership and culture was highlighted by training initiatives with more than 77,000 team members participating in role specific safety training. Due diligence training was also provided for senior leaders emphasising the importance of proactive safety management and their roles in influencing safety improvements. Safety training was also reviewed to enable it to be more accessible and interactive. Three transport safety forums were held with external partners including transport companies and carriers, road regulators and police. The objective was to build relationships and work together to improve safety for the transport industry and the wider community. Within critical risk reduction there was ongoing focus on immediate reporting, investigations and implementation of corrective actions. There were also significant investments in safety improvements including the provision of protective footwear to over 55,000 team members, the introduction of improved carton cutters to reduce laceration risk and the introduction of new assistive manual handling equipment such as electric pallet jacks, milk trolleys and wine ¹ Restated due to the maturation of data baskets. Bollards were also installed in Coles Express forecourts and an infrastructure review of bulkheads and electrical switchboards Providing a secure and rewarding workplace for resulted in replacements and upgrades where required. team members New processes for stock management in Coles supermarkets resulted in a 10 per cent decrease in manual handling injuries for The terms and conditions of employment of more than 89.9 per cent team members in FY18. The business also undertook a risk review of Coles’ team members are set through collective agreements. of threatening situations in supermarkets during the year to support Coles recognises the right of team members to negotiate either its goal to provide a safe environment for team members and individually or collectively, with or without the involvement of third customers. parties. Coles’ collective agreements include provisions for notice periods and provisions for consultation and negotiation. The Initiatives under the Mind Your Health pillar centred on increasing business also believes in maximising opportunities for flexible work the sense of connection for remote store managers, younger team available to its employees. members and team members in general. Coles partnered with Orygen to look at ways of increasing connections with youth and has In 2017, Coles reached agreement with bargaining representatives entered into a two-year research program with beyondblue regarding for a new Store Team Enterprise Bargaining Agreement covering developing mentally healthy workplaces. over 80,000 supermarket team members. The 2017 Agreement was approved by 90 per cent of participating team members in a Through a partnership with Converge International, Coles continued ballot which concluded in February 2018, and was subsequently to provide an Employee Assistance Program. This free and approved by the Fair Work Commission in April 2018. The 2017 confidential counselling supports team members and their families. It Agreement provides: also assists managers to provide advice and support to their teams. • For team members to be paid more than the Award at all times; MENTAL HEALTH EDUCATION WAS ALSO A • Certainty about future pay increases for each year of the Agreement; FOCUS WITH TEAM MEMBERS OFFERED • Protections around take-home pay for existing team members; ONLINE TUTORIALS, WELLBEING LEARNING • • Choice of superannuation fund; The right to request increased contract hours or to be made SESSIONS AND PODCASTS. TOPICS INCLUDED permanent; and MEN’S HEALTH, SLEEP, MINDFULNESS AND • Access to additional benefits, including a number that are above the Award, such as two days paid Domestic Violence Leave and LIFE AS A CARER. paid Compassionate Leave of up to five days. Sustainability Report 2018 48 Our Businesses – Coles COLES Sourcing ethically, with a focus on human rights Certified products and ingredients Coles understands that transparently sourcing goods in a Where Coles sources tea, coffee, cocoa and palm oil for Coles own responsible and ethical manner is a growing global issue and brand, it is committed to using independent and internationally something our customers demand. Coles uses more than 750 Coles recognised certification programs in order to support ethical own brand suppliers with over 2,200 sites located in more than 40 practices and environmental protection in these supply chains. countries and acknowledges the importance of safeguarding human Coles’ Palm Oil Policy outlines its commitment to support the rights through ethical business practices through this supply chain. production of sustainable palm oil through the use of certified Coles is committed to ensuring that all workers in its supply chains sustainable palm oil and palm derivatives. Coles is a member of the are treated fairly. Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil and has embraced its principles and criteria for sustainable palm oil production. All Coles own brand food and drink products now contain or support sustainable palm COLES’ ETHICAL SOURCING POLICY COVERS oil through the physical supply chain options of Identity Preserved, Segregated and Mass Balance. Coles is also pursuing sustainable A RANGE OF KEY LABOUR INDICATORS, palm oil and palm derivatives in Coles own brand homecare, health, INCLUDING WAGES AND BENEFITS, WORKING beauty and baby products. While these changes are being made, palm oil in Coles own brand non-food products is offset through HOURS, FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION, SAFE PalmTrace certificates which support sustainable palm oil farmers and processes. WORKING CONDITIONS, AND DISCRIMINATION Coles utilises independent certification programs in sourcing cocoa, AND FORCED OR BONDED LABOUR, CHILD coffee and tea to ensure these commodities are sourced ethically and sustainably, and to help grow a market for independently LABOUR AND ILLEGAL LABOUR. certified products such as Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance and UTZ. All Coles own brand loose tea and tea bags are from certified sources, The Policy applies to all suppliers providing Coles own brand and the business is committed to using certified coffee and cocoa in products, fresh produce and meat sold in Coles supermarkets. all Coles own brand coffee, cocoa and chocolate products by 2020. Coles takes a risk-based approach to ethical sourcing across all Coles Sustainable Timber and Paper Products Policy sets out Coles’ sites that directly supply Coles own brand products, meat and fresh expectations regarding the use and supply of timber and timber produce. Coles was the first Australian supermarket to adopt the pulp-based paper products for Coles own brand products. Customer Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), a global ethical supply receipts at all Coles supermarkets, Coles Express and liquor outlets chain management platform, in 2016. To monitor compliance are certified to the Forest Stewardship Council Standard. Coles has with the Coles Ethical Sourcing Policy, Coles requires all direct committed to working towards using only timber or paper sourced supplier sites to register on Sedex and complete a comprehensive from sustainable forestry operations independently certified by the risk assessment. The resulting site risk rating drives site audit Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), requirements and approval to supply to Coles. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or recycled fibre by 2020. In FY18, 90 per cent of all direct supplier sites (factories, processing Animal welfare plants, packhouses and direct supplier farms providing Coles own Coles cares about how the food it sells is produced and sourced. brand, fresh produce and meat products) were registered on Sedex The business is committed to working towards a sustainable future and monitored under the Ethical Sourcing program. This has resulted that supports local farmers and food producers, while looking after in Coles having increased visibility of its supplier employment the welfare of animals. practices and enables the business to proactively monitor ethical sourcing risks and compliance with the Coles Ethical Sourcing Policy. Coles’ Animal Welfare Policy, which is based around the five freedoms (freedom from hunger and thirst; from discomfort; from In FY18, independent ethical audits were conducted at more than pain, injury or disease; to express normal behaviour; from fear and 420 supplier sites and Coles worked with suppliers to rectify nondistress), sets out Coles’ expectations regarding the treatment of conformances identified during these audits. No critical breaches of animals and aquaculture species in the meat, fresh produce and the Coles Ethical Sourcing Policy were identified during FY18. grocery products supply chains for all Coles own brand products. Another key focus in FY18 was to develop supplier capabilities to The Policy details Coles’ commitment to source animal and better manage risk within Coles own brand Australian agricultural aquaculture products from farming operations that have a high and meat processing supply chains. The business also worked with standard of animal welfare and, where appropriate, hold animal Coles own brand Australian suppliers to support their understanding welfare certification. It also specifies that no Coles own brand of the Federal and New South Wales governments’ modern slavery products are to be tested on animals. bills, and the Queensland, South Australian and Victorian state The Coles Farm Program provides a mechanism for Coles to work governments’ labour hire licensing legislation. with its suppliers to support continuous improvement. Under the Program, species and product specific steering committees have Sourcing responsibly, with a focus on animal been established. Each year farmers complete a self-assessment welfare and the environment identifying challenges and opportunities to be addressed, such as on-farm energy management, animal welfare measures and COLES UNDERSTANDS THE IMPORTANCE integrated pest management. Coles works with the RSPCA Approved Farming Scheme to offer OF HAVING MECHANISMS IN PLACE TO customers a range of humanely farmed Coles own brand products RESPONSIBLY SOURCE COLES OWN BRAND including fresh chicken, free range pork and turkey. The RSPCA Approved Farming Scheme establishes higher welfare standards PRODUCTS AND INGREDIENTS IN ORDER (beyond legislative requirements) and commercially achievable production standards for pigs, chicken and turkeys. Coles was the first TO PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS, SAFEGUARD national supermarket to launch RSPCA Approved Coles own brand chicken in 2014, following with other products including turkey. ANIMAL WELFARE AND MINIMISE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS. Sustainability Report 2018 49 Our Businesses – Coles COLES IN 2014, COLES WAS ALSO THE FIRST Coles also supports the Health Star Rating, a Federal Government front-of-pack labelling program aimed at assisting customers to AUSTRALIAN SUPERMARKET TO DELIVER ALL make healthier choices when buying packaged foods. Health Star Ratings are currently displayed on over 1,633 Coles own brand COLES OWN BRAND FRESH PORK AS SOW products. STALL-FREE AND FREE FROM ARTIFICIAL Coles is committed to promoting health and wellbeing in the community and during FY18 implemented a partnership with Little GROWTH PROMOTANTS. Athletics Australia and Athletics Australia. The partnership provides support and resources to athletic centres around the nation. Coles own brand free-range pork is the only RSPCA Approved fresh pork stocked nationally by an Australian supermarket. All Coles own brand eggs have been cage-free since 2013. They are MORE THAN 7,000 SCHOOLS ACROSS either barn-laid or free-range. Coles is also working with proprietary egg suppliers to increase production of cage-free eggs. AUSTRALIA PARTICIPATED IN COLES’ All Coles own brand beef in the meat departments has been 100 per SPORTS FOR SCHOOLS PROGRAM IN FY18 BY cent Australian sourced with no added hormones since 2011. Graze, Coles beef speciality range, is 100 per cent Australian, grass-fed, COLLECTING OVER 200 MILLION VOUCHERS free to roam and with no added hormones. FROM COLES SUPERMARKETS. AS A RESULT, Coles also understands that the responsible use of antibiotics in agriculture is an important issue for animal and human health. COLES WILL GIVE AWAY MORE THAN $10 In 2014, Coles was the first Australian supermarket retailer to implement a policy to remove the use of antibiotics for the purposes MILLION WORTH OF SPORTING EQUIPMENT. of promoting growth in livestock and it only allows suppliers to use antibiotics for animal health purposes under veterinary supervision. Ensuring quality, safe products Responsibly sourced seafood Coles is committed to providing its customers with safe, high quality Coles own brand products. Coles understands that well-managed and responsible fishing is essential to maintaining healthy fish populations and habitats, and to Coles’ range of own brand products comprises Coles Brand (which ensure the future sustainability of marine ecosystems. includes grocery, non-grocery, fresh produce, meat, deli and dairy), Coles Finest and Mix apparel. All Coles own brand seafood has been responsibly sourced since 2015. Different programs and certifications ensure potential impacts on marine health and the environment are carefully monitored. IN FY18, COLES OWN BRAND PRODUCTS WERE All Coles own brand seafood products have Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) or Aquaculture Stewardship Council certification, or RECOGNISED WITH 168 AWARDS. meet Coles Responsibly Sourced Seafood criteria. Coles was awarded the MSC’s Best Sustainable Seafood All Coles own brand suppliers use a web-based product and supplier Supermarket in Australia in September 2017. database, Fusion, which allows for product traceability and strict adherence to quality compliance standards such as declarable Promoting health and nutrition allergens, certifications and nutritional information. Coles’ Manufacturing Supplier Standards for food were updated and then relaunched to Coles own brand suppliers in FY18. These HEALTH AND NUTRITION IS IMPORTANT standards cover product safety and quality, packaging and all claims, TO COLES, TO ENCOURAGE HEALTHY such as animal welfare and sustainability. They are based on world’s best practice and go beyond Australian regulatory standards. COMMUNITIES AND ASSIST CUSTOMERS TO MAKE HEALTHY FOOD CHOICES. ALL FACTORIES SUPPLYING COLES BRAND Coles has developed a range of policies that cover salt and sugar PRODUCTS ARE REGULARLY AUDITED TO reduction, the use of artificial colours and flavours, and nutrition and CONFIRM COMPLIANCE TO PRODUCT SAFETY health labeling for its own brand products. These are supported by strategies and implementation plans. AND QUALITY STANDARDS. Coles runs an internal Nutrition Working Group which includes During FY18, Coles rigorous supplier testing program for Coles qualified nutritionists, Coles own brand product developers and own brand completed more than 49,000 checks covering allergens, technologists. The focus of the Working Group is to identify, scope imported food, residue, organic products, authenticity and and implement ways of delivering healthier choices across Coles microbiology. Coles also performed quality checks on more than own brand food and drink. 5,000 products in FY18 and conducted more than 130,000 arrival Coles also participates in the Healthy Food Partnership, a Federal checks at its fresh produce distribution centres and 38,000 checks Government initiative that includes food industry bodies and public for chilled products. health groups. Coles has a place on the executive committee for the During FY18, four Coles own brand products were recalled due to partnership, overseeing the solutions put forward by the five working undeclared allergens (two separate recalls), microbial contamination groups. and possible foreign matter. Coles issued public communications A focus on sugar and salt reduction initiatives will continue to and worked with regulators and its suppliers to mitigate any issues improve the nutritional profile of products across Coles own brand and make improvements and changes to reflect its commitment to range. Artificial additives are also being assessed with 30 artificial provide safe and quality products. colours already removed from Coles own brand products, and plans to remove artificial colours and flavours from all own branded products by early 2019. Sustainability Report 2018 50 Our Businesses – Coles COLES Responsible Service of Alcohol Minimising waste and promoting recycling Coles Liquor is committed to the Responsible Service of Alcohol In FY18, approximately 73 per cent of Coles total waste was diverted (RSA) and to serving the community responsibly. from landfill. Coles Liquor is a signatory to the Alcohol Beverage Advertising Code (ABAC) which requires that advertisements, communications and product labelling include messages promoting responsible alcohol THE BUSINESS IS FOCUSED ON INNOVATING consumption. It continues to partner with DrinkWise an industry-led, AND IMPROVING DIVERSION AND RECYCLING not-for-profit organisation promoting a healthier and safer drinking culture in Australia. PROGRAMS, PLEDGING TO DIVERT 90 PER Coles Liquor participates in more than 183 Liquor Accords nationally CENT OF ALL SUPERMARKET WASTE FROM and works collaboratively with stakeholders such as the police and regulators to help address alcohol-related harm in the community. LANDFILL BY 2022. Coles Liquor has strict Liquor Accord participation guidelines in place and has created an online module for store managers to complete to Food waste help them understand their responsibilities when it comes to Liquor In June 2018, Coles publicly committed to: Accords. • Halve food waste in Coles supermarkets by 2020; In FY18, Coles Liquor launched RSA online which is an online repository where team members can upload and access their RSA • Connect all Coles supermarkets with a food rescue organisation qualification online. RSA online helps mitigate the risk of nonby the end of 2018; compliance if any team member does not have a physical copy of • Provide 100 million meals to Australians in need by 2020; and their RSA qualification with them in store. • Work with suppliers to reduce food waste. Coles Liquor regularly reinforces it key RSA obligations through The majority of Coles supermarkets and distribution centres already various programs and communication updates. In FY18, Coles donate edible, unsold grocery, fresh produce, meat, dairy and bakery Liquor has: items to food rescue organisations in communities across Australia. • Consolidated three RSA online training modules into one Through Coles national partnership with SecondBite, more than 31 “Responsible Liquor Retailing” module (covering ID25 – age million kilograms of unsold edible food, equating to 63 million meals,1 identification, unaccompanied minors and secondary supply). has been donated between 2011 and 30 June 2018. Between 2010 Within the module, store managers can use the gamified ID25 and 30 June 2018, Coles donated the equivalent of more than 17 learning check as an ongoing coaching tool; million meals to Foodbank.2 • Updated and re-launched the Licensing and Safe Trading In FY18, Coles provided more than nine million kilograms of unsold Booklet, which is a key reference document to help team edible food to SecondBite, equating to more than 18 million meals. members understand and comply with liquor laws; The business also provided 1.2 million kilograms of unsold edible • Re-launched ID25 with a move to “Check It Don’t Guess It!” the food to Foodbank, the equivalent of 2.2 million meals. re-launch includes a range of education and support tools for team members to strengthen compliance including RSA-related At the end of FY18, 672 Coles supermarkets were connected cartoons in store planners; with SecondBite, with unsold edible food being directed to 1,300 community organisations. • Supported stores in managing schoolies week by providing additional signage and communications materials in popular Some organic waste that cannot be directed to food rescue is sent school leavers’ holiday locations; and to anaerobic digestion plants in Western Australia and New South Wales where it is converted into clean energy and certified compost. • Supported the Northern Territory stores with the introduction of the Banned Drinker Register (BDR) by providing training, signage Coles is also working with suppliers to reduce their food waste and other communication materials. by redirecting produce that cannot be sold to other value-added • Coles Liquor’s Indigenous engagement activities continued to products. build on the strong foundations of previous years. Soft plastic recycling In conjunction with REDcycle, Coles runs the largest retailer INDIGENOUS EMPLOYMENT ACROSS THE operated soft plastic recycling program of its type in Australia LIQUOR GROUP INCREASED 17 PER CENT IN where customers can recycle plastic bags as well as wide range of other soft plastic packaging that cannot be recycled through FY18, WITH MORE THAN THREE PER CENT OF most household kerbside recycling services. In FY18, Coles helped customers recycle around 693,000 kilograms of soft plastic that ALL LIQUOR TEAM MEMBERS IDENTIFYING AS would otherwise have gone to landfill. ABORIGINAL AND/OR TORRES STRAIT ISLANDER In 2018, Coles was able to offer REDcycle recycling bins for soft plastics at all Coles supermarkets. PEOPLE. IN ADDITION, COLES LIQUOR HAS 1 SecondBite uses the conversion of total kilograms donated divided by half 12 INDIGENOUS STORE MANAGERS. to determine equivalent meals. 2 Foodbank uses the conversion of total kilograms donated divided by half to determine equivalent meals. Liquor team members across the country again undertook cultural diversity training with sessions delivered in Adelaide, Broome, Darwin, Kwinana, Palmerston and Perth. Local Indigenous community initiatives were also supported throughout the year including in Cairns, Kalgoorlie and South Hedland. During FY18, Liquorland introduced a support program for team members working in remote and rural locations with large Indigenous populations. The program provides increased cultural understanding for team members and assistance to build stronger relationships with local community organisations. For information on responsible gaming, click here. Sustainability Report 2018 51 Our Businesses – Coles COLES Since 2014, Coles own brand still water has been packaged in bottles made of 100 per cent recycled content and in FY18 it introduced new heavy-duty reusable carry bags made from 80 per cent recycled content and which are also recyclable. Coles also plans to introduce fresh produce bags in 2018 made from 30 per cent recycled content that can also be recycled in-store thought REDcycle. Coles will continue to look for other opportunities to include recycled content in Coles own brand product packaging. In-store plastic and cardboard On 1 July 2018, Coles removed single-use plastic shopping bags across all its businesses. The move brought stores in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia in line with Tasmania, South Australia, the Northern Territory and the ACT, where Coles already complied with legislated bans on single-use bags. Coles introduced a range of reusable bags including an entry level bag made from 80 per cent recycled content, and a range of reusable community bags, designed by Australian school children, that support community organisations. COMMENCING IN JUNE 2018, COLES SUPERMARKETS BEGAN INTRODUCING NEW FIXTURES FOR THE ENDS OF SOME AISLES IN OVER 600 STORES. The new metal ends will replace cardboard ends currently supplied Championing sustainable packaging by branded product suppliers and are expected to result in a While packaging plays a key role in maintaining food safety, reduction of 3,500 tonnes of cardboard per year. The program is supporting product longevity and reducing food waste, Coles is also expected to be completed in September 2018. committed to reducing its impact on the environment. In June 2018, Coles committed to a number of packaging initiatives including: Transport packaging • All Coles own brand packaging will be recyclable by 2020; Coles has replaced some corrugated cardboard, waxed cardboard and expanded polystyrene boxes with reusable plastic crates across • More recycled content will be included in Coles own brand its supply chain. At the end of FY18, it had six million reusable plastic packaging; crates in circulation with over 400 suppliers being used for fruit, • Excess packaging will be reduced across stores and the supply vegetables, poultry, red meat and pre-packaged salads. In addition chain; to removing cardboard, waxed cardboard and expanded polystyrene • Soft plastic recycling options will be available in all Coles from the supply chain, these crates help to reduce product damage supermarkets; and which cuts down on food waste. Coles plans to introduce additional reusable plastic crates in collaboration with more suppliers in FY19. • New labelling promoting recycling will be introduced. These commitments reflect the Coles Sustainable Packaging Policy Using energy efficiently and reducing greenhouse and will be implemented through a packaging steering committee emissions and specific working groups across the business. Coles recognises that investing in energy efficiency initiatives helps Consumer packaging to minimise its environmental impact while also reducing costs. Most of the energy used in supermarkets is for refrigeration, lighting, Coles will also introduce the Australasian Recycling Label (ARL) cooling and heating. launched by the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation, PlanetArk and PREP Design. The ARL uses a nationally consistent packaging assessment tool to determine the appropriate recycling label for different packaging components. In calendar year 2017, IN FY18, COLES INVESTED $25.4 MILLION IN while the majority of Coles own brand products had recyclable ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECTS. packaging, less than 20 per cent carried recycling information. In FY19, Coles will introduce a program to reduce and optimise fresh This included replacing lights with LED, installing solar photovoltaic produce packaging. While some packaging is required for transport, systems and improving refrigeration and air-conditioning systems. to support product longevity and reduce food waste, Coles Coles began its LED replacement program in 2012 and plans to acknowledges there are areas where packaging can be reduced. By complete it in FY19, when every light in every supermarket will be LED. the end of 2018, plastic packaging will be removed from all Coles own brand bananas. In FY18, the business installed solar panels on 20 supermarkets taking the total number of supermarkets with solar to 26. This During FY18, Coles also announced the roll out Plantic™ packaging investment will continue with plans in development for further for a wide range of Coles own brand fresh meat products. The installations on existing supermarkets and solar now on the design packaging is both recyclable and made entirely from a combination blueprint for new stores. of recycled and renewable materials. Plantic’s™ trays are made from recycled PET (rPET) with a thin layer of Plantic’s™ renewable barrier Coles increased its number of supermarkets by eight and liquor and material, made from corn starch, which helps keeps the meat fresh. convenience stores by 25 over the reporting period. While the total During the recycling process, the thin starch layer washes away, floor area increased by 1.6 per cent, Coles electricity consumption allowing the rPET tray to be recycled. Coles has used a previous decreased by one per cent compared with the previous year. version of Plantic™ for Coles own brand fresh beef mince, pork mince and lamb mince since 2014. The previous version was recyclable but not made of 100 per cent recyclable or renewable product. Sustainability Report 2018 52 Our Businesses – Coles COLES Greenhouse gas emissions ENVIRONMENT While growing its store network, Coles’ carbon emissions have continued to decline over the past ten years due to energy-efficiency Officeworks initiatives and a focus on reducing emissions from refrigerant gases. continues its focus To reduce refrigerant gases, Coles is continuing a refrigeration pipe on recycling replacement program, transitioning to lower global warming potential (GWP) refrigerants, piloting zero GWP refrigeration plants and investing in leak-detection technology and a leak-detection team. Since 2009, Coles reduced its greenhouse emissions by more than 30 per cent, meeting its 2020 target for emissions reduction four SOURCING years early in 2016. In FY18, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 2.5% compared with the previous year. Officeworks works with suppliers to improve working conditions ENVIRONMENT Kmart and Target commit to sourcing more sustainable cotton ENVIRONMENT Workwear diverts 400,000 garments from landfill 2018/19 priorities PEOPLE During the next year Coles will continue to focus on its key Target your Mind: sustainability initiatives. Target’s mental This will see significant efforts around packaging and waste as the health program business works towards achieving the commitments launched in June 2018. These include: • Diverting 90 per cent of supermarket waste from landfill by 2022; • Halving food waste in Coles supermarkets by 2020; • Donating unsold edible food from every Coles supermarket in PEOPLE Australia; • Providing the equivalent of 100 million meals by 2020 to Officeworks develops Australians in need by donating unsold, edible food; a safety first • Working with suppliers to reduce food waste; framework • Having all Coles Brand packaging recyclable by 2020; • Increasing recycled material in Coles brand packaging; • Introducing new labelling to promote recycling; • Providing in-store soft plastic recycling options in every Coles COMMUNITY supermarket; and • Reducing excess packaging across stores and the supply chain. Coles partners with Little Athletics Sustainability Report 2018 53 Our Businesses – Department Stores KMART Kmart team member Scott Murray. Kmart operates in the clothing and general merchandise retail sector, The increased level of supervision, communication and monitoring both locally and internationally. It was established in 1969, with the led to improvements in behaviour. For example, medical treatments opening of its first store in Burwood, Victoria. The Kmart mission is resulting from box-cutter usage reduced significantly during the year. to be a great place to shop, where families come first for the lowest Key strategic priorities for 2019 include the launch of a new health and prices on everyday items. safety service model. This will consist of a health and safety intranet Kmart operates in 228 stores throughout Australia and New portal health and safety support line for managers, as well as safety Zealand and employs around 34,000 team members. Kmart Tyre training for executives and senior leaders. The new service model will and Auto Service has 256 centres in Australia, providing customers be supported by a companywide functional risk management program with retail automotive services, repairs and tyres. On the 14th of to assist with improving capability and ownership. August 2018 Wesfarmers announced the agreement to sell Kmart Tyre and Auto Service. Kmart sources from both local and international suppliers, which manufacture in countries including China, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia and Cambodia. Kmart has product-sourcing offices located in Hong Kong, China, Bangladesh, India and Indonesia. Kmart focused on the following material issues during the year: • Employee health and safety • Product quality and safety • Diversity and inclusion • Community investment • Energy efficiency • Reducing waste • Ethical sourcing • Sourcing sustainable materials Enhancing the health and safety of our team Kmart is committed to improving the health and safety of team members. KMART’S TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (TRIFR) WAS 22.5, A 9.8 1 Restated due to the maturation of data PER CENT REDUCTION ON THE PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEAR. Its Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) was 4.8, a 22.3 per cent decrease on last year. Kmart introduced a new governance model to help target opportunities for improvement and increase supervision and monitoring through zone manager safety health checks. Accountability has been increased through a combination of leading and lagging performance metrics and auditing. Sustainability Report 2018 54 Our Businesses – Department Stores KMART Ensuring the safety and quality of our products This was achieved by providing workplace adjustments and utilising a job dictionary that is used to match a candidate’s abilities with the Kmart customers expect that the products they buy are safe and inherent requirements of a role in store. A strong focus is placed on consistent in quality. Accordingly, Kmart remains committed to ensuring that team members can perform work safely in our stores meeting all product safety and compliance obligations, whilst and the employment offered is meaningful and sustainable. also striving for continuous improvement in product durability and performance. *Kmart’s employment program places a strong emphasis on ability not disability. In the past year, Kmart continued its drive for improvement in the quality consistency, safety and performance of its products through a Contributing to the community number of quality-focused activities, including: From its earliest days, Kmart has been close to the communities • Continuing to shift the reliance of quality inspections away from in which it operates and on whose support it depends. This year post-production final inspections to pre-production meetings marked the 30th year for The Kmart Wishing Tree Appeal with a and during-production inspections to assist in identifying quality focus on the tradition of giving. The Appeal continued to support The improvements earlier in the manufacturing process. Salvation Army in Australia and New Zealand so they could assist • Commencing formal in-store audits to survey the quality of families and individuals needing help at Christmas as well as other goods being sold to customers. times of the year. Over 340,000 gifts were collected and $360,000 • Increasing levels of pro-active engagement with regulators in raised across Australia and New Zealand. Australia and New Zealand to build constructive relationships New Christmas trees were supplied to the wards and corridors and regulator trust in Kmart safety and compliance frameworks. of The Royal Children’s Hospital Melbourne with over 90 Kmart • A customer-focused project to measure consumer confidence team members, friends and family joining the hospital’s Pied Piper and perception in quality consistency and trust in Kmart apparel volunteers for the sixth year in celebration. sizing. The results of this project are being used to focus on aspects of quality that matter most to customers, including an extensive review of Kmart’s womenswear sizing standards. KMART CONTINUED WITH ITS COMMUNITY • Extensive inspection quality calibration program for Kmart Asia VISION; TO SUPPORT THE MENTAL AND Sourcing teams, suppliers certified to conduct final inspections and endorsed third party providers of inspection services, to PHYSICAL WELLBEING OF YOUNG PEOPLE ensure consistent interpretation and application of Kmart quality standards. THROUGH THE COIN COLLECTION APPEAL. HEADSPACE AND THE REACH FOUNDATION Diverse teams and an inclusive place to work and shop WERE THE BENEFICIARIES WITH OVER Kmart recognises that a diverse and inclusive place to work and $180,000 RAISED THROUGH THE PROGRAM. shop will enable the business to build strong connections with team members and customers and will allow us to innovate and make Through Kmart’s sponsorship of NBL Gametime, over 350 primary better business decisions. Kmart’s gender balance in leadership schools participated in a basketball clinic encouraging active healthy roles increased from 41.5 per cent for women last year to 43.2 per living and team sports. Next season expansion of Kmart’s association cent for women this year. The increase was a result of enhanced with sport and the wellbeing of young people will be further developed. leadership team focus, explicit targets and quarterly reporting of Kmart stores supported their local communities with nearly $120,000 progress across all functions combined with an increased focus being provided in gift cards and goods for grassroots community across the Store Operations network. groups, schools and charities. ​ Employment of team members in Australia with Indigenous Internationally, Kmart continued to support the work of OneSky in backgrounds increased from 1.3 per cent last year to 1.7 per cent China and the Salaam Baalak Trust Foundation in India. this financial year. Twelve focus sto​res continued to be supported in relation to employment and community engagement and all new stores were given an employment target that reflected the percentage of Indigenous people in their community. The focus stores are following a tailored program that includes cultural awareness training, employment through our partner the Clontarf Foundation, community engagement, and an Acknowledgement of Country plaque displayed at the store to assist with employment and retention of team members with Indigenous backgrounds. Equally important is how Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander customers feel about shopping in our stores. Kmart engaged creative agency, Gilimbaa, to help develop a piece of Indigenous artwork from a national perspective that could express Kmart’s acknowledgement and celebration of Indigenous culture, peoples and connection to communities. Rachael Sarra is the Indigenous artist who has created this beautiful artwork titled, Ignite the Wonder. The artwork has been installed at four stores and will be installed at four other stores next year. THE EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE WITH (DIS) ABILITIES* REMAINED A FOCUS FOR KMART THIS YEAR, RESULTING IN AN ADDITIONAL 60 PEOPLE WITH DISABILITY BEING EMPLOYED ACROSS STORES IN AUSTRALIA. ¹ Methodology for estimating the value of goods donated by Kmart was updated to align more accurately with St Vincent de Paul’s measurement of similar corporate donations, resulting in a significant increase. Sustainability Report 2018 55 Our Businesses – Department Stores KMART Maximising our energy efficiency Minimising our waste Kmart continues to improve its energy and carbon performance Minimising waste remains a significant challenge for businesses in recognising that energy efficiency is not only an important means of the Australian retail sector and Kmart is committed to play its part minimising greenhouse emissions and conserving natural resources, through its ongoing efforts to reduce, reuse and recycle. but also the source of significant cost savings. Single use plastic shopping bags ONGOING MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT Kmart has committed to remove single use plastic shopping bags from all stores nationally by early 2019. This year saw the development IN EFFICIENCY UPGRADES HAS DELIVERED of new reusable, entry level plastic bags, made with 80 per cent recycled material, which will be implemented in all states starting with YEAR-ON-YEAR REDUCTIONS IN ELECTRICITY Western Australia and Queensland from 1 July 2018. To encourage USE OF 5 PER CENT AND 3.3 PER CENT customers to change their behaviour and reuse bags when shopping, Kmart is charging 15 cents for medium-sized entry level reusable bags REDUCTION IN CARBON USE PER METRE and 30 cents for a larger version. These changes along with instore marketing and team member training aim to reduce the number of ACROSS ALL STORES. plastic shopping bags being issued to customers by 80 per cent within four years. Key activities this year included: Waste diversion • Replacement of 86,000 inefficient fluorescent tubes with LED at Kmart has worked closely with its sister company, Target, to undertake 46 stores. a detailed investigation of its waste and recycling systems, processes • Identification and management of energy events/issues via our and infrastructure. This has included detailed waste and infrastructure Energy Centre. audits of 50 stores and Distribution Centres. The findings of this • Proactive management and modification of building control investigation will be used to support key recommendations and systems. actions in future waste diversion programs. Ahead of these changes, a review of existing waste and recycling contractors was completed • Benchmarking store energy use to identify and prioritise with a number of changes made to service provider contracts to improvement opportunities. ensure they support increased diversion of waste going to landfill. • Development of a three-year energy and carbon reduction plan. Additionally, a waste audit and pilot waste diversion program has • Installing electricity meters at seven existing stores to improve been undertaken at our corporate head office in Melbourne with key visibility of use and demand. learnings and recommendations expected to be implemented in the following twelve months. • Working with landlords to access meter data and improved electricity rates in existing and all new developments. During the year, Kmart met all its regulatory obligations under the National Television and Computer Recycling Scheme Product Stewardship Agreement by its membership of an approved coregulatory arrangement via MRI PSO Pty Ltd. Under this arrangement, Kmart funded the re-collection and recycling of 19,049 kilograms of complying e-waste items including televisions, computers and peripheral devices. Secondary and tertiary packaging Kmart increased its focus this year on packaging reduction through its overseas supply chain initiative. This has included a focus on reducing or eliminating all forms of cardboard packaging and replacing it with reusable PVC bags for certain merchandise categories. The initiative was implemented at 110 sites during the year and is now operating in 95 per cent of apparel suppliers. Benefits delivered during the year include a reduction of 10.2 million cartons. Based on results from our pilot, this translates into a 75 per cent reduction in cardboard. Building on this experience, Kmart aims to continue to reduce packaging as it moves into further categories including general merchandise items. Australian Packaging Covenant and 2025 target Kmart is a proud member of the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO). This year, Kmart used APCO’s newly created Annual Reporting Tool to review progress of Kmart’s packaging programs. Through this process, Kmart has identified a number of opportunities for improvement and has developed an action plan in response to the target set in April 2018 by Australia’s Environment Ministers to make 100 per cent of packaging in Australia reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. Kmart has set a target to improve its stores’ energy efficiency by 20 per cent by the end of 2020 against a 2015 base. It is well on track to achieve this target, with stores now using 15 per cent less electricity and generating 20 per cent less carbon per metre of sales floor area. Kmart is committed to continuing the demand, cost and carbon management activities of its Energy Centre with further investments in building controls, lighting upgrades and peak demand management over the coming year. Sustainability Report 2018 56 Our Businesses – Department Stores KMART At the conclusion of this year, Kmart had 866 active factories within its ethical sourcing audit program. The Kmart audit program and ongoing monitoring efforts identified eight critical breaches of the Kmart and Target Ethical Sourcing Code in the past year. Six of these breaches related to factories subcontracting Kmart production to unauthorised subcontractors, and two breaches related to factories offering bribes to a Kmart team member or third-party auditor. All eight factories will be deregistered after last shipment (meaning no further orders can be placed). 2018/19 priorities • Health and safety: The launch of a new Kmart health and safety service model. • Product quality and safety: Focus on building a risk-based model which facilitates early identification of product-based hazards/ risks and adopting risk mitigation strategies. • Diversity and inclusion: Focus on improving the retention of team members with Indigenous backgrounds and on ensuring we have gender balance in leadership roles. Furthermore, the targeted employment program for team members with disability will be implemented in Western Australia and South Australia. • Communities: Expand on our community partnerships and activities to have greater impact on the mental and physical wellbeing of young people. • Energy: Further investments in building controls, lighting upgrades and peak demand management to cut energy use. Ethical sourcing of our products and services • Waste: Continue implementing Kmart’s national ban on single use plastic shopping bags. Additionally, use the data and learnings from the Kmart waste audits to commence KMART ACKNOWLEDGES ITS RESPONSIBILITY implementing changes to Kmart’s waste management, diversion and recycling practices and systems. TO RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS AND PROMOTE • Ethical sourcing: Rollout of key initiatives identified in the threeENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY WITHIN ITS year ethical sourcing program road map. SUPPLY CHAIN. • Sustainable materials: Make further progress towards meeting Kmart’s sustainable cotton commitment. It is committed to ensuring that the workers who produce its Sourcing sustainable materials products and services are treated with dignity and respect and can live and work in a safe and healthy environment. As part of its commitment to use natural resources responsibly, in the past year Kmart continued implementation of its sustainable During this year, Target and Kmart continued their efforts to materials roadmap. strengthen the combined Kmart and Target Ethical Sourcing (ES) Program, which was first established in 2017. Milestones achieved this year included: IN MARCH 2017, KMART SET A TARGET • Strengthening the environmental criteria within the ES audit checklist. TO SOURCE 100 PER CENT OF COCOA • Development of a Department Stores Standard Operating SUSTAINABLY BY 1 JULY 2019. Procedure to support the program. • Agreement on a uniform ES program scope across Kmart and Building on this commitment, the first chocolate products marked with Target goods for resale. the UTZ sustainable cocoa certification hit the shelf at Easter in 2018. • Development of a strengthened ES approach across Kmart and In July 2017, Kmart set a new target to source 100 per cent of cotton Target for goods and services not for resale. fabric sustainably for its clothing, towel and bedding ranges by 1 July 2020¹. In addition, the Kmart and Target ES Governance Committee approved a three-year ES program roadmap. The road map identified 1 Excludes footwear and clothing accessories. six strategic areas and associated tasks to be actioned over the next three years. This will transition the program from an audit The scope of Kmart’s commitment has been reduced since the launch of and compliance approach to a model with more focus on factory the project due to challenges identified with sourcing sustainable cotton for products with very small amounts of cotton. capacity building (e.g. training), supplier compliance ownership (e.g. factory ES program) and industry partnerships. Kmart officially joined the ILO/IFC Better Work Program as a buyer partner last year. The Better Work program aims to make sustainable improvements in working conditions within the garment industry and make the sector more competitive overall. At the end of this year, 45 out of 60 eligible factories had been engaged in the Better Work program. Kmart aims to have transitioned all eligible apparel factories in Bangladesh, Cambodia and Indonesia to the program by the end of next year. Kmart’s ES team will work in partnership with the Better Work program on long-term improvement plans for factories. No critical issues have yet been identified to date. Sustainability Report 2018 57 Our Businesses – Department Stores TARGET Target team member Erica Calleja. Target is a department store supported by a strong brand heritage Its Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) was 3.0, a 2.8 per cent and characterised by quality, fashion and basics at the best prices. reduction on last year. As a result of this positive performance, new It operates in the clothing, homewares and general merchandise claims reduced by 12.0 per cent on the previous year and Target retail sector, both locally and internationally. Its objective is to provide recorded a reduction of $900,000 in its workers compensation quality and fashion at the best prices. premium. Positive Performance Indicators, such as Safety Training Compliance, Near Miss Incidents and Safety Audit results, were Target operates a national network of 303 retail stores as well as above set targets for the year. online. Target employs more than 13,000 team members across its stores, support offices and direct sourcing operations. It sources This consistent trend of improvement can be attributed to greater from both local and international suppliers who manufacture in ownership and accountability of management of safety and countries including China, Bangladesh, India, Vietnam, Indonesia continued improvements in inventory management, stock flow and and Cambodia. Target has product sourcing offices located in Hong hazard management. Kong, China, and Bangladesh. Key safety projects delivered for the year included the provision of Target focused on the following material issues during the year: due diligence training for the Senior Leadership Team, Target Asia Sourcing safety program and maturation of Supply Chain Safety • Safety, security, health and wellbeing of our team members and Management Processes. The focus for this coming year is to customers implement Safety Leadership Training for operational managers and • Ensuring the safety and quality of our products improvements to the hazard reduction program to further improve • Embracing a diverse and inclusive culture, and developing Target’s safety performance. careers • Investing in our communities Security Incident reports where members of the public have potentially • Maximising our energy efficiency threatened the personal safety of team members through verbal or • Minimising our waste physical threats increased during the past financial year. An element • Ethical sourcing of our products and services of this increase was attributed to improved incident reporting. A • Sourcing sustainable materials project group has commenced representing key functional areas to develop further risk controls and awareness to assist proactively, prevent or minimise the impact of threatening situation incidents. Safety, security, health and wellbeing of our team members and customers Health and wellbeing Target believes that the safety, security, health and wellbeing of its Last year saw the launch of the wellbeing program “Target your team members and customers are paramount. Health” comprising of “Target your Body” and “Target your Mind”. After a business wide health survey was conducted, Target initiated Safety an all-encompassing health campaign focusing on areas of need Target had its safest year in its history, recording the lowest ever arising from the survey. Target your Body focuses on promotion and injury frequency rates and number of injury claims. engagement of our teams across Australia and Asia in monthly health pulse topics ranging from preventative health screening to financial wellness. Target your Mind is a progressive mental health initiative TARGET’S TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY aimed at creating a mentally healthy workplace via education and provision of a toolkit to maximise the psychological wellbeing of all FREQUENCY RATE (TRIFR) WAS 19.4, team members. A 30.1 PER CENT REDUCTION ON THE PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEAR. Sustainability Report 2018 58 Our Businesses – Department Stores TARGET Embracing a diverse and inclusive culture, and developing careers Target recognises that embracing a diverse and inclusive culture, in which team members can learn and develop and our customers can shop, is critical to its long-term success. Diversity This year, the percentage of women in leadership roles increased from 42.4 per cent to 42.9 per cent, while employment of Indigenous people increased from 1.1 per cent of total workforce to 1.2 per cent. In addition, the first Women in Leadership forum was launched for store operations, which aims to focus on building gender diversity initiatives for the store network. Target’s commitment to diversity and creating an inclusive culture also extends to its product marketing. Learning and Development The focus for the learning and development team in 2018 has been to build on the successful programs of last year and expand into other functions. Two major pieces of development work have been undertaken. Firstly, the upgrade of Target’s Learning Management System, Sumtotal, will enable all team members to access online learning modules from their mobile device. For the first time, the Target Australia Sourcing Offices in Asia will now be able to utilise this system. Secondly, the development of online customer service assistant training, which will include over 20 modules, is designed to upskill team member’s knowledge in our products, systems and processes. ¹ Restated due to the maturation of data. Other initiatives included: • Target continued the Target Leaders Program for potential Ensuring the safety and quality of our products regional managers with 15 participants attending. Target is committed to delivering safe, quality products to its • The launch of a two-year Trainee Merchandise Development customers by ensuring its products are of the highest safety Program, resulting in 15 participants completing a Certificate IV standards, comply with applicable legal requirements, and meet Leadership and Management. customer quality expectations. • A Leadership Training Program for the distribution centre Major activities undertaken this year included: management teams. • Formalised a new Target customer feedback root cause analysis • The rollout of a change management program across the store process, with the release in March 2018 of a Standard Operating network to support the Target store reset and renewal programs. Procedure. Engagement • Implemented a new customer quality report (CQR) to better capture customer feedback at store level. It includes high priority Target continued its biannual roadshows across its national stores, feedback, low priority feedback and a faulty merchandise report distribution centres, and Australian and Asian offices. This continues (for product delivered to store in an unsaleable condition). to be a key engagement forum where the leadership team present Target’s progress and priorities and provide an open forum for team • Introduced a new strict button battery policy, aimed at battery members to ask questions and receive clarification and understanding. avoidance and safety, to address ongoing customer concern around the dangers associated with button batteries and the A number of pulse surveys were held across the organisation to ease of accessibility to young children. 98 per cent of Button drive functional engagement initiatives. Target will implement an Batteries have been removed from Target products and we organisational wide engagement survey in February 2019. In 2018, continue to influence other brands to also remove Button Target relaunched the Rondel Awards, which is an organisational-wide Batteries. reward and recognition program based on Target’s company values. • Updated the Target metal contamination policy to include a Finally, the introduction of the Workjam platform across Target’s store penalty system and unannounced audits. Relevant training has network has enabled all store team members to access the latest been given to internal team members and suppliers on the new news, information, rosters and training from their mobile device. policy. • Launched a new supplier scorecard based on key quality and safety performance and compliance measures. • Introduced measure to achieve full compliance with the Best Practice Guide for Furniture and Television Tip-Over Prevention prepared by the National Retailers Association. Target Product Safety and Quality manuals will be updated to reflect the new industry strategy and Target expects to be fully compliant within the next six months. Sustainability Report 2018 59 Our Businesses – Department Stores TARGET Connecting with our community Maximising our energy efficiency Target continues to look at ways to reduce its carbon footprint TARGET IS PROUD TO BE A PART OF and realise cost savings by investing in the reduction of energy consumption across its sites. OVER 300 COMMUNITIES ACROSS AUSTRALIA THROUGH OUR STORES IN BOTH ONGOING MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT METROPOLITAN AND REGIONAL AREAS. IN EFFICIENCY UPGRADES HAS DELIVERED This comes with a responsibility to be active members of our YEAR-ON-YEAR REDUCTIONS IN ELECTRICITY communities wherever possible including supporting local charities and community groups. USE OF 14 PER CENT AND 21 PER CENT Target stores continued to support local communities with $18,000 REDUCTION IN CARBON USE PER METRE through its online donation program. ACROSS ALL STORES OVER THE YEAR. Alannah & Madeline Foundation’s Buddy Bags program remained a key partnership with over $75,000 being donated through support Key activities this year included: office or collected through the sale of bags in store. The Foundation cares for children who have experienced or witnessed serious • Replacement of 30,981 inefficient fluorescent tubes with LED at violence and run programs that prevent violence and advocate for 26 stores. children’s safety and wellbeing. The Buddy Bags program supports • Identification and management of energy events/issues via our children in emergency accommodation who have often had to leave Energy Centre. home quickly because of a threat to their safety. • Proactive management and modification of building control During Christmas, the Target UnitingCare Australia Christmas Appeal systems. continued to support people who need a helping hand during the • Benchmarking store energy use to identify and prioritise Christmas period. Over $675,000 was raised, $7,000 through online improvement opportunities. donations and 22,597 gifts collected around Australia. • Installing electricity meters at seven existing stores to improve Throughout the year, Target Store Support Office donated nearly visibility of use and demand. 60 pallets of sample goods to various charities in the Geelong and • Working with landlords to access meter data and improved Melbourne area including Samaritan House Geelong, St Vincent de electricity rates in existing and all new developments. Pauls and Geelong Mums. Since Target commenced its energy and carbon program in 2014, stores are now using 31.9 per cent less electricity and generating 36.0 per cent less carbon per metre of store building area. Target is committed to continuing the demand, cost and carbon management activities of its Energy Centre with further investments in building controls, lighting upgrades and peak demand management over the coming year. Sustainability Report 2018 60 Our Businesses – Department Stores TARGET Minimising our waste Waste diversion Target has worked closely with its sister company, Kmart, to THIS PAST YEAR HAS WITNESSED A GROWING undertake a detailed investigation of its waste and recycling systems, processes and infrastructure. This has included detailed waste UNDERSTANDING WITHIN AUSTRALIA OF and infrastructure audits of 50 stores and Distribution Centres. The findings of this investigation will be used to support key THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC recommendations and actions in future waste diversion programs. Ahead of these changes, a review of existing waste and recycling CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH WASTE. contractors was completed with a number of changes made to service provider contracts to ensure that they support increased Likewise, Target recognises its responsibility to significantly reduce diversion of waste going to landfill. the waste arising from its retail operations. During the year, Target met all its regulatory obligations under the ‘National Television and Computer Recycling Scheme Product Single use plastic shopping bags Stewardship Agreement’ by its membership of an approved coTarget has committed to remove single use plastic shopping regulatory arrangement via MRI PSO Pty Ltd. bags from all stores nationally by early 2019. This year saw the development of new re-usable, entry level plastic bags, made with 80 per cent recycled material, which will be implemented in all states UNDER THIS ARRANGEMENT, TARGET FUNDED starting with Western Australia and Queensland from 1 July 2018. THE COLLECTION AND RECYCLING OF 81,523 TO ENCOURAGE CUSTOMERS TO CHANGE KILOGRAMS OF COMPLYING E-WASTE ITEMS THEIR BEHAVIOUR AND RE-USE BAGS WHEN INCLUDING TELEVISIONS, COMPUTER AND SHOPPING, TARGET IS CHARGING 15 CENTS PERIPHERAL DEVICES. FOR MEDIUM-SIZED ENTRY LEVEL RE-USABLE Australian Packaging Covenant and 2025 target BAGS AND 30 CENTS FOR A LARGER VERSION. Target is a proud member of the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO). This year, Target used APCO’s newly created These changes along with instore marketing and team member Annual Reporting Tool to review progress of Target’s packaging training aim to reduce the number of plastic shopping bags being programs. Through this process, Target has identified a number of issued to customers by 80 per cent over coming years. opportunities for improvement and has developed an action plan in response to the target set in April 2018 by Australia’s Environment Ministers to make 100 per cent of packaging in Australia re-usable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. Sustainability Report 2018 61 Our Businesses – Department Stores TARGET Ethical sourcing of our products and services Sourcing sustainable materials Target acknowledges its responsibility to respect human rights and As part of its commitment to use natural resources responsibly, in promote environmental sustainability within its supply chain. the past year Target continued implementation of its sustainable materials roadmap. IT IS COMMITTED TO ENSURING THE IN MARCH 2017, TARGET SET A GOAL TO WORKERS WHO PRODUCE ITS PRODUCTS SOURCE 100 PER CENT OF ITS HOUSE BRAND AND SERVICES ARE TREATED WITH DIGNITY COCOA SUSTAINABLY BY 1 JULY 2019. AND RESPECT AND CAN LIVE AND WORK IN Building on this commitment, the first sustainably labelled chocolate A SAFE AND HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT. products appeared in stores Christmas 2017, and 100 per cent of Easter lines in 2018. We are on track to reach our 100 per cent goal by 1 July 2019, with 47 per cent of products to date transitioning to During this year, Target and Kmart continued their efforts to strengthen Target’s preferred sustainable cocoa standards. the combined Kmart and Target Ethical Sourcing (ES) Program, which was first established in 2017. Milestones achieved this year included: This year, Target also made a commitment to source more sustainable cotton. • Strengthening the environmental criteria within the ES audit checklist. 2018/19 priorities • Development of a Department Stores Standard Operating Procedure to support the program. • Health and safety: Implement Safety Leadership Training for operational managers and improvements to the hazard reduction • Agreement on a uniform ES program scope across Kmart and program to further improve Target’s safety performance. Target goods for resale. • Product quality and safety: Continue to implement Target’s new • Development of a strengthened ES approach across Kmart and product quality and safety initiatives relating to button batteries, Target for goods (and services) not for resale. metal contamination, and furniture and television tip-over In addition, the Kmart and Target ES Governance Committee prevention. approved a three-year ES program roadmap. This identified six • Diversity and inclusion: Foster an inclusive culture that supports strategic areas and associated tasks to be actioned over the next Target’s team members and communities. three years. This will transition the program from an audit and • Communities: Develop a community program that supports the compliance approach to a model with more focus on factory capacity business strategy and allows store teams to contribute back to building (e.g. training), supplier compliance ownership (e.g. factory ES their communities efficiently. Programs) and industry partnerships. • Energy: Further investments in building controls, lighting This year Target also joined Kmart as a buyer partner in the ILO/ upgrades and peak demand management to cut energy use. IFC Better Work program. This program aims to make sustainable • Waste: Continue implementing Target’s national ban on improvements in working conditions within the garment industry single-use plastic shopping bags. Additionally, use the data and make the sector more competitive overall. Target aims to have and learnings from the Target waste audits to commence transitioned all eligible apparel factories in Bangladesh to the program implementing changes to Target’s waste management, diversion by the end of next year. The focus will then shift to transitioning and recycling practices and systems. Target factories in other Better Work countries, including Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam. • Ethical sourcing: Rollout of key initiatives identified in the threeyear ethical sourcing program roadmap. At the conclusion of this financial year, Target had 616 active factories within its ethical sourcing audit program. This and ongoing • Sustainable materials: Make further progress towards meeting monitoring efforts identified five critical breaches of the Kmart Target’s sustainable cotton commitment. and Target Ethical Sourcing Code in the past year. Three of these breaches related to factories offering bribes to a Target team member or third-party auditor, while two breaches related to factories subcontracting Target production to unauthorised subcontractors. All five factories will be deregistered after last shipment (meaning no further orders can be placed). Sustainability Report 2018 62 Our Businesses – Officeworks OFFICEWORKS Officeworks team member Tammy Churchill. Officeworks is Australia’s leading retailer and supplier of office Restoring Australia products and solutions. Officeworks seeks to be a one-stop shop for micro-, smalland medium-sized businesses, students and As a leading retailer of office supplies, Officeworks understands households. the importance of sustainable sourcing of products that contain wood-fibre. Officeworks requires suppliers of paper and woodOfficeworks has an extensive national footprint of 165 stores, based products to disclose detailed information, including timber an online platform, a national call centre and a team of business species, before products can be ordered to ensure that no illegal specialists. Officeworks has approximately 7,000 team members, timber enters the supply chain. In addition, Officeworks supports and revenue this year was $2,142 million. FSC-certified products, which promotes responsible and sustainable Officeworks focused on the following material issues during the year: management of the world’s forests, providing traceability via the chain of custody process to the origin of the raw materials. • Restoring Australia by planting two trees for every one used, based on the weight of paper-based products purchased by During 2017/18, 68 per cent of all paper products sold were either Officeworks’ customers. FSC-certified or 100 per cent recycled. • Investing in resources to reduce energy consumption. For furniture suppliers that cannot provide FSC certified products, a • Increasing the volume of operational waste recycled in stores. third party undertakes a chain of custody audit to verify the legality of timber sources. All suppliers of timber and wood based products • Assisting customers to recycle more electronic waste. to Officeworks are required to adhere to the Officeworks’ Sustainable • Ensuring all suppliers are compliant with the Officeworks’ Ethical Wood-Fibre Sourcing Policy. Sourcing Policy. Officeworks commitment to the sustainable sourcing of wood-fibre • Building even stronger local community partnerships. products has enabled the business to launch Restoring Australia, an • Growing the number of women in leadership roles. Australian-first initiative which aims to plant two trees for every one • Keeping team members safe. used, based on the weight of paper-based products purchased by Officeworks customers. Launched in July 2017, during the past 12 months Officeworks, in partnership with Greening Australia, has planted 200,000 trees throughout sites in Tasmania, NSW, Victoria and South Australia. Sustainability Report 2018 63 Our Businesses – Officeworks OFFICEWORKS Investing in resources to reduce energy Increasing the volume of waste recycled consumption Officeworks continues to focus on reducing its operational impact on the environment, by improving recycling practices and diverting more IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS, OFFICEWORKS waste from landfill. OPENED SIX NEW STORES WHILST AT THE THIS YEAR, OFFICEWORKS WORKED CLOSELY SAME TIME REDUCING TOTAL ENERGY WITH THE WASTE PROVIDER, CLEANAWAY, CONSUMPTION BY THREE PER CENT FROM AND ALL TEAM MEMBERS, TO LIFT 58,627MWH TO 56,793MWH. RECYCLING RATES FROM 64.0 PER CENT AS This has been achieved through investment in a variety of energy AT 30 JUNE 2017 TO 75.6 PER CENT AS AT 30 reduction initiatives. Thirty-three existing stores, for example, were retrofitted with Light Emitting Diode (LED) lighting. In total, 146 stores JUNE 2018 AND THUS DIVERTING A TOTAL OF now have energy efficient lighting across the selling floor. 4,359 TONNES OF WASTE FROM LANDFILL. To better understand and optimise energy consumption, 92 stores had a Building Energy Management System (BEMS) installed. These BEMS have enabled lights and the heating/air-conditioning to be automatically turned on and off at times that align with the operational requirements of the store. The data from the BEMS has allowed heating and air-conditioning problems to be identified and rectified prior to scheduled maintenance or equipment failure. This year saw Officeworks open its first store with solar panels. The North Lakes store in Queensland was an Officeworks development that enabled the installation of a 100-kilowatt solar system on the roof to utilise the intense sunlight. The renewable energy generated from the solar panels has supplemented over a third of the store’s energy requirements. Sustainability Report 2018 64 Our Businesses – Officeworks OFFICEWORKS Assisting customers to recycle more electronic Building even stronger local community waste partnerships Officeworks takes a holistic approach when considering the Supporting the communities in which stores operate and team environmental impact of the products it sells, which includes how members live is an important part of the Officeworks operating they are disposed of at the end of their life. The free electronic model. To ensure that Officeworks maximises the positive impact in waste recycling service allows customers to responsibly dispose those communities, Officeworks focuses on partnerships centred responsibly of unwanted items, ensuring that the raw materials can on education and the environment. During the year, Officeworks be used again. contributed a total of $3,677,929, through initiatives such as local store donations, product donations, volunteering and customer THIS YEAR, OFFICEWORKS SET A TARGET TO contributions across three appeals. COLLECT 10 PER CENT MORE ELECTRONIC COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT HIGHLIGHTS WASTE FROM CUSTOMERS THAN WAS FOR THE YEAR INCLUDED THE BACK TO COLLECTED IN THE PRIOR YEAR. SCHOOL APPEAL, WHERE OFFICEWORKS This resulted in 692 tonnes of ink and toner cartridges, computers CUSTOMERS DONATED $461,764 TOWARDS and accessories, and mobile phones being diverted from landfill. THE SMITH FAMILY, RESULTING IN MORE THAN This was achieved by continuing to raise awareness of the services, which included online enhancements, launching a new shopping 800 STUDENTS BEING SUPPORTED THROUGH bag that reminds customers to recycle, and incorporating messages into Officeworks’ advertising campaigns. The Mobile Muster phone LEARNING FOR LIFE SPONSORSHIPS. recycling program was rolled out to another 78 stores, and a new recycling station was trialled which included a battery recycling Officeworks continued to support The Australian Literacy and service. Internally, team members were provided with regular Numeracy Foundation with customers raising $250,000 during the performance updates and information as to why this is such an Wall of Hands appeal in September. To support local community important initiative. groups, Officeworks launched a ‘Round Up to Make a Difference’, which raised $225,955 through customer donations, supporting over Officeworks will continue to work with all stakeholders including our 160 community groups. government accredited partners to identify ways more electronic waste can be diverted from landfill and recycled safely and Officeworks will continue to place a high priority on making a positive appropriately. contribution to the communities in which stores operate and team members live with a specific focus on education and the environment. Ensuring all suppliers are compliant with the Ethical Sourcing Policy To ensure that goods and services are ethically sourced, all Officeworks’ suppliers are required to adhere to the Officeworks’ Ethical Sourcing Policy. The policy is built upon the standards set by the International Labour Organisation and the principles of the Ethical Trading Initiative. IN THE PAST TWELVE MONTHS, OFFICEWORKS REVIEWED 441 INDEPENDENT ETHICAL SOURCING AUDITS, AND WORKED WITH SUPPLIERS TO IMPLEMENT CORRECTIVE ACTION PLANS WHERE NON-CONFORMANCE WAS IDENTIFIED. Officeworks recognises that ethical sourcing is a journey that is underpinned by transparency, integrity, collaboration and continuous improvement. Going forward, the business remains committed to working with suppliers to improve the working conditions of the people throughout Officeworks’ supply chain. Sustainability Report 2018 65 Our Businesses – Officeworks OFFICEWORKS Growing the number of women in leadership roles Keeping team members safe Officeworks believes that balanced leadership makes good business Officeworks is committed to ensuring everyone goes home safely. sense and delivers better business outcomes. This is achieved from This year, Officeworks continued to improve the safety of all team the diversity of thinking and insight brought by both men and women. members, achieving an all injury frequency rate (AIFR) of 10.2 injuries per million hours worked, a 14.1 per cent improvement on OFFICEWORKS SET A GOAL TO ACHIEVE the prior year. 40 PER CENT FEMALE REPRESENTATION IN The expected safe behaviours of all team members were articulated with the implementation of the Safety Starts with You training LEADERSHIP ACROSS ALL LEVELS OF THE program, incorporating the Safety FIRST behaviours. These behaviours identify how every team member can promote safety BUSINESS BY 30 JUNE 2018. whilst highlighting unacceptable behaviour. The Stay Safe system, which is the Officeworks health and safety Through focused recruitment practices and targeted career management system, was reviewed and updated to both simplify development pathways for early in-career female team members, and align to business requirements. This included the incident a result of 41.2 per cent of female leadership representation was investigation process incorporating the Safety FIRST behaviours. achieved, up from 37.4 per cent as at 30 June 2017. These changes have set the foundation for continued improved Officeworks aims to reach 46 per cent female leadership performance allowing Officeworks to next focus on critical risks and representation by 30 June 2019 through a continued focus on controls, and manual handling. recruitment initiatives, career development and progression as well as retention and other workplace strategies such as flexibility. 1 Restated due to the maturation of data. 2018/19 priorities • Restoring Australia by planting two trees for every one used, based on the weight of paper products purchased by Officeworks’ customers. • Sourcing wood-fibre responsibly. • Increase our community contributions by focusing on education and environment. • Ensuring all suppliers are compliant with the Ethical Sourcing Policy. • Investing in resources to reduce energy consumption. • Increasing the volume of waste recycled in stores. • Assisting customers to recycle more electronic waste. • Reducing impacts from product packaging. • Improving balanced leadership at all levels. • Keeping team members safe. Sustainability Report 2018 66 Our Businesses – Industrials CHEMICALS, ENERGY & FERTILISERS CSBP Mechanical Engineer Paris Denny. Wesfarmers Chemicals, Energy & Fertilisers (WesCEF) operates chemicals, energy and fertiliser businesses that service Australian and overseas markets. WesCEF has operations in Australia across 24 locations and employs around 1200 people. Our revenue this year was $1,830 million. WesCEF’s material issues are: • Employee safety and wellbeing • Meeting customer needs • Community contribution • Operating efficiently, responsibly and safely • Environmental stewardship • Capability, diversity and culture • Information security Employee safety and wellbeing WesCEF’s safety objective is to create a workplace free of high potential (HiPo) incidents which could seriously harm our people. The Safe Person Commitments program launched last year remains a primary tool to reinforce behavioural expectations for all employees when completing high-risk tasks. HiPo hazard reporting increased by 53 per cent in the year. The total number of recordable injuries for FY18 was 16 compared to six for the previous year. Of note, only four of the recordable injuries were significant enough to require time off work. Meeting customers’ needs The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate is 1.4 compared to 0.7 at the WesCEF businesses continually look for ways to add value for our same time last year and the TRIFR is 5.4 compared to 2.2. The injury customers. We regularly review our product and service offerings to frequency rates over the past four years remain downwards trending. ensure that they meet our customers’ needs of cost-efficiency and WesCEF’s employee wellbeing program, Wellness at WesCEF, reliable supply in increasingly competitive markets. progressed in FY18 with 60 per cent of the workforce trained to date CSBP commenced supply of ammonium nitrate emulsion in the year in mental health resilience and awareness. following construction of a production plant at its Kwinana facility. The first product was delivered to CSBP’s foundation emulsion customer in October 2017. During the year, CSBP worked closely with the customer to optimise the product and ensure it met the customer’s needs. Kleenheat has maintained strong results in customer acquisition and satisfaction in the year and enjoyed the recognition of a customer service award for natural gas retailers for the second consecutive year. Recently, CSBP’s ammonia plant experienced an issue which caused it to shut down and prevented operations continuing. This has affected the production of ammonia and CO2 while CSBP works to repair the equipment in the most efficient and safe manner. Unfortunately, CO2 supply will be impacted until the plant is operational. However, CSBP has increased its import of ammonia to ensure demand is met. Sustainability Report 2018 67 Our Businesses – Industrials CHEMICALS, ENERGY & FERTILISERS Supporting the communities in which we operate Operating efficiently and responsibly WesCEF and its businesses are proud to support a diverse range of WesCEF recognises its obligation to operate in a responsible manner community and not-for-profit organisations to the value of $380,000. that meets stakeholder expectations, and continues to focus on This included sponsorships of the Clontarf Foundation, Moorditj efficiency and growth while maintaining strong governance, risk Koort Aboriginal Health and Wellness Centre, WACA Regional Junior management and safety performance. Cricket program and the Scorchers Women’s Big Bash League. Unfortunately, during the year, there were five occasions when We also supported our employees to participate in HBF Run for environmental, occupational health and safety, security or process a Reason, Movember, Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea, Clean Up safety regulatory requirements were not fully met. Pleasingly, this has Australia Day and National Tree Day. reduced from 25 non-conformances in 2017. None of these events resulted in any material environmental harm, injury, prosecution or Making a positive impact on the communities where we work and fine. live is a focus for us, and this includes supporting the wellbeing and vitality of our regional communities. In August 2017, our CSBP Training was conducted on key governance policies including Fertilisers business ran a free community day in Carnamah located competition and consumer law, anti-bribery, and diversity and 300kms from Perth for community members who had been equality. Efforts to enhance governance awareness continued with affected by drought. The day included free football and netball clinics ‘Policy of the Month’ communications, where key policies are made and special guest appearances from sporting personalities. available for discussion in team meetings across WesCEF. A sponsorship focus for WesCEF is encouraging more youth to WesCEF commenced a review of its supply arrangements to consider a career in science, technology, engineering and maths facilitate development of an ethical sourcing policy. (STEM). WesCEF employees play a role in the promotion of STEM This year, CSBP successfully commissioned an ammonium initiatives including an After School Club called Bright Sparx, nitrate bagging plant. The automated plant increased efficiency developed in partnership with Murdoch University and the Kwinana by improving bagging capacity and quality and reducing manual Industries Council. In addition, WesCEF’s partnership with Scitech handling. The plant set new output records consistently producing involves working with a Kwinana Primary School to help teachers just over 100 bags per hour and is an excellent example of better understand the new Design and Technologies aspect of the innovation in action. Technologies curriculum. WesCEF partners with Edith Cowan University (ECU) to develop Environmental stewardship teacher resources for science and agriculture. The initiative to explore a science teachers ‘community of practice’ – as outlined in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 3.6 per cent the 2017 Sustainability Report – was discontinued, as it was not able compared to last year as a result of lower production across our to deliver on expected educational benefits. The program highlighted operations. some of the challenges facing organisations trying to promote STEM education. The partnership did bring the benefit of an ongoing, positive relationship between WesCEF and ECU and provided opportunities for WesCEF employees to work with ECU researchers in the development of teacher resources. Water is critical to our operations and a reverse osmosis water treatment plant was commissioned during the year to provide an alternative water supply option and increase water security for the CSBP Kwinana site. CSBP continues to support – via the Kwinana Industries Council 1 Restated due to a review conducted in 2018. – the Western Trade Coast recycled wastewater Managed Aquifer Recharge project. The project, led by the Department of Jobs, Tourism, Science and Innovation and CSIRO, aims to infiltrate treated effluent into the groundwater providing secure, long-term fit-forpurpose water for industry. Sustainability Report 2018 68 Our Businesses – Industrials CHEMICALS, ENERGY & FERTILISERS This year, CSBP participated in an industry and research 2018/19 priorities engagement program which brings Western Australian PhD students and industry together to find innovative solutions to existing Employee Safety and Wellbeing problems. The program was successful in identifying water treatment • Continue to use the Safe Person, Safe Process, Safe Place vision options that could complement or eventually replace the existing to drive safety improvement. artificial wetland that is currently used to strip nitrogen from waste water at the CSBP Kwinana operations. • Increase focus on identifying and addressing hazards with the potential to cause serious harm. Capability, diversity and culture • Continue to invest in the wellbeing of our people through the Wellness at WesCEF program. WesCEF’s workplace priorities continue to be gender balance and inclusion, Aboriginal engagement and employment, and building innovation capability. Meeting our Customers’ Needs • Continue to offer attractive discounts while providing excellent Female representation increased from 31 per cent of total head service to WA natural gas customers. count in FY17 to 33 per cent in FY18, and increased from 23 per cent of leadership roles in FY17 to 25 per cent in FY18, following the • Continue to build on agricultural technology offering. development of a gender balance roadmap. The roadmap included • Continue to work with ammonium nitrate emulsion customers to several initiatives such as leadership and development forums, improve customer experience. scenario based-workshops about inclusive workplace behaviour and a continued focus on flexibility and gender balance in recruitment. Supporting the communities in which we operate Despite continued efforts to increase Indigenous employee • Continue to invest in meaningful relationships within the representation, headcount remained at a similar level at 27 community in which we operate. employees, representing 2.2 per cent of the workforce. Positive • Continue to extend influence in STEM education within the progress was made in educating major on-site contractors about community in which we operate. best practice in building relationships with the Aboriginal community • Invest in environmental community investment activities. and creating Aboriginal employment opportunities. WesCEF’s focus on building workforce capability in innovation Operating Efficiently, Responsibly and Safely continues with a series of internal workshops, guest speakers and • Ensure capability of leadership to manage governance and establishing relationships with innovation thought leaders. In addition compliance risk by training in Competition and Consumer Law, WesCEF has provided support for employees to participate in Anti-Bribery, HR and HSE legislation and Continuous Disclosure. external events including hackathons, competitions and mentoring opportunities. A dedicated innovation space for employees was • Maintain relationships with key regulators and industry created during the year at WesCEF’s corporate office. This space has associations to facilitate input into legislation, guidelines and enabled employees to share ideas and discuss opportunities in an industry best practice. informal environment to build capability in innovation. • Develop and implement an ethical sourcing policy. Keeping information safe Environmental stewardship This year, WesCEF worked with local and national cyber security • Investigate opportunities for alternative water sources at the partners to develop a strategy to safeguard our information and CSBP Kwinana site. systems and to bring our security position in line with industry • Initiate project to divert good quality stormwater to improve standards.This work ensures that WesCEF’s systems will continue nitrogen removal efficiency. to be reliable and stable while meeting the unique needs of our • Continue to manage risk of legacy waste from our historical businesses. operations. In the year, there was a significant decrease in the amount of incidents related to malware and phishing activities on WesCEF Capability, Diversity and Culture systems. This was due to new perimeter and internal security • Continue to improve the gender balance and inclusive cultures in technologies being implemented. WesCEF is working towards our businesses and provide opportunities for Aboriginal people. improving visibility of all security events as well as a reduction in the amount of vulnerabilities that may be used to exploit systems. • Build capability and culture in delivering innovation, and using data. A small number of Kleenheat customers were recently affected by an unauthorised data breach to a third party service. The customers Keeping information safe who entered details in the third party site were notified and their data has since been removed. • Continue to implement the information security strategy to protect WesCEF’s data and systems. Sustainability Report 2018 69 Our Businesses – Industrials INDUSTRIAL AND SAFETY Mark Mosby, one of the tradesmen employed by Blackwoods’ contractor “The Builder-Sydney”, puts finishing touches to the new Blackwoods Internal Sales office in NSW. Wesfarmers Industrial and Safety (WIS) comprises four main operating Health and safety businesses: Blackwoods Australia (and NZ Safety Blackwoods in New Zealand), Workwear Group, Coregas and Greencap. The Health and Safety strategy focuses on four pillars: governance, operational excellence, physical wellbeing and psychological WIS is part of the Wesfarmers Industrials Division and employs 3,821 wellbeing. WIS’ total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) people. The WIS businesses services customers large and small from improved by 18 per cent in FY18 with hazard/near miss reporting, industries including mining, manufacturing, construction, government, walk the talks and branch plan completion rates all above target. transport, energy and retail. Further progress has been achieved in mitigating critical risks across Our material issues this year are: the group through targeted key risk projects. • Health and safety Health and wellbeing initiatives across WIS included refreshing Employee Assistance Program Provider, 10,000 step physical activity • Ethical sourcing challenge, delivery of a health and wellbeing survey to inform program • Product safety and quality development and Blackwoods delivered a series of life stage planning • Climate change resilience and energy efficiency workshops to mature employees. In the operational excellence • Gender diversity program, difficult to manoeuvre magnetic hoops which are used in embroidery processes were swapped out in Blackwoods to reduce • Indigenous engagement hazardous manual tasking on heavy garments. The initial scoping of distribution centre upgrades was completed utilising an ergonomic expert to inform design of tasks and physical environments. SOURCING Another round of successful Coles Nurture Fund applicants announced PEOPLE Introducing transport safety forums COMMUNITY West Australian Ballet Young Artist Scholarships Sustainability Report 2018 70 Our Businesses – Industrials INDUSTRIAL AND SAFETY Product safety Maximising our energy efficiency All consumer products WIS supplies must be safe and meet consumer At WIS we continually strive to reduce the emissions intensity of our guarantees. businesses and improve their resilience to climate change and the rising costs of energy. Key projects this year include: Our businesses have reduced their electricity use by 25 per cent • Blackwoods: Developed of a customised Own-Brand Quality between 2015 and 2018. This significant reduction in electricity use and Compliance online tool to house all information pertaining has been via energy efficiency and renewable energy projects at to factories for quality and technical audits, product testing and Blackwoods, Workwear Group, Coregas and Bullivants. specifications, factory quality inspections and internal quality inspections, customer technical data sheets and incident WIS has undergone a process of replacing inefficient fluorescent tubes management. This tool due for implementation in FY19 will and metal halide high bay lights with LED lighting as well as installing revolutionise how we approach product safety and allow for realsolar PV arrays across its branches and distribution centres. These time supplier performance management and an agile response to programs have saved more than 2,000,000 kilo watt hours and over customer requests. 2,000 tonnes of CO2e since 2015. This is equivalent to the annual • Coregas: Reviewed internal processes in preparation for energy use of approximately 300 average Australian homes. upcoming Therapeutic Goods Administration audits to ensure Over the past four years WIS has installed solar PV arrays on major product safety and quality is well managed as the medical gas distribution centres and continued its focus on sustainable buildings supply industry grows. with LED light fittings. Under this program WIS has so far reduced • Work Wear Group (WWG): As our business grows and expands emissions from electricity by 25 per cent since 2015. into new countries, we have focused on developing a structure This decrease in electricity is against a background of increasing that supports a culture of teamwork and collaboration within electricity costs due to unresolved supply and demand issues on the the WWG Global Quality Assurance and Compliance team. National Energy Market (NEM). The alignment of quality assurance processes across WWG Australia, New Zealand and our off-shore offices has delivered more consistent products to our customers. This has been underpinned by Key Performance Indicators that manage the total cost of quality, both in terms of resources and claims, to the business, and will drive quality improvements going forward. WWG and Blackwoods will have an aligned product safety risk model including using a single testing provider to support own brand sourcing in FY19. Ethical sourcing WIS proactively promotes responsible behaviour in its supply chain to protect its brands and the wellbeing of people they work with. Key Ethical Sourcing projects this year include: • Expanding the Compliance department by establishing a dedicated, full-time team to execute their Ethical Sourcing (ES) strategy • Creating a Steering Committee to govern and ensure that the ethical sourcing strategy meets divisional requirements • Increasing ES education which saw a significant number of members participating in tailored training activities • Becoming members of Sedex and re-aligning current audit program to the Sedex framework • Engaging with multiple corporate clients to share both parties responsible sourcing journeys, experience and emerging issues to better add value to both ES programs In the next financial year WIS has a number of goals which include: People development • Continue to align their strategic own-brand suppliers on to the Sedex framework We aim to build both functional and leadership capabilities through the development, execution and evaluation of programs that deliver • Incorporating high risk suppliers who provide goods and services tangible outcomes aligned to business objectives. not for resale into the program scope • Expanding ES training to more of their team members and Three key focus areas for the year were sales competence, frontline increase the scope to cover emerging ES topics leadership development, and commercial acumen. WIS built and delivered a sales program called SEAD Fundamentals aimed at • Looking at how data integration can streamline internal establishing a best in class selling methodology for all sales team processes for better management of their program members. We delivered 35 programs across Australia and New Zealand reaching over 350 external sales employees and six programs reaching over 100 inside sales team members. We also delivered six Strategic Selling program to over 70 senior sales leaders. In regards to frontline leadership, we built and delivered a three day program and delivered 13 nationally reaching over 140 employees. Finally, we rolled out a four hour Commercial Fundamentals program geared at all employees and delivered 96 programs to over 944 employees in varied roles and levels of seniority. The focus going forward is to embed the new learnings through on the job coaching. Sustainability Report 2018 71 Our Businesses – Industrials INDUSTRIAL AND SAFETY Gender balance PEOPLE We continue to foster a culture of balance and inclusion through Blackwoods helps tangible actions. We selected a number of females identified as talent to participate in a pilot mentoring program. We ensure our team members plan recruitment practices have gender-balanced representation by for the ‘time of their ensuring at least one female applicant in every shortlist and we set life’ this minimum standard for our external recruitment partners. Our interview panels for senior and key appointments have male and female representation. Our employee engagement is consistent across gender with our ENVIRONMENT survey scores confirming no significant difference cross gender for any factor measured. Our specific survey question “my business actively Coregas works to supports gender balance initiatives” shows no significant difference by make low-carbon gender and was in the top 25 per cent highest scoring questions. technology a reality Indigenous diversity WIS places equal importance on ensuring our workforce reflects the diversity of the communities in which we operate, and providing career paths and development opportunities for Indigenous team members. PEOPLE With over three per cent of Blackwoods full time employees identifying as Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islanders, and through Blackwoods works selective partnering with organisations best placed to assist us to introduce employment opportunities, the attraction of talented towards a more Indigenous candidates, and building an effective pipeline is but one inclusive workplace element of our strategy. This year we are also delighted to report a spend of over $3 million with Indigenous-owned suppliers, contractors and service providers successful in commercial tendering and negotiations. ENVIRONMENT Our journey to a truly inclusive workplace also includes 1,000 team members completing the new online Introduction to our RAP course, complemented by over 700 attendees to the small group face to face Electricity use drops Cultural Awareness sessions held across the country, together with by 25 per cent over either Acknowledgement or Welcome to Country ceremonies at all three years at WIS major events, business meetings and training sessions. 2018-19 priorities • Continuing to promote indigenous employment and engagement across all WIS businesses. COMMUNITY • Ensuring we engage, educate and evolve the ethical sourcing landscape for our suppliers and customers by: Blackwoods supports –– Further developing a risk model suitable for all WIS business Fred Hollows units. Foundation with $1M –– Engaging with Goods not for resale (GNFR) suppliers who donation over 12 years provide branded products. • Creating, supporting and reporting on individual sustainability plans for each WIS business. SOURCING Workwear diverts 400,000 garments from landfill COMMUNITY Wesfarmers Arts and National Gallery of Australia Sustainability Report 2018 72 Our Businesses – Industrials RESOURCES Coal mining operations at the Curragh mine at Blackwater, Queensland. Wesfarmers Resources owned and operated the Curragh mine ENVIRONMENT in Queensland. Curragh is a significant Australian producer of metallurgical coal, supporting iron and steel-making industries Bunnings brings waste across the globe. Its world-scale open cut mines also help meet paint recycling to local society’s electricity needs through the supply of steaming coal for power generation. communities On 29 March 2018 Wesfarmers announced the completion of the sale of its Curragh coal mine in Queensland to Coronado Coal Group. On 7 August 2018 Wesfarmers announced the agreement to sell its 40 per cent interest in its Bengalla Joint Venture and subject to completion this will finalise the review of the Wesfarmers COMMUNITY Resources businesses initiated in 2016. Coles partners with Little Athletics PEOPLE Kmart Ignites the Wonder with Indigenous art in Kmart stores Sustainability Report 2018 73 Our Businesses – Other Businesses OTHER BUSINESSES A BWP Trust development in Harrisdale, Western Australia. Wesfarmers also holds major investments in the following companies COMMUNITY which are not covered in this report. We calculate the emissions for our joint ventures. The total emissions for the Wesfarmers attributed Wesfarmers share of these businesses was 410,695 tonnes CO2e. shareholders support BWP Trust Learning for Life At the end of the 2018 financial year, Wesfarmers owned 24.8 per cent of BWP Trust, which develops and owns properties for our Bunnings business and other retail/commercial companies. For further information, please click here. SOURCING Gresham Partners Group Limited Coles awarded ‘Best Wesfarmers has a 50 per cent shareholder interest in Gresham Sustainable Seafood Partners Group Limited, the holding company for the Gresham Supermarket’ in Partners investment house operations. Australia For further information, please click here. Queensland Nitrates Pty Ltd (QNP) Through WesCEF, Wesfarmers owns a 50 per cent interest in QNP, ENVIRONMENT located at Moura in central Queensland. QNP is an ammonium nitrate producer and services the mining sector in the Bowen Basin. Innovative For further information, please click here. technologies automate inspections Wespine Industries at CSBP Wesfarmers owns 50 per cent of Wespine, which operates a plantation softwood sawmill at Dardanup in Western Australia. For further information, please click here. Quadrant Energy Wesfarmers owns a 14 per cent interest in Quadrant Energy. All of Quadrant Energy’s gas production is supplied to the Western Australian domestic gas market, and currently represents approximately 40 per cent of Western Australia’s domestic gas supply. On 22 August 2018 Wesfarmers announced it had agreed to sell its 13.2 per cent indirect interest in Quadrant Energy Holdings Pty Ltd (Quadrant) to Santos Limited. For more information, click here. Bengalla During the reporting year Wesfarmers owned a 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla coal operation in the Hunter Valley in New South Wales through a joint venture with New Hope Corporation Limited. The This is an edited extract of our 2018 Bengalla operation produces steaming coal for export markets. Sustainability Report. Our full sustainability report contains numerous case studies and On 7 August 2018 Wesfarmers announced the agreement to sell its data available for download. It is prepared in 40 per cent interest in its Bengalla Joint Venture. accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives For further information, click here. Standards and assured by Ernst & Young. It is available at sustainability.wesfarmers.com.au Sustainability Report 2018 74
