Cultivating the future A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future 3 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 5 THIS IS CEREALTO A history of growth 7 Structure and governance 8 A trusted partner 9 We know where we are going 12 • We keep growing 12 Strategic regions 15 17 FULFILLING COMMITMENTS An entrepreneurial spirit 18 Research and Development 29 Environmental commitment 38 Something beyond ourselves 44 53 ABOUT THE ANNUAL REPORT 2 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT Six years after starting our business project, we’ve reached the goals we set, fulfilling previously made commitments. And all this has been possible thanks to a team of passionate, trustworthy, innovative and efficient colleagues who have shown a fighting spirit and customer focus that has allowed us to exceed all expectations. After all the effort that has been carried out, we’ve started to see results. These have materialised in terms of sales growth, an increases in the number of production centres, a larger number of colleagues, and the creation of new alliances. We’ve demonstrated that we’re a company with an entrepreneurial spirit, international experience and a consolidated business model that has allowed us to create value for our clients through a high-quality product offer at the best possible price. At the same time, the securing of a line of syndicated credit for the sum of 80 million euros to finance our international growth plan is confirmation of the solidity and viability of our project, as well as a sign of the credibility and trust that we generate among financial institutions. Based on the premise that digitalization is the current key to competitiveness, and that it also represents an essential requirement for increasing our presence in international markets, we’re paving the way for the digital transformation of the company through a variety of projects in our factories and offices and with regard to people management, infrastructure and communication. We’re sure that our innovative spirit will not only allow us to be at the forefront, but will also help us offer a better service to both our clients and consumers. At the San Pelayo Business School we’ve continued to train leaders who will be responsible for guaranteeing our future success in this business project that Ceralto represents. Without forgetting, of course, our aim to create a sustainable company that provides value to society. I’d also like to take this opportunity to renew our commitment to the United Nations’ Global Compact Ten Principles and its Sustainable Development Goals. 2018 lies ahead as a year full of new challenges. However, I’m convinced that if we continue to work together with the same passion and determination, we’ll emerge stronger than ever. A big thanks to everyone, Luis Ángel López President 3 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future MESSAGE FROM THE CEO I’m proud to present our annual report in which we reaffirm our commitment to sustainable development, and respond to the expectations of our stakeholders. 2017 has been a positive year for Cerealto and one of substantial growth. We’re also seeing that some of last year’s initiatives have started to bear fruit. As a result of this, we’ve ended the year with net sales of 160 million euros, a 72% increase on the figure reached at the close of 2016, with production reaching 111 thousand tonnes, a 50% increase on the previous financial year. Our investments exceeded 45 million euros, which has allowed us to expand our productive capacity and carry out technological and efficiency-based improvements. Among the critical milestones of last year, the incorporation of the factories of Antequera and Briviesca (Spain) stands out as they’ve facilitated our entry into the Spanish market with our own production of pastries and sliced bread. In Italy, after four years of operational activity, we’ve concluded the acquisition of the Pastificio Mediterranea factory, where we produce our top-quality “Made in Italy” pasta range. On the other hand, we’re proud to have concluded the construction of the Worksop factory (in the UK), commencing with the production of biscuits, cereal bars and gluten-free products. As a result of all this, our workforce has grown to a total of 1,800, with the incorporation of more than 900 new colleagues, who include both colleagues in the new factories as well as 365 new posts that were created in 2017. This year, we’ve also been working on the identification of talent, in particular employees with a high degree of potential, and talent development with the opening of a specially-designed programme for future senior managers. We’ve also strengthened our internal communications and incorporated several digital tools that will help to consolidate our corporate culture. Innovation has remained a strategic pillar and a core value for Cerealto. In line with this, we doubled our investment in R&D in 2017, reaching a figure of 7.5 million euros. This has allowed us to launch 175 new products onto the market that cover consumer demand for a healthy lifestyle, as well as targeting the specific nutritional requirements of a variety of groups. With the aim of increasing efficiency, we’ve also progressed in the design of an operations model which will start to be implemented next year. In terms of our environmental impact, our plants at Briviesca, Antequera, Mem Martins, Benavente and Worksop have attained the goal of sending zero-waste to landfill. And of course, none of this would have been possible without all the teams in a variety of markets who have shown, once again, flexibility, commitment and perseverance in the face of the challenges that confront us. And all of that has inspired us to do our very best. A very big thank you to all of you, Rut Aranda CEO Cerealto 4 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future T H I S I S Cerealto 5 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future 1,800 COLLEAGUES of 18 nationalities “We are a global manufacturer OUR CLIENTS: of private label food products, Retailers, distributors 8 and branded food companies specialised in turning cereals OPERATIONS CENTRES into excellent, innovative In Spain, Portugal, Italy, United Kingdom and Mexico and accessible products WE ARE SPECIALISTS for our consumers”. IN PRIVATE LABEL We market our products in +40 +10 PRODUCT CATEGORIES COUNTRIES Baby food, cereal bars, pastries, breakfast cereals, biscuits and crackers, bread, pasta, snacks and WE ALSO gluten-free products OWN 3 BRANDS 6 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future A HISTORY 2017 • Acquisition of Grupo Siro’s bread and pastries factories OF GROWTH situated in Antequera and Briviesca (Spain). 2016 •P urchase of the Pastificio Mediterranea plant (Silvano • Acquisition of the Mondelēz biscuits factory d’Orba, Italy). situated in Mem Martins • Leasing of a factory in Cuautitlán (Mexico) for local 2015 (Sintra, Portugal). • S tart of operations at production of bread. • Building of the Worksop • Signing of a syndicated the Worksop factory (UK) factory in the UK starts. loan of 80 million euros to with manufacturing of 2014 • Purchase of the Marian Galletas de Calidad biscuits, cereal bars and finance the investment plan. • Cerealto achieves the figure • Acquisition of Grupo gluten free products. biscuits factory in of around 1,800 colleagues. Siro’s exporting • Cerealto ends the year Tepeji del Río Ocampo 2013 company Siro Foods and the Siro brand’s (Hidalgo, Mexico). with 860 colleagues. • Purchase of the Danone • Cerealto ends the operating licences. baby food factory, year with over 540 • Cerealto ends the 2012 Nutriceal Foods (Benavente, Portugal). year with over 180 colleagues. Cerealto is colleagues. established. • Start of operations in the Pastificio Mediterranea factory (Silvano d’Orba, Italy) to manufacture ‘Made in Italy’ pasta. 7 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future STRUCTURE AND CEO GOVERNANCE Southern Europe Northern Europe Americas Expansion Hierarchical Areas Operations I+D Our company’s global approach is based on Human Resources a matrix structure organised by Regions and Procurement Controlling Functional Areas. The Regions, which are geared towards customer service, have Functional Areas their own hierarchical structure and are responsible for the client The strategy and governance of Cerealto is the responsibility of the management, project management, resources and operations Steering Committee, which is composed of: centres within their scope of activity. Rut Aranda CEO The Functional Areas, designed to respond to the structure, define Pedro Lago Americas Director common procedures by applying the Company’s global approach. Alfonso Arroyo Northern Europe Director Santiago Suárez Southern Europe Director At corporate level, there are different departments that support the Cristina López Expansion Director various markets. These are: Jordi Villarrubias Head of Operations Alexis Gracia-Lugo Head of I+D Talent Management Paula Casanova Head of Human Resources Communication Cristina Arveschoug Head of Procurement Finance Pablo Muñoz Head of Controlling IT Dina Sousa Chief Financial Officer * In 2018, there have been changes in this Committee: Alexis Gracia-Lugo is currently studying the programme designed for Senior Managers, in order to hold a Market Director position in the future. They all report directly to the President. The current Head of Operations is Cristina Álvarez. Rut Aranda, CEO of Cerealto, is temporarily responsible for the Southern Europe Market Direction. 8 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future A TRUSTED PARTNER Our business model is based on a proven ability to offer our clients products of the highest quality at the best possible price. ₋ • Relevant experience in the manufacturing of over 10 A win-win product categories Products of the highest ₋ • Capacity to innovate quality at the best price, relationship ₋ • Compliance with the most stringent Food Quality and which exceed the with our Safety standards expectations of the clients ₋ • Profound knowledge of end consumer the consumer and markets 9 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future We achieve this thanks to our experience manufacturing over 10 Therefore, we build long-lasting and trusting relationships with our cereal-based product categories, our efficiency and our continuous clients, offering them flexibility and differentiation, through our ability innovation. to innovate and adapt to their needs with value-added products. At Cerealto, we work to deliver the highest quality in the products we We currently serve clients in over 40 countries, from our eight plants manufacture and in the service we provide to our clients, supported by based in Spain, Portugal, Italy, UK and Mexico. We are constantly striving the most stringent quality control and food security systems, and to show them how they can trust us. knowledge of food trends. We are specialists in our clients’ labels 10 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future OUR OWN BRANDS We also have three own brands that we offer to those clients who are trying to enter new product categories or markets. Global multi-category brand since 1920 Baby food brand with the highest levels Italian pasta brand of the highest quality of control and protection with over 100 years of history Siro is a global brand which was founded in 1920. It began by selling high-quality Nutriceal is a baby food brand which covers Manufactured in our plant in Silvano d’Orba biscuits, and over time has expanded into a multiple nutritional needs of children through (Italy), Moccagatta offers four different multi-category brand. It currently offers a their development stages. We control all ranges of pasta: Moccagatta Classic, wide range of products which include basic ingredients from the start, guaranteeing the Moccagatta Bronze Die, Moccagatta and premium biscuits and crackers, cereal highest levels of protection and complying Organic and Moccagatta Organic bars, snacks and gluten-free products, with international standards of food quality WholeWheat. among others. and safety. Made in Italy is synonymous with quality: We have recently expanded our range to Our portfolio includes a wide range of products our products are made with 100% Italian include a line of biscuits with no added which are manufactured in our Nutriceal Foods semolina and use local cutting-edge sugar, using healthier oils such as high oleic plant (Benavente, Portugal): milk cereals, plain technology. sunflower oil, ancient grains (such as spelt, cereals, cereal flakes and other personalised amaranth, quinoa and oat), and fortified recipes according to our clients’ needs, with www.moccagattapasta.com with fibre and vitamins. These include the possibility of organic, HALAL and Kosher “on the go” individual formats. certifications. We also offer baby biscuits, which we manufacture in Spain. We have recently expanded our offer with new milk cereal recipes, a new range of premium recipes (DHA, ARA FOS, GOS), new organic no sugar added porridges, a new range of baby purees and one of purees with vegetables. www.nutricealfoods.com 11 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future 2 WE KNOW WHERE NEW FACTORIES WE ARE GOING €160 m 111,000t “In 2017 we focussed on our expansion +72% +56% TURNOVER PRODUCTION and on guaranteeing all the necessary production capacities and teams to meet all the commitments we have made with our clients” +900 175 EBITDA CEO of Cerealto NEW COLLEAGUES NEW PRODUCT LAUNCHES €-2.4 m* W E K E E P G R O W I N G 2017 has been a year of great growth for Cerealto, in terms of people, INVESTMENTS * I n 2017, Cerealto’s EBITDA has been negative due to additional costs for starting up the Worksop factory and capacities, projects and product launches. We have managed to €45 m for the implementation of operational improvements in the Tepeji factory. strengthen our partnerships with key clients, drive our expansion, and explore new markets and projects with new clients. 12 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Turnover evolution 5% Northern Europe Million euros 13% Americas 160 % Sales 93 per region 82 69 (euros) 49 10% 21% 61% Baby food 3% Cereals Expansion Southern 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Europe 13% Bread % Sales 41% per Biscuits categories (euros) Evolution of production 41% 16% Thousands of tonnes Retailers and Pasta distributors 111 17% Pastries 71 % Sales 62 per client 45 (euros) 22 59% Branded food 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 companies 13 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Expansion of production capacities Cerealto has continued striving to increase production capacities in order to be closer to clients and improve the level of service. Along with the purchase of the Pastificio Mediterranea plant (Silvano d’Orba, Italia), and the acquisition of Grupo Siro’s Antequera and Briviesca plants (Spain) which has allowed us to manufacture our own bread and pastries. This deal brings us closer to our challenge of becoming a multi-category provider for the main retailers in the Spanish market, and has allowed us to develop our expansion in Southern Europe. Our future prospects… Financing our international growth €390m by 2020 Cerealto continues to work with our sights set Another important milestone has been the signing of a syndicated loan on 2020, aware that to achieve our objectives, for 80 million euros to finance our international growth plan and meet the we have to continue applying the same excitement, commitments we have agreed with our clients. The granting of the loan, passion and enthusiasm as we have done up until now. led by Santander, and with the participation of Bankia, Caixabank, Sabadell, 390 Rabobank and Liberbank, has confirmed the robustness and viability of our strategic plan, as well as the credibility and trust we generate within the financial community. 160 In 2017, our investments reached 45 million euros. This allowed us to undertake the purchase of the Pastificio factory, increase production capacity and make improvements to technology and efficiency. 13 2012 2017 2020 14 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future STRATEGIC REGIONS In just 6 years, Cerealto has succeeded in consolidating its presence in Portugal, Italy, UK, USA, Mexico and Spain. Our business model is based around four Strategic Regions: Southern Europe, Northern Europe, Americas and Expansion. In each of these regions, we are working to standardise our processes and ways of working, as well as at integrating multicultural teams, with a view to implementing our future project. 15 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Northern Europe Region Southern Europe Region Spain +29% GROWTH 5% OF NET GROUP 322 COLLEAGUES • Offices in Madrid +79% GROWTH 61% OF NET GROUP 969 COLLEAGUES SALES • 2 factories, in SALES 13 NEW LAUNCHES 7% OF THE VALUE GENERATED Briviesca (pastries) and Antequera (bread) 114 NEW LAUNCHES 41% OF THE VALUE GENERATED BY THE COMPANY IS UK Portugal Italy BY THE COMPANY IS DISTRIBUTED IN THIS REGION • Offices in London • Offices in Sintra • Offices in Bolonia DISTRIBUTED IN THIS REGION • 1 factory in Worksop: • 2 factories, in Sintra • 1 factory in Silvano biscuits, cereals and (biscuits) and Benavente d’Orba (pasta) 3.3% 17.89% gluten free products (baby food) Francia Cereals 1.6% Baby food Cereal bars • Local team 19.6% 27% Bread Pastries % Net sales % Net sales per product per product category category 22.2% 26.3% 82.11% Pasta Biscuits Biscuits and snacks Eastern Europe Central Europe Americas Region Middle East Africa Asia Expansion Region +52% GROWTH 13% OF NET GROUP 506 COLLEAGUES Our export activity SALES 27 NEW LAUNCHES 9% OF THE VALUE GENERATED BY +51% GROWTH 21% OF NET GROUP 94 PRODUCT THE COMPANY IS DISTRIBUTED SALES LAUNCHES IN THIS REGION 1.29% P  astries, baby food 6.9% 0.6% P astries and Cereals 9.68% and cereals Pasta Pasta Mexico USA 10.31% • Offices in Mexico City • Offices in Bread • 2 factories, in Tepeji San Antonio, Texas % Ventas netas por % Net sales (biscuits) and Cuautitlán Chile categoría de per product (bread) • Local team producto category 51.9% 40.6% Baby food Biscuits 78.72% Biscuits 16 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future commitments F U L F I L L I N G 17 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future AN ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT Six years after embarking on our path, we have achieved our proposed goals as well as meeting the commitments we have acquired along the way. This has been made possible thanks to a team which is passionate and trustworthy, innovative and efficient, and which has a fighting spirit, focused on the client and always seeks to exceed expectations. 18 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future This year has been marked by over 100% growth in our workforce, 1.797 EMPLOYEES which has meant striving to integrate new colleagues into our culture, the development of efficient tools which guarantee that information PORTUGAL SPAIN UK MEXICO NEW STARTERS* reaches everyone, as well as improvements in training, selection and + 245 +657 Employees Employees +322 Employees +496 Employees 900 356 New job talent processes. positions *This data includes the workforce from the recently acquired factories and the new job positions created Our people from our manufacturing sites in Mexico, Italy and United Kingdom. Workforce evolution Workforce by geographic area 1,797 657 496 860 362 356 322 546 245 146 179 100 90 67 181 28 15 48 61 9 12 10 2014 2015 2016 2017* Spain Mexico UK Portugal Italy USA *Includes colleagues at the Briviesca and Antequera factories 2015 2016 2017 19 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future 18 57% 60% Multiculturalism and diversity are company values NATIONALITIES and MEN OF MANAGEMENT POSITIONS ARE HELD 43% WOMEN BY WOMEN Workforce evolution by gender Workforce evolution by professional category Workforce evolution by age range 1,239 1,293 1,017 780 481 467 532 337 379 367 417 247 203 201 285 257 209 187 206 127 95 84 141 58 2015 2016 2017 MOD MOI Structure Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Men Women 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 MOD: Direct Workforce MOI: Indirect Workforce 14% OVER 50 YEARS OLD 68% INDEFINITE CONTRACTS 6.51% GROUPS WITH BARRIERS TO WORK 20 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future A G O O D P L A C E TO WO R K In 2017, we have continued working to make Cerealto a company where our people want to stay, and which is 4 TRAINING attractive for potential hires. SCHOOLS € 325,753 1,756 INVESTMENT IN San TRAINING PEOPLE In order to understand our current situation, we have TRAINED 50 undertaken an internal survey based on the Pelayo MEETINGS TO SET 19.44 BUSINESS SCHOOL OBJECTIVES Great Place to Work methodology. AVERAGE HOURS PER 261 COLLEAGUE OBJECTIVES 10 TRAINEES APPRAISALS 61% WOW TALENT OF OUR COLLEAGUES THINK SELECTION MANAGEMENT THAT CEREALTO IS A GOOD PLACE TO WORK Cerealto stands out for: 32 INTERNAL 100% EVALUATION •T reating people in a fair way regardless PROMOTIONS 360º •M of their individual differences.  aking colleagues feel proud of our 26 achievements. EXCELLENCE SCHOLARSHIPS 174 LEADERS EVALUATED •C  reating an environment that motivates TALENT REVIEW colleagues to stay at the company. INTEGRATION •B •P  eing welcoming of new workmates.  roviding safe workplaces with the OF TEAMS 41 HIGH POTENTIAL INITIATIVES WITH INDIVIDUALS IDENTIFIED necessary resources. THE FAMILIES OF OUR COLLEAGUES •T  rusting in the abilities of colleagues to MEETING OF LEADERS INTERNAL tackle challenges. COMMUNICATION 80% OBTAINED IN THE SATISFACTION SURVEY STRENGTHENING ENGAGEMENT 21 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future TRAINING San San Pelayo Business School Pelayo Our Business School is responsible for promoting our leaders’ training and BUSINESS SCHOOL providing them with the necessary tools and skills for their professional development within our company. There are currently four schools: • Leadership School. Directed at leaders with positions of responsibility or in charge of a team. • Language School. Designed for those colleagues for whom languages are essential for their job. • Operations School. Focussed on colleagues involved in manufacturing and continuous improvement processes. • BCN School. Created for colleagues involved in the development of business with clients. 22 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future TA L E N T M A N A G E M E N T We have an integrated talent management system which consists Definition of Consists of the drawing up of objective of different tools that facilitate the achievement of objectives, Objectives and maps per team, guaranteeing that individual the development of our colleagues, and the identification of high Action Plans objectives are aligned with those of their (DOPA) superiors, as well as the Company’s global potential individuals. ones and future strategy. 2017 has been characterised by the efforts put in to identifying talent, in particular the launch of the Talent Pool for potential Appraisal System Consists of a process that registers colleagues’ directors, where tailor-made training plans are drawn up for progress in the attainment of their objectives these individuals. and the development of their leadership skills. Feedback 360º Through this tool we measure leadership skills and develop improvement plans for our colleagues based on the scores they obtain in their evaluations by their managers, peers and teams. Talent Review Identifies which profiles have performed in the Programme Appraisal System and have received the highest leadership skills scores, with the objective of identifying development opportunities and capitalising on talent. Management Bespoke training plan for individuals who will Training Programme soon hold senior management positions within the company. 23 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future C O N S O L I D AT I N G O U R C U LT U R E A N D G E N E R AT I N G C O M M I T M E N T The growth in our number of colleagues, as well as the plurality and diversity of their profiles marks a challenge for us as we strive to integrate all of them into our corporate culture, our way of working and our processes. Incorporation of new colleagues 1. The leaders of the new Briviesca and Antequera factories (Spain) received an Onboarding Programme, which included training related to Cerealto, its values and structure, Human Resources management, Health and Safety, Innovation, Systems and Information Security (picture 1). 1. In addition, we celebrated the Pastificio acquisition with a special day of roundtables to share different areas of interest relating to the future of the factory. We also organised teambuilding exercises to reinforce our values and recognise those people who express these 2. on a daily basis (picture 2). In both cases, our President and CEO travelled to the factories to 2. personally welcome our new colleagues. 24 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Digitalization and strengthening of internal communication We have also developed new micro-sites within our Intranet which contain relevant information for our colleagues as well as facilitating Efficient communication is a big challenge for multinational companies. the management of certain issues including: To achieve this, it is necessary to design appropriate digital tools, studying information flows to guarantee that communication reaches all colleagues, My profile (COLLEAGUE’S and that correct timings and correct type of messages are used. PROFESSIONAL PROFILE) This year we have created an Internal Communication Committee made up of representatives from the Communication, Human Resources and Talent Management Departments. The purpose of this Who’s who Travel expenses (ORGANIZATIONAL is to standardize communication tools in all work centres, monitor management STRUCTURE OF ALL THE WORK TEAMS) their effectiveness, train those individuals responsible for managing them, and by extension, guarantee the consistency of global and local communication. Micro Internal sites promotions and new Payroll positions management Vacation Training plans management 25 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future We launched Yammer Corporative, our internal corporate social We have also been working on Knowledge Kiosks, a digital tool which network to share knowledge, experiences and ideas. will help our factory colleagues to consult organigrams, all the plants’ management indicators, and even undertake virtual visits, as well as Another project has been the launch of ONE Communities, a sharing knowledge with other production centres. digital tool to promote the entrepreneurial spirit of our colleagues where we put them in touch with each other to share common interests and concerns. We already have ten communities which cover different areas of interest such as culture, gastronomy, sport, photography, technology and innovation, among others. 26 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future +200 LEADERS 80% LEADERS EVALUATED THE EVENT +250 NOMINATIONS FOR AS GOOD OR EXCELLENT THE WOW! AWARDS Cerealto Wow! Annual Meeting 2017 WOW! People Liliana Gabriela, Factory Manager in Mem Martins (Portugal) We held the 2017 Annual Meeting at the headquarters of the Grupo Jesús Méndez, NPD Manager (Worksop, UK) Siro Foundation. It was broadcasted to all of our work centres by videoAlessia Rapetti, HR Specialist Pastificio (Italy) streaming so that over 200 leaders in Portugal, Spain, Italy, UK, Mexico, WOW! Projects and Ideas USA, France and Chile could attend. We shared the year’s milestones, Biscuit R&D project for United Kingdom (UK Team) the challenges and the strategy of the company. Baby food project (Expansion team, Southern Europe team and Benavente factory) During the event, the following WOW! Culture awards were given in the Value-added biscuit project for the Mexican market (Mexican team) category of People, Projects and Ideas. Pastries project for the Italian market (Italian team) Co-innovation project for snacks (A project of Cerealto and I+dea) 27 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future With our colleagues’ families For another year running, the Grupo Siro Foundation has provided 26 scholarships for academic excellence, with the objective of recognising the excellent academic achievements of our colleagues’ children and allowing them to continue their studies with financial support. This year the scholarships were awarded in Mexico, USA, Italy, Spain and Portugal (pictures 3 and 4). 2. 3. 4. Coinciding with the Christmas celebrations, we organised the second edition of the “My Christmas in Cerealto” drawing competition for our colleagues’ children, aged between 4 and 12. Over 70 drawings were entered and the six best were awarded prizes, with all other entrants also receiving a small Christmas gift (picture 1). In addition, we held an Open Day at our Briviesca factory, with the participation of 105 colleagues’ children, aged between 6 and 14. During the visit, they were able to see for themselves the production process of our pastries and the work that their parents undertake (picture 2). 1. 28 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Healthy lifestyle Superfoods and nutritional improvements (reduction in sugars, salt and fats, and an increase in fibre RESEARCH AND and protein). Groups with specific nutritional DEVELOPMENT needs Food safety People with coeliac disease, high blood pressure or diabetes € 7.5 m 5% 175 28 +750 INVESTED IN % TURNOVER INVESTED IN R&D PRODUCT LAUNCHES IMPROVEMENTS PROTOTYPES R&D At Cerealto, we always strive to offer our clients value-added solutions and a differentiated proposal based on the principles of innovation, efficiency and a sound understanding of our markets and consumers. To this end, we are channelling our innovation efforts into meeting the demand for healthy products from consumers concerned about a healthy lifestyle. Equally we are seeking to meet the nutritional needs of different groups and create products that conform to the highest standards of quality and safety, with a clean label for the consumer. 29 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future O U R I N N O VAT I O N M O D E L Innovation is a basic pillar of our business model and a core value for We also have the following organisational structure: Cerealto, and is one that helps us differentiate ourselves from our • Strategic Committee for Innovation. Responsible for planning competitors. and approving the company’s Innovation strategy, and monitoring the outcome of Innovation projects. Cerealto has an innovation model that operates on three levels: • R&D Board. Focuses the standardisation of processes and documentation and on monitoring the progress of projects. Level 3 Level 2 DISRUPTIVE INNOVATION INCREMENTAL INNOVATION Level 1 REPLACEMENT OR IMPROVEMENT At Cerealto, each Innovation project has teams assigned to it that include Business Development Managers (BDMs), Category Development Managers (CDMs), New Product Developers (NPDs) and Project Managers (PMs). This gives us a perspective on the market, the consumer and the product as well as R&D; it also puts us in a position to offer products with added value and exceed the expectations of our clients. Innovation In addition, we maintain a strategic relationship with the I+dea research Model and development centre – a pioneer in the global food industry. We work with I+dea to develop knowledge and generate solutions for our clients. These may relate to the creation of new products or to the implementation of improvements (for which consumer approval is always tested through panels or focus groups). Or they can extend to giving advice on how to save costs or resolve problems in the manufacturing process, and even on the legislation involved in bringing products to new markets. 30 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future O U R B E T F O R I N N O VAT I O N I N 2 0 1 7 In this financial year, investment in innovation projects and This figure represents a large percentage of our turnover (5%), and underimprovements in technology has doubled, rising from 3.5 million lines the extent to which Innovation is a pillar of our Company’s growth. euros in 2016 to 7.5 million euros in 2017. Within the space of one year, we have been able to launch over 750 prototypes – a strong reflection of how proactive our people are. In 2017, more than 30% of these prototypes appeared in connection with new product launches and improvements to existing products for our clients. 6% Bread 2% Cereals 11% N  orthern Europe Investment in Innovation 10% (€m) Pastries 21% Americas % product 36% % product launch Southern launch 7.5 by region Europe by category 3.5 23% 39% 3.2 Baby food Biscuits (including 2015 2016 2017 Snacks) 32% 20% Expansion Pasta 31 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future P R O DHUECATLOTSH M I EÁRS PSRAOL U DD U ACBTLSE SW C I TOHN AF OCCOON ESNU M E LE RC OF N OSCUUMS I D O R Our Innovation in this product range is a response to society’s growing We have also expanded our product range of items containing zero concern about matters of health and wellbeing coupled with our desire to or reduced amounts of sugars or gluten, and have increased the use meet the needs of our consumers. A number of our new product launches of alternative fats such as high-oleic sunflower oil. Of particular note and improved products now benefit from having better nutritional value is the new range of biscuits without added sugar and the replacement or healthy ingredients such as ancient grains – quinoa, millet, spelt, of palm oil in biscuits for the Italian and Portuguese markets. buckwheat or oatmeal – or durum wheat. Key products 2017: Key products 2017 Premium muffins without preservatives Wide range of and without palm oil gluten-free snacks Rye hamburger Quinoa bun bread Organic no sugar Premium porridges with added porridges DHA, ARA FOS + GOS Breakfast Biscuits Yogurt, Pumpkin Seed & Walnut and chia Range of breakfast Cranberry Rice Cake seed biscuit biscuits with different Yoghurt-coated rice cake Walnut and chia seed ingredients: ancient containing pumpkin seeds, biscuit sweetened with grains, quinoa and oatmeal, etc. blueberries and oatflakes. agave syrup. 32 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future TO WA R D S E F F I C I E N C Y. A S I N G L E WAY O F W O R K I N G In 2017, Cerealto continued to grow and expand its production capacity. We have decided to develop a single operating model which will We augmented our existing by starting operations in our factory in start to be implemented in 2018, and which will standardise working Worksop (UK), by fully integrating the factory at Mem Martins (Portugal) processes, KPIs and procedures. This way of operating will enable and by purchasing two new factories in Antequera and Briviesca in Spain. us to fulfil our obligations to our clients: offering products of the highest quality and at the best possible price. These developments have led us to strengthen our Operations and Procurement Departments in order to ensure consistency in ways of Furthermore, in 2017, the factories at Tepeji and Worksop were working across the company while at the same time guaranteeing local integrated into our management systems (SAP), reporting models autonomy. and company procedures. 33 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future More efficient production centres Cerealto’s innovative spirit has driven us to spearhead any development Another line of action is to achieve the paperless office. For example, in that can help us offer a better service to our clients and consumers. As 2017 we introduced a new system for invoices that are received from an example of this, we are preparing to implement a programme of our suppliers via EDI (Electronic Data Interchange). This will eliminate the digitization, and are introducing a large number of schemes in factories, need for paper and will lead to faster searches, without the need to print offices, people management and communications. Some of these are or file away paper invoices. described in other sections of this Annual Report. Intelligent factories Our plants at Sintra, Briviesca and Benavente have implemented a digitization programme that will enable full information management in real time (stock control, traceability, variables in processes and quality). This will optimize material flow and render the supply chain more efficient. 34 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Mem Martins PASSED THE AUDIT Worksop OF THE IFS STANDARD Tepeji GAINED ITS FIRST BRC OBTAINED THE FSSC 22000 CERTIFICATION WITH CERTIFICATION Compliance with Food Quality and Safety standards AN A RATING Benavente ACHIEVED A HIGH RATING IN THE BRC AUDIT Cerealto complies with international standards for food quality and safety, as well as with specific product certifications. Briviesca RETAINED THE IFS ‘HIGHER LEVEL’ CERTIFICATION AND A Food quality and safety certifications Product certifications HIGH RATING IN THE BRC AUDIT Plants IFS IFS Global ISO FSSC Organic Food Markets BRC 22000 22000 product* Kosher** Halal*** Silvano d'Orba, Italy (pasta) X X X X X Benavente, Portugal (baby food) X X X X X Mem Martins, Portugal (biscuits) X X X Tepeji, Mexico (biscuits) X Worksop, UK (biscuits, cereal bars and snacks) X X Antequera, Spain (bread) X Cuautitlán, Mexico (bread) X Briviesca, España (pastries) X X *Certifies that the foods are free of herbicide residues and genetically modified organisms and that they have been produced with the highest respect for the environment and for animal welfare. **Certifies that the products are suitable for consumption according to Jewish law. ***Certifies that the products are suitable for consumption according to Muslim law. 35 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Our suppliers 6% 10% Others We monitor raw materials from their point of origin in order to Paper guarantee the highest standards of food safety and quality at every 30% stage of the supply chain. This is why we have sound systems in Cardboard 13% % place for approving and assessing suppliers. Cans Purchase of containers and packaging (euros) Others 17% 35% 14% Flour and Plastics semolina 27% Fruits 3% Film Aromas 3% % Purchase of Cereals 5% raw materials 7% (euros) Oils 1% 7% France 4% Cacoa derived 14% 2% 9% Germany Other Eggs and dairy countries Sugar Portugal 4% Uk 4% Holland 7% Payment to Finally, we monitor the ethical behaviour of our suppliers, principally suppliers by 50% through our Suppliers Code of Conduct. We make our suppliers aware 13% country Spain Mexico (euros) of the Code of Conduct and encourage them to abide by it. The Code lists the minimum criteria that are expected of them with regard to human and labour rights, quality and the environment, anti-corruption 15% Italy and ethical management. This Code is aligned with our mission and our vision and values, as well as with our own standards and social and environmental practices. 36 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Some data 2017 TEPEJI PASTIFICIO Plant affiliated to SEDEX 100% local suppliers 80% of suppliers subscribed to our code of conduct 100% of the suppliers has at least one food quality and safety certification 100% local suppliers (IFS, BRC) 63% of the suppliers have at last one food quality and safety certification (IFS, BRC, ISO 14001) MEM MARTINS Plant adhered to SEDEX WORKSOP 66% of suppliers subscribe to our code of conduct Plant affiliated to SEDEX 7 audits 5 audits 50% of suppliers of raw materials and 25% of suppliers of containers and 60% local suppliers packaging are adhered to SEDEX 100% of the suppliers are certified to at least one of the standards related to food +30% of the suppliers have food quality and safety certifications, quality and safety, and environmental management (IFS, BRC, ISO 9001, ISO 14001) environment (IFS, BRC, ISO 9001, ISO 14001) 100% RSPO-certified palm oil 20% local suppliers NUTRICEAL SEDEX is a platform that offers an international well-known Plant adhered to SEDEX assessment of responsible supply chains, including criteria of labour rights, health and safety, environment and 17% local suppliers corporate ethics. SMETA audit carried out 36 audits 100% RSPO-certified palm oil 93% of suppliers of raw materials and suppliers of containers and packaging are adhered to SEDEX 100% of suppliers of raw materials are certified to at least one of the standards related to food quality and safety, and environmental management (IFS, BRC, ISO 9001, ISO 14001) 37 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT At Cerealto we are committed to minimising the environmental impact of our activities by promoting the efficient use of natural resources (energy, water, raw materials), reducing emissions and minimising waste. Our operations model involves establishing uniform KPIs for environmental matters across all plants that will enable us to set our targets. Currently, Benavente, Briviesca and Antequera have in place an environmental management system that is certified according to the ISO 14001 standard. 38 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future CARBON FOOTPRINT Our first step towards reducing our carbon footprint was to measure the 2015 2016 2017 emissions from each of our production centres, using a tool that was Total TN CO2 EQ 5,786 7,696 15,250 designed for the purpose. TN CO2 EQ/TON sold 0.09 0.11 0.14 The increase in our carbon footprint in 2017 reflects increased activity in all our plants as a result of a surge in product lines and the mainstreaming of new products. In the case of our new pasta factory at Silvano d’Orba, production was increased from five days a week to seven. Carbon footprint progression Carbon footprint by category (Tn CO2 eq) (Tn CO2 eq) 4,878 15,250 4,306 2,905 2,792 2,494 7,696 2,395 5,786 1,989 1,171 2015 2016 2017 Pasta Baby food Biscuits and snacks Pastries Bread 2016 2017 39 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future WAT E R F O O T P R I N T In 2017 we began using a tool to collect data from all our factories so that process or maintenance operations, the indirect water footprint includes we could measure our water footprint and then set targets for reducing it. other consumption such as plumbing systems, cooling circuits, garden irrigation systems, etc. The total water footprint value in 2017 was 123,417m3. This figure was calculated by adding together the direct water footprint (98,371 m3) and One of the greatest challenges for the Company has been to set targets for the indirect water footprint (25,046 m3). While the direct water footprint reducing our carbon and water footprints on a global scale. This has only been reflects the amount of water used in our plants during the manufacturing feasible in those plants that have been in regular operation for some time. Direct Water Footprint Indirect Water Footprint (M3) (M3) 26,497 25,558 21,500 19,433 13,621 8,667 5,382 1,395 1,345 18 Pastries Baby food Pasta Biscuits and Bread Bread Biscuits and Pastries Baby food Pasta snacks snacks 40 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Z E RO WA S T E TO L A N D F I L L At Cerealto, we are proud that the factories at Briviesca, Antequera, Another of our environmental objectives is the economic recovery Mem Martins, Benavente and Worksop are rated as plants that send of 80% of our waste in 2020. Our plant at Benavente has already zero waste to landfill. What this means is that all the waste from these achieved this target, with 100% of its waste now being recovered and centres is recycled or recovered. making an economic return. In addition, surpluses and wastage that are created during the We have also made progress in waste management. For example, production process in our factories are used as animal feed. in Antequera, we have reduced the thickness of the bags in some references for sliced bread. And in Pastificio, as well as having already reduced film waste by almost half, we are working to reduce the thickness of the film. On the other hand, in Tepeji, the factory is committed to the use of recycled material. In 2017, 100% of cardboard, 80% of boxes and 70% of the plastic trays containing the biscuit assortment were recycled. Zero waste to Finally, in 2018, we pledge to continue working to improve the management and optimisation of waste and by-product. landfill 41 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future I N I T I AT I V E S A I M E D AT R E D U C I N G E N E R G Y C O N S U M P T I O N As indicated earlier, the energy consumption of our plants has risen when Energy consumption trend (GJ) 2016 2017 compared with the previous year’s figure as a result of an increase in our Electricity 31,900 93,895 production capacity. Gas consumption 75,241 167,841 Total 107,685 261,736 Total per tonne sold 1.5 2.4 Energy consumption by category (GJ/ t sold) As well as raising awareness and providing training in good environmental 8.32 practices, we introduced a series of initiatives over the course of 2017 that were geared towards reducing energy consumption in Nutriceal and Mem Martins. These include the gradual replacement of fluorescent lights with LED lights, the improvements to pipe insulation and the optimisation of 2.11 1.77 certain processes. 1.21 1.49 1.45 0.47 0.79 1.06 1.01 Pasta Baby food Biscuits and snacks Pastries Bread Electricity Gas 42 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Dangerous waste (Kg/t sold) 0.063 4% Construction and demolition 5% waste 0.056 Other waste for storage before 3% destruction Plastic 2016 2017 7% Sewage 24% Recycling sluolge and recovery % Residuos containers 8% Wooden no peligrosos pallets por tipología 15% P  ackaging Non dangerous waste (Kg/t sold) 10% Waste for 73.02 biological 12% treatment 12% Cardboard Municipal waste 25.44 2016 2017 *This graphics do not include Pastificio and Workshop factories. **The amount of by product is included in the non danger ous wastegraphic. 43 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future 2015 2016 2017 Total direct tax contribution (in €m) 2.24 3.79 4.20 SOMETHING Social Security 1.34 2.68 3.05 Corporation Tax 0.6 0.85 0.45 Other taxes and levies 0.3 0.26 0.70 BEYOND Total indirect tax contribution (in €m) 2.44 3.57 4.81 Social Security 0.47 0.61 1.24 Income Tax 1.57 2.59 3.15 VAT 0.4 0.37 0.42 OURSELVES Total tax contribution 2017 (in €m) 4.68 7.36 9.01 Growth in tax contribution 19% 1% P  ayments to capital (in €m) Staff suppliers W E G E N E R AT E VA L U E costs 4.81 We want to go beyond what we already 3.57 % Distributed economic are and become a company that society 2.44 value wants to have at its core. We can do this 2.24 3.79 4.20 80% if we add value by sharing our interests, 2015 2016 2017 Operating costs generating opportunities, helping Direct tax contribution Indirect tax contribution others to meet challenges and creating solutions within our communities. 44 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Clients 87% LOCAL SUPPLIERS Capital People 70% LOCAL HIRING IN THE UK + 90% LOCAL HIRING IN ITALY, MEXICO, SPAIN AND PORTUGAL Society Stakeholders 6.51% OF OUR COLLEAGUES COME FROM GROUPS WITH BARRIERS TO WORK Suppliers 50% LOCAL HIRING IN USA At the core of our business model is the commitment to create However, we also make our mark globally through our projects and value for each of our stakeholders: clients, people, suppliers, interventions, addressing major challenges of a social, economic and society and capital. In the communities where we operate, we do this by environmental dimension. These are included in the list of 17 Sustainable generating employment, contracting local suppliers, paying taxes, fulfilling Development Objectives (SDO). our clients’ expectations or working with others on social initiatives in the local community. 45 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future C E R E A LT O A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y O B J E C T I V E S The 17 objectives for sustainable development within the “2030 Agenda Also listed are the Sustainable Development Objectives that Cerealto has for Sustainable Development”, approved by world leaders in a United been able to act upon through some of its initiatives.* Nations summit, set out a vision that embraces an end to all forms of poverty, hunger and inequality, and the preservation of our planet’s natural resources before 2030. This schedule forces companies to be the drivers of change, along with governments and society. Zero Health and Good-quality Access to nonDecent jobs Industry, Responsible Measures to hunger wellbeing education polluting sourand economic innovation and production protect the ces of energy growth infrastructure and climate consumption Erradicar Sustainable Development Objectives a fome Some of the actions taken by Cerealto OBJECTIVE 2. Put an end to hunger, be committed to food safety standards • We donate some of our products to disadvantaged groups in the and improvements in nutrition, and promote sustainable farming communities in which we operate. • Our factories are certified to strict standards of food safety and quality that are internationally recognised (IFS, BRC, ISO). • We offer products that comply with a range of different standards (KOSHER, HALAL, Organic, etc). OBJECTIVE 3. Encourage a healthy lifestyle and promote the wellbeing of • We work to improve and develop healthy products (reducing sugars people of all ages and fats, increasing fibre and protein) and products that meet the specific needs of different groups (those with coeliac disease, diabetes or high blood pressure). • We introduce healthy initiatives to encourage our colleagues to improve their dietary habits. • We carry out campaigns aimed at safeguarding the occupational health and safety of our colleagues. • We donate healthy products to people who take part in sports. *These actions are explained more fully in other sections of the Annual Report 46 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Sustainable Development Objectives Some of the actions taken by Cerealto OBJECTIVE 4. Offer good-quality, inclusive and equal education and promote • We invest in the training and professional development of all our staff. lifelong learning opportunities for everyone • We have an induction programme to introduce new staff to our corporate culture, our policies and procedures. • Our leaders take courses at the San Pelayo Business School to assist in their professional development; these are tailored to their role (Leadership School, Languages School, Operations School and BCN School). OBJECTIVE 7. Provide global access to safe, affordable, sustainable and • We have introduced energy-efficient initiatives in our plants. modern sources of energy OBJECTIVE 8. Promote economic growth that is consistent, inclusive and • We are signatories to the UN Global Compact sustainable, as well as full employment and decent work for all • Our staff comprises almost 1, 800 colleagues made up 18 nationalities. • 6.51% of our staff are people who find it difficult to access the workplace. • We offer equal opportunities for professional development to both men and women (57% vs 43%). OBJECTIVE 9. Build strong infrastructure, promote inclusive industrialization • We launched 175 product developments in 2017. and encourage innovation • We invest 5% of our annual turnover in innovation. OBJECTIVE 12. Pledge to sustainable patterns of consumption and production • 5 of our factories are zero-waste-to-landfill. OBJECTIVE 13. Adopt urgent measures to combat climate change and its • We have introduced a digitization initiative at our plants. This will make it effects possible to create real-time information management, optimize material flow and improve our efficiency in monitoring the supply chain. • We measure the carbon footprint of all our factories and put in place actions to reduce this. 47 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future W E A R E C I T I Z E N S O F T H E C O M M U N I T I E S I N W H I C H W E O P E R AT E Because the world we share is so important to us, we have undertaken to support the following causes: A coordinated action gift. In the spirit of a goodwill gesture, Cerealto Recycling that gets rid of hunger set aside three euros for each of our colleagues so that they could make ‘For each kg of material recycled, we donate two euros to Action a donation to the coordinated action campaign of their choice. They Against Hunger’. were able to choose from the following organisations: The ONCE Foundation, dedicated to integrating those with a handicap In our offices in Madrid we embarked on a challenge geared towards into society. improving our workplaces, by raising awareness among our colleagues Green Cross International, whose mission is to encourage ethical about the environment while supporting a good cause: malnutrition. behaviour in society in order to address climate change and environmental We collected 200 kg of recyclable material, and the equivalent monetary degradation. value went on to help 20 children escape malnutrition. StreetGames Network, which promotes sport among young people in communities at risk of social exclusion. Action Against Hunger, whose objective is to fight the causes and effects of hunger throughout the world. Donation to Action Against Hunger 48 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future 2. 1. 4. 3. Victims of the earthquake in Mexico. Following the catastrophic 7.1 Donation of products. Our factories in Worksop, Tepeji and Benavente magnitude earthquake that struck Mexico, Cerealto lent its support to donated more than 10,000 kilos of products to the most disadvantaged those of our colleagues in Mexico who were affected, along with their people via various non-profit organisations and associations. families (picture 1). We support sport. We continued to lend our support to sporting Fundación Angelitos míos (My Little Angels Foundation). With a endeavours by donating some of our products to those competing in particular focus on groups at risk, we joined forces with this foundation the 6th Antequera Half-Marathon and the Worksop Halloween Half in Mexico, which helps children with Autism Spectrum Disorder, cerebral Marathon (picture 4). palsy, Down’s Syndrome or mental disabilities (picture 2). Finally, we are conscious of what a key role joint action can play in the culture Benito Juárez School. Our colleagues in Tepeji (Mexico) handed of any organisation. As a result, we held a ‘Design Thinking’ session with those out gifts in this primary school to celebrate Mother’s Day and colleagues who have experience of volunteering in order to generate ideas Children’s Day (picture 3). about how to set up a corporate voluntary work programme at Cerealto. 49 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future L I S T E N I N G , PA R T I C I PAT I N G A N D S H A R I N G At Cerealto, we believe in building strong relationships and seek to Food trade and Innovation fairs benefit mutually from these by sharing knowledge and experiences. ISM (Cologne) Thus, in 2018, we are taking part in a number of trade fairs in the Food Gulfood (Dubai) (picture 1) and Innovation sectors. These events provide an opportunity for us to PLMA (Amsterdam and Chicago) (picture 2) present our latest developments and continue positioning ourselves Fancy Foods (New York) (picture 3) in the international markets, as well as to identify new trends and Anuga (Cologne) (picture 4) innovations. Alibetropía (Madrid). 1. 2. 1. 3. 4. 50 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future 1. 2. 5. 3. 4. We participate in forums with other companies in the sector to share key developments and best practice in areas that are particularly relevant to us, such as employment, disability or geographic mobility. • Feria de Empleo (Job Fair) at the San Pablo CEU University, Madrid (picture 1). • Human Resources discussion forum at the Piaget Institute, Lisbon • AECOC Summer Camp, Barcelona, where university students from all (Portugal). We discussed our experiences of Human Resources over Spain share their knowledge and experiences with delegates from processes with other professionals in the sector, and with students the Human Resources departments of those companies present (picture 2). of Management and Psychology (picture 5). • Conference on promoting a positive and inclusive attitude towards • Next Generation learning 2017 event (Spain). We shared experiences disability in the workplace, Washington DC (USA). of customising in-house training (picture 4). • Employment seminar in San Antonio, Texas (USA), which covered new • 32nd AECOC Congress on Consumer Products, Valencia (Spain). employment trends and the skills most needed for a globalised world. This seminar analysed the emerging trends in this sector and their • Free Trade Alliance meetings in San Antonio, Texas (USA) (picture 3). economic and social context. • Conference at the Institute of Grocery Distribution, London (United • 11th International Meeting on Information Security, León (Spain), Kingdom). which examined the challenges to cybersecurity in a networked world. • I Foro de Movilidad Internacional, Madrid (Spain). 51 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future Beyond this, we also forged links with local government in 2017, holding meetings with the Mayors of Briviesca and Antequera in Spain and the Mayor of Alessandria in Italy. Cerealto also belongs to various organisations in the markets where we have a presence. Portugal United Kingdom • National Association of Baby food and Specialised • Department of Business Innovation & Skills Nutrition Industries (ANID) • Bassetlaw District Council • Association of the Biscuit and Confectionery • Food and Drink Federation (FDF) Industries (AIBA) • Institute of Grocery Distribution • Federation of Portuguese Agri-Food Industries • Institute of Directors (FIPA) • North Notts College • The Portuguese Association of Industries (AIP) • Sheffield Hallam University • Leeds University Spain • Campden Research • Spanish Institute for Foreign Trade • Madrid Chamber of Commerce USA • Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Italy • Texas Workforce Commission • Employers’ Association of Alessandria’ • City of Seguin Economic Development • Italian Chamber of Commerce • Free Trade Alliance San Antonio • General Confederation of Italian Industry • American Institute of Baking • Italian General Confederation of Labour • University of Texas San Antonio (UTSA) • Italian Food Producers’ Federation Mexico • Industrial Mutual Aid Plan • Technological University of Tula-Tepeji 52 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future ABOUT THE ANNUAL REPORT This report has been written using the international standard Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, version G4 and Sector Disclosures, both to define the content of the report and guarantee its quality. This document provides information on Cerealto’s different activities and key social, economic and environmental impacts during the 2017 fiscal year, as well as aspects which are deemed relevant for stakeholders. Regarding the scope of the report, the information provided relates to all the companies that make up Cerealto. In those cases where there are different aspect boundaries and scope, appropriate specifications have been made. The report is structured around relevant topics from our sustainable model, our strategic priorities, relevant aspects dealt with by companies in the sector, and the G4 guide and Sector Disclosures which apply to us. 53 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Number Strategy and Analysis G4-1. S tatement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization 3,4 and its strategy. G4-2. Describe key impacts, risks and opportunities. 3,4, 15,29 Organizational Profile G4-3. Name of the organization. 5 G4-4. Primary brands, products and/or services of the organization. 6,11 G4-5. Location of the organization’s headquarters. 61 G4-6. Number of countries where the organization operates. Names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or 16 that are specifically relevant to sustainability topics. G4-7. Nature of ownership and legal form. Cerealto Siro Foods S.A. G4-8. Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 13,16 G4-9. Scale of the organization. Number of employees, number of operations, net sales… 6,12,19 G4-10. 19,20 a) Number of employees by employment contract and gender. b) Number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c) Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d) Total workforce by region and gender; seasonal hires. e) Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f) Report any significant variations in employment numbers. G4-12. Description of the organization’s supply chain. 37-38 G4-13. Significant changes during the reporting period: size, structure, ownership or supply chain. 7 54 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Number G4-14. Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 36,37 G4-15. L ist externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 3,40-42, 47 organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16. Key associations the organization is a member of and/or national and international organizations it supports. 53 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17. 54 a) List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b) R  eport whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18. 54 a) Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. b) Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 46, 54 G4-20. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. 54 G4-21. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. 54 G4-22. Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 54 G4-23. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 54 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24. Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 46 G4-25. Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 46 G4-26. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, 21,29,39,45 and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27. R eport key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to 21,29,39,45 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 55 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Number Report Profile G4-28. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year). 54 G4-29. Date of most recent previous report. 2016 G4-30. Reporting cycle. Anual G4-31. Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 61 G4-32. GRI Index for the chosen “in accordance” option. 54 G4-33. External assurance for the report. Not applicable Governance G4-34. R eport the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees 8 responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity G4-56. Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 18,37 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Topic Management Approach/ Indicator Page Number Economic Dimension G4-DMA Value creation G4-EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed. 37,45,46 Engagement with local communities G4-EC8. Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 31,37,45,47,48 Engagement with local communities G4-EC9. Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. 37,38 Sustainable agri-food chain FP1. Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy. 37,38 Sustainable agri-food chain / Quality and Food Safety F  P2. Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, 38 internationally recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard. 56 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Topic Management Approach/ Indicator Page Number Environmental Dimension G4-DMA Sustainable agri-food chain G4-EN1. Materials used by weight or volume. 37 Environmental management G4-EN3. Energy consumption within the organization. 43 Environmental management G4-EN5. Energy intensity. 43 Environmental management G4-EN8. Total water withdrawal by source. 41 Climate change G4-18. Greenhouse gas emissions intensity. 40 Environmental management G4-EN23. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 44 Environmental management G4-EN27. Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 39 Sustainable agri-food chain G4-EN32. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. 38 Social Dimension G4-DMA Job creation G4-LA1. Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 20 gender and region. Professional development G-LA9. Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 21 Talent management G4-LA10. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 23 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Talent management G4-LA11. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 21 reviews, by gender and by employee category. Diversity management G4-LA12. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 8,20,24 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Sustainable agri-food chain G4-LA14. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria. 37,38 Sustainable agri-food chain G4-LA15. Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the supply 37,38 chain and actions taken. Ethical conduct/ Sustainable agri-food chain G4-HR4. Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 37,38 and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. 57 A N N U A L R E P O R T I Cerealto 2017 Cultivating the future SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Topic Management Approach/ Indicator Page Number Ethical conduct/ Sustainable agri-food chain G  4-HR5. Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, 37,38 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Ethical conduct/ Sustainable agri-food chain G4-HR6. Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced 37,38 or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Ethical conduct/ Sustainable agri-food chain G4-HR9. Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights 37,38 reviews or impact assessments. Sustainable agri-food chain G4-HR10. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. 37,38 Sustainable agri-food chain G4-HR11. . Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain 37,38 and actions taken. Engagement with local communities G4-SO1. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 37,38 assessments, and development programs. Ethical conduct G4-SO3. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and 45-53 the significant risks identified. Ethical conduct G4-SO4. Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 45-53 Sustainable agri-food chain G4-SO9. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. 45-53 Health and Food Safety G4-PR1. Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety 30,32,36 impacts are assessed for improvement. Quality Management and Food Safety systems G4-PR3. Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for 29,36 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements. Health and Food Safety FP5. Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third 36 party according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards. R&D. Nutrition, health and wellbeing FP6. Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that are 29,31-33 lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugars. R&D. Nutrition, health and wellbeing FP7. Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain 29,31-33 increased nutritious ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals or functional food additives. 58 Sales offices Factories Headquarters in Madrid, Spain Antequera, Spain Paseo Pintor Rosales, 40. 28008 Madrid, Spain Pol. Ind. Antequera. Calle Antiquaria, 3. 29200. Antequera, Spain Tel: +34 914 547 855 Tel: +34 952 84 09 12 Mem Martins, Portugal Briviesca, Spain Rua da Indústria, nº37, 37A, 37B. Bairro de São Carlos Pol. Ind. La Vega. Calle Salamanca, 61-63. 9240. Briviesca, Spain Mem Martins, 2725-473. Portugal Tel: +34 947 59 20 20 Tel: + 351 219 226 840 Benavente, Portugal Bologna, Italy Rua Vasco da Gama, Nº 128, 2130-197 Benavente, Portugal Via Malvasia 14. 40131 Bologna, Italy Tel: +351 263 519 300 Tel: +39 051 412 24 18 Mem Martins, Portugal London, United Kingdom Rua da Indústria, nº37, 37A, 37B. Bairro de São Carlos 12 Gough Square, EC4A 3DW London, UK Mem Martins, 2725-473. Portugal Tel: +44 148 356 1203 Tel: + 351 219 226 840 San Antonio, Texas, United States Tepeji del Río Ocampo, Mexico 700 East Sonterra Boulevard, Suite 1211 TX 78258 San Antonio, Texas Parque Industrial de Tepeji, 149, Tel. +1 210 468 3070 Tepeji del Río de Ocampo, 42850 Hidalgo, Mexico Tel: +52 773 731 02 55 Mexico City, Mexico Jaime Balmes 11, Torre B, Piso 4-Interior 417 Cuautitlán, Mexico Col. Los Morales Polanco Av. Antonio Lavoisier 1 Delegación Miguel Hidalgo,11510 Col. Parque Industrial Cuamatla Mexico City, Mexico Cuautitlán Izcalli 54730 Tel: +55 4165 5904 Estado de México. Mexico Tel: +55 5870 3091 Silvano d’Orba, Italy Via Lerma, 68, 15060 Silvano D’Orba, Italy Tel: +39 0143 882 309 Worksop, United Kingdom Claylands Avenue, Worksop, Nottinghamshire, S81 7BQ, UK Tel: +44 190 950 1395 Editor Cerealto If you have any doubt or suggestion regarding this report, please contact our: Communication Department info@cerealto.com Other aspect Editing date: March 2018 Cultivating the future www.cerealto.com www.nutricealfoods.com www.moccagattapasta.com
