Richards Bay Coal Terminal Proprietary Limited Sustainable Development Report 2017 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Our Mission Moving coal in a safe, cost effective and efficient manner, safeguarding the environment and stakeholders. Our Vision Moving coal passionately through a world class Port Terminal. Our Core Values We will not engage in any unsafe activity. We work to the best of our ability. We treat each other with respect and dignity. We are innovative and pro-active. We care for the wellbeing of employees. We care for the environment Contents Sustainable Development Report 2 RBCT Board 3 RBCT Executive Team 4 Company Profile 6 Process Flow 7 Terminal Highlights 8 Statement from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 10 RBCT Strategy 13 Corporate Governance 18 Occupational Health, Safety, Environment and Risk 30 Operational Performance 33 Valuing and Empowering our People 40 Delivering Sustainable Social Value 45 Driving Enterprise and Supplier Development 47 Glossary 49 Boundary and Scope RBCT Board N Siwisa Damasane (Chairman) MS Teke AJ Rogan IA Swanepoel KT Nondumo MJ Fraser Z Docrat FJ Lopez ND Baloyi AJ Dladla MJ Houston 2 2017 Sustainable Development Report RBCT Executive Team Alan Waller CEO Casper Mbuyazi Jabu Mdaki Bill Murphy GM: Finance GM: Operations GM: Projects Kubendren Naidoo Zanele Mthiyane Nontuthuko Mgabhi GM: Asset Management GM: HSEC GM: HR 3 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Company Profile Richards Bay Coal Terminal (RBCT) is a world class coal export terminal situated in the Port of Richards Bay. The terminal was opened in 1976 with an original capacity of 12 million tons per annum (mt/a). Johannesburg The terminal provides South Africa’s GAUTENG Coal Exporting Parties (CEP’s) with NORTH WEST a world class logistics service that FREE STATE KWAZULU-NATAL facilitates the export of coal. Bloemfontein Richards Bay Export Destination per Continent Asia 81.6% Durban Europe 10.1% NORTHERN CAPE Africa 7.8% South America 0.5% RBCT is positioned at one of the world’s deep sea ports, and handles WESTERN CAPE Cape Town large ships and large volumes of coal. The 276 hectare site currently boasts a quay that is 2,2 kilometers long with six berths and four ship loaders, with a stockyard capacity of 8,2 million tons (mt). RBCT shares a strong co-operative relationship with South Africa’s 276 2,2km 6 national utility, Transnet, which provides the railway services linking the coal mines to the port, and the shipping coordination of more than Hectares Quay Berths 900 ships per annum. All RBCT’s operations and administrative functions are conducted in Richards Bay. 4 Ship Loaders 8,2m >900 Ton stockyard Ships per annum (10 000 to 12 000 tph) RBCT History 1976 1979 1984 1991 1995 RBCT officially The terminal The terminal Phase III was CAPANCO opened completed further upgraded enhanced its Phase 1 of the Phase II expanded its increasing capacity and terminal; with a expanding capacity to the exporting increased capacity of 12 its exporting Phase III taking capacity to its exporting Mt/a; started capacity from its export 53 Mt/a capacity to exporting coal 12 Mt/a to 24 capacity to 63 Mt/a Mt/a 44 Mt/a 4 2017 Sustainable Development Report Company Profile Stock Yard Capacity 2 x Stackers INBOUND 5 x Tandem Tipplers with a 5 500 tph tipping capacity of 5 500 tph 1 x Reclaimer OUTBOUND 4 x Ship loaders 10 000 to 12 000 tph 6 000 tph 5 x Cape Size Vessels 7 x Stacker Reclaimers 3 600 to 4 600 tph 1999 2008 2010 2015 2016 2017 The Brownfield’s Through the The Phase Machinery Celebration of Phase 1 expansion Quattro project V Expansion Replacement 40 years Machinery project was the terminal increased Project Replacement completed, increased the design launched Project: 2 increasing its design capacity to 91 Replacement Shiploaders exporting capacity to 76 Mt/a of original were capacity to Mt/a 1976 commissioned 72 Mt/a machines 5 Coal to the world, growth to the nation RBCT Process Flow Coal is mined from the Earth... ...and loaded onto trains... ... the coal is tipped ... the trains transport the onto a conveyor belt... coal to RBCT... ... and then reclaimed... ... and then stacked in huge piles ... ... and loaded on to waiting vessels... ... which carry the coal to destinations around the world 6 2017 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Terminal Highlights Achieved 2 Million Lost-Time-Injury Free Man-hours 1 806 610t Tons imported in a week (August) 7 464 715t Tons imported in a month (August) 75 597 134t Tons imported in a year 76 467 543t Tons exported in a year Global Ports Forum Bulk Logistics Port/ ZCCI Terminal of the Premium Award Year Award of the Year 31% Water usage reduction ZAR3.2 million invested in Corporate Social Investment 7 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Statement by the Chief Executive Officer Safety Performance In 2015 RBCT commenced with the ZAR1.3 billion Phase 1 Machine Replacement Project and in 2017, two new shiploaders were commissioned. Major machinery related projects of this nature present significant safety risks to the business and safety remains at the forefront of any activity at the Terminal. The Safety record of the project is very good with no lost time Injuries incurred to date. The project currently remains on time and within budget with great quality. Well done to the Capital Projects team as well as Asset Management and Operations for the handover of the first two machines and the seamless integration of these into the RBCT operation. Construction is ongoing on the new Stacker Reclaimers 1 and 2. As a Terminal including the project, we incurred a total of 49 minor injuries in 2017, which included 9 injuries from the Phase 1 Machine Replacement Project (3 minor and 6 first aid injuries), against 36 in 2016. We remain committed and steadfast on safety and we strive to improve this performance in 2018 and beyond. Additional measures and initiatives have already been put in place to ensure that we reduce the number of injuries in 2018, remembering that we are continuously aiming for zero injuries. It is without a doubt that 2017 will stand out as the year of achieving Considering the above, we were still able to energise and refocus which new milestones with record saw us achieve 2 million LTI free man-hours on 23 December 2017 while breaking performances. What we ended the year with 22 injury free days. In terms of our bi annual safety we achieved as a Terminal and a survey we experienced a decline of 2% from 2015 however we remain value chain exceeded our initial predominately proactive and resilient in terms of safety, there are however expectations although it is aligned always opportunities for improvement to ensure we take our safety to the with our strategic objectives next level. of stretching and testing the Terminal. Operational Performance The Terminal experienced major queuing situations during six months The highest, grandest vision of the year. This was largely due to adverse weather conditions which possible was unveiled for the resulted in Port closures. The Port was closed for a total of 38 days during Terminal, and we achieved this 2017. This contributed to RBCT not being able to achieve a number of vision together. Weekly, monthly operational measures despite a record breaking performance both on and yearly performance records Import and Export figures. Our value chain measures were significantly were broken. Bravo to all RBCT impacted by vessel queues. We acknowledge that some of these employees and stakeholders. challenges are external and are not created by the Terminal, however we believe that we have a role to play in mitigating the impact of these Employees achieved 85.39% on challenges. The RBCT team rose to the occasion when we were faced their scorecards, while Senior with these challenges, this is testament to the resilience of our people and Management, including the the terminal. General Managers, achieved a score of 81.18%. This was Considering the challenges and opportunities presented to the Terminal, achieved in a challenging it was a good year with both the import and export records being broken environment. Well done to the with 75.6 million tons railed to the Terminal and 76.4 million tons exported. RBCT Team, it was only done with It is extremely positive to note that, given the above, we exported coal the collective efforts of everyone during the final quarter at an annualised rate of 90.1Mt, in line with the and we achieved this result without Terminal design capacity of 91Mt. any major incidents. Machine Maintenance We saw great results in both operations and maintenance with maintenance delays reduced from 15.56 Min/10kt (2016) to 15.04 Min/10kt in 2017, against the target of 13.73 Min/10kt. 8 2017 Sustainable Development Report A job well done to the 4 promotions, 3 were in line with our employment equity plan. Our Talent maintenance team, with extremely management process remains key to our succession plans and continues good cooperation from operations to ensure we have seamless continuity within the organisation. This to make machines available for continues to ensure the stability of the terminal. We pride ourselves as a maintenance in often challenging Terminal for doing the right things for the right reasons. circumstances. The reliability of our infrastructure is key to Our strategy is to always aim to go beyond compliance thereby ensuring providing an efficient service to we will always stay ahead of the game. Although we enjoy reaching new our customers. milestones, our overall strategy is to continue being a safe, reliable and efficient coal export terminal, never loosing site of our core purpose. We Focus on our People are strong believers that success breeds success and that in our business We would not have achieved this can only be achieved through the collective efforts of our people and these results without people. our stakeholders. People remain the backbone of the Terminal and at the centre of Terminal Awards the RBCT strategic imperatives. It is for this reason that we are humbled by the accolades we receive In 2017 we focused on listening along the way in our pursuit of excellence. In 2017 RBCT was nominated more to our people, thereby by Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA), our strategic business strengthening the relationship. partner, as the Bulk Logistics Port/Terminal of the Year and it is with great A record of 413 employees excitement that RBCT was declared the winner of this prestigious Award participated in our Annual (Global Ports Forum International Award). Locally, RBCT was nominated Organizational Health Survey and for six Zululand Chamber of Commerce and Industry awards. RBCT won although the general sentiment five awards and was a runner up in the sixth category. The significance of declined by 8% in 2017, the these awards is that they were awarded in areas that matter the most to results still indicate that a total RBCT (people, safety, environment and logistics). of 67% of employees are fully Corporate Social Investment engaged and positive. The decline RBCT remains a responsible corporate citizen and invested a sum of was not totally unexpected given ZAR3.2 Million in our local communities through our Corporate Social that we had achieved a 5.8% Investment Programmes that deliver sustainable social value. In 2017, improvement in 2016 following on the focus remained on early childhood development, education and from our wage negotiations, which community welfare. was unexpected. Alan Waller A post-mortem was done to Chief Executive Officer understand the gap/drop in the Richards Bay Coal Terminal 2 divisions that declined (out of 7 divisions). A number of issues were identified as having adversely impacted on our peoples moral, with the majority of these resolved by the end of 2017. Overall we remained ABLE/ENGAGED at (67%) on Organisational Health. We pride ourselves and we continuously remind our people that RBCT is a company of opportunities. We encourage all employees to grab opportunities available to them, or alternatively ensure that they are properly prepared should an opportunity present itself. In 2017 we had 4 Senior Management internal promotions and of the 9 Coal to the world, growth to the nation RBCT Strategy 2015 2017 Our Strategy In 2017, we continued our main focus on working safely, infrastructure (phase RBCT STRATEGY 1 machinery replacement project) and cost optimization. 2015 2017 We believed focusing on these core critical areas will deliver Increase Lifetime Value value for all stakeholders in the Increased Utilisation Decrease Total Cost short, medium and long term. 2015-2017 We were successful in Growth and of Assets commissioning the 2 Sustainability shiploaders safely – without any major injuries, and we achieved 2 million LTI free man-hours. Our target remains zero injuries. Maintenance and Operations Stakeholder Management On people, the Organizational 2013-2015 Organisational Health Plant Health Safety Stabilising Health Survey indicated that 67% of employees are fully engaged. We continue with focus on people to ensure that RBCT has the right people in the right roles, doing the right work and are attuned to the culture and values of the organization. The 3 year wage agreement reached in 2016 is ongoing (2016 – 2019). A total of ZAR3.2million was invested in Corporate Social Investment Programmes in our local communities. The main focus was on Education and Early Childhood Development. Our 2017 strategic imperatives were: • Increased utilization of assets • Decrease total cost • Increase lifetime value All of the above were achieved in a value driven and socially acceptable or responsible manner 10 2017 Sustainable Development Report Organisational Profile The Board of Directors General Managers There are 12 director positions of which 11 have been TC Mbuyazi filled. 7 Non-executive directors and their alternates, 1 executive director (CEO), 2 independent nonJ Mdaki executive directors and the Chairman. Z Mthiyane (Ms) W Murphy Executive Director K Naidoo AJ Waller (CEO) N Mgabhi (Ms) Chairman N Siwisa-Damasane (Chairman) Company Secretary AD du Toit (Ms) Directors ND Baloyi Registered Office Z Docrat South Dunes AJ Dladla Richards Bay Harbour MJ Fraser P O Box 56 MJ Houston Richards Bay 3900 FJ Lopez Campo IA Swanepoel Auditors Deloitte and Touche Independent Non-Executive Directors P O Box 10167 KT Nondumo (Ms) Meerensee 3901 MS Teke Registration No. Alternate Directors 1973/014256/07 NSH Hassan V Chetty TL Myburgh PK Masia RSE Alberts J Lucini Baquerizo MR Walker 11 Coal to the world, growth to the nation RBCT Shareholders Shareholding Anglo Operations (Pty) Ltd ARM Coal (Pty) Ltd Exxaro Coal (Pty) Ltd Glencore Operations South Africa (Pty) Ltd Kangra Coal (Pty) Ltd Koornfontein Mines (Pty) Ltd Optimum Coal Terminal (Pty) Ltd Sasol Mining (Pty) Ltd South 32 SA Coal Holding (Pty) Ltd South Dunes Coal Terminal (SOC) Ltd South African Coal Mine Holdings Ltd Tumelo Coal Mines (Pty) Ltd Umcebo Mining (Pty) Ltd 12 2017 Sustainable Development Report Corporate Governance Purpose and Function of the Board RBCT subscribes strictly to the principles of good corporate governance. The Board of Directors carry out fiduciary duties with a sense of objective judgement and independence in the best interests of the company, providing strategic direction to RBCT through quarterly Board meetings and the delegation of authority to Board sub-committees and executive management. The Board reviews and directs the company’s strategic objectives and annual budget. Professional standards and corporate values are put in place that promote integrity of the Board, Senior management and employees. It further provides guidance on the performance of the company and ensures that RBCT adheres to triple bottom line reporting. Board Committees OPCO OPCO operates in terms of its mandate from the Board To enable the Board to efficiently carry out its of Directors. The Committee deals with mutual matters responsibilities and duties, certain responsibilities have relating to the operations of the Terminal in order to been delegated to the sub-committees as recommended provide an effective and efficient service to all RBCT by the King Report. Each sub-committee has detailed users. Terms of Reference approved by the Board. The following members form part of OPCO: Our Sub-Committees are as follows: Members Alternates • Operations Committee (OPCO) – Chaired by the CEO AJ Waller (Chairperson) • Finance Committee (FINCO) – Chaired by one of A Bernic S Mely (Ms) the Shareholder nominated members B Blumenthal C Viljoen • Remunerations Committee (REMCO) – Chaired by N Burger (Ms) J Britz an Independent Board Member C Burns (Ms) • Social and Ethics Committee (S&EC) – Chaired by an Independent Board Member V Chetty A Moepadira • Projects Committee (PROCOM) – B Dalton A Ngwane (Ms) Chaired by the CEO A David L Andrews These sub-committees do not diminish the Board’s M Lamprecht R Essay overall responsibilities. The Chairman of each subM Moeketsi SJ Ferreira committee reports, as well as makes recommendations H Pyoos to the Board at each Board meeting. The minutes of all M Steyn (Ms) A Ngwane (Ms) sub-committee meetings are submitted to the directors prior to Board meetings and any matters of concern or E Theron progress are discussed by the Board. H Viljoen (Ms) C Taljaard G van der Merwe GFT Warnasuriya FINCO The functions of FINCO include matters relating to finance, the Shareholders’ Agreement (governing relations between shareholders and the company), taxation and various administrative matters. The audit committee of FINCO assists the Board on matters of monitoring and control as well as the practice of good corporate governance. In addition, the committee oversees the internal audit function. 13 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Corporate Governance Glencore Operations South Africa was the Risk and The following members form part of REMCO: Assurance provider for 2017, as approved by the Finance Committee. The mandate of the Risk and Members Alternates Assurance Provider is to review the reliability and MS Teke (Chairperson) integrity of financial as well as operating information, N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) systems of internal control and the safeguarding of RBCT’s assets as well as financial information. Z Docrat V Chetty MJ Houston RSE Alberts The following members form part of FINCO: MJ Fraser P Masia Members Alternates S&EC R Cohen (Chairperson) Z Bhorat (Ms) NG Schneider The responsibilities of the committee are as follows: N Cebekhulu (Ms) • Monitoring the company’s activities with regard to I Coetzee (Ms) MR Walker matters relating to: I Desai M Tshabalala E Hanekom (Ms) oo Social and economic development, including RBCT’s standing in terms of the goals and M Immelman (Ms) purposes of M Lamprecht R Essay RJ Langford V Chaithram (Ms) »» the ten principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles FJ Lopez Campo KT Nondumo (Ms) »» the recommendations of the Organisation G van den Heever for Economic Co-operation and Development, regarding corruption AJ Waller »» the Employment Equity Act REMCO »» Organisational Health/Employee Engagement RBCT’s philosophy is to set remuneration levels that are able to attract and retain the Executive Directors »» the Broad-Based Black Economic and General Management needed to manage RBCT Empowerment (BBBEE) Act successfully. A portion of Executive Directors and General Management’s remuneration is structured oo Good corporate citizenship, including the so as to link corporate and individual performance to Company’s commitment to the promotion of ensure commitment and alignment. equality, prevention of unfair discrimination, reduction of corruption, contribution to In accordance with these objectives, REMCO development of the communities in which annually reviews and evaluates the contribution its activities are predominantly conducted, of the Executive Director, as well as the General the environment, health and public safety, Management members and determines their annual including the impact of the company’s activities salary adjustments and bonuses. and of its products or services such as: For this purpose, it considers salary surveys compiled »» consumer relationships, including the by independent organisations. No Executive Director Company’s advertising, public relations or General Manager is involved in any decisions as to and compliance with consumer protection his/her own remuneration. laws, In addition, the committee determines the annual as »» labour and employment well as medium term performance bonuses of the executive and the General Management members. • Monitor the company’s performance and interaction with its stakeholders and ensure that this interaction is guided by the Constitution and Bill of Rights 14 2017 Sustainable Development Report • Determine clearly articulated ethical standards and ensure that RBCT takes measures to achieve Functional Structures adherence to these in all aspects of the business, thus achieving a sustainable ethical corporate RBCT has standing committees that are assigned culture within the company to manage, monitor and guide the organisation in regard to good governance and ethical matters. These • Provide effective leadership based on an ethical committees are tasked to discuss matters related foundation and ensure that the company is a to their respective mandate and make decisions in responsible corporate citizen compliance with RBCT values and business strategy. RBCT subscribes to the highest ethical standards and Tender Committee behaviour and requires total honesty and integrity from its employees at all times. A “Code of Business The Terms of Reference of the committee is to ensure Conduct and Ethics” has been approved by the that procurement activities are in compliance with Board of Directors and all employees are required to RBCT procurement processes. subscribe to the code. The Committee comprises of: The following members form part of S&EC: • General Manager Finance Members Alternates • General Manager Capital Projects MS Teke (Chairperson) • General Manager Health, Safety, Environment and N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) Compliance Z Docrat V Chetty MJ Houston RSE Alberts • General Manager Human Resources MJ Fraser P Masia • General Manager Asset Management • General Manager Operations PROCOM • Senior Manager Maintenance PROCOM members deal with Major Projects, as well as Engineering matters and other matters as may be • Procurement Manager referred to it by the Board. The committee also makes recommendations to the Board for final decision. Risk Committee The following members form part of PROCOM: As part of the risk management strategy, RBCT uses the Risk Committee as the final gate keeper of risk within the company. This committee consists of the Members Alternates Chief Executive Officer, GM Finance, GM Health, AJ Waller (Chairperson) B Murphy (Vice Chairperson) Safety, Environment, and Compliance, Risk Officer W Bezuidenhout and Senior Internal Auditor. BH Miles P Malatji A Butcher P Venter RP Hugo S Naicker J Lucini Baquerizo T Schmidt D Power L Turvey 15 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Corporate Governance Corporate Social and Investment Committee Internal Audit and Assurance The committee is responsible for executing RBCT’s CSI initiatives. The Board of Directors acknowledges their The committee is responsible for contributing towards responsibility for an Internal Audit function as this the development of the communities in which RBCT’s ensures RBCT keeps up to date with the complexity activities are predominantly conducted/surrounding and rapid changes of the business environment, communities/communities where RBCT employees organisational dynamics and regulatory frameworks. are from. This committee executes and reviews all CSI The Board has set the strategic direction for the projects. Internal Audit function which is needed in order to The committee is made up solely of RBCT employees: provide relevant assurance that contributes to the effectiveness of Governance, Risk Management and Members Control processes. The Board has delegated this N Mgabhi (Ms) (Chairperson) responsibility to the Finance Committee “FINCO”. M Forbay (Ms) In 2017, we entered into the first of our three year P Sibiya (Ms) co-sourced business relationship with Glencore M Mhlongo Internal Audit Services “Glencore” who were appointed by Finco to provide Internal Audit services S Mbuyazi to RBCT. Glencore’s key focus areas during 2017, A Nathaniel was to assess the risks and related processes Z Duma (Ms) that would prevent RBCT from moving coal and to T Dlamini (Ms) provide management with reasonable assurance that the systems of internal control implemented by T Cele Management are adequate and effective. K Ramgobin C Gumbi To ensure compliance with the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, RBCT S Hlabisa Internal Audit assisted by Glencore adopted a riskbased audit approach to determine the priorities of Executive Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) the Internal Audit function to ensure consistency with Committee the objectives of RBCT. This approach entailed an The executive SHE committee is the custodian of evaluation of the key risks identified in the Strategic health, safety and environment compliance at RBCT. and Operational Risk Registers including areas of risk The committee meets monthly to discuss, evaluate and exposure which were identified in the six Divisional make decisions pertaining to the occupational health, Risk Registers. The risk based audit approach safety and the environment. The committee comprises adopted extended to engagement and annual of 22 members, including the CEO (Chair), all General assurance planning which includes an assessment Managers, 7 x divisional committee chairpersons, of the needs and expectations of its key stakeholders 2 x union shop stewards, 1 x Health Representative, in order to ensure that a level of audit reporting was 3 x Safety Specialists, 1 x Environment Specialist maintained to meet the needs of Management and and 1 x Emergency Preparedness Specialist. The FINCO. divisional committees are an important link between The assessment of RBCT’s Strategic and Operational the executive SHE committee and employees. The risks were conducted to ensure: divisional committees meet monthly and the meetings are attended by the section managers, safety • Alignment of RBCT risk assessment process representatives, employee wellness representatives and an assessment of the effectiveness of the and site contractor representatives. control environment. • Addressing risks identified by Management. • Keeping up to date with emerging industry risks. 16 2017 Sustainable Development Report In 2017, a strong working relationship and foundation Internal Audits completed with the assistance of the was developed between RBCT Internal Audit, two other assurance providers in 2017: Glencore, Management and FINCO who would meet quarterly to present reports on the audit engagements • Fatal Risk Control Protocols completed. • Phase One Machine Replacement Financial The following audits were completed by Internal Audit Compliance Review (RBCT and Glencore) with the assistance of two other The Fatal Risk Controls Protocols (FRCP) and the assurance service providers in 2017: Phase One Project – Financial Compliance reviews • Terminal and Shipping Regulations were completed by Glencore Group H&S Department and Ernst and Young (EY) respectively. • Legal and Statutory Inspections Management, FINCO and The Board considers the • Overtime Management RBCT internal control environment and systems in place as adequate and properly designed to provide • Internal Coal Flow reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, • Critical Unwanted Events and Fire Risk financial and operational information is reliable, Management operations are effective and efficient, laws, regulations and contracts are complied with and risks are • Project Procurement managed to acceptable level. • Financial Processes Reconciliations While there were no breakdowns in the internal controls in 2017, any weaknesses which were • SAP Segregation of Duties identified were reported and timeously addressed. • Strategic Risks Control Testing • Maintenance Contracts Management • IT General Controls • Monitoring and Prevention of Hot Coal • Completed Tasks on CURA 17 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Occupational Health, Safety, Environment and Risk RBCT continued to focus on safety, health and RBCT’s HSEC Management systems were assessed wellbeing of employees as well as on environmental against the requirements of the OHSAS 18001:2007 stewardship during 2017. Providing a safe, healthy and ISO 14001:2015. In 2017, RBCT successfully and environmentally friendly workplace is RBCT’s top retained the OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, and priority. successfully transitioned from the ISO 14001:2004 to the ISO14001:2015 certification. Compliance Safety • Introduction of Fatal Risk Control RBCT’s SHE policy sets out our commitment to Protocols (FRCP) preventing illnesses, injuries and fatalities from our business. RBCT maintains a comprehensive Safety • Railway Safety Regulator Certified Management System which is fully aligned to the OHSAS 18001:2007 Safety and Occupational Health • ISO 14001 : 2015 Environmental Management Standard. Management Systems Certified Delivering on our Safety Strategy • OHSAS 18001:2007 Health and Safety Management Systems Certified Our safety strategy and management approach focuses on improving our ability to anticipate and prevent injuries. Our principal safety risks relate to railway, vehicles and mobile equipment, rotating machinery, working at heights, energy and machinery isolation, lifting equipment, material handling and working in a confined spaces. In 2017, RBCT focused on the following safety risks: • Lifting equipment safety • Railway safety • Vehicle safety 2017 Objective 2017 Target 2017 Performance Comment SAFETY Maintain the OHSAS OHSAS 18001:2007 Certification to OHSAS Achieved 18001:2007 certification certification 18001:2007 Zero Fatalities Zero Fatalities Zero Fatalities Achieved Reduce Loss Time Injury LTIFR = 0 LTIFR = 0.11 Not Achieved Reduce Minor Injuries MIFR</=0.24 MIFR = 0.40 Not Achieved Reduce Total Injury TIFR</= 1.57 TIFR = 2.80 Not Achieved Frequency Rate (TIFR) ENVIRONMENT Maintain the ISO 14001:2004 ISO 14001:2015 Achieved Achieved Certification Certification Zero environmental public Zero public complaints Achieved Achieved complaints received 18 2017 Sustainable Development Report Safety Performance Safety Achievements Our quest to create and sustain an injury-free On 23 December 2017, RBCT achieved a environment for our employees and contractors significant milestone in our safety performance continued during the 2017. There were no fatalities at when we recorded 2 Million LTI-Free man-hours. RBCT during the year however we incurred two lost We are exceptionally proud of this significant safety time injuries. achievement, and attribute it to our continued pursuit for a safe workplace. This milestone was achieved The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for the at a time when RBCT commissioned 2 shiploaders year was 0.11 and the Minor Injury Frequency Rate (massive machine project). Achieving this milestone (MIFR) was 0.40. Ensuring the safety of our employees is testament to a proactive safety culture that prevails and contractors in the workplace is of paramount in our work environment. This achievement is a importance, and RBCT continues to focus on leading combination of our collaborated safety efforts; it indicators as tools to improve safety performance. specifically points to the genuine care the employees and contractors have for each other. LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE We have had impressive gains with the implementation of the leading indicators, such as the 0.3 COBRA (Behaviour Based Safety) process, near miss 0.23 reporting, hazard identification, risk assessments and 0,2 an overall interaction amongst the workforce on safety 0.14 issues. 0.11 0.1 0.06 Testament to our ongoing safety awareness, RBCT 0 0 also won the 2017 Business Excellence Safety Award for the second year in a row; this award reaffirms 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 RBCT’s diligence in upholding safety standards. MINOR INJURY FREQUENCY RATE Fatal Risk Protocol RBCT’s goal is to achieve Zero Harm through the effective management of safety in our operations. RBCT has developed a set of mandatory standards to address hazards and to eliminate or minimise the risk of fatalities and injuries. RBCT’s Fatal Risk Control Protocols (FRCP’s) have been developed by examining industry best practices, and by utilising our own experience of fatal and significant incidents. These Fatal Risk Control Protocols focus on the management of specific identified fatal risks; the identified controls have been derived from detailed TOTAL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE risk assessments, past incidents and the experiences of other industries. The FRCP sets the minimum performance requirements for managing the identified fatal risks. The implementation and embedding of these protocols is in progress. 19 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Occupational Health, Safety, Environment and Risk Environment Our Environmental Performance RBCT has a legal and social During the year, there was no major environmental incident or external responsibility to minimize the environmental complaint. This good performance came at the time when impact on the environment, as well we were under extremely unfavorable conditions of low rainfall in the as to eliminate unplanned events, country, especially in KZN. such as unsanctioned water discharges and exceeding air An analysis carried out in 2017 showed that potable water consumption emission standards. has been reduced by approximately 31% compared to 2016. A serious drive towards conservation of energy was also maintained during the Delivering on our Environmental year and significant savings were realized. Energy saving programmes Strategy continued with the goal being to achieve RBCT’s objective for reducing energy consumption by up to 15% by 2015. RBCT has however not yet RBCT’s coal logistics activities are achieved this target. Different strategies are in place to work towards the conducted within the framework achievement of this target. of ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System and a RBCT is firmly committed to protecting the environment together with site specific Environmental natural resources. RBCT has assessed the environmental impacts of our Management Plan. Compliance operation, and have these documented in our environmental impacts and with ISO 14001:2015 is audited aspects register. Mitigating controls have been put in place. annually and recertified every 3 years. Protection of the Our current primary environmental focus areas are: environment and compliance to environmental legislation remains • Air quality management paramount to RBCT. • Controlling the water quality of our storm water In 2017, the ISO 14001:2015 certification audit was a success. • Reducing our fresh water usage This is in line with RBCT’s commitment to maintaining • Energy efficiency excellence in Environmental Management Systems. RBCT • Waste management seeks to comply with, and remains committed to environmental • Reducing the impact of coal transport on the environment legislation, regulations and permits that govern our operation. RBCT has pollution prevention strategies which, together with ongoing mitigation measures, are aimed at reducing and mitigating the impact of our activities on the environment. Responsibility for environmental management at RBCT rests with every emplyee and contractor on site, supported by the HSEC team. Operations and Maintenance Departments play a vital role in the management of RBCT environmental aspects. All employees, contractors and visitors are made aware of their environmental impacts and responsibilities. 20 2017 Sustainable Development Report Water Usage and Management Independent laboratories analyze the sampled water from the boreholes, and the results have shown that we achieved the legal limits for The Integrated Waste and Water groundwater. In 2017, RBCT continued with the implementation of Management Plan (IWWMP) is conditions of the Water Use License received in 2016. central to compliance with the conditions of the Water Use Potable Water Usage License issued by the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS). The quality of potable water is continuously monitored and treated to The main objectives of the IWWMP prevent and minimize the risk of potable water contamination. In 2017, are to: 5010 kiloliters of potable water was used compared to 7352 kiloliters used in 2016. This is a 31% improvement on water usage during a tough year • Provide technical and where whole country had the low rainfall. management related information to underpin the implementation WATER USAGE of the conditions of the water 60 000 use license Water Usage Average Target 50 000 • Update RBCT’s water balance 40 000 • Identify (qualify and quantify) 30 000 water and waste related impacts from RBCT’s activities 20 000 • Comply with Regulation 704 of 10 000 the National Water Act 36 of 19 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 RBCT has a responsibility to conduct its business in a Air Quality responsible manner. In order to mitigate any possible pollution of Dust management is a priority at RBCT. There was an increase on dust the surrounding environment, storm fallout recorded in 2017 compared to 2016; the results however averaged water and water collected from the well below the industrial limit of 1.2 g/m2 for dust fallout. The increase in coal stockpiles does not go directly dust fallout can be attributed to low rainfall during the year. into the marine environment; instead it is drained into settling In line with RBCT’s focus on the wellbeing of our workforce and ponds located in conspicuous stakeholders, RBCT monitors ambient dust through real time particulate places around the operating areas. dust monitors. RBCT monitors PM10 as well as PM2.5 to effectively deal with In the settling ponds, contaminants ambient dust. We currently uses RDC20 as dust suppressant on dirt roads are separated from the water around the stockpiles. RDC20 is a water based binding agent that forms a before it can be pumped into an layer on the road surface to suppress dust. offsite storage dam known as the “ESUP” dam. At the ESUP dam, AVERAGE DUST FALLOUT LEVEL water is further chemically treated through a chlorination process, Avg Buckets Residential Limit Industrial Limit Avg Rainfall 1.4 and RBCT uses this recycled water for dust suppression, mostly from 1.2 coal stockpiles. RBCT treats and 1.0 recycles its sewage effluent; the 0.8 quality of the final effluent meets the requirements of the National 0.6 Water Act, 1998. The quality of our 0.4 underground water is monitored quarterly through borehole 0.2 0.785 0.462 0.405 0.240 0.221 0.261 0.234 0.366 0.403 0.330 0.850 sampling to ensure no adverse 0.0 pollution of underground water. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 21 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Occupational Health, Safety, Environment and Risk Resource and Energy Use Occupational Health Accord Target Electricity % reduction and Wellness Diesel % Reduction Total Petrol % Reduction 80 Effective management of health risks protects our people, 60 enhances productivity and is Engaged with PSEE essential for minimizing potential long term ill-health liabilities. on an Energy Management 40 Signed the EE accord Campaign Delivering On Our Occupational 20 Health and Wellness Strategy 0 During 2017, RBCT put a number of occupational health and wellness strategies in place, -20 including: Waste Management • Biggest loser competition – all employees were encouraged The management of waste remains one of RBCT’s environmental priorities. to adopt a healthy lifestyle by RBCT believes that protection of the environment is an integral part of exercising and eating healthy. good business practice and that it has a duty to minimize and manage A healthy workforce is a waste without any environmental risk. RBCT provides separate waste productive workforce bins for different types of waste generated that can be recyclable. The following waste is recycled at RBCT; • An ongoing occupational hygiene programme for • Used oil monitoring stressors in • Sewerage effluent the workplace i.e. noise, gravimetric dust and silica, • Electronic waste ergonomic, illumination, vibration, diesel, belt splicing • Paper and welding fumes, thermal stress, fatigue risk assessment Improving waste sorting and disposal has become an extremely important and health risk assessment aspect for RBCT’s business. • Risk based medical RBCT’s waste streams are, but not limited to the following: surveillance programme • Oil contaminated waste • A programme to manage and reduce the impact of • Clinic waste musculoskeletal disorders such as repetitive strain • Settling pond effluent injuries and backaches of our workforce through early • Rubber identification, tracking and incidence reporting The Waste License assists RBCT to continuously improve our waste management programmes through waste audits and implementing • A qualified Biokineticist is sustainable waste management plans. The implementation of a working with RBCT medical comprehensive waste management strategy aims to reduce the amount staff on an ongoing basis to of waste being consigned to local dumpsites. The generated waste identify opportunities to improve is measured on a monthly basis and targets have been set to reduce employees’ posture through the quantities. Some waste is recycled and some disposed of in an adjustments to the working environmentally responsible manner. environment and individual behaviours. 22 2017 Sustainable Development Report Occupational Health and Our Occupational Health and Wellness Performance Wellness Primary Healthcare Management (PHC) at RBCT provides the first level The health and well-being of of essential diagnostics and therapeutic Health Care Service founded on our employees is important to the principals of evidence based medicine to accurately diagnose and RBCT and a healthy workforce treat acute/common ailments. Our PHC programmes include the following means a productive, efficient, and components: energized workforce. RBCT aims to provide a work environment • Assessment and treatment of illnesses (colds, diarrhea, headaches) that maximizes wellness and minimizes incidents, illnesses and • Reproductive health programme disorders through health related activities. Our occupational health • Health screening and promotion programme including vaccination of programme seeks to prevent and our employees and tests such as: mitigate occupational health risks that may impact the health and »» Blood pressure wellbeing of our employees. »» Blood sugar The wellness management programme focused on the overall »» Cholesterol wellness of our workforce. »» HIV counselling and treatment RBCT’s approach to managing health related issues in the »» Emergency care workplace covers the following: »» Chronic disease monitoring (Anaemia, diabetes, hypertension, • Health risk management which gout, high cholesterol, TB etc focuses on occupational health and hygiene thus Non-Occupational Disease Management ensuring legal compliance RBCT continued to focus on Wellness for both employees and contractors • Employee wellness during 2017. Monitoring and management of employees with clinical programme (EWP) is a risk factors Body Mass Index (BMI), Blood Pressure (BP), glucose and promotive exercise that cholesterol remained a priority during the year. seeks to optimize employee There were some improvements on these chronic conditions. productivity • Primary Health care (support services) provides for treatment of health issues thus minimizing lost time through ill heath • Strategic management includes environmental health, HIV/Aids, incapacity and any other conditions which may affect the long-term success of the business 23 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Occupational Health, Safety, Environment and Risk Lifestyle related conditions 2017 Noise BMI has remained the same at 56% for the year, however, there are Accredited occupational health commitments from employees to lose weight based on the increased and hygiene specialists conduct number of employees seeing the Biokineticist and adopting a controlled baseline, periodic, transfer and exercise regime, including the Thursday 5km walk at RBCT. exit audiometric examinations on employees. Noise is generally 60.00% 52.00% BMI treated at its source but where 50.00% noise cannot be eliminated, a 40.00% notification is sent to remind 30.00% employees and contractors to 20.00% 14.80% 17.00% 19.00% wear their hearing protection. 10.00% 0.08% All affected personnel are appropriately trained and provided 0.00% Concern 1 Very High Risk Concern 2 High Risk Concern 3 Medium Risk No Risk (18.5-24.9) Concern 4 Low Risk with the necessary personal Obesity (+30) Overweight (28-29.9) Overweight (25-27.9) Underweight protective equipment to deal with possible dangers. In 2017, we continued to focus on awareness of healthy lifestyle programmes, especially weight control management. Medical surveillances, including medical examinations, biological Awareness and engagement of employees on these clinical risk factors, monitoring and specific testing as well as the top 4 wellness risks which are the major contributors to the (such as lung function and burden of disease at RBCT, is an ongoing process. audiograms) are scheduled and conducted in order to meet legal There was an improvement in the number of employees doing monthly and company requirements. Lung checks for their chronic conditions. The status of the 2017 medical function testing by spirometry is surveillances is at 100%. The HIV prevalence rate at RBCT is 14.34 %, carried out regularly to address with 98% of the HIV positive employees on Anti-retroviral (ARV’s). 88% of concerns regarding dust and silica our employees know their HIV status. exposure in conjunction with chest X-rays. No occupational illness or Occupational Health and Hygiene Management noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) cases were identified during 2017. Occupational Hygiene surveys conducted for the year were: Health Risk Assessment (HRA) • Lighting The review of the HRA and • Whole body vibration Occupational Risk and Exposure Profiles (OREP) is an ongoing • Diesel emissions process. Preliminary preparation for HRA and OREP was conducted • Noise for Rail Operations and medical baselines per position at RBCT identified. Each year • Dust and silica RBCT conducts a HRA in order to identify, evaluate, quantify and • Welding fumes control all non-occupationally induced health risks that may Coal Dust and Silica impact negatively on the RBCT employee’s health status. In 2017, Our principal occupational health risks relate to coal and silica dust, HRA were conducted by RBCT ergonomics and noise. RBCT has taken reasonable steps to minimise dust in compliance with the SANS and silica exposure. Dust and silica monitoring takes place annually, and 16001:2013 Wellness and Disease where dust levels are found to be above the limit, measures to minimize Management System (WDMS). dust are applied. 24 2017 Sustainable Development Report Sustainable Health and Wellness The key priority areas identified from RBCT’s risk assessment analysis were headaches, BMI, flu and Performance financial wellbeing. To mitigate the risks, our areas of intervention were on prevention, early diagnosis, Ergonomics Management Programme treatment, care and support. As at end of 2017 significant improvements in these areas were noted. An onsite Biokineticist works with Clinic staff with the aim of improving the wellness of our employees RBCT recognises that personal problems may have thereby ensuring a healthy and productive workforce. an impact on work performance, production and The Biokineticist operates from our fitness centre behaviour thus RBCT has an onsite EWP which and runs the rehabilitation programme for employees works in partnership with Careways. This service is recovering from different conditions e.g. stroke, an integral part of the EWP and operates 24 hours musculoskeletal injuries etc., and conducts various per day, seven days a week and 365 days a year. ergonomic assessments of employees driving and Employees and their immediate family members are operating mobile equipment. able to access the service via short message sending (SMS), telephone or e-mail. RBCT’s Employee Wellness Programme (EWP) The scope of intervention provided within the EWP The SANS16001:2013 Wellness and Disease addresses all aspects of health and wellbeing. Management System Standard (including HIV and TB) requires the employer to assess nonoccupationally induced health risks that may negatively impact the workplace. 25 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Occupational Health, Safety, Environment and Risk Wellness Week Zululand Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ZCCI) Excellence Award: SABCOHA Wellness The annual RBCT Wellness Week held in August 2017 offered the following services: RBCT is committed to employee wellness and has taken related initiatives in ensuring a healthy and • Health screening and assessments productive workforce hence the recognition afforded. The award recognised that RBCT has successfully • Vision screening demonstrated leadership in health and wellness • V Box classes programmes and services by implementing related initiatives that have resulted in significant and • Psychological assessments measurable benefits to the organization. • Flu vaccines HIV Counselling and Testing • Free massages & Beauty care treatment RBCT has a WDMS policy in place thus ensuring that • Biokineticist services the workplace is free of unfair discrimination of HIV/ Aids survivors. Our policy aims to create and sustain a • Financial wellness work environment that will support and promote quality of life, healthy development and healthy behaviours • Awareness on drug and alcohol abuse through various programmes developed for RBCT. In 2017, we continued our efforts through initiatives such • Male medical circumcision as a World Aids Day campaign, wellness week, clinic consultations and annual medical testing. In 2017, 80% of our employees tested. RBCT is targeting 100% of employees to know their status by the end of 2020. 26 2017 Sustainable Development Report World Aids Day • Physical environmental factors e.g. noise, lighting, vibration, toxic substances and thermal conditions On 30 November 2017, RBCT commenced a week of voluntary HIV/Aids testing in commemoration of World • Organizational factors e.g. shift pattern, Aids Day. On 1 December, a candle lighting ceremony procedures and policies was held in every department in remembrance of those who have lost their lives to HIV/Aids. Pamphlets The RSR conducted a human factors audit at RBCT were also handed out with information pertaining to during July 2017 and the audit report confirms that we HIV/Aids. have made good progress. RBCT Progress towards 90-90-90 targets is promising. Risk Management Framework The UNAIDS 90-90-90 target calls on countries to reach the following goals: RBCT’s Enterprise Wide Risk Management (EWRM) plays a vital role in monitoring and managing risks • 90% of people living with HIV diagnosed by 2020 that may either stem from internal or external factors, which might have an impact in the achievement of our • 90% of diagnosed people on antiretroviral strategic goals. RBCT considers risk management as treatment by 2020 an essential practice in compliance with the King IV Corporate Governance requirements. The risks are • 90% of people in treatment with fully suppressed continuously identified, measured and managed. viral load by 2020 The two main categories of RBCT EWRM are: Number of employees who tested 88% • Strategic risks which include a possible source Employees on ARV. Treatment 98% of loss that might arise from the pursuit of an % Viral suppression 85% unsuccessful business plan. • Operational risks which include a possibility of loss occurring from internal inadequacies of SANS 3000-4: 2011 Railway Safety our business operation or a breakdown in our Regulator (RSR): controls, operations or procedures. Human Factors RBCT continuously reviews these risks. The three lines of defence in our Risk Management Framework The SANS 3000-4 is a national standard for health are: assessment of rail safety workers that RBCT subscribes to and is based on a risk management • RBCT departments / functions where risk is approach. RBCT has adopted this standard and has generated; developed procedures for the management of human factors in order to mitigate the potential effects of • Risk management, supervision functions and these factors on railway safety. These factors include: compliance; • Human factors in design (human-system interface) • Internal audit function; • Psychological factors: e.g. shift work, physical As part of risk management strategy, RBCT uses the and mental stress, return to work after a period of Risk Committee as the final gate keeper of risk within absence the company. This committee reports to the Finance Committee of the RBCT BOD. • Psychosocial factors e.g. substance abuse (the abuse of medication, drugs and alcohol) • Psycho physiological factors e.g. chronic, acute and life threatening illnesses, impact of medication on the ability of affected employees to execute their duties 27 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Occupational Health, Safety, Environment and Risk RBCT Interface Risk Assessment Ethics form an integral part of RBCT’s culture and values. The Integrated Business Ethics Policy and In order for RBCT to move coal efficiently through Guidelines bring together the ethical principles and our world class terminal and meet the stakeholder’s rules of conduct governing the actions of all of the needs, RBCT relies on Transnet Freight Rail (TFR) RBCT’s employees and all its stakeholders, including to rail coal to our terminal, and on Transnet National equal opportunities and non-discrimination, respect Ports Authority (TNPA) to provide the marine services. for people, work-life balance, occupational risk Interface risk assessments were conducted aimed at prevention, environmental protection and compliance understanding each other’s business as well as risks with sustainability policies. that may affect our daily operations and prevent RBCT from achieving its objectives. RBCT’s Risk Culture is built on the principles of: Risk Management Model • Responsibility where everyone takes responsibility for risk management RBCT has a solid risk culture based on ISO 31000. The risk management and control model is key • Challenge – we continuously question and ask for ensuring compliance with RBCT’s culture and ourselves if this is the best way to manage risks. values. RBCT is characterised by having a mediumlow risk profile, an independent risk function and a • Resilience – RBCT must be flexible and practical strong risk culture. The compliance function regularly to ensure sustainability in different situations. reports directly to the board and its committees as an independent function of this second line of defence. • Simplicity – RBCT talks about risks in a simple It includes all matters relating to safety, occupational and clear way. health, environment, volumes, financial, reputational, legal / regulatory and social / communities’ risks. • Stakeholder Focus – RBCT’s risk management is focused on all stakeholders. 28 2017 Sustainable Development Report Risk Management Tools • Monthly reviews of the Operational Risks Report with General Management which address the RBCT uses a number of business tools in the operational risks at RBCT. management of risk which include: • RBCT has zero tolerance on fraud, bribery, • Conflict of interest declaration. This declaration is corruption and unfair business practice. All submitted annually or whenever there is a change employees can anonymously report such issues in the conflict of interest status of the employee. through our secure tip off line “Whistle blower”. • A Code of Conduct booklet issued to all employees. • Risk registers are kept in Cura and monitors risk action items. • Formal policies and procedures are in place to assist with the application of company standards. Protection of Personal Information (PoPI) • It is the employee’s responsibility to declare any Protection of Personal Information Act (PoPI), No 4 of gift (above a set value). A gift register report is 2013 gives effect to the constitutional right to privacy, issued to the RBCT Risk Committee to ensure regulates the manner in which personal information may adequate monitoring is in place to comply with be processed, and provides rights and remedies to RBCT policy. protect personal information. RBCT is obliged to comply with the Protection of Personal Information Act. RBCT • Monthly inspections are conducted by guarantees its commitment to protecting personal management to identify risk areas. information and ensuring that it is used appropriately, transparently, securely and in accordance with the Law. • Through an insurance broker, RBCT runs an insurance program which covers Assets and The PoPI policy was formulated to ensure that RBCT Liabilities. complies with the law and good practice. 29 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Operations Operational Performance The tonnage received in 2017 increased from 72.58Mt in 2016 to 75.60Mt (4% higher). The 2017 tonnage is the highest tonnage delivered by TFR within a calendar year. The Train Turnaround Time (TTT) was 4 hours 03 minutes in 2017 against the RBCT internal target of 3 hours 54 minutes. TTT is a value chain contracted duration for offloading and handing back of trains to TFR. The value chain TTT is reflected in the signed Service Level Agreement between RBCT and TFR and the target is an average of 4 hours 18 minutes. Trains that were tipped and bypassed directly to the vessels were 19% in 2017 compared to 17% in 2016. We continue to be aligned with our business partner, TFR, to ensure the supply chain performs well and contributes to increasing volumes. COAL DELIVERED 80 10,000 70 9.430 9.164 9,500 9.104 60 9.022 8.875 8.718 9,000 50 8.325 8.413 40 8,500 30 8,000 20 7,500 10 62.9 65.7 68.5 70.8 72.4 73.9 72.6 75.6 0 7,000 Rail Tonnage Number of Trains COAL EXPORTED 90 925 913 907 1,000 80 783 900 716 800 70 658 636 646 700 60 600 50 500 40 400 30 300 20 200 10 100 63.4 65.5 68.3 70.2 71.3 75.4 72.6 76.5 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Export Tonnage Number of Vessels 30 2017 Sustainable Development Report 30 8,000 20 7,500 10 62.9 65.7 68.5 70.8 72.4 73.9 72.6 75.6 0 7,000 Rail Tonnage Number of Trains Exported tonnage in 2017 increased by 4%, from 72.57Mt in 2016, to 76.47Mt. The export performance is strong considering the tough economic conditions that persisted throughout 2017. The terminal achieved a Port load rate (PLR) of 498 tons per hour and Terminal load rate (TLR) of 2511 tons per hour. RBCT cleared 202 stockpiles during the year, a 27% decrease from 2016. There was a significant increase in the number of Cape vessels loaded in 2017 with the average cargo size increasing by 6% from 79 489 tons to 84 309 tons in 2017. The average vessel turnaround time decreased from 36 hours in 2016 down to 32 hours in 2017. COAL EXPORTED 90 925 913 907 1,000 80 783 900 716 800 70 658 636 646 700 60 600 50 500 40 400 30 300 20 200 10 100 63.4 65.5 68.3 70.2 71.3 75.4 72.6 76.5 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Export Tonnage Number of Vessels 31 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Empowering our People RBCT Innovation System Over the past three years RBCT has seen over 600 ideas logged; yielding savings over R4 million. This was achieved as a result of sharing ideas and collaboration, and harvesting from each other’s creativity and strengths. Continuous improvement demands that we don’t get complacent. To continue to reap improvement benefits we need to keep the improvement culture alive and evolving with the times thus we have plans to focus on innovation as a way of life at RBCT. Best Innovations of 2017 Idea Description Area Impacted Delay start up sequence The start sequence for the feeding conveyor to conveyor 931 Reduced down time and on conveyor 931. was delayed to give conveyor 931 a chance to empty load equipment damages. before introducing load to prevent overloading when the belt had stopped with load. LED light bar LED light bars were installed cranes to improve visibility at night. Reduced damages to equipment. SAP Play System “refresh RBCT SAP project leaders have taken over the function of To save time and reduce function” to be removed copying “SAP LIVE” to “SAP Play”. cost of refreshing. from the external contract. Interlock the Auxiliary If there is a deviation of 2 mega pascal between the operating Reduced down time and hydraulic system and pressure and the take-up cylinder pressure the system to stop equipment damages. Take-up cylinder. running. Confined spaces Confined spaces were included in the RBCT safety induction Improved safety. awareness process to refresh employees on procedures and location. Consolidation on the Order type and bin location were moved from the stores pick Improved process flow. Material Issue Slip. up list to the material issue slip and the stores pick up list made redundant. Install permanent cement Cement slabs used stabilisation of the crane when working with Improved safety and blocks for cranes. the pumps at ESUP dam area were permanently installed to efficiency. eliminate to and fro transportation of lots of sleepers. Install an under speed Under speed switches were installed to stop the plant when they Reduced fire incidents and switch on all crushers. detect under speed or stalling of the motor. down time. An employee book for the Each employee has their own “Take 5” booklet to ensure Improved safety, document Safety Take 5 Question. employees test the five safety questions with each and every job control and record keeping. not just job cards. Processing Invoices On SAP the rates were pre-loaded to eliminate manual Reduction of human error calculation of the rates for invoicing. and improved efficiency. 32 2017 Sustainable Development Report Valuing and Empowering our People Talent Management External Appointments in-line with the business needs: Organizational Development Initiatives of 2017 • Manager Maintenance Machines, Asset Management Division Ultimately, the goal of OD is to make organisations more effective, efficient, and productive, increase the • Manager Industrial Relations, Human Resources long-term health of the organisation and enrich the Division working lives of its employees. A total of 5 out of the 6 promotions and appointments Employment Equity were in line with our Employment Equity commitments. Employment Equity is law, RBCT is compliant from Annual Organizational Health Survey both a legal as well as the moral perspective – we Annual Organisational Health Survey believe it’s the right thing to do. In 2017 we achieved 2017 SURVEY 2016 SURVEY 2015 SURVEY our numerical goals in all levels of the organisation Elite from the Executive/Top Management to Semi-skilled Elite Ailing 16% Elite 24% Ailing 25% 27% Level. The goal is to retain this status. The 2017 33% Ailing 44% Employment Equity Report was submitted to the Able 40% Department of Labour and RBCT has received the Able Able 43% 48% Acknowledgement Letter from the Department of Labour. Below is the status of RBCT’s Employment Equity status. 3 Year Results Target 2016 2017 Definitions: E & F Band 75% 83% 83% Ailing: Below Expectations Able: Meeting Expectations DU Band 57% 73% 81% Elite: Exceeding Expectations DL Band 83% 94% 93% C Band 82% 81% 82% A record 413 employees participated in the 2017 B Band 88% 90% 91% Organisational Health Survey. Talent Management Employee Engagement in 2017 dropped by 8% over the year (2017). This was expected following a high Succession and continuity are key to RBCT. In 2017, increase of 6.8% in 2016 which was unexpected. we had over 90% internal promotions in management Out of the 6 divisions only 2 regressed. We noted an roles. This has ensured that we remain sustainable improvement in the other 4 divisions. Despite the drop, and the transition is smooth. the results indicated that 67% of employees are fully engaged. Below are the key Senior Management internal promotions for 2017: It is also important to note that the survey was conducted following 3-4 years of culture shift within • General Manager Human Resources RBCT that came with incremental yet sustainable and long term value adding changes on how we • Senior Manager Maintenance, Asset Management manage time, work and costs. Employees were still Divsion understanding, adapting and skeptical about these incremental changes. Our Engagement sessions • Manager Maintenance Services, Asset such as Employee IMBIZO, Divisional Open Forums Management Division and Mission Directed Work Team (MDWT) were instrumental in communicating these changes and its • Manager Employment and Benefits, Human value add in ensuring that the Terminal is sustainable. Resources Division 33 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Empowering our People Training and Development Recognition of successfully completed skills development – both core and soft skills training In addition to being accredited with the MERSETA for on-site training of Millwrights and Boilermaker Apprentices, RBCT is also a fully accredited training provider with the TETA for Operations Training courses that include courses in Ship-loading, Bulldozing, Tipping, Stacking and Reclaiming, Shunting and Loco Operating. All trainees who undergo this training can have their credits registered on the National Learner Record Database. RBCT was audited on Training Quality Management Systems in March 2015 with no findings and re-accredited until 2019. RBCT has received QCTO accreditation as a Skills Provider up until 2022. Training Recognition Assessments on the programs above are done by accredited line assessors with a training assessor in attendance. The assessments are then internally moderated and are further moderated by the TETA on an annual basis. Each year RBCT’s assessments are approved by the TETA with minor recommendations for improvement. RBCT applies for and receives funding from the TETA for Pivotal Grants each year; in addition two RBCT staff attended the International Executive Development program sponsored by the TETA in line with the talent management plan. RBCT monitors the level of recognized training (SETA or formal Education) with an aim to exceed the TETA target of 40%. In 2017 we achieved 56%. % Accredited Courses December 2017 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Avg Yes 72% 68% 61% 56% 63% 56% 62% 59% 53% 69% 57% 32% 59% No 28% 32% 39% 44% 38% 44% 38% 41% 47% 31% 43% 68% 41% Target 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% 45% Trigger 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% 41% Training and Development The overall goal of training and development at RBCT is to ensure that RBCT permanent staff are competent to achieve operational excellence – to move coal safely and efficiently. RBCT also play an active role in closing the countries skills gap especially in scarce skills e.g. Millwright 34 2017 Sustainable Development Report Whilst the focus is predominately on meeting the Average Hours of Training for 2017 business needs, RBCT also offers apprentice programmes and operations trainee programmes The average hours of training per year, per employee to external candidates in order to participate in by Occupational Category of employee as at the 31st developing skills for the country. December 2017 were: Our focus is to facilitate continuous operational Code Occupation Category Total improvement through the development of intellectual 1000 Legislators, senior officials and 251 capacity. Therefore it is our aim to provide everyone in managers RBCT with an environment in which they can flourish 2000 Professionals 11 based on well-defined and developed competencies. 3000 Technicians and associate professionals 454 4000 Clerks 140 Our process offers employees a clear purpose and roles that will develop knowledge, skills and attributes in 7000 Craft and related trades workers 1268 a focused manner while providing clear objectives that 8000 Plant and machine operators and 42 982 are linked to the concept of reward for performance. assemblers 9000 Elementary occupations 156 Training and development is pursued in line with the Total 45 262 following guidelines: Staff Development • All training and development will be based on the needs of the company, as well as wider RBCT’s career development strategies continued to stakeholder engagement, especially, at strategic focus on management development, supervisory and levels, as established through a needs analysis. leadership development, the Employee Development Programme (EDP), operator training, technical and • Managers are responsible for the competency general skills development of employees. The levels of their staff in order to ensure adequate implementation of the coaching and mentoring succession planning in their departments. processes are on-going. • All activities will aim at optimally satisfying the long and short term needs of various competencies Management Development required by RBCT. In 2017 we engaged in the full Management Development Program as listed below: Training and development at RBCT is delivered through the most appropriate medium for the Management Development Programme (MDP) organisation in line with national requirements. RBCT continues to develop Management and In order to maximise investment in our staff and Supervisory skills, through an intense Management training development programs, managers and staff Development Programme aimed at creating critical who have attended training or development programs management capacity amongst our employees. The may be requested to provide mentorship and main aim is to bridge gaps in previous qualifications coaching where necessary. and to address those who do not have any formal qualification, in particular in management science. The Specific policies and programmes for skills Formal Programmes being the UNISA MDP and FMP management or for lifelong learning are designed to programs, while Foundational Skills are laid through empower employees who aspire to be in management more hands-on SAQA accredited skills programs positions. at the Supervisory (CORE) and Management (BMS) To achieve Operational Excellence, Superior People levels. Performance becomes key to succeeding in a challenging business environment. As part of RBCT’s company-wide commitment to attract, develop and retain valuable talent, skills management programmes are in place in all divisions. 35 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Empowering our People Employee Development Programme (EDP) were completed to assist with Electrical Fault Finding and a larger number of RBCT specific technical Having begun as a programme for staff from training programmes were run with the aim to previously disadvantaged groups, this programme has improve the quality of artisans and reduce down developed into a company-wide programme, taking time, based on skills set identified by line managers. employment equity requirements into account. The aim During 2014/15 this was further developed to include of the program is to develop the core competencies backstops training and basic Hydraulics Training. required by employees making the transition to management or supervisory positions. The key focus In 2017 the centre was used to conduct MERSETA is on managing yourself and a project is identified, approved MA training and our first Moderation by investigated and where possible completed. After the MERSETA was approved, the centre is also used completion of this programme, delegates present their as an artisan assessment centre to test new artisan projects to the Management Team, those requiring during the recruitment phase, ensuring they have the further work or capex and deemed suitable are then appropriate minimum skills. further developed via the bright ideas system. Plant Operator Traineeships Apprenticeships and Traineeships RBCT also has a one year training program for plant At RBCT we have an apprenticeship system operators to ensure succession is in place and registered with TETA (Transport Education and operations are therefore not interrupted in the event Training Authority); apprentices are registered with the of turnover. RBCT has reviewed and implemented MERSETA (Manufacturing, Engineering and Related Key Operations Training Programmes as part of our SETA) via a Memorandum of Agreement (MOU) ongoing continuous improvement programme. Each between the SETA’s. Bursars who have completed Trainee completes a learnership in logistics registered their Degrees and Diplomas are often given with the TETA so that by the time they complete their opportunities to gain the experience required. one year machine operators programme they should have completed the learnership resulting in a formal In 2017, RBCT’s commitment was as follows: qualification. Trainee Type No. Comment Bursar Bursaries Apprentices 15 Millwright Apprentices Electronic 1 Automation and Control Y RBCT grants bursaries in various forms, Open Bursary Technician Scheme, Closed Bursary Scheme (Study Grants) and Staff Education Assistance. Electrical 1 Graduate Engineer Y Engineer Open Bursary Scheme ART/AIT 10 Current maintenance Trainees assistants identified for RBCT grants bursaries to assist with sourcing and artisan development developing bright young talent in anticipation of Electrical 1 Diploma Technician Y meeting our future skills requirements and in key areas Technician doing p1 and P2 of the community. We sponsor learners, in fields such MERSETA/ 4 During the experiential as Engineering, Finance, Education and Nursing. Umfolozi period one was Employment equity targets require at least 80% of College NCV terminated, 2 bursaries to be awarded to previously disadvantaged students completed their training Experiential and returned to the tech persons; during 2017 RBCT achieved 100% in this exposure to do Trade Test. area. Technical Training Infrastructure To ensure that bursars succeed in their studies, individual progress is monitored and assistance is With RBCT technical training being outsourced, it provided where required. During holidays, bursars was identified that staff have difficulty transferring work at RBCT where they are helped to grow their the knowledge learnt into plant specific equipment. knowledge through practical application. This Taking this into consideration, RBCT created a approach helps each bursar bridge the gap between Technical Training Workshop during 2013, a mini education and the world of work. substation, PLC racks and small conveyor system 36 2017 Sustainable Development Report 0 Training Days byCGrade 50% 80 F EI E DU DL CU CL BU BL TR PE 75 45% 70 3000 2015 2016 2017 40% 65 2500 60 35% 55 2000 30% 50 2015% 1500 25% 2016% Closed Bursary Scheme 20% 1000 Company Training Man Days 10850 to 10859 2017% 15% 500 As an extension of the bursary scheme, each year 5000000 10% 4500000 % Days by R&G 0 RBCT offers 20 study grants to employees’ children 5% 4000000 50% who F areEI registered E DU DL to CUstudy BU BL TR tertiary CL atCa recognised PE 3500000 45% 0% 3000000 institution, 50% Trainingof whichDays should be focused on by Grade 40% AF AM CF CM 2500000 IF IM WF WM 2015 2016 2017 continued education. 3000 2000000 % Spend by R&G 35% 1500000 2500 30% 1000000 Education 2015% 10%Assistance Program 25% 500000 2000 4% 2016% AF 20% 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Employee’s have access 25% to funding for part-time 15% 2017% 1500 education through our Education Assistance AM 10% Actual Planned Programme 1000 15% (EAP) where RBCT pays for tuitionCFand 5% employee’s 500 are only required to repay should CM they 0% % Days by R&G not pass the courses. This encourages employee’s IF to AF AM CF CM IF IM WF WM 0 improve their knowledge and work-related skills and to 50% 1% 6% F EI E DU DL CU CL % C Spend BU BL by TR R&G PE prepare them for36% the next step in their careers;IM74 staff 45% members 10%participated 2015 2016 in this 2017scheme in 2017. WF 40% 4% 35% AF 3% WM 25% 30% Number of Number of Subjects/ AM Rand Value 2015% staff Training Days by Grade modules 25% 15% CF 20% Skills Level Over Last 12 Months 2016% 3000 74 214 425 050.96 CM 95% 2017% 15% IF 90% 2500 10% 1% 85% 6% 36% IM 5% Training Dashboard 2000 2017 80% WF 75% 0% 1500 WM 70% AF AM CF CM IF IM WF WM 3% % Spend by R&G 65% 1000 Training Days by Grade 60% 10% 55% Skills Level Over Last 12 Months 500 3000 4% 95% % Days by R&G AF 50% 90% 0 2500 25% 85%50% F EI E DU DL CU CL C BU BL TR AM PE 80%45% 2000 CF 75% 15%Company Training2016 Man Days201710850 to 10859 40% 2015 70% Ops Avg Maint. Avg Comp. Avg CM 1500 65%35% 5000000 IF 4500000 1%1000 60%30% 6% IM 2015% 4000000 36% 55%25% 50% 2016% 3500000 500 WF 20% % Days by R&G 3000000 2017% 3% 0 WM 15% 50% 2500000 F EI E DU DL CU CL C BU BL TR PE 10% 2000000 Company Training Man Days 10850 to 10859 45% Ops Avg Maint. 1500000 5% 40% Skills Level OverAvg Comp. Avg Last 12 Months 5000000 2015 2016 2017 95% 1000000 4500000 500000 90%0% 35% 4000000 85%30% AF AM CF CM IF IM WF WM 0 3500000 2015% 3000000 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep % Oct Spend Nov Decby R&G 80% 25% Training Cost Comparison based on SAP TE 75% 2016% 2500000 10% Actual 70%20% records, excludes TRN Centre costs 2000000 Planned 2017% 1500000 4% 6000000 65%15% AF 1000000 60% 25% AM 10% 5000000 55% 500000 0 50% 5% Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec CF 4000000 15% 0% Training Cost Comparison based on SAP TE CM 3000000 AF records, CF excludes AM CM IFTRNIM WFcosts Centre WM CompanyActual Training Man DaysPlanned 10850 % to 10859 Spend by IF R&G 6000000 2000000 Ops Avg Maint. Avg Comp. Avg 1% 5000000 6% 36% IM 5000000 4500000 10% 1000000 4000000 4% WF 4000000 AF 3500000 3% 25% WM 0 AM 3000000 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 3000000 2500000 2000000 CF 2000000 15% Skills Level Over Last 12 Months 1500000 CM 1000000 95% 1000000 90%0 500000 IF 1% 85% Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 0 6% IM 80% Jan Feb Mar Apr May 36% Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Training Cost Comparison based on SAP TE WF 75% 70% records, excludes TRN Centre costs Actual Planned 3% WM 6000000 65% 60% 5000000 37 Coal to the world, growth to the nation 55% Skills Level Over Last 12 Months 4000000 50% 95% Empowering or People Our People This enables RBCT to implement its training and development and employee retention strategies, which contributes to the overall performance of the company. Recruitment and Selection These initiatives form an integral part of the company’s As a reputable corporate citizen RBCT regards consolidated operational strategy which underpins recruitment and selection as key central activities the way RBCT works and focuses on safety and which contribute and determine the extent to which operational efficiencies. the company will be able to move coal safely and efficiently. The diligence and professionalism with Despite the economic challenges, in 2017 we had 35 which these activities are executed help to ensure we new recruits and 18 employees who were promoted. have the right people, in the right jobs, and doing the The bulk of the external recruits were recruited from right things. local communities, which contributed in the reduction of unemployment in the area near where we operate. The spinoff of good recruitment and selection helps to match employees with the right jobs, speed up culture fit, reduce level of labour turnover and promotes stability and resilience in the Terminal. Actual Manpower 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 AM CM IM WM AF CF IF WF Top Management 2 0 1 2 2 0 0 0 Senior Management 3 1 6 6 3 0 2 2 Professionally Qualified 20 4 12 3 5 1 0 3 Skilled Technical 82 3 16 36 35 2 9 13 Semi-skilled 107 8 9 17 36 8 3 9 Unskilled 12 1 3 0 10 2 0 0 Remuneration Philosophy The company’s remuneration philosophy is based on the principle of competitiveness in the labour market so as to be able to attract and retain the type, quality and level of people it requires to meet the business goals. This calls for the company to measure RBCT against what is happening in the labour market. In this regard, surveys and research are conducted to identify where it stands compared to other companies. The remuneration philosophy is further influenced by the employee performance. To ensure that its remuneration philosophy remains competitive, it uses a holistic approach thoroughly analysing every aspect within the remuneration framework. 38 2017 Sustainable Development Report Apart from the extrinsic rewards that the company The change that has been made is significant and is offers its employees, the RBCT working environment visible at all levels. The ultimate goal is to have a more also offers intrinsic rewards, the sense of belonging, representative workforce at all levels in the company. employees feel the warmth of being part of the RBCT family. The company took a conscious decision to identify and eliminate barriers which could prevent it from Employment Equity implementing diversity and transformation initiatives. This journey has not been easy. There are challenges The company is fully committed to employment equity on the way as one would expect but they are dealt and take it as one of its business imperatives. RBCT’s with as and when they are encountered. transformation journey is evident in RBCT’s robust plans in creating a equitable workplace. The current Employment Equity Plan started in 2016 and will end in 2019. The 2017 Employment Equity report was submitted to the Department of Labour. Employment Equity Analysis Top Management Senior Management Professionally Qualified Skilled Technical Semi-Skilled Unskilled 60% 50% 40% 30% 20%1 0% 0% AM CM IM WM AF CF IF WF Race 39 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Our Community Delivering Sustainable Social Value Engaging our communities through corporate Our Commitment social investments Our slogan, “Coal to the world, growth to the nation” As part of our commitment of being a responsible depicts our sustainable commitment to community corporate citizen, it is our policy to conduct business development over the years. Our aim is to participate in a manner that is compatible with the economic, in programmes that benefit the wider community and social and environmental needs of the communities in sustainable projects that can build a better South which we operate. Africa. In 2017 we recognized the need to focus on early childhood development, education and RBCT’s corporate social investment strategy plays environment. Due to the Water Shortages we faced, a critical role in enhancing the quality of life in the we regarded this as an integral component in building communities within which our people live. The purpose a better future and life for all. of CSI at RBCT is to promote the development of the quality of the underprivileged communities living RBCT’s 2017 CSI Investment around us. Trees for Life RBCT’s approach to Socio-Economic Development (SED) is based on a philosophy that is fully RBCT donated R700 000 to the Wildlands Conservation accountable and geared towards providing Trust in support of their Treepreneur project in the sustainable solutions to real needs identified in the Ndidime area, Esikhawini, at Ntabeni School. communities. The success of this philosophy hinges on the recognition that any social involvement should make a meaningful improvement to the lives of the people and communities that it is designed to benefit. Our primary focus is on education, early childhood development, skills development, community welfare, environment, crime prevention, HIV/Aids as well as sport development. Our employees also play a significant role through our CSI Committee, consisting of volunteers from all levels within the company, as well as employee representatives. Our main aim is to promote the development of self-reliant communities and to facilitate sustainable community development programmes. The CSI committee is guided by the RBCT CSI procedure that is in place. Strict adherence to the CSI procedure is maintained and followed when making a decision pertaining to funding of projects. Again, committee members are required to, from time to time, plan visits to projects to monitor the progress and make further recommendations where applicable. RBCT’s criteria for funding of projects is as follows: • It must benefit a wider community • It must be developmental in nature • It must be sustainable 40 2017 Sustainable Development Report Ntabeni Primary School Salphine Primary Ntabeni has developed from its humble beginnings RBCT donated school shoes to Salphine Primary. of lessons being conducted under a tree by a single teacher to a fully-fledged school. Over the years, RBCT has assisted the school to the value of over R4.5 million. In 2017, RBCT extended it’s support of the school by building new ablution facilities to the value of R332 923. Ikhwezi Welfare Organization Ikhwezi Welfare Organization received mattresses and goodie bags to the value of R16 300. Amangwe Village RBCT once again showed commitment to the work done at Amangwe Village by donating R350 000 in 2017. The funds will be used to support numerous projects run by Amangwe including home based care and Impiloyesizwe Community Foundation early childhood development. RBCT showed their support to the Impiloyesizwe Community Foundation in the form of 20 blankets and 10 mattresses. A Jungle Gym was also donated for the Impiloyesizwe Créche. 41 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Our Community Annual Standard Donations Mbuyiseni High School RBCT continued to demonstrate their support to Mbuyiseni High School, one of the top achieving Zululand Charities in 2017 by donating R780 000. schools in the King Cetshwayo District was the Twenty four charities benefited from this donation. recipient of R100 000 donated by RBCT. The funds were used to upgrade the school. Department of Education partnership RBCT once again proved their commitment to education by donating twenty five desktop computers to the five top performing schools in the rural areas of the King Cetshwayo District. Empowering Girls A total of 610 young girls from three rural schools benefitted from a donation of sanitary pads by RBCT. RBCT visited the school to donate sanitary pads four times in 2017. A total of 73 200 sanitary pads were distributed in 2017. 42 2017 Sustainable Development Report Sports Development Izinkanyezi Zakusasa Garden Project During 2017, RBCT handed over sports equipment to In July 2017, RBCT came to the aid of Izinkanyezi the value of R55 135. The recipients were: Zakusasa Garden Project by donating garden fencing to the value of R103 725. In addition to this, RBCT • Mningi High School planted more than 5 000 vegetable seedlings in this garden and donated R10 000 towards garden tools as • Veldenvlei Primary part of their Mandela Day initiative. • John Ross College • Juventus Football Club • Udondolo Football Club Khula Senior Secondary Khula Senior Secondary school in Esikhaleni Township received a donation of R70 000 from RBCT in 2017 to invest in education equipment. 43 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Our Community Richards Bay Hoërskool Computer Donation RBCT showed support to the Richards Bay Hoërskool by In another generous donation, 30 computers were donating 8 x Magnetic Boards and 6 x Data Projectors. handed to 3 schools. The recipients were: • Manzimpofu Primary in Enseleni • Nomyaca High School in Eshowe • Kwa-Sibonda Primary Zakheni Creche Keeping in line with their commitment to early childhood development, RBCT spent R367 751 on upgrades of Zakheni Creche. Pensioners Lunch RBCT values the foundation laid by our pensioners and they were honoured at the annual RBCT pensioners lunch held in July 2017. 44 2017 Sustainable Development Report Enterprise and Supplier Development Driving Enterprise and Supplier Development Procurement Key RBCT Procurement Criteria 2017 was a challenging yet rewarding year within • Compliance with RBCT’s health, safety and RBCT’s procurement environment. The continuation environmental standards of the Capital Project and the associated spend • Adherence to RBCT’s quality specifications has seen procurement activity at its highest level. This increased spend is due to the extensive • Competitive market related pricing Capital Project spend. This is combined with an • Valid BBBEE verification certificate understanding and execution of initiatives aligned to the changes within the elements of the Department of • Service excellence Trade and Industry’s Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Codes of Best Practice. Enterprise and Supplier Development RBCT is working closely with our suppliers to Enterprise development remains a key focus at ensure compliance. The changes within the codes RBCT, and one of our ongoing initiatives facilitated are embraced and RBCT strives to assist in the through our shareholders was making available four empowerment of our business partners. million tons of export capacity to junior miners at To align with the focus on driving sustainability in commercially attractive rates. The allocation of the four the Zululand environment, procurement preference million ton capacity is managed by the Department of is often focused on local suppliers with additional Mineral Resources. considerations to the small and medium enterprise This means that junior miners have access to export categories where ever possible. markets through RBCT, and maintain improved RBCT has actively and progressively driven operational performance and profitability within their preferential procurement spend for the past 14 businesses. The South African export facilities are years and insists on suppliers providing approved often constrained due to infrastructure challenges, verification certificates to ensure compliance within therefore the allocation of this capacity contributes the Codes. We maintain an extensive, customized significantly to the enterprise development within the database in our SAP system and are able to mining environment. continuously improve our position with up to date Supplier and Enterprise Development initiatives and reliable statistics on the various criteria as within the procurement area further contribute to the defined in the codes. Decision making is therefore RBCT Responsible Procurement Strategy. We partner easily facilitated when considering elements such with Black Owned Exempt Micro Enterprises, and as black ownership, as well as black woman Qualifying Small Enterprises that are both suppliers controlled business that are suppliers or potential and potential supplier to RBCT in developing selfsuppliers to RBCT. To ensure maximum procurement sufficient business partners. This is achieved through spend contributes towards RBCT’s empowerment working with committed suppliers, and ensuring performance, it is our preference to engage with that the selection criteria is adhered to. A strategic businesses that maintain a minimum level four BBBEE focus area in developing the Supplier database is rating. the Ownership Element, and engaging with supplier Where commercial criteria is the same, preference around transformation and compliance to the DTI’s is given to the higher BBBEE rated supplier. RBCT Codes of Good practice. does not pay a premium to empowered companies, Due to the nature of the Terminal’s maintenance spend as commercial competitiveness is a key determinant being predominantly on specialised high quality in decision making. From time to time, RBCT engineering items, managing the achievement of the may require long-term contractors and suppliers quality standards and specifications, presents RBCT to share their plans to maintain and improve their with good mentoring opportunities to develop and empowerment ratings. grow the skills within our suppliers. RBCT remains committed to Enterprise and Supplier Development, and driving continuous improvement within the procurement environment. 45 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Driving Enterprise and Supplier Development Below is the 2017 B-BBEE procurement spend. B-BBEE Procurement Spend 2004-2017 120% 105% 106% 100% 100% 100% 95% 25% 92% 89% 80% 72% 69% 60% 51% 53% 40% 40% 25% 20% 0% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 46 2017 Sustainable Development Report Glossary Aids Acquired Immune Deficiency EWP Employee Wellness Programme Syndrome, a disease of the immune system caused by HIV infection EY Ernst and Young AIT Artisan in Training EXCO Executive Committee ART Artisan Recognition Training FHL Faith Hope and Love Organization ARV Anti-retroviral FIFO Fly In, Fly Out BBBEE Broad-based black economic FINCO Finance Committee empowerment. This represents a Fuels Diesel, petrol and paraffin consumed by broadening of earlier BEE (see below) processes and utilities policy and attempts to spread the benefits of economic empowerment to FMP Fundamental Management Program the widest possible spectrum of black South Africans FRCP Fatal Risk Control Protocols BMI Body Mass Index GM General Manager BMS Best Management Skills HIV/Aids Human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome BP Blood Pressure HRA Health Risk Assessment BTT Bidvest Tank Terminals HSEC Health, Safety, Environment and BWOYA Business Woman of the Year Awards Community CAPESX Captal Expenditure IDPS Individual Development Plans CEO Chief Executive Officer IMBIZO An open forum chaired by the CEO to address all employees on business CEP Coal Exporting Parties performance and all key matters. CETOA Coal Exporting Terminal Operators IPM Institute of People Management Association ISO International Standard for Organisation. COBRA Change of behaviour reduces Published in 1996 by the International accidents Organisation for 14001 Environmental CSI Corporate Social Investment Standardisation, it specifies the actual requirements for an environmental CU-C Upper This is a grading statement level, management system. a level assigned to a manager responsible for the department ISO 14000 An environmental management system standard published by the ISO CURA Governance Risk and Compliance Software/Enterprise Risk and IWWMP Integrated Waste and Water Management Compliance Software Plan DI-D LOWER This is a grading statement level, JLT Jardin Lloyd Thompson a level assigned to a manager responsible for the department King Report The King Report on Corporate Governance is a ground-breaking DWA Department of Water Affairs booklet of guidelines for the governance EAP Education Assistance Programme structures and operation of companies in South Africa. It is issued by the King EDP Employee Development Programme Committee on Corporate Governance. The Institute of Directors in Southern Africa EE Employment Equity (IoDSA) owns the copyright of the King Report on Corporate Governance and the EECC Employment Equity Consultative King Code of Corporate Governance. Committee Compliance with the King Reports is a ESUP An Offsite storage dam known as requirement for companies listed on the ESUP Dam Johannesburg Stock Exchange 47 Coal to the world, growth to the nation Glossary Glossary LED Local Economic Development RBCT Richards Bay Coal Terminal LTI Lost-time injury. Refers to an injury RDC20 A dust suppressant used onsite to resulting in the injured person being suppress dust on the ground unable to attend/return to work to perform the full duties of his/her regular work, REMCO Remunerations Committee as per the advice of a suitably qualified medical professional, on the next RSR Railway Safety Regulator calendar day after the injury. SABCOHA SA Business Coalition on Health and LTIFR Lost-time injury-frequency rate. The Aids number of lost-time injuries (see above) per 200,000 hours worked. SANS South African National Standard MDP Management Development Programme SECOM Social and Ethic Committee MERSETA Manufacturing, Engineering and Related SED Socio-Economic Development SETA SETA Sector Education and Training MI Minor Injury Authority MIFR Minor Injury Frequency Rate SGS Societe Generale Surveillance MOA Memorandum of Agreement SHE Safety, Health and the Environment Mt Million Tons SMS Short Message Sending Mt/a Million ton per annum SPCA Society of Prevention to Cruelty to Animals S.A NEAP National Economically active Population TB Tuberculosis NIHL Noise-induced Hearing Loss TETA Transport Education Training Authority OHS Organisational Health Survey TFR Transnet Freight Rail OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Specification TIFR Total Injury Frequency Rate OPCO Operations Committee TLR Terminal Load Rate OREP Occupational Risk and Exposure Profiles TNPA Transnet National Port Authority PEAP Provincial Economically Active Population TPH Tons per Hour PHC Primary Healthcare Management TTT Train Turnaround Time PLC Programmable Logic Controller UNAIDS The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS PLR Port Load Rate VSLS Vessels PM2.5 is particulate matter 2.5 micrometers or less in diameter WDMS Wellness and Disease Management System PM10 is particulate matter 10 micrometers or less in diameter WUL Water Use License PoPI Protection of Personal Information ZCCI Zululand Chamber of Commerce and Industry PROCOM Projects Committee 48 2017 Sustainability Report Boundary and scope of this report The 2017 Sustainability Report covers the period 1 January to 31 December 2017. This report shows a brief analysis of the companies operational logistics and performances in the following criteria: • The Health and Safety of employees and the environmental impact on surrounding areas. • Strategies and policies that have been implemented to achieve optimal results in the above regard. • Current goals that have been achieved and future goals to be obtained. • Outreach programmes, delivering social value by giving back to schools and charities, • Empowering local communities. • Structure of the board and Management • Employee and Recruitment programmes. • Operational Activities such as: Rail performance, coal is handled effectively and efficiently once it is in our possession from the TFR, no data has been captured for this report on derailments as it is not a direct part of our operational activities. Shipping performance, the arrival and departure of all vessels is managed and coordinated by the TNPA. The quality and analysis processes of the coal is excluded from this report as it is conducted independently by an on-site laboratory. To share your views or comments, contact: Corporate Affairs Department Richards Bay Coal Terminal (Pty) Limited South Dunes, Richards Bay Harbour P O Box 56, Richards Bay, 3900 Tel: 035 904 4045 Email: communications@rbct.co.za Visit our website: www.rbct.co.za 50 2017 Sustainable Development Report
