2017 Responsible investment report Letter from our Managing Partner Axcel’s mission is to generate a These days, it is essential for the success uation. As an active owner in the compaof an investment that the owner is aware nies we invest in, Axcel also takes rereturn for our investors by of CSR issues and actively addresses sponsibility for considering ESG factors acquiring, developing, improvthem. Sustainability is therefore a considin day-to-day business activities. eration whenever we make an investing and selling medium-sized ment. As investors become more and CSR is moving at a fast pace, and the bar Nordic companies. Working more interested in environmental, social is raised every year. Our goal is continuand governance (ESG) issues, financial ous improvement in our companies’ CSR towards this mission, we success is increasingly dependent on work, which is a demanding process to believe not only in economic sustainability performance. which Axcel and our portfolio companies need to commit both time and resources. sustainability, but also in At Axcel, we strive to implement ESG At Axcel, we therefore put great effort into sustainability when it comes to criteria both in pre-investment processes constantly improving our CSR work. and during our ownership. When Axcel the environment, our social screens future investment opportunities, Christian Schmidt-Jacobsen responsibility and good corpowe incorporate ESG factors into the evalManaging Partner rate governance. For this reason, Axcel has pledged to act responsibly towards the companies we own and in the way we run our business in general. 2 CSR at Axcel Axcel believes sustainability Axcel joined the UN Global Compact back ply with, the Global Compact principles, in 2010 and has worked strategically with and portfolio companies prepare an annuat both fund and company corporate social responsibility (CSR) at al Communication on Progress (COP), level to be crucial for both fund and company level ever since. which is published on the Global Compact website. successful investments. We submitted our first report under the Sustainability issues are UN’s Principles of Responsible Investment While the Global Compact focuses on (PRI) initiative in 2016, and the most recent CSR at company level, the PRI look at therefore on the agenda at was filed in April 2018. environmental, social and governance all portfolio companies. (ESG) issues at fund level. By signing up Axcel has noted greatly increased interest to both schemes, Axcel has the best posin CSR issues among investors and other sible basis for creating a framework for stakeholders in recent years. Axcel thereCSR reporting that is familiar to both fore continues to develop CSR procedures. companies and investors. More stringent CSR legislation will affect future reporting at our Danish companies. Axcel wants to make sure that we follow up on ESG matters in all parts of the inThe principles for how Axcel works with vestment process. When screening future portfolio companies on the development investment opportunities, Axcel incorpor­ of CSR systems are documented in ates ESG factors into the general evaluaAxcel’s CSR handbook. The handbook tion criteria. Before any final decision to guides management and CSR staff at invest in a company is made, Axcel perportfolio companies through the first steps forms a due diligence analysis, which intowards fulfilling the CSR requirements corporates a systematic review of the during the first 24 months of ownership, company’s ESG performance. As an acwhich includes joining the UN Global tive owner, Axcel also takes responsibility Compact. Axcel invests only in companies for considering ESG in day-to-day busithat comply with, or are prepared to comness activities. Axcel puts great effort into 3 Reporting to Investment Axcel’s active investors and decision ownership the public Monitoring Global Due diligence of Axcel’s Compact COP companies All portfolio companies are offering continuous support to its compaAxcel works to ensure required to join the Global Compact nies by providing tools, guidance and that its companies: within one year and work on knowledge-sharing opportunities on CSR continuous improvement against its and corporate governance issues. • comply with relevant laws, rules and ten principles. internationally recognised principles Axcel has developed a CSR policy • consider risks relating to CSR issues explaining Axcel’s commitments, which and address them proactively can be downloaded from our website. • are in a position to meet the requirements and expectations of customers Axcel aims to invest in companies which and business partners concerning behave responsibly, as this will ensure the supply chain management and codes best possible risk profile. However, we of conduct also wish to promote socioeconomic • consider future business opportunities development in general and therefore and positioning in relation to CSR encourage portfolio companies to • comply with the DVCA’s guidelines on contribute to their local communities and openness and transparency their development where this makes commercial sense. Most of Axcel’s companies have published a COP, and the rest are on the way We will also be focusing more on individ­ to doing so. ual boards’ involvement in COPs, and in future it will be a requirement that these Axcel regularly suggests improvements, reports are considered at board level. and in 2017, we improved our supervision to ensure compliance by encouraging all companies to introduce KPIs in relevant areas. Axcel also decided to include governance in the COP. Global Compact status of Axcel-owned companies as at 30 April 2018 Joined Global Compact First COP Axcel has also improved ESG matters internally by establishing a Ball Group X 2012 whistleblowing solution that allows Conscia X – anonymous reporting of violations of Danish Ship Finance X 2017 financial regulations within Axcel Delete Group X 2015 Management as well as any unethical EG X 2015 behaviour. The reporting system is Frontmatec X – hosted by an independent party, IsaDora New investment – guaranteeing the system’s security and Mita-Teknik X 2015 anonymity, while the investigation of Mountain Top Industries New investment – reported incidents is performed by the Nissens New investment – compliance unit. Orion Diagnostica New investment – 4 Status and development in companies Human Rights Risks regarding equality, life and security, personal freedom, economic, social and cultural freedoms. Labour Risks regarding freedom of association and recognition and the right to collective bargaining, elimination of forced and compulsory labour, abolition of child labour, elimination of discrimination in respect of employment & occupation. Environmental issues Risks regarding environmental impact, damage to ecosystems, pollution, land degradation, the impacts of chemicals use and disposal, waste production and depletion of non-renewable resources. Corruption issues Risks regarding corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment of risk by category COP17. Please rate your overall assessment of the portfolio companies in each fund within each of the categories = Low risk = Medium risk = High risk Assessment of risk by category Fund Portfolio Company Human Rights Labour Environment Corruption Axcel III K/S Ball Group Exited 2018 Driconeq Axcel IV K/S Mita-Teknik EG Delete Group Conscia Exited 2018 Lessor Group Frontmatec Dansk Skibskredit Axcel V K/S Nissens Mountain Top Industries IsaDora Orion Diagnostica N/A N/A N/A N/A 5 Assessment of portfolio companies compliance with ESG criteria Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria Ball Group Conscia Danish Ship Finance Delete Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? No No Not applicable Yes Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? No No Not applicable Yes (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco-label européen...) Environmental practice of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification ISO14000 Has the company measured its carbon footprint? No Not applicable Not applicable Yes Has the company benefited from energy cost savings? Information not available No Not applicable Yes Number of employees at year-end (2017) 398 323 72 936 Number of employees at year-end (2016) 334 137 68 490 Has the company benefited from a reduction of: absenteeism rate? No No No No Social behaviour of the portfolio company incident rate? Yes No No No Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? No Yes Yes Yes If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? 10% 30% More than 50% 0-10% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Yes Yes Yes Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? Yes Yes Yes Yes Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Yes Yes Not applicable Yes Governance Bribery Yes Yes Yes Yes within the portfolio company Money laundering Yes No Yes Yes Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to any No No No No lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria? If yes, please provide additional information 6 Assessment of portfolio companies compliance with ESG criteria Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria EG Frontmatec Mita-Teknik Nissens Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? Yes Yes Yes Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? No No Yes Yes (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco-label européen...) Environmental practice of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification ISO 14001 ISO 14001 Has the company measured its carbon footprint? No No No Not applicable Has the company benefited from energy cost savings? No Yes Yes Yes Number of employees at year-end (2017) 1821 991 224 1282 Number of employees at year-end (2016) 1856 885 252 1282 Has the company benefited from a reduction of: absenteeism rate? Not applicable Information not available Yes Information not available Social behaviour of the portfolio company incident rate? Not applicable Information not available No Information not available Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? Yes No Yes Yes If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? 0-10% 0-10% 0-10% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Yes Yes Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? Yes Yes Yes Yes Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Yes Yes Yes Yes Governance Bribery Yes Yes Yes No within the portfolio company Money laundering Not applicable Yes No No Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to any No No No No lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria? If yes, please provide additional information (1) such as energy efficicency, waste management, carbon footprint reduction, etc. Yes 0–10% No 10–30% Not applicable 30–50% Information not available More than 50% 7 Governance structure in Axcel portfolio companies Axcel shall annually send out a reporting scheme to the portfolio companies to check up on the current state of corporate governance. In the reporting scheme, each portfolio company shall report on whether the most common tools for corporate governance are in place. Danish Mountain Ball Delete Orion Mita-Teknik EG Conscia Frontmatec Ship Nissens Top IsaDora Group Group Diagnostica Finance Industries Rules and Procedures for the BoD CEO Instructions Code-of-conduct Ethical Guidelines Environmental policy Whistleblower protection Evaluation of Executive Management Evaluation of the BoD Agreements covering executive shareholding Employment contracts for executives Annual planning ’annual wheel’ Annual ESG assessment questionnaire 2017 Further Axcel portfolio companies are encouraged to employ Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) where it is relevant in the four issue areas of UN Global Compact; human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Employing KPIs means (1) formulating the specific KPI, (2) setting a target, (3) explaining the actions taken and (4) finally reporting on the status by allocating resources to data collection. From 2019 Axcel will send out an annual reporting spreadsheet with a number of KPI’s that Axcel portfolio companies are expected to report status, target and action on. 8
