SAS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT NOVEMBER 2016–OCTOBER 2017 TRAVELERS ARE THE FUTURE WE ARE SAS SAS is the destinations we serve, the aircraft we fly, and the tickets we sell. But most importantly it is the people who choose to be a part of SAS. The employees, suppliers, partners and passengers who create a more sustainable SAS journey every day. Some of us are new, while others have decades of experience. We are younger and older, work with our minds and our hands. With different skills and different capabilities. We are people who have every background imaginable, who want our lives to arrive at many different destinations. What unites us is that at SAS we have embarked on a journey where we believe that by making the world smaller, humankind grows larger. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 CONTENT SAS in summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Letter from the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 How we create value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Focus on Climate Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2.7% A more sustainable flight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 SAS Sustainability Agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Risk Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSION PER Accounting policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 PASSENGER KILOMETER GRI content index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 SINCE 2016/2017 Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Assurance report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 22+ YEARS OF ABOUT THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY This is the 22nd SAS Sustainability Report, which has been subREPORTING ject to third-party review since 1997. This Sustainability Report describes SAS’s most essential environmental and societal aspects during the 2016/2017 fiscal year. The Annual Report with sustainability review and the separate Sustainability Report have been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The UN Global Compact, UN SusB tainability Development Goals, ISO 14001 and the CDP were also taken into consideration in the preparation of this Sustainability Report. The entire report has been reviewed by PwC. The SAS Annual Report with a sustainability review and the separate Sustainability Report for the 2015/2016 fiscal year were published in February 2017. 2017 RESULT IN CDP Readers’ guide to this Sustainability Report • The GRI Standards and reporting principles have been used to identify the content and topic boundaries of this report. The reporting principles are: Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality, and Completeness. • It is advisable to read the SAS Annual Report for an introduction to 12.1% the SAS Group. • The SAS Group is referred to as SAS in this Sustainability Report. REDUCTION IN CO2 • In the 2016/2017 fiscal year (2016/2017), SAS consisted of PER PASSENGER Scandinavian Airlines, SAS Cargo Group A/S and SAS Ground KILOMETER SINCE 2010 Handling. Scandinavian Airlines has its own Air Operator Certificate, AOC. The head office is located in Stockholm, Sweden. • The fiscal year is from November 1 through October 31. 5.9% • The KPIs reported in this Sustainability Report generally cover (unless specifically stated): SICK LEAVE – Financial KPIs: SAS IN 2016/2017 – Environmental KPIs: flight-related; flights flown under the SK flight number. – Ground related: SAS – Social KPIs: SAS External review: Material sustainability information and EU-ETS All material sustainability information in the Annual and Sustainability Reports for 2016/2017 has been reviewed by PwC. The CONTACT INFORMATION Auditor’s assurance report on the Sustainability Report can be Lars Andersen Resare found on page 25. Head of Environment and CSR PwC has verified the systems and reports regarding the EU +46 70 997 23 46 trading scheme for emission allowances for flights under the SK lars.andersen@sas.se flight number. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 1 SAS Sustainability Report | SAS in summary SAS IN SUMMARY In 2016/2017, SAS consisted of Scandinavian Airlines, SAS Cargo Group A/S and SAS Ground Handling. Scandinavian Airlines has its own Air Operator Certificate, AOC. The head office is located in Stockholm where all commercial, operational functions and staff units, such as purchasing, finance, legal, sustainability, etc. are centralized. WHAT WE DO SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS IN 2016/2017 SAS offers fast and efficient passenger and freight air transports • S AS’s total tonne kilometer increased 9.4% and total CO2 over long distances to, from and within Scandinavia with the emissions increased 6.2%. The growth was primarily on longleast possible environmental impact. In collaboration with other haul flights. airlines in Star Alliance, SAS offers its services to an extensive • S AS’s relative passenger-related CO2 emissions decreased global network. SAS conducted approximately 309,000 flights during the period to 96 grams (99) per passenger kilometer. transporting 30 million passengers and 126,000 tonnes cargo • S AS’s relative cargo related CO2 emissions fell during the in 2016/2017. All flights were operated under SK flight numbers period to 518 grams (522) per cargo tonne kilometer. with aircraft and crew managed by Scandinavian Airlines, and • S AS introduced 11 brand new aircraft. also by wet-lease operators with internal and external suppliers. • S AS achieved compliance with the EU-ETS regulations SAS home bases in Scandinavia are Copenhagen Kastrup, Oslo for 2016. Gardermoen and Stockholm Arlanda. • S ick leave decreased to 5.9% (6.2). • S AS used 100 tonnes alternative sustainable jet fuel on flights SAS fleet from Oslo and Bergen. The fleet consisted at year-end of 158 aircraft. Scandinavian Air• T he SAS Code of Conduct was updated with an upgraded lines used 16 long-haul aircraft and 109 short-haul aircraft, and mandatory e-learning training program for all employees. the wet-lease operators had 33 short-haul aircraft dedicated to • S AS supported the ‘Christmas flight’ for the 31st consecutive SAS. time. SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED KPIS1 SAS Cargo SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG) offers freight capacity on all SAS Nov–Oct Nov–Oct Nov–Oct flights and on dedicated truck operations. The actual handling of 2016–2017 2015–2016 2014–2015 freight and mail is carried out through contractual agreements Revenue, MSEK 42,654 39,459 39,650 with ground handling agents worldwide. SAS Cargo includes EBT before nonrecurring items, MSEK 1,951 939 1,174 Trust Forwarding, an independent full-service provider of global EBIT margin, % 5.1 4.8 5.6 freight forwarding services focusing on the Nordic market. Number of passengers, millions2 30.0 29.0 26.9 Average number of employees3 10,324 10,710 11,288 SAS Technical Maintenance of whom women, % 37 39 38 SAS has its own technical line maintenance at its home bases Sick leave, % 4 5.9 6.2 7.0 and at Gothenburg Landvetter. The majority of work is conductTotal number of occupational injuries 248 237 268 ed on Scandinavian Airlines aircraft but other external airlines Climate index 88 91 92 are contracted. Heavy maintenance is contracted with external CO2 emissions, 000s tonnes 4,376 4,122 3,822 suppliers. NOx emissions, 000s tonnes 18.6 17.8 16.3 CO2 gram/passenger kilometer 96 99 101 SAS Ground Handling Fuel consumption airline operations, SAS Ground Handling (SGH) operates at the home bases, as 000s tonnes 1,389 1,309 1,213 well as Gothenburg Landvetter and Malmö Sturup. CustomFuel consumption ground ers comprise passengers on all flights with an SK flight number, operations, 000s liters5 1,672 1,669 1,837 and SAS’s partners and external customers. SGH’s services inWater consumption, 000s m3 51 69 52 cludes, for example, passenger and lounge services, loading and Energy consumption, ground, GWh 97 110 116 unloading, de-icing and towing aircraft. The majority of SGH’s Unsorted waste, 000s tonnes6 0.2 0.2 0.2 services are provided to flights with SK flight numbers. Hazardous waste, 000s tonnes6 0.1 0.2 0.1 External environment-related costs, MSEK 1,413 842 549 1) Accounting policies on pages 20-21. 2) Scheduled traffic. 3) Source: Note 3 on page 72 in SAS Annual Report November 2016–October 2017. 4) New calculation method. 5) I ncludes only ground vehicle operations at SAS main bases: Stockholm, Oslo and Copenhagen. 6) Includes only ground facilities, including technical maintenance. 2 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Letter from the CEO | SAS Sustainability Report LETTER FROM THE CEO We close the page on an eventful year. A strong summer led to a significant improvement in earnings following a weak start to the year. Earnings were driven by increased revenue generated by the successful seasonal adjustments to the network, which boosted passenger numbers, and by implementing our promised efficiency measures. It is pleasing to be able to present a significant increase in profitability of slightly more than SEK 1 billion and earnings before tax and nonrecurring items of almost SEK 2 billion. The improvements were driven by increased revenue as more travelers than ever are choosing to fly with SAS and by the positive effects of the efficiency program. I would like to thank the employees at SAS and our partners for an intense year of work that has delivered results. This inspires us to continue the work with change to further strengthen competitiveness through product investments and efficiency measures. Even if we are pleased that the increase in earnings led to SAS creating shareholder value during the year, we cannot rest on our laurels. Our operating environment is changeable and we have noted that the increase in total market capacity is again accelerating, in parallel with the continued trend of declining unit revenue and willingness to pay for air travel. Moreover, a new aviation tax is expected to be introduced in Sweden from April 1, 2018. To meet the above, we are working on three focus areas: 1. Achieving SEK 3 billion in efficiency gains in core operations by 2020 2. Establishing complementary bases in London and Malaga 3. Capitalizing on SAS’s strong brand and more than 5 million EuroBonus members. Oslo and Bergen. Moreover, we are also striving to create possibilities for our customers to fly with significantly lower CO2 emisRead more about SAS strategies and efficiency measures in SAS sions by offering them the option of upgrading the fuel used for Annual Report 2016/2017. their flight to biofuel. The airline industry is in the midst of extensive change efforts MORE SUSTAINABLE AVIATION and society needs to pull together to create the preconditions for At the same time as we endeavor to increase SAS’s competitiveaccelerating the necessary transition. The introduction of naness, we are well aware that the aviation industry must become tional aviation taxes that do not differentiate based on the scope even more sustainable. SAS takes its sustainability responsibility of the emissions and for which the revenues generated are not very seriously. used for environmental improvements is the wrong way forDuring the year, absence due to sickness decreased and work ward. It would be different if the revenue was going to be used on reducing lost time accidents continued. In connection with to support the airline industry’s transition to sustainable travel, the establishment of bases outside Scandinavia, SAS naturally for example, by increasing the production of biofuel. These type applies the same policy for its own employees as those of SAS’s of aviation taxes worsen the preconditions for investing in new subcontractors. SAS requires that employees have decent martechnology and biofuel, which both contribute to materially deket terms of employment where they are based and are free to creasing climate-changing emissions. join trade unions. Aviation needs long-term and predictable controls in orThe long-term reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a der to continue to develop toward ever lower climate-changing priority and, in the short-term, we aim to reduce CO2 emissions emissions. by 20% per passenger kilometer by 2020 compared with 2010. At years-end, the reduction was 12.1% and compared with the previous fiscal year the reduction was 2.7%. Ongoing fleet reStockholm, January 29, 2018 newal with the introduction of 11 new A320neos and continuous efficiency enhancement contributed to the improvement. During Rickard Gustafson the fiscal year, 100 tonnes of biofuels was used on flights from President and CEO SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 3 SAS Sustainability Report | Value-creation model HOW WE CREATE VALUE OUR RESOURCES OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS MODEL SOCIETAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL VISION 30 MILLION PASSENGERS and relationships TO MAKE LIFE EASIER FOR with customers, suppliers, partners and decision-makers, as well as SAS’s extensive community with 140 million SCANDINAVIA’S FREQUENT website hits annually and 1.2 million followers on FaceTRAVELERS. book. WHAT WE DO INTANGIBLE CAPITAL SAS makes life easier for people who travel frequently to, from, and within Scandinavia by offering smooth, attrac5.1 MILLION MEMBERS in the EuroBonus tively priced flights for those traveling on business and program, over 800 slot pairs daily and a strong SAS those traveling privately. brand. HOW WE DO IT HUMAN CAPITAL Our offering is built on a broad network with frequent departures to, from and within Scandinavia. We have an at10,324 FTES, of which 39% are flight crew, tractive product with a high degree of freedom of choice, 39% ground personnel, 10% technical staff and 12% designed for business and leisure travel. We reward our management personnel with extensive experience and customers for their loyalty through our EuroBonus prohighly developed skills. gram. Our travel and cargo services are built on a producMANUFACTURED CAPITAL tion model in which SAS produces traffic on larger traffic flows with a uniform aircraft fleet, while smaller flows and 158 AIRCRAFT with a market value of about regional traffic are flown via business partners. Aircraft SEK 33 billion, a number of properties, vehicles, operations are supported by efficient ground handling machines, tools and equipment, such as lounges and services, technical aircraft maintenance and sales organiself-service terminals. zations together with an attractive product. FINANCIAL CAPITAL SEK 25 BILLION in capital invested by shareholders, lenders and lessors. NATURAL CAPITAL 1,389 KTONNES OF JET FUEL, of which 100 ktonnes is biofuel for flight operations, as well as other raw materials, energy consumption, and food and drink for passengers and personnel. 4 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Value-creation models | SAS Sustainability Report WHAT WE CREATE VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS • Net income for the year of MSEK 1,149 30 • Market capitalization of SEK 8.5 billion1 • MSEK 350 in preference 13ROIC, % share dividends million journeys VALUE FOR OTHER STAKEHOLDERS 272 routes CUSTOMERS • Smooth & attractively priced travel that makes life simpler • New experiences, relationships 72 Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) and personal development • Making dreams a reality 57 817 EMPLOYEES • Job opportunities Employee commitment • Personal & professional index development daily departures • Salary and benefits 126 B+/B1 FINANCIAL BACKERS & SUPPLIERS • Supplier payments of about SAS’s credit rating2 SEK 36 billion million kg of • Interest expense of MSEK 480 transported goods • Lease expense for aircraft of MSEK 3,116 SOCIETY ~1% 123 • I nfrastructure that enables of GDP in Scandinavia3 trade, new companies, import/export, tourism, cultural exchange and regional destinations and development 1,300 via Star Alliance • Scandinavian community • Tax income & job opportunities ENVIRONMENT • Increased production with more 96 grams CO2 emissions fuel-efficient aircraft, with a per passenger kilolower climate impact and remeter duced noise. 1) Common shares 2) Credit rating: Standard & Poor’s B, Moody’s B1 as of November 2017. 3) Cowi, Inregia, tøi and WSP. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 5 SAS Sustainability Report | Focus on Climate Action FOCUS ON CLIMATE ACTION Based on SAS’s materiality analysis the work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the most material. Aircraft operations using non-renewable jet fuel account for the vast majority of SAS’s greenhouse gas emissions. Hence, SAS’s focus on increased energy efficiency and transition to renewable energy sources in its aircraft operations is prioritized in the ISO 14001-certified environmental management system. SAS ENVIRONMENTAL VISION AND GOALS 2020 SAS CO2 emissions per passenger kilometer decreased to 96 SAS’s vision is to be a part of the future long-term sustainable grams (99) compared with 2015/2016, corresponding to a 2.7% society and as a short-term foundation SAS has set goals to: improvement. Compared to 2010 the reduction is 12.1%. Noise • Reduce flight CO2 emissions per passenger kilometer by 20% emission at take-off was reduced by 11.1% and SAS used 100 in 2020 compared with 2010. tonnes renewable jet fuel during 2016/2017. • Reduce noise emissions at take-off by 15% in 2020 compared with 2010. SAS FLIGHT OPERATIONS CO2 GRAM/PASSENGER KILOMETER • Regularly use JET-A1 based on renewable sources. 115 Goals toward 2030 will be developed and decided during 110 2017/2018. 105 DEVELOPMENT IN 2016/2017 100 In 2016/2017, SAS’s total CO2 emissions from aircraft operations increased 6.2% compared with 2015/2016, while the to95 tal production measured in tonne kilometer increased 9.6%. 90 The growth primarily pertained to increased demand on longer 12 13 14 15 16 17 10 / 20 / 20 / 20 / 20 / 20 / 20 flights. Looking at single years, SAS’s total CO2 emissions may 20 11 12 13 14 15 16 20 20 20 20 20 20 increase but compared with 2005 the total CO2 emissions has been reduced by 1.5% and the production measured in tonne kiSAS climate index improved to 88 (91) at years-end compared lometer increased by 21.3%. with the base year 2011. SAS FLIGHT OPERATIONS TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS AND TONNE KMS SAS FLIGHT OPERATIONS CLIMATE INDEX 5000 99 4600 97 4200 95 93 3800 91 3400 89 3000 87 2 3 4 5 6 7 5 10 01 01 01 01 01 01 00 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 85 2 20 11 12 13 14 15 16 20 20 20 20 20 20 2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Total CO2 emissions (000s tonnes) Tonne kilometers (millions) The following observations were made in an analysis of SAS’s total CO2 emissions in 2016/2017: • All flights shorter than 500km: 14%, flight between 500 and 800 km: 10%, flights between 800 and 3,000 km: 34%, and flights longer than 3,000 km: 42% • Domestic flights: 17% and the remainder are international flights • Swedish domestic flights shorter than 500 km (excl. Gotland): 3.0% 6 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 80 Focus on Climate Action | SAS Sustainability Report 75 70 65 60 SAS FLIGHT OPERATIONS THE GLOBAL AIRLINE INDUSTRY’S 2050 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS CO2 EMISSIONS 2017 FISCAL YEAR 1,000s tonnes CO2 Denmark Domestic flights 34 Flights to EU/EEA 394 Flight to outside EU/EEA 576 Norway GOAL -50% Domestic flights 482 Flights to EU/EEA 314 1990 2005 2020 2035 2050 Flight to outside EU/EEA 89 Emissions without efficiency enhancements Today’s technology plus growth Sweden Airline industry’s goal Domestic flights 247 Flights to EU/EEA 367 SAS WORK TOWARD LOWER EMISSIONS Flight to outside EU/EEA 242 The work on the necessary improvement measures to achieve the longand short term goals are a natural, integrated part of Finland the SAS environmental management system certified according Domestic flights 0,6 to ISO 14001. Flights to EU/EEA 39 SAS has an environmental program on par with leading indusFlight to outside EU/EEA try competitors that attracts employees, customers, and invesEU/EEA tors and is perceived to be positive by other stakeholders. The Departing EU/EEA1 for Scandinavia and Finland 746 environmental program covers the entire company and all releFlights within EU/EEA1 0,8 vant processes. The activities in SAS’s environmental program are coordinatDeparting EU/EEA1 for outside EU/EEA 0,02 ed and integrated with production, quality and financial activities Outside EU/EEA and will comply with applicable legislation and other requireDeparting from outside EU/EEA bound for Scandinavia/Finland 846 ments. The prerequisites for all activities are that they are well Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for EU/EEA1 within the limits of applicable legal requirements and flight safeor outside EU/EEA 0,6 ty limits, etc. The activities are based on continuous improveTotal 4 376 ment, with reference to SAS’s overall environmental goals. 1) Excluding Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland that are reported separately. The environmental program covers (but is not limited to) the following areas: • Fleet renewal AVIATION INDUSTRY MOVING TOWARD ZERO EMISSIONS • More efficient planning of SAS aircraft SAS fully supports the IATA’s ambition that, by 2050, it will be • More efficient usage of SAS aircraft in day-to-day operations possible to fly commercially without material climate impact. • Continuous aerodynamic, weight and efficiency follow-up and Toward 2050, the IATA and other areas of the airline industry modification of SAS aircraft have agreed on joint targets of: • Environmentally adapted products • Improved fuel efficiency by an average of 1.5% annually from • Alternative sustainable jet fuels 2009 to 2020 • Stakeholder dialog/work with air traffic management, airports, • Carbon-neutral growth from 2020 wet-lease operators, aircraft and engine manufacturers • 50% reduction in greenhouse CO2 emissions by 2050, compared with 2005 levels FLEET RENEWAL At year-end, SAS used 158 aircraft (16 long-haul aircraft and Source: www.enviro.aero 109 short-haul aircraft) flown by Scandinavian Airlines and 33 aircraft flown by wet-lease operators. The average age of the The target is to be realized through a combination of new techwhole aircraft fleet was 10.4 years at year-end. Scandinavian nology, more efficient air traffic management, biofuels, new enAirlines renewed its fleet by introducing 11 new Airbus 320neos ergy sources and coordinated actions to improve the infrastrucfrom the firm order of 30 aircraft. Simultaneously, a number of ture and the conditions under which air transport operates. older aircraft were phased out during 2016/2017. The A320neo Looking specifically at SAS, its fuel efficiency has improved has proved to be effective as expected with 15-18% lower fuel approximately 2% annually since 2010. SAS is fully committed consumption compared with an A320ceo. SAS will introduce a to reach the goals set in the industry and intends to reduce the number of A320neos in 2017/2018. In January 2018 SAS anemissions even further. nounced that a additional order of A320neo is under negotiation. The order aims to replace older short-aircraft in the fleet. In 2019, delivery of SAS first A350 is planned. It will replace older long-haul aircraft currently used. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 7 8 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Focus on Climate Action | SAS Sustainability Report The majority of aircraft used by SAS wet-lease operators are be developed and also include the possibility to upgrade the fuel brand new. By the end of next year all older regional jets will be consumption used to biofuel. replaced by brand new aircraft of the same type. RENEWABLE ENERGY IN THE WINGS MORE EFFICIENT PLANNING OF SAS AIRCRAFT For the past decade, SAS has worked on various activities aimed SAS has a network of destinations with varied passenger volat accelerating the development of alternative and sustainable umes and distances, which requires a fleet of aircraft of differjet fuels (biofuels). The development of biofuels based on one or ent sizes and range to make the offering efficient and attractive more renewable sources in order to realize the airline industry’s to business and leisure travelers. SAS’s fleet ranges from 70 to environmental objectives. Unlike most types of transportation, 264 seats, capable of flying routes for which the aircraft is airaviation has no real alternative to the liquid fuels that are curborne for between 20 minutes and more than 11 hours. To be rently used. There is also a need to secure access to liquid fuels able to fly a typical short haul flight with seven different aircraft as the supply of fossil alternatives is expected to decline and/ sizes (70-198 seats) provides extensive flexibility according to or become more expensive. Developing alternatives that can redemand, which enables the possibility to reduce cost and the toduce climate-impacting emissions, while also fulfilling the estabtal emissions at any given time. Flying aircraft that are too large lished sustainability criteria is of the utmost importance. generates unnecessary emissions even if it generates a better The principal sustainability criteria are that production shall be theoretical result per available seat kilometer. sustainable in the long-term and thus not compete with the production of foodstuffs or access to potable water, do not harm MORE EFFICIENT USAGE OF SAS biodiversity and use as small an area of land as possible. AccordAIRCRAFT IN DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS ing to the IATA, phasing in alternative fuels over time could enSAS has an extensive long-term fuel saving program integrated able a reduction in the air travel industry’s CO2 emissions by up in its operations. An important aspect of increasing the fuel effito 80% throughout its life-cycle. ciency is to make sure that all employees in SAS’s airline operaAs of today, it is possible to use biofuels that are based on tions have the prerequisites and knowledge to be fuel-efficient. such renewable sources as camelina, jathropha, algae, aniThis entails involvement of all employee groups that have an mal oils, fats and various types of coal-based sources such as impact on fuel consumption. Key functions are those functions waste from industry, households, agriculture, forestry, paper responsible for planning and all procedures, as well as the thoumills and so forth. These two specifications allow up to a 50% sands of employees in SAS operations conducting the flights. blend with the traditional fossil fuels to ensure the high reA large number of activities are constantly in progress, focusquirements related to engines, and fuel supply systems on airing primarily on established operational conditions, such as procraft and on the ground. cedures and how they are implemented, and whether the availSAS is involved in a number national and international projable system support is sufficiently optimized for improved fuel ects and forums, such as the IATA/ATAG biofuel network, SAefficiency. Naturally, all changes maintain a standard that meets FUG, NISA, FGF and various Scandinavian interest organizations the highest level of flight safety requirements. It is important working in the area. to recognize that increased fuel efficiency and the reduced fuel SAS also supports the EU’s Biofuel Flight Path, which aims to cost must be balanced against other operational costs, such as create the preconditions to produce two million tonnes of biofumaintenance costs and charges for using airspace. els by 2020. SAS continues to engage with various potential stakeCONTINUOUS AERODYNAMIC, WEIGHT AND EFFICIENCY holders to discuss producing biofuels in Scandinavia. During FOLLOW-UP AND MODIFICATION OF SAS AIRCRAFT 2016/2017 SAS used 100 tonnes biofuel in its daily operaSAS continuously modifies its existing aircraft over time to modtions. SAS also continues to clearly indicate to existing and poernize to more advanced technology, improve aerodynamics or tential future producers of jet fuels that it is prepared to purreduce weight. Examples of improved aerodynamics are sharchase more biofuel if the sustainability criteria are in place and klets/winglets which are generating improvements. Examples of the price is competitive. weight reduction include installing lightweight seats on a number of aircraft. An example of better technology is the ongoing STAKEHOLDER DIALOG/WORK WITH AIR TRAFFIC engine upgrade program under the framework of the ordinary MANAGEMENT, AIRPORTS, WET-LEASE SUPPLIERS, technical maintenance of most of the Boeing 737NG fleet. In AIRCRAFT AND ENGINE MANUFACTURERS practice, this entails that the engines are upgraded to a later and Since the early 2000s, SAS has been working with the parties more fuel efficient version than that originally delivered. responsible for air traffic control and airports in Sweden, Norway and Denmark in an effort to identify more efficient methENVIRONMENTALLY ADAPTED PRODUCTS ods for controlling air traffic in the airspace and on the ground in SAS strives to develop its customer offering in a more environthese countries. SAS is currently involved in activities in Scandimentally adapted direction. This includes everything from localnavia that aim to demonstrate short-term potential environmenly produced and/or organic food to less material and ultimately, tal improvements under the framework of existing systems and less waste needing to be sorted wherever customers encounter methods. Throughout SAS’s continuous environmental work, SAS SAS during the ground process, in the lounge or on board SAS maintains dialogs and discussions with relevant aircraft and enaircraft. In 2016/2017, SAS upgraded its food concept and ofgine manufacturers, and producers of interiors and other installafers a larger amount of organic food and beverages on its flights tions in the aircraft. Environmental performance and criterias are and a number of organic items in its lounges. In connection with integrated in the decision-making process in which wet-lease opthe development towards a more electronic-based communierators and new aircraft are acquired for short and long-haul opcation, less paper is being used and the use of “green IT” is inerations. An interesting development is concept aircraft that use creasing. SAS also offers its customer the option of offsetting electricity as energy source for at least one engine. SAS monitors their CO2 emissions at http://www.sasgroup.net. This offer will and supports this development with great interest. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 9 SAS Sustainability Report | A more sustainable flight A MORE SUSTAINABLE FLIGHT Examples of SAS work towards lower greenhouse gas emissions. MORE EFFICIENT AERODYNAMICS The majority of the aircraft used on longer distances have been equipped with winglets/sharklets. Depending on the distance, a reduction in fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions can be realized. RENEWAL OF THE AIRCRAFT REDUCED ENGINE RENEWABLES IN THE WINGS FLEET CONTINUES TAXI IN AND OUT For decades, SAS has been working to In 2016/2017, SAS introduced 11 brandSAS’s standard is to taxi between the accelerate the commercialization of bionew A320neos, and a number of new gate and runway using one engine (two fuels. In 2016/2017, SAS used just over ATR72s and CRJ900s were introduced for Airbus A340s), known as Reduced 100 tonnes of biofuel. Jet fuels based by SAS’s wet-lease operators. Over the Engine Taxi In/ Out. This saves fuel and on renewable sources can realize a resame period, 20 older aircraft were takgreenhouse gas emissions. duction of approximately 80% in clien out of service. Since its introduction mate-changing carbon emissions comin SAS, the A320neo has proved to be as pared with fossil-based jet fuels. efficient as expected, with a fuel reduction of up to 18–20% compared with the A320ceo. 10 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 A more sustainable flight | SAS Sustainability Report NEW INTERIORS NEW FOOD CONCEPT SAS has installed new interiors on all In 2016/2017, SAS introduced an upnew aircraft introduced in 2016/2017 dated food concept. Important changand on a growing number of existing es include better ingredients, healthier short-haul aircraft. The interiors are alternatives, reduced resource use and characterized by a more modern feel, more efficient waste management. with better materials and lower weight. This lower weight enables fuel savings to be realized. NEW TECHNOLOGY DRY WASH WAITING FOR GATE IN THE ENGINES “Dry wash” for aircraft was implement& WAITING FOR GROUND In the renewal of the aircraft fleet ed during the year. A dry wash uses less POWER currently in progress, it is chiefly the than 3% of the water consumed in a traGround based electricity is used at engines that are contributing to positive ditional wet wash. The detergent used gates to avoid using aircraft engines developments. They consume less fuel in dry washes is biodegradable. more than necessary. This is monitored and generate less noise. One clear visuand measures to identify procedure imal difference is that the circumference of provements to reduce air particles and the engines has increased. emissions of greenhouse gases. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 11 SAS Sustainability Agenda | Sustainability notes SAS SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA For SAS, sustainable development means continual improveGOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ments in the areas of climate and the environment, as well as taking charge of social responsibility. Sustainable development The SAS governance model is disclosed on pages 50-56 in SAS also assumes continuously striving for sustainable profitability Annual Report 2016/2017. and financial growth. As an employer, and a purchaser and producer of infrastructure, SAS has a significant societal impact. At BOARD OF DIRECTORS the same time, the airline industry has a significant climate and SAS has a Board of Directors whose work is governed by the environmental impact, chiefly from greenhouse gas emissions Swedish Companies Act, the Articles of Association, the Code and airport noise. SAS’s ambition is that the products and serof Conduct and the formal work plan adopted by the Board each vices offered will enable more sustainable societal development year. The Board’s work follows a plan intended to ensure that the globally, with the smallest climate and environmental impact Board receives all necessary information. At its meetings, the possible. Board discussed the regular business items presented at the reSAS has structured its sustainability work in a sustainabilspective meetings, including business and market conditions, ity agenda divided by its financial-, environmentaland social financial reporting and follow-up, and the company’s financial responsibility. The agenda visualizes SAS sustainability initiaposition and investments. The Board also discussed any sustaintives and efforts with focus on CARE. The work is focused on ability-related information of material importance. minimizing sustainability-related risks and capturing potential opportunities. CODE OF CONDUCT The Board of Directors has issued the Code of Conduct to summarize and to clarify SAS’s stated priorities, promises, policies and other regulations. The Code applies for all employees reMATERIALITY gardless of employment. To underscore the Code’s importance, an extensive training program supports the implementation SAS has a defined process for continuously reviewing which of the Code and all personnel regularly participate in the protopics are material. The process involves external and internal gram. The Code is available at http://www.sasgroup.net. There stakeholders and is based on international guidelines such as are also clear rules and structures for reporting and addressGRI, UN Global Compact, UN SDGs, trends, media, stakeholder ing suspected violations through the management system or a dialog and its own judgments. whistle-blower function. The Code’s whistle-blower function was Based on a review of the last comprehensive materiality analyused in eleven cases. Two cases were dismissed without further sis conducted in 2016 the following topics are deemed to still be action and nine led to some investigations and action. the most material for SAS and its stakeholders; • Diversity and equality GROUP MANAGEMENT • Work condition The Board appoints the President of SAS AB, who is also Group • Business ethics and anti-corruption CEO. The Board has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day • Sustainability in the supply chain management of company and Group operations to the President. • Waste Group Management comprised seven members (two wom• Greenhouse Gas emission en and five men), including the President. Group Management • Noise normally has minuted meetings on a weekly basis. Group Management’s governance and control of operations are based on a With reference to SAS most material topics the following SDG’s number of guidelines and policies regarding financial managehas a direct connection to SAS sustainability agenda: ment and follow-up, communication issues, human resources, [5. Gender equality], [8. Decent work and economic growth], legal issues, the Group’s brands, business ethics and environ[12. Responsible consumption and production], and [13. Climental matters. mate action]. SAS Group Management decides on SAS strategies. The strateInformation about SAS most material topics are disclosed in gic focus areas are disclosed in SAS Annual Report on pages 12 SAS Annual Report 2016/2017 and this Sustainability Report to 27. Sustainability topics are integrated part of the strategies. with extra focus on greenhouse gas emissions or SDG [13. Climate action] since this topic is deemed as the most material ENVIRONMENT & CSR STAFF UNIT topic for both SAS and its stakeholders. This does not mean that As a strategic support and driving force, SAS has a central deall other areas/aspects are immaterial or excluded from SAS’s partment for sustainability topics (Environment and CSR) that sustainability agenda. reports to senior management. The department’s tasks include developing, driving and maintaining SAS’s sustainability agenda and supporting management in sustainability-related matters, both internally and externally. The department also has responsibility for maintaining and developing fuel-saving activities, compliance with EU-ETS/MRV, ISO 14001 certification, coordination of biofuel activities and support for the organization in sustainability issues. 12 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Sustainability Agenda | SAS Sustainability Report SAS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM • engage in strategic sustainability communication with relevant SAS has approximately 430 managers at different levels in the stakeholders. organization. SAS has integrated sustainability in its manage• promote tomorrow’s solutions through alliances and proactive ment system. The system encompasses all activities at SAS and demands for better sustainability performance from our suppliis based on airline operational standards, shared environmental ers and stakeholders. and sustainability policies, the Code of Conduct, the UN Global Compact, UN Sustainability Development Goals, LEAN and ISO The focus is to minimize sustainability-related risks and capture 14001. The system provides guidelines for a continuing cycle of potential opportunities to avoid unnecessary costs, as well as to planning, implementation and evaluation, as well as the improvecapture potential savings and differentiate SAS. ment of processes and activities to meet operational and susThrough its commitment, documented activities and results tainability targets. SAS wants to be perceived as a company that takes CARE of its The basis for a sustainable business is to follow the applicacustomers, employees, the environment and society at large. ble international and national legislation covering all aspects and parts of the organization. SAS aims to follow all applicable legal ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS requirements and legislation. Examples are legal requirements Goals and goals attainment are disclosed on page 7. connected to employment, financial obligations and environment. SAS has control mechanisms with allocated follow-up systems and resources in order to ensure compliance. STAKEHOLDER DIALOG MONITORING SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED DATA SAS monitors relevant sustainability key performance indicators SAS has a long tradition of continuous dialog and cooperation (KPI) on an ongoing basis. SAS use various parts of the LEAN with a wide range of stakeholders and involvement in sustainmethodology and follow-up of these KPIs are conducted withinability-related issues. SAS applies a principle that all stakeholdthe management system and reported weekly, monthly, quarterers seeking contact with SAS are offered the opportunity of a dily or annually according to specific needs. alog with the company. As preparation for external sustainability reporting, there are An illustration with examples of stakeholder groups engaged data collection processes in the management system covering by SAS is disclosed at http://www.sasgroup.net. all areas of SAS’s sustainability agenda Over the past few years, sustainability issues have gained greater importance for SAS stakeholders, primarily in the pubSUSTAINABILITY-RELATED BUSINESS lic administration and business sector. The number of sustainOPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS ability-related questionnaires from corporate customers and SAS has a precautionary approach and the work is focused on requests from on-site audits has increased over the years. From minimizing sustainability-related risks and capturing potena sustainability perspective, SAS prioritizes cooperation and coltial opportunities. The risks and opportunities are assessed and laboration with customers, authorities and suppliers in order to strategically handled within the management system and are create the prerequisites for develop solutions to improve SAS’s integrated with SAS’s comprehensive risk management. A sumor the aviation industry’s sustainability performance. Examples mary of SAS work with risk management is disclosed on page are development of air navigation services and efforts to acceler19 in this Sustainability Report and a comprehensive description ated commercialization of biofuels. is disclosed on pages 42-47 in SAS Annual Report 2016/2017. SAS also prioritizes dialog with parties that seek knowledge, SAS also disclose to CDP regarding its opportunities and risk drive change or support SAS in different ways, for instance, emconnected to climate change. The detailed disclosure is available ployees, partners, experts, NGOs, researchers, the media, etc. on http://www.cdp.net. Examples of key topics and concerns raised range from corIn general, it can be concluded that risks are reduced – and, porate customers, investors and shareholders are issues conindeed, certain opportunities offer tangible business potential – nected to SAS’s product responsibility, anti-corruption, greenby having a proactive and effective sustainability approach. An house gas emissions, working conditions etc. NGO’s and media example is SAS’ work with its environmental impact in the ceroften address issues connected to aviation’s impact as an entified environmental management system, The system provides abler for globalization or different views on SAS’s environmental SAS with operational control and capacity to deal rapidly with performance. Schools and educational institutions most often changing requirements in the business environment. seek deepened knowledge in SAS goals and strategies connected to the work towards lower greenhouse gas emissions. SAS sees the stakeholder dialog as an opportunity to initiate further dialog about these relevant topics and input to future VISION, STRATEGIES AND GOALS development of the customer offerings and SAS sustainability agenda. ENVIRONMENTAL VISION The media attention on aviation’s environmental impact is a SAS intends to be a part of the future long-term sustainable sochallenge for the entire airline industry. SAS has chosen to take ciety and support IATA’s ambition that, by 2050, it will be possia leading role in the debate. ble to fly commercially without material climate impact. As an effort to create greater understanding of the terms and conditions for the aviation industry, SAS also participates in variSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES ous industry or employee organizations. SAS aims to: • create a culture among its employees based on strategic decisions and a commitment to environmental work. • use documented sustainability appraisals as a basis for all decisions. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 13 SAS Sustainability Report | Sustainability Agenda EXTERNAL INITATIVES The criteria depend on the type of product or service and where SAS joined the Global Compact in 2003 and participates in the it is produced. For example, energy efficiency, waste handling, Global Compact’s Nordic Network. One criterion for publishing collective agreement (or equivalent), human rights, child labor, company information on the Global Compact website is an annuetc. This is reviewed and handled in the procurement phase and al update of materials – the Communication On Progress (COP). during the agreement period. The most recent update of SAS information was completed in May 2017. The UN Global Compact is a pivotal component of the SAS Code of Conduct and the requirements imposed on the company’s suppliers. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SAS has also chosen to use the UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDG) as a tool to structure its strategic sustainabiliEvery corporation has a responsibility to ensure profitable busity work in the sustainabilty agenda ness, comply with legal requirements and maintain a high standard of business ethics as well as ensuring compliance with naEXAMPLES OF ORGANIZATIONS RELATED TO tional policies and laws on financial responsibility. SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES WERE SAS IS A MEMBER For SAS, persistent economic profitability is closely connect• SAS is member in Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline neted to environmental improvements and the ability to take social work. responsibility. In many ways, its work on sustainability issues • SAS participates in the three national industry organizations: serves to increase the value and competitiveness of the SAS, NHO Luftfart in Norway; Föreningen Svenskt Flyg in Sweden; such as utilizing resources more efficiently and minimizing risk. and Dansk Industri in Denmark. An analysis of SAS’s statement of income reveals that major • SAS is a member of the IATA and a member of the IATA’s Enviportions of revenue and expenses and essential industry specific ronmental Committee. earnings measurements are items relevant from an environmen• SAS is active in the Nordic working group for environmental istal and/or social perspective. In short, the highest possible fisues in aviation (N-ALM). nancial return is generated by the best possible resource utiliza• SAS is a member of the Nordic initiative Sustainable Aviation. tion and management of the company’s assets, both human and financial. Optimal resource utilization means flying fuel-efficiently and making the most of capacity for carrying passengers and freight. Lower fuel consumption leads to lower fuel costs and at SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT the same time reduces the charges the SAS pays for emissions. The same applies to all other activities that, in addition to enviSAS has approximately 6,000 suppliers providing the products ronmental or social considerations, have strong financial incenand services SAS needs to compile the customer offerings. The tives to reduce resource consumption or sick leave for example. supply chain focuses around aircraft operations and associated services. It encompasses, for example: PROFITABLE BUSINESS • aircraft and engine manufacturers All aspects of SAS work towards long term profitability are dis• airport and air navigation service providers closed in SAS Annual Report 2016/2017. • fuel suppliers • catering suppliers BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION • IT suppliers SAS management approach is to take active stance against, and • technical maintenance suppliers avoid all forms of corruption and anti-competitive behavior. • wet-lease operators SAS Code of Conduct, Legal Policy and SAS Anti-bribery Pol• financial services icy are applicable to everyone who act on behalf of SAS Group. SAS Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for impleThe suppliers are primarily situated in connection to the geomenting the Code of Conduct and monitor compliance towards graphical area where SAS routes are flown. it. Compliance is monitored throughout the management system As the airline industry changes and SAS’s operational model and through internal audits. The purpose is to ensure effectivedevelops, the dependency of external suppliers increases in all ness and suitability of the policies, its implementation and the parts of the business. This applies to operational areas such as ongoing compliance activities ground handling and wet lease as well as administrative funcDuring the year, SAS conducted a number of activities to pretions such as customer service and accounting. SAS continuousvent potential anti-corruption risks that may exist. Regulations ly reviews supplier specifications and identifies the most critical relating to bribery and other improper actions are particularly suppliers. In connection with this, work is also being carried out strict. An example is the ongoing “Competition Law Compliance to consolidate the supplier base which in 2016/2017, contributProgram” which covers all entities within SAS. ed to a 19% reduction in the number of suppliers. The program addresses the most material risks connected to SAS is responsible to its customers for ensuring that sustaincorruption and the employees that are exposed to the risks in ability issues are addressed in a correct manner, regardless of their daily work. SAS also conducts control activities in order to who provided the product or service in the supply chain. ensure compliance toward applicable legislation and SAS Code SAS has an established governance model that clarifies reof Conduct. The management system continuously evaluates the sponsibilities, risks and improvement areas as well as how any effectiveness and suitability of the ongoing activities. deviations are handled. Responsibility for continuously following No legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or up the critical suppliers is centralized and standardized. All SAS monopoly practices reported in 2016/2017. suppliers are required to meet sustainability and social responsibility requirements, purchasing policy, and general terms and conditions in accordance with the UN Global Compact and other specific sustainability requirements. 14 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Sustainability Agenda | SAS Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENTAL REPSONSIBILITY EMISSIONS DERIVED FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION Reduction of energy consumption is an ongoing project with Aircraft operations often account for more than 95% of the total continuous improvements. During 2016/2017, energy conenvironmental impact of an airline, this also applies for SAS. sumption decreased. Onground emissions derive from diesel/ petrol consumption, energy use in facilities, fuel and glycol spillages and waste. Base year Based on a materiality analysis the vast majority of SAS’s enviUnit 2016/2017 2015/2016 2010 ronmental impact comprises emissions from the consumption Scope 1 of non-renewable fuels. From a stakeholder perspective noise is Flight Operations also perceived as material. CO2 total 1,000 tonnes 4,376 4,122 3,511 SAS’s environmental responsibility and management apCO2 passenger share 1,000 tonnes 3,951 3,746 3,244 proach is to comply with relevant legislation and to minimize the Nox 1,000 tonnes 18.6 17.8 14.3 absolute as well as relative greenhouse gas emissions and other HC 1,000 tonnes 0.46 0.56 environmental impacts. Passenger kilometers million 40,960 37,771 29,572 SAS Environmental Policy is applicable for all products and Tonne kilometer million 4,917 4,496 3,480 services in SAS. Group Management is responsible for the polDepartures 1,000 1,000 309 308 279 icy. The policy, together with goals and strategies are reviewed CO2/passenger kilometer gram 96.5 99.2 109.7 annually at the ISO14001 management review in Group ManCO2 /tonne kilometer gram 890.1 916.8 1,008.9 agement. Activities are followed-up within the management sys85 db area in tem and reported weekly, monthly, quarterly or annually accordAircraft Noise – takeoff KM2 per dep. 2.13 2.06 2.40 ing to specific needs. Since 2010, SAS environmental management system is cerGround Handling tified according to ISO14001 throughout the company. The enGlycol consumption (Deicing fluid) 1,000 liters 1,620 1,493 vironmental management system is continuously evaluated in order to ensure effectiveness and suitability of the system itself CO2 Vehicle Petrol tonnes 25 25 and the ongoing activities. CO2 Vehicle Diesel tonnes 1,553 1,552 Maintenance ProducENVIRONMENTAL LEGAL COMPLIANCE tions No severe incidents breaching any environmental permits were CO2 Vehicle Petrol tonnes 44 39 reported in 2016/2017. CO2 Vehicle Diesel tonnes 171 201 EMISSIONS DERIVED FROM JET FUEL CONSUMPTION SAS Cargo Group In 2016/2017, SAS’s CO2 emissions from aircraft operations inCO2 cargo share flown 1,000 tonnes 425 375 creased 6.2% compared with 2015/2016, while the production Cargo Tonne kilometer measured in tonne kilometer increased 9.6%. The growth priflown million 821 719 marily pertained to increased demand on longer flights. LookCO2 /cargo tonne ing at single years, SAS’s total CO2 emissions may increase but kilometer flown gram 518 522 compared with 2005, total CO2 emissions have been reduced by CO2 /cargo tonne kilometer trucked gram 136 133 1.5% and the production measured in tonne kilometer increased by 21.3%. Reducing climate impact is a long term process and Scope 2 moving forward SAS is fully committed to achieving the goals Energy set in the industry towards 2050 and intends to reduce its CO2 CO2 energy 1,000 tonnes 12 14 emissions even further. As of CO2 electricity 1,000 tonnes 5.7 6.1 Read more about SAS work towards lower greenhouse gas As of CO2 heating 1,000 tonnes 6.5 7.6 emissions on pages 6 to 11. As of CO2 heating oil (included in “heating”) 1,000 tonnes EMISSIONS DERIVED FROM DIESEL Energy intensity co2 kg/m2 37 AND PETROL CONSUMPTION SAS uses vehicles in conjunction with maintenance and ground-related services within airport perimeters. SAS follows NOISE the airports’ regulations and strives to ensure a continuous tranThe average noise per departure increased due to a growing sition to vehicles with lower environmental impact. At SAS main number of long-haul flights. SAS received a few reports of noise bases, all vehicles are leased and follow-ups are conducted via violations in 2016/2017, although none of these led to financontracts and fuel bills. cial implications. The number of breaches has declined in recent No significant spillages were reported in conjunction with years as a result of fleet renewal and structured improvement ground handling or technical maintenance. activities, such as specific flight simulator training including sceSAS Cargo also monitors CO2 emissions per cargo tonne kinarios flying to and from airports with strict noise regulations. lometer from its trucking operation provided by sub-contracted ground transport. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 15 SAS Sustainability Report | Sustainability Agenda EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Airline operations have a legal dispensation for the use of halon and submit annual reports to the authorities on its consumption, SAS’s social responsibility primarily encompasses its own emincluding leakage and storage. The reason for this dispensation ployees and the environment that is reliant on and impacted by is that there is no certified alternative to halon for extinguishing SAS’s operations in a number of countries, mainly in the Nordic fires in aircraft engines, cabins and aircraft toilets. Scandinavian region. Competition in the airline business in Europe is fierce. Airlines did not report any usage of any halon in 2016/2017. Employees play a key role in creating added value for the customer offering. EMISSIONS CALCULATION AND CO2 OFFSET As an employer, SAS’s responsibility is to ensure decent work The SAS emissions calculator, which is available on http://www. conditions and work environment. SAS is also responsible for sasgroup.net, provides information about all SAS flights, with providing development opportunities as professionals and as greenhouse gas emissions presented separately. Most calcuhuman beings. SAS Work Environment Policy, Leadership Pollators on the market calculate the emissions based on avericy, Personnel Policy and Diversity Policy applies to all employage fleet performance and a CO2 equivalent based on different ees in SAS. Group Management is responsible for the policies. greenhouse gas emissions. SAS has chosen not to do so, beThe policies are reviewed annually within the business planning cause there is no consensus on how to calculate NOx, particles year. Activities are followed-up within the management system and water vapor emissions to CO2 among scientists and experts. and reported weekly, monthly, quarterly or annually according to SAS offers the option of offsetting CO2 emissions from a specifspecific needs. ic flight in connection with the emissions calculator. SAS has choAs a buyer, SAS uses the services of a number of subcontracsen to offer energy efficiency projects in its offset portfolio. The tors, thereby contributing to economic and social welfare in the offer is also available for SAS Corporate Customers. Activities to countries and communities where its businesses operate. SAS increase demand for this service is planned in 2017/2018. The ofrequires that employees have decent market terms of employfer will also include the possibility to also include the possibility to ment where they are based and are free to join trade unions. upgrade the fuel consumption used to biofuel. SAS Code of Conduct together with SAS Purchasing Policy covers all purchasing activities within SAS. Group Management is WASTE responsible for the Purchasing Policy. The policy is reviewed anSAS measures waste from office, ground service and techninually. Activities are followed-up within the management system cal maintenance. The waste is divided into sorted, unsorted and and reported weekly, monthly, quarterly or annually according to hazardous waste. Waste from SAS onboard operations is monispecific needs. tored. In February 2017, waste containers were introduced at the As a supplier, SAS has a responsibility to deliver products and head office to enable easier and better sorting of office waste. All services that ensure consumer health and safety, and are reliable, waste is handled by waste handling suppliers according to legal environmentally adapted and produced under decent conditions. requirements and all waste that has a potential value is reused in SAS Quality Policy is applicable for all products and services in other industry applications and processes. SAS. Group Management is responsible for the policy. The policy SAS prioritizes to find viable solutions for onboard waste sortis reviewed annually. Activities are followed-up within the maning which is challenging today. To date, focus has been to ensure agement system and reported weekly, monthly, quarterly or anas little potential waste and to sort the waste after the flight. nually according to specific needs. In 2016/2017, only occasional fuel leaks were reported when SAS has a zero-tolerance policy towards all forms of harassrefueling aircraft with SK flight numbers. These were handled in ment, and works continually to counteract this through different accordance with established procedures. No significant emisactivities. This is regulated in our Code of Conduct, and a websions or spillages were reported in conjunction with ground based training of the Code is mandatory for all employees. handling or technical maintenance. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Base year The civil aviation industry is moving toward new or re-shaped Unit 2016/2017 2015/2016 2010 employment models to reduce costs and increase flexibility. For Sorted waste tonnes 2,035 1,941 the last few years, SAS has been working with the unions to cut Unsorted Waste tonnes 173 247 815 costs and increase flexibility within the existing employment Hazardous waste tonnes 142 162 302 model. Regardless of the employment model or were the employees are based, it is crucial that the employer upholds its obligations regarding social responsibility toward society in general and its employees. In the opinion of SAS, there is uncertainty concerning the rules governing where employees are based and where the work is carried out. SAS’s position in this matter is clear. Society must clarify and create the prerequisites for a level playing field within the industry, whereby employees are employed under local terms, where they are based and where their work is carried out. When based in Scandinavia, employees should be covered by Scandinavian employment terms, work legislation and tax regimes. 16 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Sustainability Agenda | SAS Sustainability Report ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT The mandatory training programs were carried out according to During 2016/2017 an intensive work was conducted to establish plan for different personnel groups regarding hazardous goods, the fully owned airline, SAS Ireland with bases in London and, as passengers’ rights, IT security and food safety, etc. of 2017/2018 in Malaga. SAS Ireland employees are employed Most of SAS’s employees have access to more than 100 difunder local terms and are free to join trade unions. SAS Ireland ferent online courses. E-learning cannot always replace classwill be disclosed as of SAS Sustainability Report 2017/2018. room instruction, but due to its greater flexibility and availability, Cimber was sold to CityJet in January 2017. more courses can be offered at a lower cost. As a part of improving and supporting internal efficiency, this RECRUITMENTS AND REDUNDANCY year SAS began work on the Make Work Easier project. Through Redundancies in 2016/2017 were handled through negotiations new tools and applications, flexibility and communication are imwith labor unions in compliance with national laws and proved as well as simplifying the workplace with increased auagreements. tomation. For example, SAS launched SAS Insight , an app that enables employees to access news and information on the SAS COOPERATION WITH LABOR UNION ORGANIZATIONS intranet via mobile phones and iPads. This way, all employee Cooperation in day-to-day operations with labor unions is mainly groups can acquaint themselves with internal communication, carried out nationally, where dialog is conducted with the labor and digital services and functions. Moreover, in 2016/2017 SAS unions that have collective agreements with SAS. Cooperation started the transition to Microsoft Office 365, which will create takes place within the framework of national laws and agreenew possibilities for SAS as a digital workplace. ments affecting the unit concerned. During 2016/2017, SAS introduced a new employee survey Employee representatives from the Scandinavian countries sit functionality in order to conduct a more frequent follow-up. on the SAS Group Board of Directors. The employees elect repRead more about SAS strategy to ensure the right capabilities resentatives from units in the Group’s Scandinavian operations. in SAS Annual Report 2016/2017 on pages 24-27. In general, all SAS employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The main exception is senior management WORK ENVIRONMENT at Group level. Sick leave A standardized reporting method is implemented for all three CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS AND DISPUTES countries: Denmark, Norway and Sweden. SAS reports sick SAS conducted negotiations and discussions with various leave pursuant to Swedish legislation. unions during 2016/2017, in order to reduce costs and increase Standardized sick leave follow-ups have generated results the flexibility in existing union agreements. and decreased absence. Managers are in early contact with emAn organized strike occurred amongst pilots based in Norway ployees and supported by HR. in 2016/2017. For crew, special sick leave follow-up teams work in close collaboration with external occupational health and aeromedical EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT specialists. Early contact with employees and support for medical SAS has approximately 430 managers at different levels in health care and rehabilitation programs shorten periods of illness. the organization. The managers’ skills development is based and Short-term sick leave is reported and employees are given medevaluated on SAS’s role model for leadership. A systematic evalical advice by nurses when reporting illness. In cases of frequent uation process is continuously performed for existing managers, short-term sick leave, SAS requires “a first day doctor’s certifiand also to identify individuals who may meet the requirements cate.” Temporary workplaces and special work schedules are ofto become managers in the mid to long term. The aim is for all fered for better and faster rehabilitation. potential managers to have an individualized development plan. During 2016/2017, total sick leave at SAS decreased to 5.9% SAS has integrated the Lean principles in its management (6.2%). Long-term sick leave, more than 14 days, accounted for processes. At SAS, all employees work towards shared targets 3.8% (4.3%) of the total sick leave at SAS. that are categorized under Safety, Quality, Delivery, Employees and Cost (SQDEC). The targets are followed up through clear acOccupational injuries tion plans across all operations. In SAS, all employees work with Efforts have been made to lower the number of occupational inPerformance Development to ensure that we reach our business juries by prioritizing preventive actions. Examples of efforts are objectives and make our people grow. Aligning individual and improved processes for systematic follow-up and education acteam goals with overall company objectives, in combination with tivities. These efforts take place in collaboration with safety repregular feedback and coaching, is an essential part of securing resentatives, supervisors, HR and labor-management joint safethe right capabilities. ty committees that cover all employees in each country. SAS is also strengthening leadership and increasing profesExamples of occupational injuries are straining or crush injusionalism through a number of forums, such as the SAS Forum ries in connection with baggage loading. Ground handling has 50, Learning lunch and a mentor program for employees and the highest occupational injury frequency at SAS. leaders. The number of occupational injuries at SAS was 248 in In order to retain and develop employee skills, extensive train2016/2017. ing programs are carried out each year. In 2016/2017, SAS employees attended an estimated 390,000 hours of training. In average this corresponds to 34.3 hours per employee. Flight crew and operational ground staff are covered by a number of license and competency requirements from EU-OPS and the IATA through the IOSA (IATA Operational Safety Audit). In average, a pilot trained 70 hour per year, and a cabin crew trained 37 hours per year. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 17 SAS Sustainability Report | Sustainability Agenda Company Health services Punctuality and Regularity are crucial aspects for the ability to The company’s health services or health, safety and environdeliver passenger transport on time and as planned. SAS works ment (HSE) function that supports the whole organization, ofcontinuously to monitor and improve punctuality and regularity, fers services through in-house or outsourced resources with and this is valued highly by SAS customers. therapists, stress and rehabilitation experts, ergonomic specialIT security and integrity is more important than ever and SAS ists and engineers. The function also offers special services, inhas an extensive program to ensure the high level of IT security cluding aviation medicine, stress management, follow-up of sick required. In SAS’s relentless efforts to remain a customer-cenleave, health profiles, ergonomics and advice in handling chemtric organization, it was a natural decision to commence GDPR icals. Investments are made in large parts of the organization in compliance planning at an early stage. The work is performed different forms of health-promoting activities both in the workby a GDPR steering committee, jointly led by IT and legal with place and during leisure time. representatives from all affected departments. The project is on time and will ensure that SAS is fully GDPR compliant by May, SAS DK NO SE Total 2018 when the law comes into force. No. of employees October reporting fiscal SOCIAL INVOLVEMENT year (head count) 3,936 3,428 4,080 11,444 Preparedness for air ambulance operations No. Of women 1,274 1,334 1,673 4,281 SAS has an agreement on a commercial basis with the Swedish of whom, women, % 32% 39% 41% 37% government to make two specially equipped Boeing 737s availTotal sick leave, % 4.8% 7.4% 5.7% 5.9% able as air ambulances within the framework of the Swedish NaLong-term sick leave tional Air Medevac (SNAM) in case of emergency. A correspond(more than 14 days), % 3.0% 5.0% 3.7% 3.8% ing agreement exists with the Norwegian Armed Forces under Total number of which SAS is to make a remodeled ambulance service 737-700 occupational injuries with one day’s sick leave available for medical evacuation within 24 hours, following the or more 148 55 45 248 same principle as with SNAM. If needed, a second aircraft must Ground Operations 109 36 37 182 be made available within 48 hours. Technical Operations 7 5 1 13 Flight Operations 32 14 7 53 Christmas flight Occupational injury In December 2016, SAS supported the Norwegian “Christmas frequency lost time-toflight.” The Christmas flight is an aid campaign carried out by injury rate (H-value) 21.5 10.4 6.2 12.8 SAS employees, who cooperate with other volunteers throughout the year to collect goods and contributions from various partner companies and private individuals. SAS provides an airDIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY craft with full operational support, while pilots and crew volunSAS Diversity Policy promotes equal treatment of all employees teer in their free time and the fuel is sponsored by a fuel suppliand job applicants. Work on equal treatment includes promoting er. This flight was also conducted in December 2017 with SAS diversity and equality in all its forms. In 2016/2017 legal gender support. distribution in SAS was 37% women and 63% men. In SAS, there is a traditional split between female-dominated professions and male-dominated professions. Pilots (4% women), technicians and aircraft maintenance staff (6% women) are FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF SAS SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA traditionally male-dominated, while cabin crew (74% women), check-in and gate personnel at the airports (64% women) are SAS’s sustainability work has several overriding purposes. Beprimarily female-dominated. In Denmark, SAS Cargo Group the sides enhancing the efficiency of resources and improving enviinternal board is comprised to 33% by women. ronmental performance, it includes ensuring that the operations comply with sustainability laws and regulations. Civil aviation accounts for the cost of the infrastructure needAge ed and used for flights, i.e. airports and air traffic control. The Legal gender >30 30-49 <50 Total cost of security is also financed within the industry. Women 8% 13% 17% 37% Environmental taxes and charges are associated with noise, Men 10% 22% 31% 63% emissions and the number of passengers. The civil aviation sector Total 17% 35% 48% pays for its carbon emissions within the EU through the EU Emissions Trading regulations (EU-ETS), which is an established marPRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ket-based measure. SAS’s opinion is that market-based measures SAS assumes its responsibility for maintaining the highest stanshould not distort competition, should address emissions targetdards of product responsibility. SAS follow strict policies and aped for reduction needs and should create an incentive for continuplicable legislation regarding safety, IT security, food, cargo, etc. ous improvement. SAS has supported the development of a globFlight Safety is highly regulated. SAS is regularly audited both al, market-based solution for airline emissions for a long time. by external parties, partners and customers. Relevant authoriSAS supports the “PPP”, Polluter Pays Principle and is preties review work conditions for airline personnel regarding workpared to take responsibility for its share. This assumes that any ing hours for example. charges imposed on the company are based on scientific findings and that the total climate impact of competing modes of transport is taken into consideration. 18 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Sustainability Agenda | SAS Sustainability Report The UN aviation organization, the ICAO decided on a global market based measure for implementation by 2021 (CORSIA). The key elements of a global solution should not distort competition and should incorporate the UN’s CBDR principles (Common But Differentiated Responsibility). At present, SAS is prepared to report its emission but has no details available that enables SAS to calculate the potential cost connected to CORSIA. There are a growing number of environmental related taxes introduced on passenger air transport. SAS fully supports the Polluter Pays Principle but opposes the mechanism behind these taxes. It does not address the actual CO2 emissions and has been introduced in addition to EU-ETS or the soon to be introduced CORSIA. The result is a patchwork of economic measures without incentives to reduce CO2 emissions. An example is the Norwegian and Swedish passenger taxes which cost the same regardless of the actual CO2 emissions. A passenger on board an A320neo with 50% biofuel pays the same tax as a passenger on board an aircraft two generations older. If both aircraft are fully booked the CO2 emissions are approximately 65% lower for the passenger on board the A320neo. Environment related costs In 2016/2017, SAS’s external environment-related costs were MSEK 1,413. These costs comprise environment-related taxes and fees that are often associated with the environmental performance of aircraft and are included in the landing fee. SAS has no known major environment-related debts or contingent liabilities, for example, in the form of contaminated soil. The costs for EU-ETS were MSEK 55 in 2016/2017. Environment related investment According to SAS’s guidelines, investments are to be both environmentally and economically sound, and thereby contribute to SAS’s value growth and help to ensure that SAS can meet the assumed future environmental requirements. During 2016/2017, no significant environment-related investments were conducted. This is because the preferred solution is leasing, rather than investing in aircraft, vehicles, computers, etc. An example of the use of leasing in recent years has been the replacement of aircraft. SAS‘s contribution to the economy SAS creates employment and value. In 2016/2017, SAS paid wages and salaries totaling MSEK 6,498, of which social security expenses were MSEK 2,137, with pensions totaling MSEK 835 of this amount. SAS endeavors to achieve market pay for all employee groups. Air transport pays the costs for the infrastructure it needs and uses to conduct flights, meaning airports, air traffic control and security. For 2016/2017, these cost totaled MSEK 9,091 for Scandinavian Airlines. Of this cost Scandinavian Airlines payed MSEK 1,429 in security costs, which are financed by taxes for most other modes of transportation. Costs of sick leave Sick leave is a large expense for society. SAS’s own calculation of costs for sick leave amounts to approximately MSEK 209 in 2016/2017. Sick leave can be both physically and mentally stressful for the employee and SAS works with various methods to prevent short and long-term sick leave. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 19 SAS Sustainability Report | Sustainability Agenda RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Risk area Risk level Risk control measures 2016/2017 MARKET RISKS 1.1 Macro-economic trend Continual adaptation of SAS’s capacity offering and production. 1 1.2 Market and competition Implementation of SAS’s streamlining program and a more flexible production model. trends EMPLOYEE 2.1 Right skills People reviews and successor identification. 2 RISKS 2.2 Processes and systems Follow-up of low and high-performing individuals. Documentation of internal processes. 2.3 Commitment Strengthened leadership and increased internal transparency. 2.4 Strikes Strengthen the dialogue to increase consensus with the unions. Extension of several collective agreements to 2019/2020. 3 OPERATING RISKS 3.1 Safety activities Continuous internal monitoring and reporting to the Board. 3.2 Suppliers During 2017, SAS has focused on closer collaboration with strategic suppliers, as well as monitored quality levels and efficiency. The number of suppliers has decreased 19%. 3.3 Competitive costs and SAS has a cost differential compared with newly-started competitors. The efficiency enhanceefficiency ment program was doubled during 2016/2017 from SEK 1.5 billion to SEK 3.0 billion, with effect in the 2017–2020 period. 4 SUSTAINABILITY RISKS 4.1 Environmental direcStructured environmental work certified under ISO 14001 and containing measures for improvtives and requirements ing climate and environmental performance, and ensured observance of applicable laws and regulations. 4.2 Anticorruption Implementation of a training program for employee groups at the greatest risk of corruption. 4.3 Human rights Ongoing requirements updates and monitoring of subcontractors. 5 LEGAL AND POLITICAL 5.1 Political and SAS conducts active dialogues with political systems and industry organizations (IATA) to obtain regulatory risks early information about regulatory changes and to influence decisions. Together with the industry, SAS has informed about the negative consequences of introducing an aviation tax in Sweden. 5.2 Legal and insurance Development of policies and training to ensure compliance with various rules and laws. Continual risks monitoring of laws and policies. Legal counsel and participation in contract processes for minimizing contractual risk. Securing complete insurance protection of operations and employees. 6 FINANCIAL RISKS 6.1 Liquidity risk and refiFollow-up and forecasting financial preparedness. Financing of the remaining 10 Airbus nancing A320neos and eight Airbus A350s has begun. Continuous discussions with banks and financial backers aimed at managing maturing borrowings and leases. 6.2 Jet-fuel price and emisJet-fuel hedging in line with SAS’s financial policy and monitoring the jet-fuel price trend. sion rights 6.3 E xchange rates Currency hedging in line with SAS’s financial policy and monitoring the currency market. 6.4 Interest rates Fixing rates in line with SAS’s financial policy and monitoring the interest-rate market. 6.5 Counterparty losses SAS’s counterparty risks are managed in line with SAS’s financial policy. IT 7.1 IT Continual improvement of incidents and problem-handling procedures. Focus in 2017 on reduc7 ing IT problems that affect the SAS website, planning system, and management of cyber attacks OTHER EVENTS 8.1 Extraordinary events Increase cost flexibility to reduce costs in the case of reduced demand. 8 8.2 Brand and reputation Monitoring information pertaining to SAS. Low risk Medium risk High risk The underlying objective of risk management is to create the opfollowed-up through policies that aim to control the risks. Flight timal preconditions for growing value for shareholders and other safety is always top priority at SAS. stakeholders. All organizations are exposed to risks and uncerValue is maximized for shareholders and other stakeholders tainties, which entail both risks and opportunities. SAS is exin SAS, when strategies, goals and their strategic priorities are posed to a large number of general and more company-specific set to ensure an optimal balance is reached in terms of growth, risks that can impact operations both negatively and positively. profitability and their related risks, as well as that resources are Risk management at SAS is about positioning SAS in relation used efficiently and sustainably. Accordingly, risk management to, known and unknown, possible events with the aim of minimizand risk assessment are of fundamental importance for ensuring ing the potential negative effects should an unexpected event SAS’s long-term sustainable profitability. A detailed description occur. Overall risks are monitored and identified centrally and of each area is disclosed in SAS Annual Report 2016/2017. 20 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 21 SAS Sustainability Report | Accounting policies ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies for Sustainability Reporting 2015/2016 fiscal year. “SAS” or “The SAS Group” is used throughout the report when LIMITATIONS referring to the overall operations. The main principle for sustainability reporting is that all units In 2016/2017, SAS reports its general sustainability results and companies controlled by SAS are accounted for. This means divided into the same segments as disclosed in the Annual Rethat sustainability-related data for divested companies owned by port: SAS during the period is reported wherever possible. The same • Scandinavian Airlines comprises all operations in the SAS accounting policies as for financial information in the Annual ReConsortium, including SAS Cargo Group (SCG) . port are intended to be used for financial information in the Sus• SAS Ground Handling (SGH). tainability Report. SAS has a number of production indicators (such as pasFor environmental responsibility, SAS strives to distinguish senger kilometers and tonne kilometers). There are differencbetween airline and ground operations. es between the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report as Accordingly, the following divisions have been made: regards the disclosure of the number of passenger kilometers. • Airline operations with an SK flight number. Scope 1 The Annual Report uses revenue passenger kilometers (RPK) • Ground handling in SAS Ground Handling (SGH). SGH conwhere paying passengers are included, while the Sustainabiliducts ground handling for Scandinavian Airlines and other custy Report uses passenger kilometers (PK) where all passengers tomers, such as other airlines. Scope 1. are included. • Technical maintenance in SAS Maintenance Production. SAS Standard definitions for environmental and social data have Maintenance Production conduct technical maintenance pribeen applied throughout SAS. None of the limitations are conmarily for Scandinavian Airlines but also for other customers, sidered to have any substantial significance. such as other airlines. Scope 1. • Freight and mail services within SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG). CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND Scope 1 CALCULATING PRINCIPLES • Facilities owned or leased by SAS. Scope 2. The sustainability information in the Sustainability Report is affected by the following changes: SAS continues to hold interests in Air Greenland but these are None. not disclosed since SAS is no longer a majority shareholder and is divesting the current holding. SAS’s structure is presented on PRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING AND CALCULATING page 50 in the SAS Annual Report, November 2016–October ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2017. Reported environmental information is based on the following calculations and/or factors: SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING • Distance, based on WGS84 Great Circle Distance (GCD) calcuSAS’s Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance lations between airport reference points as defined in national with the SAS Accounting Policies for Sustainability Reporting. AIPs. SAS has also applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) • Passenger weight for TK calculations in 100 kg for any perSustainable Reporting Standards Core. GRI content index is son with hand luggage and checked luggage transported. This available on page 22–23. The index indicates where the GRI indoes not including active crew. dicators are found in the SAS Sustainability Report November • Cargo and mail, actual weight is used. 2016–October 2017. The Sustainability Report also covers all • Fuel density (kg per liter): important principles in the UN Global Compact. – Jet A/A-11: Actual density or 0.8 – Diesel: 0.84 SCOPE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – Petrol: 0.73 SAS’s Sustainability Report should contribute to the evaluation – Heating oil: 0.84 and understanding of SAS’s operations. The report is an over• CO2 factor (per weight unit of fuel): view of SAS’s structured sustainability work. The goal of the SAS – Jet A/A-11: 3.15 Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 is to dis– Diesel: 3.17 close all information necessary to provide the reader with a fair – Petrol: 3.12 overview of SAS’s environmental, social, and financial respon– Heating oil: 3.17 sibilities. SAS Annual Report November 2016–October 2017 – Electricity: 125,5 (grams/kWh based on Nordic energy mix) includes a integrated general overview of SAS’s sustainability • Energy conversion of fuels (GWh per 1,000 tonnes): efforts and the sustainability information in the Report by the – Jet A/A-1: 12.0 Board of Directors on page 48. – Diesel: 12.0 The ultimate responsibility for SAS’s sustainability aspects, – Petrol: 12.2 and their integration in operational activities, lies with Group – Heating oil: 12.0 Management. The Sustainability Report was reviewed by SAS • Nitrogen oxides (NOx), factors (per weight unit of fuel): Group Board of Directors and SAS Group Management in Janu– Jet A/A-12 Between 0.00694 and 0.01932 ary 2018. The SAS Group Board of Directors submitted the Annual Report November 2016–October 2017 and Sustainability 1) F  uel density and CO2 factor for Jet A/A-1 is calculated according to approved MRV plan. Report November 2016–October 2017 in January 2018. 2) Varies per aircraft/engine combination. 22 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Accounting policies | SAS Sustainability Report Carbon emissions per passenger kilometer as a non-CO2 indicator for the climate index. Every emission is and cargo tonne kilometer Scope 1 reported separately until clearer directives are given regarding SAS has chosen to apply a calculation method to divide the how the total climate effect is to be calculated. amount of fuel used for passenger and cargo transport before dividing the amount by passenger or cargo tonne kilometer. The Environmental aspect Weighting Production factor method is based on the IATA Carbon Calculator Tool. The asCarbon dioxide 67% Tonne Kilometer (TK) sumption is that fuel usage is proportional to weight. Passenger Nitrogen oxides 33% fuel usage is the ratio of total passenger weight to total weight multiplied by the total fuel used. The remainder is allocated to The climate index is designed for SAS to present month-tocargo transport. month trends. This assumes that the methodology is not changed. (Total Passenger Weight/ Total Weight) PRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING AND CALCULATION Total Passenger = OF SOCIAL DATA Fuel Usage x The following principles for calculating and reporting of social Total Fuel Used data have been used. Total Passenger Weight Occupational injuries (H-value) Where, Total Weight = + Frequency of occupational injuries (H value) is calculated using Total Freight/Cargo Weight the following formula: No. of occupational injuries with minimum of one day’s absence x 1,000,000 (Number of Seats x 50 kg) total number of performed working hours per year Total Passenger = + Weight (kg) Number of employees (Number of Passengers x 100 kg) In the Sustainability Report, the number of employees is based on the number of persons during the month of October and sick The calculation method allocates 50 kg per seat to the prerequileave statistics calculated for the fiscal year. These are employsites for passenger transport and the same weight per passenees having a budgeted or actual schedule and/or who were sick ger as used in all other calculations applied within the industry. during the period. For cases when flights were conducted without passengers or freight/cargo transport, all carbon emissions were allocated as Sick leave passenger transport. Sick leave is reported as the number of days sick in relation Examples of these flights are training flights, positioning to number of employees multiplied by calendar days. For sick flights between scheduled flights, and flights to/from mainteleave, absence due to sick children is excluded. Long-term sick nance, etc. The reason for this changed calculation method is to leave (more than 14 days) is reported as a percentage of total achieve more precise carbon emissions per production unit calsick leave. culations. The previous calculation method essentially involved double accounting, with emissions per passenger kilometer inPRINCIPLES FOR REPORTING AND CALCULATION OF cluding the fuel used for freight/cargo transport and vice versa. EXTERNAL AND OTHER ENVIRONMENTALLY RELATED COSTS Where possible, environmentally related costs are based on Climate Index Scope 1 information directly from the accounting system. When this SAS has chosen to construct an climate index for flight operahas not been possible, for example, for calculations of certain tions. The most recent base year is the full-year 2011, which is charges and taxes that are included in landing charges, estiused to follow up progress connected to activities implementmates were used based on the number of passengers to a cered in 2011. The climate index is calculated by using the quantity tain destination and the charge or tax per passenger. of emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides in relation to production. Even though there is no consensus regarding the weighting between the effect of different greenhouse gases on total impact on climate change, SAS has decided to base the calculation on the assumption from, among others, Cicero that 1.5 is a reasonable multiplier given the currently available knowledge. Read more about Cicero that provided basic data for IPCC, for example, on www.sasgroup.net under the heading Sustainability. This gives a ratio of two parts carbon dioxide to one part other climate changing emissions such as nitrogen oxides, water vapor and particulates. Nitrogen oxides have been chosen SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 23 SAS Sustainability Report | GRI content index GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and /or URL(s) Omission GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization Back cover. General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR17 inside front cover. disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover. 102-4 Location of operations Page 2. 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR17 pages 50-62. 102-6 Markets served Page 2 and AR17 page 17. 102-7 Scale of the organization Page 2. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 18. SAS only report total workforce, not by employment type and contract. 102-9 Supply chain Page 14. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Page 17. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Page 13. 102-12 External initiatives Pages 13-14. 102-13 Membership of associations Page 14. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 3. 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Pages 12-13. 102-18 Governance structure AR17 page 51. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Pages 13-14. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Page 17. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pages 13-14. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 13-14. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 13-14. 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Page 2 and AR17 page 50 . 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Inside front cover and page 22. 102-47 List of material topics Page 12. 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable. 102-49 Changes in reporting Page 22. 102-50 Reporting period Page 1. 102-51 Date of most recent report Page 1. 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 1. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 1. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 1. 102-55 GRI content index Pages 24-25. 102-56 External assurance Page 27. ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 12-14 and 16. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 14 and 16. GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Page 14. Anti-Corruption 2016 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 20. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 12-14 and 16. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 14 and 16. GRI 205: 205-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Page 14. Anti-competitive and monopoly practices behavior 2016 EMISSIONS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 12-13 and 15. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 13. GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 15. Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Page 15. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 15. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Page 15. significant air emissions 24 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 GRI content index | SAS Sustainability Report GRI Standards Disclosure Page number(s) and /or URL(s) Omission EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 12-13 and 15-16. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 13 and 15. GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 16. Effluents and Waste 2016 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 14 and 16. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 13 and 16. GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened Page 14. Supplier using environmental criteria Environmental Assessment 2016 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 12-13 and 16-17. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 13 and 16. GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker Page 17. Occupational health and safety committees Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Page 18. lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 12-13 and 16-17. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 13 and 16. GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Page 17. Training and Education 2016 403-3  ercentage of employees receiving regular performance and P Page 17. career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 12-13 and 16-17. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 13 and 16. GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 18. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 14 and 16. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 13 and 16. GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criterias Page 14. Supplier Social Assessment 2016 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Pages 1, 12 and 22. Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Page 16 and 18. approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 13 and 16. GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and serPage 18. Customer Health vice categories and Safety 2016 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 25 SAS Sustainability Report | Sustainability terms, definitions and concepts SUSTAINABILITY TERMS, DEFINITIONS AND CONCEPTS Average number of employees is defined as the avEnvironmentally related taxes Taxes that, in contrast MRV Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of CO2 erage number of employees expressed in full time to other corporate taxation, are motivated by environemissions and production in tonne-kilometers in the equivalents, excluding leave of absence, parental mental grounds. Examples are the environmentally EU Emissions Trading Scheme. leave and long-term sick leave. This definition is also motivated passenger charge in the UK and the enviused in the financial reporting. Sometimes the term ronmentally related fiscal CO2 charge in Norway. N-ALM The Nordic Working Group for Environmental FTE (Full Time Equivalent) is used. External environmentally related costs are the sum of Issues in Aviation, composed of civil aviation, environenvironmental charges and environmentally related mental and communication authorities and airlines in Biofuels are solid or liquid fuel with biological oricharges and taxes. the Nordic countries. gin. Liquid fuels for vehicle/ship/aircraft engines. To various degrees considered carbon neutral. The EU Fossil fuels are fuels consisting of organic carbon and Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Formed during combustion renewables directive (2009/28/EC) and biofuels dihydrogen compounds in sediment or underground in all in engines. For aircraft engines since the high rective (2003/30/EC) define the EU’s mandates on deposits – especially coal, oil and natural gas. temperature and pressure cause the atmospheric nibiofuels and degree of carbon neutrality. trogen and oxygen to react with each other, mainly Global Compact is a challenge from the former UN during take-off and ascent when the engine temperaCDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs the global discloSecretary General Kofi Annan to business and industure is at a maximum. sure system for investors, companies, cities, states and try to live up to ten principles of human rights, emregions to manage their environmental impacts. Read ployee rights, the environment and anti-corruption, Noise are environmentally detrimental, undesirable more at http://www.cdp.net. as formulated by the UN. www.unglobalcompact.org sounds. The environmental impact of air traffic in the form of noise is primarily of a local nature. Noise Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a colorless gas that is formed Glycol is an alcohol that is sprayed on the aircraft is normally described and measured in dB(A), an in the combustion of all fossil fuels. The airline indusin cold weather to prevent ice formation. Today, a A-weighted sound level. try’s CO2 emissions are being reduced based on a non-toxic propylene glycol is used. Some 80% of the changeover to more fuel-efficient aircraft, something glycol runs off the aircraft when applied, and seeps NOx Nitrogen oxides (see definition). that is also desirable from a financial standpoint since into the ground unless collected. A further 15% is lower fuel consumption automatically means lower emitted to the air and is thus dispersed in the vicinity Occupational injuries is the number of injuries emcosts. of the airport. The airports are responsible for collectployees incur by accidents at the workplace resulting ing the glycol runoff for reuse. in at least one day of absence. Cargo tonne kilometer, includes all freight and mail (in metric tonnes) multiplied by the great circle disGRI Global Reporting Initiative is an organization aimPK (used in the sustainability-related reporting), pastance flown for all flights performed. ing to provide companies and organizations with a senger Kilometers, includes all passengers (100 kg global sustainability reporting framework and thereby per passenger including luggage) excluding active CFCs are a group of clorofluorocarbons that may also facilitate comparisons between companies from a socrew multiplied by the great circle distance flown for contain hydrogen and /or bromide. A class of stable cial, environmental and economic perspective. www. all flights performed. chemical compounds mostly known under the trade globalreporting.org names Freon or Halon. Manufacture prohibited by RPK (used in the financial reporting) revenue passenMontreal Protocol because of negative effect, depleGreenhouse effect Carbon dioxide and other gasger kilometers, utilized (sold) capacity for passengers tion of the Ozone Layer. Aviation has exception for use es trap and reradiate incoming solar radiation that expressed as the number of seats multiplied by the under a critical use clause due to lack of approved alwould otherwise be reflected back into space. Most distance flown. ternatives. Research for alternatives is ongoing. scientists agree that heavy human use of fossil fuels is causing global warming. Carbon dioxide is formed SAFUG Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group. AviaCharges for the infrastructure, imposed by the operin the combustion of all fossil fuels, but burning of tion industry organization focused on accelerating the ators of the infrastructure and which are intended to biofuels only emits an amount of carbon equal to that development and commercialization of sustainable cover operating and capital costs for airlines and air absorbed during growth, producing no net emissions. aviation fuels. traffic management. However, use of coal, oil and natural gas produce a net increase, since they release carbon that has been Sustainable development means that when mankind CO2 Carbon dioxide (see definition). bound in the earth’s crust. Other gases that contribsatisfies its needs to today, it does so without limitute to the greenhouse effect are CFCs (see definition), ing the opportunities for future generations to satisfy CO2 passengeror cargo share is the amount of carmethane and nitrous oxide. theirs. bon emissions from passenger or cargo transport. Halons See CFCs. Tonne kilometers are the number of transported metCode of Conduct is business ethics rules and guideric tonnes of passengers and cargo multiplied by the lines. IATA The International Air Transport Association distance flown. represents, leads and serves the airline industry. Its dB Decibel, a logarithmic unit of measurement that members comprise all major passenger and cargo Weighted noise contour is calculated based on the expresses the magnitude of a physical quantity relaairlines. number of takeoffs per day at a given airport, with tive to a specified or implied reference level. regard to the aircraft types the airline uses at that airIn-air fuel dump is used if an aircraft has to land prior port. The weighted noise contour defines the area in Environmentally related charges are charges imto its total weight has reached the maximum landing km2 that is subjected to a noise footprint of 85 dB(A) posed by the airport operators to motivate aircraft weight. The process is regulated by responsible auor more in connection with take-off. operators to operate aircraft with high eco-efficiency thorities and conducted according to defined procewith respect to noise and other emissions such as of dures. NOx, as well as surcharges imposed by airport operators to motivate aircraft operators to avoid take-offs ISO 14000 is a series of international environmental and landings at night. In some cases, the environmenstandards developed by the International Organizatally related charges are considered income-neutral, tion for Standardization. The general guiding princimeaning that the total income of the airport remains ples for ISO 14000 are identical to those in the quality unchanged by reductions in other charges. The methstandard ISO 9000. ods for classifying aircraft differ between countries and airports within countries. Although the charges Jet A-1 is the common jet fuel specification outside are differentiated based on the eco-efficiency of the North America. Jet A and Jet A-1 are very similar and aircraft, they are ultimately balanced in such a way as throughout this Sustainability Report the term “jet to amount to the total cost determined by the airport fuel” is used to describe fuel used by the aviation inoperator. dustry. Environmentally related investments Investments Kerosene is the common name for petroleum-derived in assets to prevent, reduce or restore environmenjet fuel such as Jet A-1. Kerosene is one of the fuel tal damage arising from operations and/or aimed at sources that can be made by refining crude oil. It is meeting upcoming, more stringent environmental realso used for a variety of other purposes. quirements. 26 SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 Assurance report | SAS Sustainability Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S COMBINED ASSURANCE REPORT To SAS AB (publ) INTRODUCTION Our reasonable assurance engagement includes the following: We have been engaged by the management of SAS AB (publ) to a. Financial indicators (except environmental-related costs) undertake an examination of the SAS Sustainability Report for found on page 2, the year 2016/17. b. Jet fuel and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions related to SAS flight operations on page 2 and 15 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD AND MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The audit firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality The Board of Directors and the Group Management are responControl) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of sible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accorquality control including documented policies and procedures dance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 22 in regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional the Sustainability Report, and are the parts of the GRI Sustainstandards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. ability Reporting Standards 2016 which are applicable to the Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation of Directors and the Group Management as described above. We principles that the Company has developed. This responsibiliconsider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Susty includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a tainability Report. Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient whether due to fraud or error. and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR CONCLUSIONS Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the SustainabiliBased on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, ty Report based on the procedures we have performed. nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe We conducted our engagement in accordance with that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material reISAE3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of views of Historical Financial Information, issued by IAASB. The Directors and Group Management. engagement includes a limited assurance engagement on the In our opinion the information in the Sustainability Report complete Sustainability Report and audit of certain information which has been subject to our reasonable assurance procedures as specified below. The objective of an audit is to obtain reasonhave, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with able assurance that the information is free of material misstatethe criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Manments. A reasonable assurance engagement includes examinagement. ing, on a test basis, evidence supporting the quantitative and qualitative information in the Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the SustainabilStockholm, 29 January 2018 ity Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Hence, the conclusion based on our limited assurance procedures does not comprise the Bo Hjalmarsson Fredrik Ljungdahl same level of assurance as the conclusion of our reasonable asAuthorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR surance procedures. Since this assurance engagement is combined, our conclusions regarding the reasonable assurance and the limited assurance will be presented in separate sections. SAS Sustainability Report November 2016–October 2017 27 NARVA www.sasgroup.net SAS AB (publ) Corporate Registration Number: 556606-8499. Registered office: Stockholm Street address: Frösundaviks Allé 1, Solna, Sweden. Postal address: SE-195 87 Stockholm, Sweden. Telephone: +46 8 797 00 00
