2018 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Participant: Ends International Company Limited Published: 26th November 2018 Statement of continued support by the CEO from Ends International Company Limited. We, Ends International Company Limited, are pleased to reaffirm our support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environmental and Anticorruption In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stake holders using our primary channel of communication. Yours Sincerely, Sharon Thuku CEO Ends International Company Limited Dated: 26th November 2018 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment policy and goals Ends International’s company goal is to continue enlightening and influencing the different stakeholders we engage in when doing business on the importance of human rights. Based on our commitment, we have a company policy that offers clear guidance on protection of human rights. Implementation When you simplify the concept of human rights to having basics such as food, clothing, shelter, education, access to healthcare and security, it becomes easier to grasp what human rights are about. An internal system is in place where we carry out awareness and sensitization of our employees with regards to our commitment which plays a role in moving the human rights agenda forward as well as maintaining momentum. The greatest challenge we face as a company with regards to human rights is unintentional delays in paying casual laborers especially in labor intensive projects. This gap is caused by delays in receiving payment of ongoing/completed projects or delays in getting project financing approval from the bank which inadvertently affects our financial planning. At the onset of any project, we identify ourselves to the local leaders and security officers to ensure that our employees are safe in case of any eventuality rising out of dispute. Our employees engage members of communities where we have projects and clearly define the rules of engagement in a bid to promote collective action on matters related to human rights and how to best handle issues when they come up. Following the unintended delays when paying casuals, sometimes disputes and riots may erupt (we have dealt with this scenario before). We train our employees managing projects on how to sensitively handle and resolve disputes with casuals since they depend on what they earn on a daily basis to feed their families. There is a zero tolerance policy against age & gender discrimination and sexual harassment. We appreciate the fact that we operate in a highly patriarchal society and an industry that is male dominated therefore we are sensitive to these issues. We also endeavor to support our employees in realizing their individual aspirations beyond earning an income. Measurement of Outcomes We have an open communication channel from senior management to middle and low level management. Our employees, customers and partners are encouraged to report back in case of anything especially if they suspect any wrongful doing with regards to the code of conduct. Discipline is paramount in order for people to achieve anything. Even with existing functional systems and structures in place, when employees get a lot of freedom there can be a tendency to abuse the same. For the first time, we had to consistently address this challenge this year. With time we have learned that laying emphasis on getting the character right when recruiting is key, you can always build and invest in your employees through training and mentorship. 2. LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals Ends International Company Limited supports the UN Global Compact Principles on labor standards in addition to adhering to the labor laws and guideline of Kenya. Implementation The importance of freedom from forced labor in matters pertaining to human rights cannot be ignored. Eradicating it is difficult but possible. We have a system that neither renders exaction of forced or compulsory labor nor tolerate its exaction. None of our employees is paid below the set minimum wage standard and we do not engage in child labor. We acknowledge the fact that our employees are our greatest asset, there is a zero tolerance policy on discrimination based on gender, age, religion or personality. We appreciate that conditioning human being has a direct impact on how they deliver which informed the decision made on office working hours. Having considered factors such as traffic, weather and distance to work, we came up with 3 working shifts i.e. 7am-4pm; 8am-5pm and 9am -6pm so that employees to pick what best works for them Additionally, all our employees are entitled to a medical cover and annual bonuses (depending on how good business was for that financial year). Measurement of outcome Our employees, customers and partners are encouraged to report back if they suspect any wrong doing. The employee turnover rate as well as absenteeism act as an indicator that there is an underlying problem we need to look at. 3. ENVIRONMENT Assessment policy and goals Ends International Company Limited supports the UNGC Principle on the environment. Implementation As a company dealing with construction, in the course of building a road, dam or pipeline there is bound to be disturbance to the natural state of the environment. Sensitizing employees on the importance of conserving the environmental. This starts with the basics such as proper disposal of waste in the bins in the office. We strive to minimize the environmental impact of construction related activities that bring about turbidity and erosion by restoring the environment back to its natural state if not better. Measurement of Outcomes We take photos as a clear guideline of how we found the site and how we have left it. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment policy and goals Ends International Company Limited supports the UNGC Principle on Anticorruption. We work strongly always fighting it in all its forms such as of extortion, bribery, undue influence, fraud and collusion. Ends International endears to pursue its business transaction with our company values honest, transparency, integrity, and accountability Implementation Corruption distorts markets and negatively impacts society in both developing and developed countries by diverting resources which in turn erodes public confidence and causes deprivation of capital needed for economic growth. We aim at having honest conversations around corruption since there is no clear cut guideline on how to address it. We found ourselves in a Catch 22 situation this year when we refused to bribe an inspector of works at a project we were a part of and felt the economic impact refusing to give a bribe can have since we ended up incurring loses. Deliberately delaying approvals, negative daily reports that were false, inciting casuals to either ask for more money or riot in case of delay in payment, and threats of reporting that we used child labor on site are some of the challenges we encountered but we survived. Measurement of Outcomes Ends International Company Limited is aware from experience that corruption is a cancer that can bring a company to its knees, if not well addressed. We use auditing as a method of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. We encourage our employees, clients and partners to report back if they encounter any form of corruption. CONCLUSION We need to keep laying emphasis on how to build sustainable businesses that adhere to the four principles: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. It is important that more businesses come on board so that a lasting impact is made. With regards to corruption, there is no defined or clear cut approach on how to tackle it and sometimes saying NO when you are in the middle of a contract means you will be agonized. How best can different situations be addressed? Creating awareness and sensitization of anti-corruption, having supporting structures such as communication channels , and encouraging businesses to report on their experiences while keeping their identity anonymous will go a long way as the culprits will be less bolder. Signed Name: Sharon Thuku In Capacity: CEO On Behalf of: Ends International Company Limited Dated: 26.11.2018
