OWENS CORNING WORLD HEADQUARTERS ONE OWENS CORNING PARKWAY TOLEDO, OHIO 43659 419.248.8000 September 10, 2018 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary General: Owens Corning is proud to be a member of the Global Compact, and I am pleased to once again confirm our commitment to the ten principles. As the attached report illustrates, Owens Corning’s commitment extends beyond simply making our products and operations sustainable. By building broad objectives of sustainability into the way we do business, we seek to balance economic growth with social progress and environmental stewardship. This work resonates deeply with the sense of purpose that Owens Corning employees share: our people and our products make the world a better place. To help bring that purpose to life, we are engaged in a continuous effort to advance the same principles that are articulated in the Global Compact. Our sustainability strategy incorporates those principles and is driven by our company values, which guide the way we interact with our communities as well as our customers, suppliers, and colleagues. Through the lens of that strategy, Owens Corning has evaluated the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and identified several that are material to our business and on which we believe we have direct impact through our core business competencies. We also identified those where we can have influence, either directly or indirectly. For those aligned with our material issues, we are already underway with active programs and reporting. This work is included in our report. Many of Owens Corning’s sustainability efforts have been recognized by organizations that evaluate our progress against high standards and industry benchmarks. For example, for the fifth consecutive year, Owens Corning earned distinction in 2018 as one of the world’s most sustainable companies – within 1 percent of the top score globally – from sustainability investment specialist RobecoSAM. The company was also named an “Industry Mover,” a distinction that recognizes the firms that achieved the largest proportional improvement in their performance over the previous year. This year, Owens Corning was also named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the eighth straight year, and ranked as the Building Product industry leader for the fifth consecutive year. In 2017, Owens Corning’s key achievements include a percentile ranking score of 100 in all three dimensions of the Index – social, economic, and environmental. The company also earned a perfect score in the following criteria: Materiality, Climate Strategy, Recycling Strategy, Water Related Risks, and Labor Practices Indicators. In addition to recognition from Dow Jones and RobecoSAM, in 2017 Owens Corning was named one of only 25 global companies to earn a position on CDP’s “A List” for both climate and water. Our actions were further recognized by our placement on Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s annual 100 Best Corporate Citizens list for the third consecutive year, moving up from 43 to 25. The company’s latest Sustainability Report, attached, provides details about our progress and current efforts in areas related to the ten principles of the Global Compact and more. An index is also attached, to highlight the relevant sections in the report. This is work that will never be finished, but I am proud of our accomplishments to date and pleased to reaffirm Owens Corning’s commitment to the Global Compact and our dedication to conducting business responsibly throughout the world. Michael H. Thaman Chairman and CEO Owens Corning United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress Index ‘ Owens Corning 2017 Sustainability Report Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Employee Experience 117 Corporate Equality Index Human Rights 128-132 Human Rights Policy Corporate Governance 192 Child and Forced Labor Risks Ethics 193-195 Code of Conduct Principle 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Employee Experience 117 Corporate Equality Index Human Rights 128-132 Human Rights Policy Corporate Governance 192 Child and Forced Labor Risks Ethics 193-195 Code of Conduct Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Employee Experience 127 Trade Union Agreements Corporate Governance 192 Freedom of Association Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Corporate Governance 192 Child and Forced Labor Risks Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Corporate Governance 192 Child and Forced Labor Risks Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Corporate Governance 192 Freedom of Association Ethics 193-195 Code of Conduct Ethics 196 Equal Employment Opportunity Page 1 of 2 September 10, 2018 United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress Index Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments About the Report 203 Precautionary Approach Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Product Innovation 46 100% wind energy / reduced embodied carbon product Product Sustainability 49-52 Product Sustainability Strategy and Approach Environmental Responsibility 63-109 Energy, Emissions, Water, Waste, Biodiversity Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Product Innovation 43-48 Strategy, Approach, and Sustainability-Driven Innovation Environmental Responsibility: Energy 67-69 Energy Conservation and Savings Environmental Responsibility: Energy 73-74 Energy Saving Products Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2017 Report Section Page Number Comments Governance and Ethics 181 Strategy and Approach Governance and Ethics 199-200 Anti-corruption United Nations Sustainable Development Goals discussed in our report in the Executive Summary section on pages 25 – 33. Page 2 of 2 September 10, 2018
