FAME Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Address FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. No.20, Mingyi Mahar Min Gaung Road, Zone (3), Hlaing Tharyar City of Industry, Yangon, Myanmar. Ph : +95-1-3685 609, 3682 199, 3685 083, +95-9-731 422 16 Fax : +95-1-3680 122, www.famepharma.com, FAME Pharmaceuticals FAME Organic Pharming Project No. (706), Kywal Nar Htauk Village, Anee-sa-khan Railway Station Road, Pyin Oo Lwin Township, Mandalay Division, Myanmar. Ph : +95-9-793 877 207 www.famepharm.com The period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) of FAME Pharmaceuticals is from February 2017 to February 2018. Contents Statement of Continued Support ............................................................................. 1 Message from Managing Director ............................................................................. 2 Certificates and Awards ......................................................................................... 3 Implementation on Human Right Principles .................................................................................... 6 Labour Principles ........................................................................................ 15 Environmental Principles .......................................................................... 25 Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Policy .................................................. 36 Conclusion ......................................................................................... 40 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Statement of Continued Support Mr. Antonio Guterres Secretary – General United Nation New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. SecretaryGeneral, I am honored and pleased to confirm that FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd reaffirms its support of Ten principles of United Nation Global Compact in areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we represent our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business structure, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Dr. Khin Maung Lwin Managing Director FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. FEB 2017-2018 1 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR Our main priority is ‘‘Better Health and Brighter Future for people from Myanmar to worldwide through leading innovation in Organic Herbal Medicines.” Thus, FAME has been building a common vision for eco-innovation by implementation awareness of innovation project. Our innovation policy is focus on alignment of market based innovation with National Health Needs. So, we target CSR goals to provide opportunities to our employees, communities, the environment of our planet and also our business. To success our goal, we have been actively implementating (5) CSR approaches based upon CSR 2.0 Policy since 2010 such as (1) Defensive CSR (OHSAS 18001:2007 and SA 8000 team) (2) Charitable CSR (3) Promotional CSR (4) Strategic CSR (ISO 9001:2015 and GMP) (5) Systemic CSR (ISO 14001:2015 and FAME Organic Pharming Project) In 2014, FAME Pharmaceuticals was honored to join and became a dedicated member of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. Besides continually implementing on our CSR activities, we support the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles based on four main areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. We take clear actions on these principles and improve our performance year-on-year. FAME’s Communication on Progress clearly embellishes how we have embedded policies and procedures which comply with 10 principles of UN Global Compact. This is the fourth report of our activities and progress during 2017. For coming years and future, we strongly commit to support both UN Global Compact and our CSR activities to implement more and more sustainable ways which are benefits of our customers, employees, stakeholders and society and environment. I hope and believe that our cooperate social responsibilities can be carried out by not only voluntary approach but also developing our responsible practices with accleration. Dr. Khin Maung Lwin Managing Director FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. FEB 2017-2018 2 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. ISO 9001:2015 ISO 14001:2015 OHSAS 18001:2007 U.S FDA Registration Organic (Myanmar) UN Global Compact USDA Certificate GMP FEB 2017-2018 3 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. ASEAN BUSINESS AWARDS For CSR in 2010 (Finalist) ASEAN Energy Award (Winner) in 2013 ASEAN BUSINESS AWARDS 2014 (2nd Runner UP) Most Admired ASEAN Enterprise Innovation National Winner 2014 President’s Excellent (Myanmar) Performance Award Most Admired ASEAN in 2014 Enterprise Innovation FEB 2017-2018 4 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. ASEAN-OSHNET ASEAN Business Awards Excellence Award 2016 for Innovation SME Excellence Award Winner 2017 CLMV SME Excellence in Workplace Environment EXCELLENCE AWARD 2016 Gold Winner 2017 FEB 2017-2018 5 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Human Rights Principles Business should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1: proclaimed human right. Principle 2: Business should make sure they are not complicit in human right abuses. Our objective is to create the happy and healthy workplace for employees and then they can do their duties to the best of quality according to Universal Declaration of human right. We organize Social Accountability (SA 8000) Team to avoid conflicts by building mutual understanding between employer and employees. In addition, we are providing training programs, entertainment, education programs and health and safety system for employees. I. Training Programs We continuously invite internal and/or external trainers from local and foreign for capacity building of our employees. We give the application trainings and technical trainings by the skilful trainers to the responsible employees as job requirements. We also send employees to foreign countries for learning the knowledge and technical know-how to be able to abreast internationally. We aim to become more skilful persons and to give and share more knowledges to all employees. In 2017, there were (26) external trainings including Foreign (9) and Local (17) and regular internal trainings including education program, departmental meetings and trainings and monthly management system trainings. External training GMP training by KI Pharma (Austria, Europe) FEB 2017-2018 6 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Application training for Capsule Shell Inspection Machine by PRODITEC (France) Application training for FTIR Machine by Thermo Fisher Scientific We also make a supporting program that when we purchase a new machine from external suppliers, they provide the technical and application trainings to our responsible employees by their experts to be more familiar with that machine. FEB 2017-2018 7 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. HIDA-Program on Design Management 26 Oct to 8 Nov 2017 (Japan) Agri-Business & Agri-Eco touriam (JICA) 18 July to 3 August 2017 (Japan) ASEAN guiding principles on Safety on TMHS 25 to 28 April 2017 (Thailand) FEB 2017-2018 8 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Internal training We have new employee training programs and train to new employees who firstly join to our workplace. Training period is not more than 10 hours and trained by responsible managers. 1. HR manager explains in house HR Rules and Regulations. 2. QMS manager explains Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2015). 3. QA manager explains Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). 4. OHSAS Officer explains Occupational Health and Safety Assessment System (OHSAS 18001:2007). 5. EMS manager explains Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2015) 6. CSR manager explains Corporate Social Responsibility 2.0 Policy (ISO 26000) to get more knowledges in our company and then we make evaluation program after each training. After all that, they have to learn on job training from their respective managers in their department and departmental training monthly. New Employee training Departmental training FEB 2017-2018 9 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. II. Education and Entertainment We have Saturday program in alternative week and HR department manages the employees into (4) groups: group A, B, C, D to make education and entertainment programs. The system representatives give the education trainings at theatre alternatively and we also invite external speakers and the famous Myanmar authors for Symposium Program to improve general knowledges and motivation. Improving general knowledges needs for employees because it helps with personal growth, good citizenship, and a stronger society. Moreover, entertainment programs are arranged to employees for mind relaxation. Education Program from External Speaker Education Program Entertainment Program FEB 2017-2018 10 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. III. For Safety and Health care for employees, For the Health and Safety of employees by OHSAS 18001:2007 system, new employees have been made medical checked-up for infectious diseases such as HIV, TB, HBV, HCV etc. We provide a First Aid box at each department and well-trained First Aider from each department. We also give First Aid training to First Aider as required. Every employee can consult or get medical attention with OHSAS doctor at FAME internal clinic for medical problems or in emergency case. And also they are subjected to general medical check-up per year. First Aid Training IV. Refreshment Myanmar New Year Refreshment FEB 2017-2018 11 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Valentine’s Decoration Thing Gyan Decoration Christmas Decoration Cafeteria FEB 2017-2018 12 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We create a pleasant and comfortable working area, library with up to date pharmacopoeias, medicinal books and references, cafeteria, transportation and theatre for our employees. Comfortable and clean working area Professional Library Transporation Theatre FEB 2017-2018 13 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. CSR Journal CSR journals have been distributed since 2013 and publish (2) times per year. All employees are willing to participate in CSR journals. In CSR journals, they share their own feelings, poems, novels, motivation, environmental technologies, education, religious knowledges and health awareness letters. Thus, we can improve internal communication between all employees. CSR journals are available to our employees, stakeholders and business partners free of charge to know more about our company activities FEB 2017-2018 14 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Labour Principles Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3: recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation For supporting Human Right in working area, we allowed freedom of association and collective bargaining in our factory. Social Accountability (SA 8000) team was organized with SA members since 2008. SA 8000 Team In SA 8000 Team, a member from each department and SA leader are elected by voting system once a year and has a SA representative of SA Executive Committee. Every SA member has opportunity to discuss at SA meeting which holds monthly. In meeting, each department discusses their problems, needs and expectations. After that, SA representative decides and negotiate the required decisions. We display the principles board of SA 8000 team and follow the guidelines. FEB 2017-2018 15 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. FAME volunteer task force(FVTF) has volunteering activity by donation of cash and in-kind to orphanage house, nursing home, flood-victims, etc. This consists of not only monastery donation and aid given to local people but also to help build on the health knowledge and skills to attain sustainable development. It has been 34th donation of FVTF activity. Donation at Aung Zayar Min Monastery Donation at Tontay Monastery FEB 2017-2018 16 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. All Employees are eligible to monthly salaries, overtime allowance for extra hours, travelling allowance, supporting transportation, Social Security Insurances at Social Security Board for employees and for yearly leave entitlement; causal leave, earned leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, funeral leave, fully paid extended medical leave and blood donors leave. We offer salary to our employees according to basic salary policy of Local Labour Organization. We practice labour policies and regulations settled by Local labour laws and ILO. There is no forced and compulsory labour and overtime is voluntary. There is no discrimination on a person’s race, colour, gender and religion which are not related to a person’s ability. In our factory, we do not appoint any person who is under 18 years old. Moreover, our business contractors do not hire under 18 years old person. Not only in our factory but also in our business contractors follow the abolitions of child labour. We always provide vacation plans especially for serviced employees working at FAME Pharmaceuticals. Human resource department arranged 2 recreation vacations in 2017; one was Dawei vacation and another was Bagan vacation for relaxation in Myanmar NewYear holidays. Annual Vacation to Dawei FEB 2017-2018 17 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Annual Vacation to Bagan We celebrated new year staff party in New year Eve night. In that party, we appreciated and awarded to outstanding employees without taking leaves and blood doners. We also invited famous external speaker for raising employees’ motivation and general knowledges. Because General knowledge is valued information regarding with the social interests of a society, culture, civilization, community, or nation gathered from a range of various media platforms and motivation is very important at working environment. Many human characteristic traits and skills such as intelligence, problem-solving and confidence are judged by the level of general knowledge one has obtained. That’s why we inserted this symposium program in this party. In addition, we arranged interesting programs like lucky draw and refreshment. New Year Staff Party FEB 2017-2018 18 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For Employees’ health and safety, we are implementing Occupational Health and Safety Assessment System (OHSAS 18001:2007) since 2006. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY 1. FAME Pharmaceuticals implements occupational health and safety management system which is appropriate to the nature and scale of the organization’s occupational health and safety risks. 2. FAME Pharmaceuticals will maintain a safe and healthy work environment by controlling potential hazards as much as we can and will document and maintain the implemented the Occupational Health and Safety management system according to the ISO (OHSAS 18001) international standard guidelines. 3. FAME Pharmaceuticals will comply with current applicable occupational health and safety legislation and where Myanmar legislation is inadequate, will comply with international standards and go beyond to the requirements. 4. FAME Pharmaceuticals will provide proper training, supervision, safe equipment and facilities and sufficient resources to meet our requirements. 5. FAME Pharmaceuticals will continually strive to improve on our work safety performance from time to time by controlling potential hazards so as to ensure safety and health for every parties involved. 6. FAME Pharmaceuticals OSH Policy is available to all interested parties. 7. FAME Pharmaceuticals reviews the OSH Policy periodically to ensure that it remain relevant and appropriate to our organization FEB 2017-2018 19 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For Occupational Health, we support OHSAS activities as follows; 1. Pre-employment medical checking 2. Yearly medical check-up 3. Internal clinic for employees 4. First Aid Training and Exercises 5. Blood donation 6. Sharing the awareness letter concerned with health We have internal clinic for employees and support the medicines free of charge. If we have emergency case, the employee is admitted to contracted Pan-Hlaing Siloam Hospital and transfered to Labour Hospital. Blood Donation Yearly Medical Check-up Medical Treatement at Internal Clinic For Occupational Safety, we implement the guidelines such as 1. General Safety ( Laboratory Safety, Biological safety, Electrical Safety, Chemical Safety, Machine Safety, Construction Safety, Confined Space Safety, Working at height procedure, proper handling and storing of materials and tools and so on). 2. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Management 3. Vehicle Safety 4. Proper Housekeeping 5. Hazards Identification and Risk Management 6. Accident Incident and Near Miss Investigations and reporting 7. Emergency and Major incident plan 8. Fire management plan 9. Occupational Safety Training OHSAS officer and safety officer regularly check on various risks associated with our work activities, including fire hazards, machinery hazards, electrical hazards, etc. FEB 2017-2018 20 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Chemical Safety Biological Safety Electrical Safety Warning Sign Machine Safety Machine Guard FEB 2017-2018 21 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For Scaffolding and ladders safety Storage of Materials Vehicle Safety Clean & Tidy Workplace FEB 2017-2018 22 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Sample Wearing PPE Notice Board We describe Lost Time Injury (LTI) board to aware employees’ health and safety as a part of safety performance in OHSAS System. LTI board FEB 2017-2018 23 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. For fire safety, fire drill training and exercise was done twice a year (in March and December) in collaborating with Hlaing Thar Yar Fire Brigade. All the employees from the whole factory participate in Fire Drill. Fire Drill Excercise Portable Fire Pump Training FEB 2017-2018 24 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Environmental Principles Businesss should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 : challenges Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 : technologies ISO 14001:2004 ISO 14001:2015 As Organic herbal medicines manufacturing company, we control the risk of environment caused by our factory leading to create the green environment. In April 2016, Environmental Management System was upgraded to 2015 version. According to Guidelines of Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2015), we always need to consider product life cycle and update the EMS risk assessment register for our factory especially for our interested parties requirements (1) internal, and (2) external interested parties like Employees, Government sectors, Environmental technological companies, Engineering service companies, External Analytical lab, Communities, etc. Also update the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for all chemicals which can affect the environment and human health. In MSDS that mentioned how to prevent environment risk and human health. FEB 2017-2018 25 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. To reduce the risk of these environmental impacts, we clearly set objectives and target upon this. (1) Energy conservation (2) Soil pollution control (3) Water pollution control (4) Air pollution control For precautionary approach, we are practicing spillage exercise for emergency chemical spillage and distribute awareness letters concerned with environmental issues as EMS activities. Environmental Policy 1. FAME Pharmaceuticals implement Environmental Management System to improve its Environmental Management and ultimately, to reduce the environmental impacts of its operation, activities and products. 2. Environmental Management organizations will clearly define responsibilities and authorities. This shall be established to ensure conformance with legislation and regulation of the nations and with other related requirements to which the organization subscribes related to its environmental aspects. 3. The environmental impact caused by our production activities, products and services shall be precisely analyzed and assessed. The objectives, targets and measure for improving the environment shall be established, implemented and reviewed considering technical and economical possibility. 4. Activities for suppression of waste, energy saving and material conservation should be promoted. 5. All persons working for this Environmental management system should be given full understanding of this environmental policy through environmental education and internal information. All the persons concerned oneself should be interested in an environmental problem and be able to act. We are implementing continually our EMS policy by Internal Environmental Management Committee. I. Energy Conservation Sources : Electricity, Diesel fuel, Water To promote energy and natural resource conservation and reduce use of water, Main objective : electricity & diesel fuel by developing energy management systems. To develop energy saving programs, better maintenance and evaluation Operational control : of energy leakage. Monitoring & Measurement : Checking the actual usage of records. FEB 2017-2018 26 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 1. Electricity Herbal drying process in Glass House Using Computer Preservation of Energy Sleep when no use Lobby Area with Natural Lighting FEB 2017-2018 27 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 2. Diesel fuel Pharmaceutical Grade Compressor House 3. Water Aircon outlet Mopping water storage tank Handwashing Reuse waste water from Air-cons Waste water collected from one Air-con 8 liters/ 8hrs Waste water collected from three Air-con 24 liters/ 8hrs Capacity of Air-con waste water tank 300 liters Capacity of waste water usage 24 liters/ 8hrs FEB 2017-2018 28 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. II. Soil Pollution Control Source :Disposal of Plastic, Paper, chemicals and fertilizer residue Main objective : To prevent soil pollution Reduce, reuse, recycle program, practice spillage exercise, use natural Operational control : fertilizers Monitoring & Measurement : Checking the monthly records of resale and spillage record. 1. Plastic Reducing usage of plastic and substitute recycle bags FEB 2017-2018 29 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 2. Paper We use intranet mailing system and share network to communicate between departments in our compound. So, we can reduce time and paper usage for internal communication. We also practice mail system for taking leaving to HR department. Instead of disposing the used paper into the environment, we pracitce resale procedure. To Reduce paper Usage FEB 2017-2018 30 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 3. Chemicals All employees must know the spillage response procedure to prevent soil pollution. So we practice the spillage procedure, regular spillage exercise and keep records. Spillage Response Procedure 4. Fertilizers To minimize Soil pollution,we have FAME Organic Pharming Project at Pyin Oo Lwin. We always use natural fertilizers such as green manure, animal waste (cow, bat manure), EM bokashi, earthworm fertilizer, cross rotation and planting soil nourishing plants (nitrogen fixing plants) to improve soil quality because chemical fertilizers can destroy the soil quality. Crop residues which are waste from FAME Organic Pharming Project are used to formgreen manure and thus we can reduce the tendency of soil pollution. Earthworm Fertilizer Green Manure Cow Manure FEB 2017-2018 31 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. III. Water Pollution Control Source : Waste water, dilution of chemicals waste Main objective : To prevent water pollution by reducing effluent contaminants from our factory. Operational control : Reusing the treated water and daily maintenance. Monitoring & Measurement : Checking the waste water test result record. 1. Waste water Store the treated water Filter the impurities of waste water by sand, coconut shells and rock Treated water use as washing car Treated water use as gardening purpose FEB 2017-2018 32 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. 2. Dilution of chemicals waste To perform assay and analytical tests for our products, we use chemicals. To prevent water pollution, we don’t dispose directly into drain after processing. We neutralize the residual acid/base that generated from the chemical tests by using water and then measure pH level that conform or not between the accepted range (pH 5-12). Disposal of Chemical Waste by Dilution IV. Air Pollution control Source : Carbon dioxide To prevent environmental air pollution by increasing the carbon dioxide Main objective : absorption and reducing carbon dioxide emission associated with environmental impacts. Operational control : Air pollution control with planting around the factory and Organic pharm Monitoring & Measurement : Checking monthly records of carbon dioxide reduction and emission. 1. Carbon dioxide Plantation around Our Factory FEB 2017-2018 33 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. FAME Organic Pharming Project (Plants use CO2 for photosynthesis and emit O2 to atmosphere) Co2 100% carbon neutral product ISO 14001 : 2015 Certified FEB 2017-2018 34 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. We have been building a common vision for eco-innovation by implementation eco-friendly policies, programs and practices for organizational awareness of innovative organic farming project. Thus, FAME Organic Pharming Project was first established in Pyin Oo Lwin, Mandalay in 2003. The purposes of FAME Organic Pharming Project are 1. To develop the organic Agriculture techniques in Myanmar 2. To minimize the risk of hazards to the environment 3. To conserve the endangered medicinal plants in Myanmar 4. To share the knowledge concerning with side effect of using synthetic pesticides and Genetic modified food 5. To distribute our organic raw materials and products to local markets and foreign markets By doing FAME Organic Pharming Project, we can not only get the qualified organic raw materials but also save the environment. As it is important to develop sustainable organic agriculture communities in Myanmar, we are implementing to establish a Training Centre, Medicinal Plant Herbal Garden and Organic Museum which provides Organic Agriculture Farming training on both lecture and hands-on practice. Moreover, our guided tour program to FAME Organic Pharm promotes ecotourism and FAME always conducts all of our business to sustain health of soil, ecosystem and people. That’s why we, FAME Pharmaceuticals achieved ASEAN Business Awards for Innovation SME Excellence Award Winner in 2017. FEB 2017-2018 35 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Policy Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10: extortion and bribery Policy Statement FAME Pharmaceuticals has a well-established reputation in conducting all of our business in honest and ethical manners. We also take zero tolerance approach to corruption and bribery by any of our employees, third-party representatives. Furthermore, we are committed to conducting our business in all applicable laws, rules and regulations and the highest ethical standard. Handbook of anti-corruption Distribute this book to all departments for implementation of Anti-corruption policy Implementation We conduct training for all new employees and provide relevant training on how to implement and adhere to anti-corruption policy for all existing employees. Annually we ask all employees to formally accept conformance to this policy. Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption must be communicated to all those who are working with us including suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and as appropriate thereafter. In case of gifts and hospitality, Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals do not made with the intention of influencing a third party to obtain any business advantage, or to reward the provision or retention of business, or explicit or implicit exchange for benefits. It is given openly, not secretly according to applicable national laws and conformity with Local custom. Employees not offered to, or accepted from, government officials or representatives, or politicians or political parties. Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals who received appropriate gifts contribute what they received to charitable donations for vulnerable community. FEB 2017-2018 36 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Principle All employees follow principles in interactions with the Government 1. FAME Pharmaceuticals will proactively seek dialogue and co-operation with the Government of Republic of the Union of Myanmar provided such engagement is necessary, appropriate and mutually beneficial to both parties. 2. FAME Pharmaceuticals will build its dialogue with Government Officials on its active involvement in and close link to civil society including Non-governmental organizations. 3. FAME Pharmaceuticals is committed to honesty and integrity when in its interactions with Government Officials, by adopting a transparent and responsible behavior, respecting all applicable local laws. 4. In their interactions with Government Officials, employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals are expected to take all reasonable steps to ensure the truth and accuracy of all statements made or information provided by them. 5. Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals shall always identify themselves openly and correctly when representing and their specific function. 6. Employees shall not misrepresent their status or the nature of their inquiries to Government Officials nor shall they create any false impression in relation thereto. Facilitation Payments and Kickbacks Either employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals or person acting on behalf of FAME Pharmaceuticals may not make or accept any kind of facilitation payments and kickbacks. “Facilitation payment” is defined as payment made to a government officials to facilitate approval of some type of business transaction or activity. “Kickbacks” is defined as “Payments made to commercial organizations in return for a business advantage, such as a payment made to secure the award of a contract”. Employees of FAME Pharmaceuticals avoid any activity that might lead to a facilitation Payment or Kickback will be made. FEB 2017-2018 37 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Donations FAME Pharmaceuticals do not make any donation or contribution whether in cash or kind to any political parties or candidates. As part of FAME Pharmaceuticals Corporate Social Responsibilities, we are committed to support in the development of our community therefore we accept to make charitable support and donations for the development of local people, whether of in-kind services, knowledge, time, or direct financial contributions. However, every employee of FAME Pharmaceuticals do careful to ensure that charitable contributions are not used as a scheme to conceal bribery. We only make charitable donations that are legal and ethical under local laws and practices. We, FAME Pharmaceuticals publicly disclose information of the charitable donations every time we make. FEB 2017-2018 38 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Record-Keeping All documentations related to anti-corruption policy are kept in Document Control Centre. Monitoring and measurement are done on Yearly basis. We keep financial records and have appropriate internal controls in place which will evidence the business reason for making payments to third parties. Responsible persons are ensure that books, records and overall financial reporting are also transparent. They accurately reflect each and all underlying transactions. We declare and keep a written record of all hospitality or gifts accepted or offered which will be subject to Document Control Center managerial review which is usually held twice a year. We also ensure all expenses claims relating to hospitality, gifts or expenses incurred to third parties are submitted in accordance with our expenses policy and specifically record the reason for the expenditure. All accounts, invoices, memoranda and other documents and records relating to dealings with third parties, such as clients, suppliers and business contracts, should be prepared and maintained with strict accuracy and completeness. No accounts must be kept “of-book” to facilitate or conceal improper payments. Monitoring and Review Top level management which includes Board of Directors are responsible for monitoring and measurement on the sustainable effectiveness of FAME’s anti-corruption policy and review the implementation of this policy, regularly considering its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. All employees are responsible for the success of this policy and should ensure they use it to disclose any suspected danger or wrongdoing. Employees are invited to comment on this policy and suggest ways in which it might be improved. Comments, suggestions and queries should be addressed to the Board of Directors. This policy does not form part of any employee’s contract of employment and it may be amended at any time. FEB 2017-2018 39 Communication on Progress of FAME Pharmaceuticals Industry Co.,Ltd. Conclusion As FAME has a vision to create the best workplace for our employees not only in Myanmar but also in ASEAN countries, our MD manages to fulfill the requirements of the employees in various sections such as infrastructure, facilities, transportation, recreation, education, health and safety. We are practicing Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), ISO 9001:2015 (Quality Management System) for the continuous improvement and customer satisfaction, OHSAS 18001:2007 to create a safe and happy workplace for employees, ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental Management System) to reduce the risk of environmental impacts and ISO 26000 (Corporate Social Responsibility). As being a member of United Nations Global Compact, we support its ten principles based on four main areas; Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. For our sustainable goals in order to get the “ Business for Peace”, FAME has been implementing in the following sectors:(1) No Poverty & Zero Hunger by providing job opportunities and charitable CSR activities, (2) Peace Related Education through our weekly education programs and factory visit program, (3) Gender equality & reduce inequalities, (4) Peace Justice & strong institutions by forming the accountable institution and SA-8000 team, (5) Avoid conflicts by building mutual understanding, respects and trust among the employees. As our company fulfills GMP, ISO management systems and provides various kinds of facilities for employees, our employees can perform their duties with confidence, good morality, motivation and satisfaction in the workplace. Therefore, we achieved Myanmar Employer Awards; Excellence in Workplace Environment (Local) Gold Winner and Most Innovative Use of Technology in HR (Local) Bronze Winner in 2017. Excellence in Workplace Environment (Local) Gold Winner 2017 FEB 2017-2018 40
