Good Food For Better Lives OUR BUSINESS IS GUIDED BY OUR COMMITMENT TO PROVIDING PRODUCTS THAT ™ IMPROVE LIFE∫ DAL FOOD COP 2018 02 [contents] 05 About DAL Food 06 Statement of Commitment 09 Human Rights 10 Labor 12 Environment 13 Anti-Corruption 03 04 WE HAVE A PURPOSE BEYOND PROFIT 64870213 05 About DAL Food is Sudan’s largest and most diverse food company focused on providing affordable, basic, staple foods and drinks. The company is a visionary integration of a number of successful DAL Group divisions that have come together to form a larger, more cohesive agri-food organisation that will help increase access to DAL’s quality products, thereby playing a key role in improving the daily lives of people all around Sudan and beyond. DAL Food’s mission is to extend its position as the largest provider of reliable, affordable, basic, staple food and drinks products for mass market consumption in Sudan. Our business is guided by our commitment to providing products that “improve life”. We believe improving life can be achieved by making our products simple, nutritious, accessible, affordable and of high quality. Our strategy is anchored in our purpose of providing good food for everyone, our passion for Tradition, Innovation, Education, and Sourcing locally (TIES), and our principles that seek to foster an empowered and engaged corporate culture. Our approach to corporate responsibility utilizes these areas as tools to embed sustainability into our daily operations and implement our values and bring our strategy to life. 06 Statement of Commitment We are and always will continue to be a Sudanese company working for the betterment of our nation and the surrounding areas. To inflict change we must change ourselves, which is why Commitment is one of the things we this year has been a year where we here at DAL Food know a lot about. We have actively put ourselves outside our commit to Quality, we commit to comfort zone to help mold the company innovation, we commit helping those in into a sculpture we can all admire. need and mostly we are committed to the UNGC’s 10 principles. Being the People in Sudan work vigorously for a largest company in Sudan comes with a hard earned living to get through their lot of responsibility, a responsibility to lives day by day. DAL Food is committed do good, to be good and to have a to making sure these families get better purpose beyond profit. lives through good food. Our undying support to our country, our employees Over the last few years we have and our society will reflect the kind of experienced many turmoil’s due to the company we are. countries economical downfall, however through adversary we have become stronger, more focused and determined to do our part for our country. Since the last COP we have taken huge steps forward advancing our sustainability strategy and our Sudanese heritage. Ihab Daoud Managing Director 07 OUR UNDYING SUPPORT TO OUR COUNTRY, OUR EMPLOYEES AND OUR SOCIETY WILL REFLECT THE KIND OF COMPANY WE ARE. 08 02 09 Human Rights seen significant increases in both attendance and grades across all participating schools. Some of our other projects include, school libraries program; aimed at providing a better education through a We are dedicated to protecting human well prepared encyclopedia of books. In rights across our company and country. addition we have projects aimed at Our grand goal is to provide good food providing a sustainable income to with international quality standards at women. These projects help the an affordable price to everyone in individuals support themselves and Sudan, in an attempt to enhance their families by providing a front to buy everyone’s right to food security. and sell DAL Food items. Furthermore we actively advocate for the protection of human rights within Our Bakery Development Center (BDC) our sphere of influence which is continues to excel providing much growing by the day. needed knowledge and training to house hold and professional chefs. This Our business policy includes a separate year we are taking a step into moving business ethics policy that entails us the BDC to rural areas using our Mobile dealing with only ethically and legally BDC units, which consist of fully outstanding suppliers, this confidence stacked independent vehicles which in our products and procurement is can expand to provide a fully what instills trust into our consumers. functioning kitchen and stage to help Under our Champion Mr. Ihab Daoud spread the knowledge across Sudan. the Managing Director of DAL Food who was named CSR personality of the Year Driven by our belief in equal by CSR Arabia in 2018 we managed to opportunity and that everyone can create and continue plenty CSR contribute to our economy regardless projects. The biggest being the school of their personal circumstances, DAL milk program; where we ensure a daily Food continues the support and supply of milk across 45 schools for expansion of the Bus Stop Project to over 22,000 underprivileged children. support the less-abled people. The This program which has proven to be a project has proudly won the 2018 CSR huge success supports no hunger and Arabia Award. the right to education. The program has 10 DAL Food always has and will continue to proactively abide by any national and Labor international laws. Our work with our employees is an investment towards the company’s future and something we take very seriously. Professional development is one of the steps that we are making sure our employees are climbing throughout their careers in DAL. Our DAL Food Principles will also play a starring role in shaping the organizational culture and producing an engaged, committed, and motivated workforce. HSE has been an important pillar in DAL making sure all our employees are safe at all times. This year alone we have trained almost 3000 employees over 300 different sessions. During the World Day for Heath and Safety DAL Food engaged the governing bodies at the ministry of health and ministry of 11 labor to educate the public and private companies about the importance of work safety. Workers also participated in hazard identification, risk assessment, developing practical mitigation measures and HSE committees to be an active body in a safer working environment. We also continue to carry out HSE inspections regularly and emergency drills as needed. In 2018 we have successfully increased the medical allowance three fold to combat the rampant inflation by making sure our employees have medical access regardless of their financial situation. We also have a strict policy that allows for freedom of religion and association with a zero tolerance policy for any kind of discrimination. We also take regular steps to ensure that our partners do not condone or use any kind of child labor or discriminatory work force acquisition. 12 Environment We believe in a better planet, one we can proudly leave to the upcoming generations. We have taken steps to ensure we do our part in protecting the environment. First of which is getting the EMS ISO 14001:2015, as of now we have 3 sites with the certification and we are working on more. Furthermore we are far within the legal limits imposed by Sudanese law and steadily approaching international limits. We have taken it as an obligation to do an Environmental Social Impact Assessment to all our new projects and the majority of our existing ones to address any environmental issues before/during the projects Waste management has also been lifetime. abundantly addressed, in 2018, we conducted 18 environmental Furthermore, we have initiated a awareness trainings and updated number of projects providing our Environmental risk register. access to clean water for 250,000 beneficiaries in conflict affected Furthermore we are looking zones. diligently into alternative energy sources and by the end of 2019 we should have a plan identifying our investment opportunities in this sector. 13 Anti-Corruption Our DAL Food Principles guide and Our commitment to ethics and encourage employees to embody integrity is reflected in our business integrity, transparency and policy with our zero-tolerance accountability, making fighting policy towards unethical behavior corruption the responsibility of and corruption. We operate in an each individual. This fight is a social environment where bribes and one that effects not only our other payments are regarded as business but our people as well. normal, and in fact may help This is why we make it our goal to facilitate many otherwise difficult help our employees fight against business operations. However corruption by motivating them and knowing the negative social and helping them through situations economic impact this has on our that otherwise would’ve needed community and country our policy remains unchanged and stronger than ever, with more financial provisions and tough punishments to those who break such policies. Ending corruption is integral to lasting sustainable development and we are committed advocates in the fight against corruption. GOOD FOOD FOR BETTER LIVES
