Sustainability Communication on Progress 2017 This is Embraco’s Communication on Progress in the process of implementing the United Nations Global Compact principles, supporting broader UN goals. Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People PRESIDENT STATEMENT The world we’re going to leave This combination of technologies drivers and for future generations depends on sustainable development has been part of our DNA decisions taken today. Based on that, and has brought new opportunities to innovate. the United Nations (UN) launched We’re not only improving the overall refrigerator’s a global agenda for sustainable operations through energy consumption savings development towards 2030, with a and superior food preservation, but also offering set of global goals that governments services to expand our portfolio related to reverse are expected to adopt and that logistics and Internet of Things. require partnerships with private sector, civil society and citizens. In our plants, we have advanced with the implementation of WCM World Class At Embraco, we see these goals Manufacturing, a methodology that help us as opportunities to solve global to improve productivity, energy and water challenges through innovation, consumption, while minimizing possible negative investment and collaboration. impacts of operations. We work to be at the forefront on our mission to develop innovative In the next pages, you can check in details the solutions for a better quality of life, outcomes and achievements reached during 2017 by meeting our customers’ demands by our talented and engaged team. Also, in this and differentiating ourselves through Communication on Progress (COP) we share our high performance, energy efficiency actions and initiatives to continually support and and reduced usage of natural uphold the ten UN Global Compact Principles. resources in over 80 countries that Embraco has commercial presence. Have a good reading. LUIS FELIPE DAU President of Embraco SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 2 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People EMBRACO’S PROFILE Promote quality of life through innovative Today, we’re present in over 80 countries showcasing solutions for refrigeration: this is the technologies that advance high performance and mission of Embraco, one of the largest energy efficiency. We provide cooling solutions for global cooling specialists. household, commercial such as medical applications, food retail and services distribution and aftermarket 11 1,700 segments. Through partnerships with startups and digital services, it also delivers value and intelligence business units patents granted to its customers. Innovation is in our DNA and it happens based on our MISSION and VALUES: To provide Respect innovative Integrity solutions for a Diversity with Inclusion better quality Teamwork of life. Spirit of Winning SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 3 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People A TEAM OF TALENTS Our employees are an essential pillar to our business. Present in different continents, with multiple nationalities and cultures, we have a talented team divided as follows: EMPLOYEE PROFILE In total, Embraco has 10,698 employees. Numbers collected on December 31, 2017. Distribution of employees per gender Distribution of employees per country 0.42% 0.08% 21.46% 29% 45.80% 12.59% 71% 5.04% 14.60% Male employees Female employees Brazil China Italy Mexico Slovakia USA Russia SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 4 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People Embraco’s corporate governance Compliance At Embraco, there is a “staff” composed by the President, five Vice-presidents and Embraco’s reputation is a direct reflection of its daily performance. two Directors. This group is responsible for defining and monitoring the execution of To ensure that business and people are aligned to our values, we have the company’s strategy; analyzing the organization and the executives performance; an Ethics Committee, composed by representatives from Compliance, and creating long-term and directional goals aligned to our mission. Audit, Corporate Security and Labor Relations areas. This committee is responsible for reviewing our policies, accounting records and internal The staff also evaluate key decisions in the economic, environmental and social aspects controls and also to guarantee that international requirements are that influence our company’s results, and is responsible for the risk management of being followed, such as Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), a US law created to the organization. reduce the risk of financial fraud. ANTI-CORRUPTION Aligned with the United Nations Global Compact Principles, Embraco works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. President Vice-presidents Directors All those involved in this structure are responsible for the creation of goals fully aligned with the organization’s mission and long-term objectives. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 5 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People OUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES ETHICS To maintain an environment where open and Beyond these official documents, we count on a Compliance team, honest communications are the expectation, that makes sure that it permeates all our company and is responsible 1,400 not the exception, ethics principles should for some specific actions, such as: employees guide not only employees’ conduct, but also other stakeholders’. Periodic assessment of documents and internal procedures All publics can be aware of the expected behavior and practices through these official for continuous improvement. 47 sessions Embraco’s documents: Principles and Organizational Creation and implementation of specific procedures related Values Letter; to global compliance policies in our units, like donation 75% and freedom of association. ADMINISTRATIVE of leaders Code of Ethics; EMPLOYEES’ presence Global Compliance TRAINING 2017 Policies (GCP) Complaint channels management: All publics can raise a concern anonymously, where local law permits, using our confidential Ethics Hotline, available by phone or online. COMPLIANCE E-LEARNINGS Check here for more information about each country. 3 sessions Employees’ training and communication about We have 15 GCPs to further explain Ethics matters. some topics, as Antitrust Competition Laws, Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Respect in the Workplace and 100% Environmental, Health of administrative & Safety. employees SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 6 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People SUSTAINABILITY For us, at Embraco, Sustainability goes beyond developing innovative solutions and ensuring efficient operations, it’s part of this company’s beliefs. Through our committed team, we’re able to share value with partners, customers, suppliers and society while sustaining our business growth and mission of delivering better quality of life.” URSULA ANGELI Vice-president of Sustainability, Human Resources and Communication SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 7 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People SUSTAINABILITY We develop sustainability through three workstreams: SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS We’re committed to provide high energy-efficient solutions, and this is strategic for the research and development area, as well as reduce the environmental impact through all life cycle. SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN Our vision of sustainability extends over our value chain, from the purchase of raw material to our own operations. ENGAGED PEOPLE We develop and engage employees in our culture of diversity to promote their safety and professional growth, and contribute to the communities in which we are located through social programs and volunteer work. EXAME SUSTAINABILITY GUIDE In 2017, we participated for the 8th time in the ranking of Brazil’s most sustainable companies, according to the Exame Sustainability Guide. We were recognized in the Electronics category for the Nat.Genius case – a program originally created to recycle compressors that is now considered an international reference in circular economy (read more on page 12). SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 8 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People SUSTAINABILITY EMBRACO´S PROFILE & SDG INDEX A TEAM OF TALENTS RELATIONSHIP WITH 9 CUSTOMERS COMPLIANCE Our commitment to OUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES INNOVATIVE sustainability is also 13 7 PORTFOLIO reinforced by our support SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS to the Sustainable 4 5 8 9 10 16 Provide high energy-efficient solutions and reduce 8 NEW BUSINESS Development Goals (SDG), environmental impact through all life cycle. and for the fact that we’ve been signatories of 11 Nat.Genius the Global Compact since 2004 – both initiatives 12 diili proposed by the United 8 SUPPLIERS Nations (UN). ENVIRONMENTAL Check out how each topic 8 9 12 EFFICIENCY is aligned with the SDGs: SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN 7 Energy Improve productivity and reduce impacts since raw material to our own operations. 11 Waste ENGAGED 4 PEOPLE EXCELLENCE PEOPLE Promote employee 8 HEALTH & SAFETY 6 Water safety and professional growth, contribute to TRANSFORMING the communities. 4 COMMUNITIES Click on each SDG to know more. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 9 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People Sustainable solutions Innovation is at the center of our strategy and RELATIONSHIP WITH encompasses not only the development of our REFRIGERATION MARKET products, but also new business models, digital services and processes. From the beginning of our TOOLBOX APPLICATION trajectory we have built a Our goal is to help customers and stakeholders relationship of trust with the succeed, evaluating new opportunities for professionals of the segment, partnerships in household, commercial such as through educational and technical We also provide digital services through Embraco ToolBox (available for download medical applications, food retail and services contents. One of the channels at App Store and Play Store). It assists the professionals on day to day tasks, distribution and aftermarket segments. with the greatest interaction with offering a set of virtual tools in the same place, such as: the public is the Refrigeration Club, that was created as a print RELATIONSHIP WITH CUSTOMERS Nearest distributor search tool Refrigerant Slider magazine 34 years ago. Characterized by long-term partnership; Embraco’s product catalog Exclusive training and For the past five years, the lecture schedule Refrigeration Club has also a Cross-reference product guide Co-development actions generating website available in more than business opportunities; five languages, creating an interactive forum to exchange Assessment of the level of experiences. In the last two customer satisfaction. years,the website received more than 800,000 visits and consolidated itself as a reference in refrigeration industry news and practices . In 2017, 226 customers from 56 countries answered the survey. Our highest score was in product performance, with good ratings in product quality, quality assistance, supplier responsiveness and technical support. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 10 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People INNOVATIVE PORTFOLIO VESF FOR HOUSEHOLD To improve energy efficiency, fight climate change and deliver value for the business, we This Fullmotion solution with high develop innovative and sustainable solutions performance is capable of reducing up considering all life cycle. to 45% the energy consumption. Embraco’s pioneering research has led to the development of new technologies and solutions, such as variable speed and products that use natural refrigerants. SOME EXAMPLES: FMFT FOR LIGHT COMMERCIAL With variable speed, it reduces up to 30% when compared to the most conventional compressors. For more than 20 years, Embraco PLUG N´ COOL FOR has used natural refrigerants as an SUPERMARKETS alternative to reduce the negative impacts on the ozone layer, A complete solution with high greenhouse effects and to improve energy efficiency that uses natural equipments’ efficiency index. refrigerant (R290). SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 11 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People NEW BUSINESS Besides our current business, we seek opportunities to expand our portfolio with our New Businesses area, through partnerships and digital services that anticipates market trends and help solving customers or end-users challenges. In 2014, we took inspiration from nature to create Nat.Genius, a reverse logistic operation that generates positive impacts for the environment through recycling, reuse and remanufacturing of several electronic products at the end of their useful life. Developed based on the Internet of Things Since 2016, Nat.Genius is (IoT), diili understands the operation of also using its know-how to commercial freezers and refrigerators, offer waste management indicates the equipment’s location and consultancy services for alerts about lack of stock, faults or the its customers around the need for preventive maintenance. globe. There were projects developed in Europe, The intelligence generated enables Mexico, China and USA. brands to better understand its consumer while supporting processes that can result in sales increase. It also reduces maintenance costs and has the potential SOME RESULTS The representative to decrease refrigerator’s energy impact of this consumption by 15%. In the last 3 business was years, Nat.Genius 13.4k 4.8k 1k 1.6k recognized by the Ellen MacArthur recycled more than tons of steel tons of iron tons of copper tons of plastic Foundation, which 20 thousand considers it as a tons of materials: world reference. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 12 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People Sustainable Value Chain To continually increase efficiency There are several aspects (Quality, Logistics, Cost and and reduce direct and indirect Sustainability) considered in sourcing, development STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT OF DIRECT MATERIAL SUPPLIERS impacts, we work with the and supply base management. By following those entire value chain looking for requirements, in 2017, we worked with 443 direct opportunities. material suppliers from 3 different continents. SUPPLIERS 1. Assessment 26 potential assessments supplier Supplier Geographical Distribuition More than having a qualified supplier base, it is essential to ensure legal compliance and encourage sustainability best New and existing 38.2% suppliers practices. That’s why our suppliers 25.4% 2. also have to be aware and aligned Audit and compliance 76 audits with our Code of Conduct, which focus on matters like: anti1 corruption, discrimination, nonlocal workshop 35 new tolerance of slave and child labor, deforestation or other 1 supplier and components 4. Monitor and 3. 973 developed Certification certifications environmental infractions, and global development of supplier and workshop non-compliance with labor laws materials in the country. 36.4% In 2017 we performed this workshop in China, with participation of representatives from Brazil, Mexico, Slovakia. We also performed one local workshop in Europe. America Asia Europe CODE OF CONDUCT In the Procurement department, we combine the SUPPLIER’S DAY In 2017, we had a 82% benefit of having suppliers with the ability to of supplier adherence to our Once a year, we gather partners from our supply chain and hold the Supplier Day event to deliver their material globally with those that act code of conduct. more local, supplying for just one plant. recognize and engage with this strategic audience. In 2017, 250 suppliers took part in events held in Brazil and China (both Beijing and Qingdao plants). SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 13 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People ENERGY When we look at the relative global number, we can see that the ratio of MJ per compressor produced, In 2017, we consumed 144,9926,397MJ of energy. considering total energy consumption, was 46.29 in 2016 and 44.11 in 2017, which means that we used OUR OPERATIONS 4.69% less energy per unit produced. Since 2013, we’ve adopted the ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 2017 More than that, considering just electricity, the World Class Manufacturing reduction was up to 7.28%. Mainly due to adoption (WCM),a structured, rigorous and of several energy efficiency initiatives in our plants integrated methodology to enhance resulted by the implementation of WCM. our operational performance. 37.90% By the end of 2016, all of our plants had it implemented, resulting ENERGY CONSUMPTION RATE (MJ/COMPRESSOR) in continuous improvement and simplification, while leveraging people’s capabilities to eliminate -4.69% losses and wastes. 62.10% 46.29 44.11 -7.28% ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 29.54 27.39 With WCM we continuously seek to have -0.13% a lean manufacturing and improve our INDIRECT 16.74 16.72 environmental performance, eliminating ENERGY Electricity risks related to environmental legislation and maximizing 2016 2017 opportunities and best practices. Natural Gas Liquefied DIRECT Petroleum Direct energy Indirect energy Diesel ENERGY Gas (LPG) Gasoline SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 14 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People WASTE DESTINATION OF HAZARDOUS/ NON-HAZARDOUS WATER INCOMING WATER CONSUMPTION WASTE IN 2017 Last year, we consumed 606,647m³ of incoming water. Considering our In 2017, we reduced in 7,34% global operations, 13% the consumption of potable in 2017, we water globally. To each produced generated 124,442 compressor were used 18 liters, 29% tons of waste. Of two less than in 2016, which means this total, 87% more efficiency in process. were recycled, co-processed or In practice, the company avoided incinerated and spending 48 millions liters of water 13% were sent to in production process during 2017, landfill. enough for the annual consumption 71% 87% of 1,200 people*. *considering the UN average that 110 liters per day are enough for Recycle Landfill basics needs. Water supply networks Wells WASTE SENT TO LANDFILLS RATE WASTEWATER TREATMENT (g/COMPRESSOR) TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION (m³) AND WATER REUSE Considering just our -17% compressors plants, to each To prevent the pollution of natural produced compressor, we’ve resources, all of our plants have sent only 28g of waste internal wastewater treatment. 34 to landfill and we have a Beyond that, compressor plants 28 global target to zero out in Brazil, China and Mexico reuse this number. 428,446 this treated water in discharges 221,815 of toilets, cooling tower, garden 2016 2017 178,201 irrigation or sidewalks washing. Considering all the water We also use WCM 5Rs approach to help us achieve Zero: we first think on how Wells Water supply networks Water From Recycling consumed by the company, REFUSE and REDUCE waste generation, then look for the correct way to REUSE, including potable and non-potable, RECYCLE and RECOVER. 27% was from reuse. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 15 Embraco’s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People CERTIFICATIONS To guarantee sustainability in all global markets, Embraco has the following external certifications: ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 IECQ QC 080.000 ISO 14001 ISO TS 16.949 Based on quality management Focused on occupational Establishes procedures for Guides the implementation of In conjunction with ISO 9001, principles, including a health and safety manufacturers of electrical environmental management defines quality management strong customer focus, the management, it provides a and electronic products and systems to enhance system requirements for the motivation and implication of framework to identify, control components to implement environmental performance design and development, top management, the process and decrease the risks at the a management process of and fulfil compliance production and, when relevant, approach and continual workplace. hazardous substances. obligations. installation and service of improvement. automotive-related products. Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Foundry Foundry Foundry Foundry Foundry Components & Cooling Components & Cooling Components & Cooling Components & Cooling Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 16 Embraco´s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People Engaged People For Embraco, people’s safety and development are part of its core strategy. PEOPLE EXCELLENCE Our People Excellence strategy aims to unleash individual Our Leadership Model inspires everyone to live and lead and collective talents and inspire a winning culture. We also believe the Embraco values: that all employees should be protagonists of BUILD CREATE their careers and DRIVE a compelling and sustain differentiated development within and inspiring broad results the company. strategy followership Extraordinary Great Winning performance people culture ENGAGEMENT To measure the level of employee engagement, we carry out an annual survey. In 2017, 86% of Embraco’s employees responded and our overall rate was 76%. Talent Attraction Recruitment and selection processes are carefully done considering In 2017, Embraco was featured for the 10th time in the Best our Leadership Model, Values and Strategy. The internal recruiters also Companies to Work guide, published by Você S/A magazine, conduct end-to-end processes, taking into account specific relevant which recognizes the most prominent organizations for HR information for each position and country, always focusing on diversity and management practices. of gender and nationality. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 17 Embraco´s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People OUR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS ARE BASED ON: PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT To boost out talents’ professional growth, we use Career Compass, a tool that helps employees map, discuss and The goal is to document a career journey. provide options to support employees W career is also a tool that supports employees to drive throughout their their own careers, and it’s divided into three paths: careers. Technical: employees who work in research Experience Exposure Education and engineering functions and are involved in means possibilities means challenge means discovery product transformation processes. Projects: employees who work on larger RESPECT FOR LABOR projects defined in the Global Product WCM’s People Present in seven countries, we‘re always focused on complying with local labor laws: Leadership (GPL), with high technological Development team is a and managerial complexity. key player to transform the COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS company in a continuous learning organization Percentage of Our Administrative: employees working in the Country / Plant and speed up the employees covered operations administrative and support areas, not involved transformation process. at Qingdao, in product transformation processes. Brazil 100% Based on a systematic United States approach, this pillar China (compressors) 100% and Russia sustain the development Italy 100% don’t require from the plant director to separate Mexico 74% the operator. bargaining Slovakia 100% agreements. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 18 Embraco´s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People HEALTH AND SAFETY We have a very strong leadership commitment to ensure Also, in order to manage operational safety, we use WCM, that has a clear objective to safety on a daily basis. In addition to locations routines, achieve and maintain the goal of ZERO accident. where each plant holds weekly meetings to discuss safety The following initiatives also add value while protecting our people: matters, the subject is also the first topic discussed at the monthly Leadership Meeting, in which the President, Vice-presidents and Directors of all units take part. 27,045 To achieve the desired Safety Culture, we need to engage all Embraco employees, visitors, customers and contractors. Our Global Compliance Policy covers this topic and we have also a more detailed guideline named Safety Golden Rules. Best Practices Safety Kaizens Daily safety Safety Management Platform dialogue Audit Training (SMAT) (improvements) in which our teams to reinforce safe suggested by blue a tool that seeks to create share the solutions and behavior among blue collars. a safe work environment improvements that are colors in all shifts in through the observation of THE SAFETY extended to other sites. manufacturing areas. employees’ behavior. GOLDEN RULES: Created to spread awareness of safety behaviour and how to act on daily Autonomous Safety Group: created by blue collars to take Leadership Safety Audit: a specific SMAT where situations; ownership and lead safety routines while practicing specific leadership is directly responsible. In 2017, we activities as inspections, audits, checks, trainings to support registered an overall of 4.980 audits. Covers the main topics and risks of our their development in the Safety learning. company; It’s standardized in all plants to our employees, suppliers and visitors (all people With all these initiatives, we ensure the safety of our people and reach important advances: all sites’ Days Away cases’ rate results in that enter a manufacturing site must be 2017 is 0,11, which is around 9 times better than the average. aware of it). *Reference from 2015 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, considering U.S Manufacturing Industries. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 19 Embraco´s Profile Sustainability Sustainable Solutions Sustainable Value Chain Engaged People TRANSFORMING COMMUNITIES over 1,800 2017 Embraco Social 16,000 hours of Being a multinational company, we have different opportunities to make a positive impact around Investment Activities people community benefited work the world. In this sense, Embraco has a global policy to guarantee alignment with the business and local teams, to better understand the USA different cultures and act according to the needs Community work of each community. SLOVAKIA Donations Community work We engage employees into volunteer in activities Donations that bring benefits to the people living around Social Programs the plants and offices globally. Our activities also contemplate social projects (as Embraco Ecology Award), donations and technical support to local NGO organizations that develop projects or activities that generate positive impacts for the society. CHINA Community work Social Programs MEXICO Community work Donations ITALY Social Programs BRAZIL Social Programs Donations SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 20 Overall coordination Embraco Corporate Communication and Sustainability Writing, Translation, Revision, Layout and Production ação integrada Rui Barbosa Street, 1020, mailbox 91 Zip code: 89219-901 Joinville Santa Catarina, Brazil In case of doubts, suggestions or comments about this document, contact us through this email: corporate.communication@embraco.com.
