HELPING CITIES GROW SUSTAINABLY Sustainability Report 2017 CONTENTS KONE IN BRIEF At KONE, our mission is to improve the flow of urban life. As a global leader in the elevator and escalator industry, KONE provides elevators, escalators and automatic building doors, as well as solutions for Interview with the Chairman and modernization and maintenance to add value to buildings throughout their lifecycle. Through more effective the President and CEO................................................... 4 People Flow®, we make people’s journeys safe, convenient and reliable in taller, smarter buildings. Sustainability key figures in 2017................................... 6 We serve more than 450,000 customers across the globe. The majority of these are maintenance customers. Value creation................................................................ 8 Key customer groups include builders, building owners, facility managers and developers. Architects, authorities and consultants are also key parties in the decision-making process regarding elevators and Strategy and megatrends............................................ 10 escalators. In 2017, KONE had annual net sales of EUR 8.9 billion, and at the end of the year over 55,000 Managing sustainability............................................... 12 employees. KONE class B shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Stakeholder engagement and communications.......... 13 Sustainability focus areas and material topics.............. 14 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency....................................................... 16 >450,000 >1.2 million KONE’s equipment moves Providing the most sustainable offering....................... 26 customers elevators and >1 billion escalators users each day Being the best employer and attracting talent............ 34 in our service base Enabling our partners and societies to prosper............ 38 Reporting scope........................................................... 44 Independent assurance report..................................... 45 KONE worldwide GRI index..................................................................... 46 Sustainability at KONE At KONE, sustainability is embedded in our organizational culture. It is how we treat each other and our stakeholders, how Head ofﬁce Global R&d site Production site we take the environment into account in all of our actions, KONE is present authorized distributors in almost 100 countries and how we foster economic performance now and in the future. Our vision is to deliver the best People Flow® experience. Sustainability is a source of innovation and a competitive advantage for us. KONE is committed to conducting our business in a responsible and sustainable way and we expect the same commitment from our suppliers. Read more about our approach to sustainability at kone.com/sustainability INTERVIEW WITH THE CHAIRMAN AND THE PRESIDENT AND CEO KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Interview with the Chairman and the President and CEO SUSTAINABILITY FOR A RAPIDLY CHANGING WORLD At KONE, we want to help our customers’ businesses become more sustainable, which in turn helps the world’s cities grow in a sustainable way. KONE Chairman Antti Herlin and President and CEO Henrik Ehrnrooth talk about our sustainability performance in 2017. Henrik Ehrnrooth (HE): When we look office buildings today house 30–40% more We have a strong For us at KONE, at urban developments around the people than they were originally designed role to play in sustainability world today, cities are getting increasfor, and the usual bottleneck you get in a ingly crowded. More people are moving building is elevator capacity. making buildings is nothing new. away from suburbs, to where services and With new services and solutions more resource efficient. With After all, only sustainable opportunities are closer. In cities there are launched in 2017, we have a strong role better opportunities for jobs, education, to play in making buildings more resource our smart and connected companies can be successful healthcare and more. The question we efficient. With our smart and connected people flow solutions we can for more than 100 years.” need to answer is how do we make cities people flow solutions we can be more better places to live? effective, use energy better and predict be more effective, use energy ANTTI HERLIN At KONE, our mission is to improve the needs in advance. For our customers, it better and predict needs in flow of urban life and our strategy is to is not the technology itself that is imporadvance.” help our customers succeed, which means tant – it is the outcomes that matter, such Chairman Antti Herlin (left) and President and CEO Henrik Ehrnrooth (right) at KONE's Annual helping their buildings to become more as making a building become smarter and HENRIK EHRNROOTH General Meeting in Helsinki, Finland. functional and as user friendly as possible more user friendly, or equipment perform for their users. It is also clear that reducing better. the impact that cities have on the environment continues to be very important for How does everyone at KONE keep pace 100 years since KONE started building everything we do. KONE's employees conemissions, but the other large direct How would you summarize KONE’s our customers, too. Sustainability plays a with these developments? its own elevators for the first time. The tinue to have an ambition to reach zero impact is from logistics and our global approach to sustainability? big role in this. HE: It is clear that technology is having a years before that, we were installing other accidents. In 2017, the IIFR (Industrial vehicle fleet. We are exploring innovative HE: The need to embed sustainability in profound impact to KONE. Our objective manufacturers’ equipment. Injury Frequency Rate) improved further and new ways to reduce the carbon footbusiness will increase from a social, enviAntti Herlin (AH): There is not one single is to connect our customers, our employSo we have always had to develop to 1.9 (2016: 2.1). The average number print of our vehicles, such as increasing the ronmental and economic point of view. issue, or one single thing which you could ees, our equipment and the people who and change. One big factor however, is of lost days per incident improved to 28.9 use of electric vehicles and looking at alterSustainability is embedded in not only say is more important with sustainability. use our equipment. This is significantly that I think people are increasingly lookdays (2016: 32.5) and the number of near native fuels. All this helps to reduce energy what we do, but how we do it and we will Good performance is like a chain, with changing the roles and expectations for ing for a place to work where the commiss reports increased by 46%. consumption and emissions. continue to develop with ambitious and everything interlinked. I believe that susour employees and we need to give them pany shares the same values as their own We continue to work together with Overall, our absolute carbon footprint bold targets going forward. tainability is an important prerequisite for opportunities to learn new skills to master personal values. Sustainability and social customers and equipment users, to prohas continuously declined over the past Urbanization will continue. Our the long-term success of our company. a digital world. responsibility play a very important role mote safety and safe behavior in all aspects many years, relative to sales. We are strivstrategy is to help our customers sucIn order to develop these new compehere. So does having a sustainable offering of our business. We have opened more ing for a good constant development in ceed, which means helping their buildNew technologies change the way tencies quickly, we have more than 3,900 – we invest a lot of money in research and training centers around the world and we this area. ings to become more functional and as cities function and how people behave. training programs and online modules development to produce the most sustaincan see it also has a strong relationship The fact is that buildings account for user friendly as possible for their users. What are the impacts of technology available for our employees. For example able equipment and services. with quality. nearly 40% of global energy consumpThe way we develop our sustainability development for sustainable business? we have a very active e-learning platform In our industry, as in other fields, one It is also important to remember that tion. And we can see in all parts of the approach at KONE is through our strategy HE: Technology gives us the means to and over 226,000 e-learning courses were of the best qualities to see is enthusiasm our employees play a significant role in world that sustainability is becoming and we want our employees to remain serve our customers in an individual way completed in 2017. Many have had the and commitment. If you are enthusiasdeveloping long-lasting customer relationeven more important for our customers, safe and be able to perform in their roles and in the way they want to be served. chance to try out new learning methods tic about something, then you generally ships. KONE’s overall Net Promoter Index from improving energy efficiency, to local wherever they are. With technology, predictability and intellisuch as virtual reality, games and mobile want to develop and improve. I think that (NPI) score has risen again. If I look at the authorities routinely stipulating BREEAM gence we can significantly increase equipapps. We have built a foundation to these qualities are an important part and survey responses, the biggest driver for and LEED ratings as part of planning AH: For us at KONE, sustainability is nothment performance and reliability. This is develop new skills to better serve our cusare very visible in KONE’s culture. recommending KONE is a good customer conditions. ing new. After all, only sustainable compaimportant, because with dense urban areas, tomers. As part of this, we are very proud relationship followed by high quality mainLinking back to quality, we are more nies can be successful for more than 100 there are many more people in buildings to have been recognized as one of the best Can you reflect on the safety aspects of tenance services and products. efficient with our services and installayears. Sustainability means that a company and a failure of an elevator, for example, employers in the world by Forbes. In 2017, our business in 2017? tions when we provide the highest levels should make every effort to improve its can have a very significant impact. KONE ranked 73rd in a list of 2,000 comHE: Safety has many important aspects: Over the year, what have been the of quality for our customers. With solutions operations. Whether that is energy effiFor example, in residential buildings, panies in the World’s Best Employers list. the safety of our people, the equipment, main impacts on our environmental that meet their needs, they have less interciency, taking care of your own people, or there are more single occupant apartments and the safety of customers and equipperformance? ruptions, can provide better services, and co-creating with customers. and people have completely new expectaAH: We have been around for over a ment users. We have clear metrics for HE: When we look at environmental save resources. tions from the buildings and environments century and we have had to develop a measuring employee safety performance responsibility, installed equipment is the where they live. On the other hand, most lot over that time. Actually, 2018 marks and it continues to be paramount in biggest contributor to energy and CO2 4 5 Sustainability key figures in 2017 KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Sustainability key figures in 2017 We have a wide geographic reach SUSTAINABILITY KEY FIGURES IN 2017 Sales by region, 2017 Sales by business 2017 Americas EMEA Asia-Pacific 20% 41% 39% New equipment We have employees in over 60 countries, 53% with a majority in Asia-Pacific Over half of our employees are in the field every day Employees by market, 2017 Employees by job category, 2017 Maintenance 32% Maintenance and modernization 13% 9% 56% (56%) Americas: 13% (14%) 9% New equipment, sales and Modernization Asia-Pacific: 47% (45%) installation 26% (26%) 40% EMEA: 40% (41%) 56% 14% Manufacturing 9% (9%) (2016 figures in brackets) 26% Administration, IT and R&D 9% 47% (9%) KONE operates in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Americas, and Asia-Pacific. The service business accounts for 47% of KONE’s revenue, (2016 figures in brackets) while the new equipment business represents the remaining 53%. Key financial figures 2017 2016 change, % Comparable change 226,000 95% 95% Orders received MEUR 7,554.0 7,621.0 -0.9% 1.7% Order book MEUR 8,240.2 8,591.9 -4.1% 3.1% Sales MEUR 8,942.4 8,784.3 1.8% 4.2% e-learning courses Performance discussions Code of conduct training Operating income (EBIT) MEUR 1,217.1 1,293.3 -5.9% completed at completed with KONE’s completion among the Relative operational carbon footprint trend konelearning.com eligible personnel target group Data assured externally Target: 3% annual reduction relative to net sales* 2015 2016 2017 Overall operations (scope 1, 2, 3) -4.6% -4.0% -0.2% Scope 1, 2 -8.7% -4.2% -2.6% *Calculated at comparable exchange rates Number of employees has almost doubled Positive trend in the Industrial Injury Frequency Rate over the past 10 years development among KONE employees 100% 0% 90% 60,000 8 50,000 7 6 UP TO 40,000 5 of the electricity consumed landfill waste at our KONE’s current volume 30,000 4 at KONE’s corporate manufacturing units elevator is up to 90% 20,000 3 head offices and its in China, the Czech more energy efficient 2 10,000 1 manufacturing and R&D Republic, Finland, than our elevators in 0 0 sites in Finland, Italy, and Italy, Mexico, and the the 1990s. 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 the Netherlands is green Netherlands. Year end figure KONE tracks the number of lost time injuries of one day or more, per million hours worked, as a key performance indicator. The IIFR covers electricity. KONE’s own employees. 6 7 Value cre ation KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Value cre ation CREATING VALUE FOR THE SOCIETY KONE provides value for the customers The key growth drivers of the new modernization are the aging installed are also typically long and stable (around as 5) strong brand and solid reputation. general public. Although we have a sigthrough the whole life cycle of the buildequipment business are urbanisation and base and higher requirements for effi95% annual retention rate). New equipIn addition to these, KONE sees that the nificant direct impact on society, a great ing. In the new equipment business, we changing demographics. New equipment cient people flow, safety and sustainabilment and modernization are more cyclilife cycle business model and the existdeal of our value is created through our offer innovative and sustainable elevators, deliveries are the main growth driver of ity. Having a strong maintenance base is cal in nature and follow the construction ing maintenance base of over 1.2 million large network of suppliers and customescalators, automatic building doors and the maintenance business as the majority crucial for the growth in modernization. cycles. units have a crucial role in value creation. ers, as well as through use of elevators, integrated access control solutions to of units delivered will end up in KONE’s KONE’s business model is capital light KONE has identified strategic inputs Our aim is to be a leader in sustainaescalators, automatic building doors and deliver the best people flow experience. maintenance base. However, KONE also as the working capital is negative in all crucial in creating value for customers, bility. Increasing energy and resource effiintegrated access control solutions manIn maintenance, we improve the safety maintains equipment manufactured by businesses and we work extensively with shareholders and the society. These are: ciency is among our top priorities and has ufactured and maintained by us. Our ultiand availability of the equipment in operothers. In maintenance, KONE is also component suppliers to complement our 1) competent and committed people and an important role in making the most susmate goal is to improve the flow of urban ation, and in modernization we offer solulooking to boost growth by introducown manufacturing capacity. strong leadership, 2) innovative, sustaintainable offering a reality. KONE is comlife. tions for aging equipment ranging from ing services that utilize new technolThe maintenance business is very able offering and global processes and mitted to proactive safety culture and the replacement of components to full ogies to create value for customers in stable due to high requirements for safety systems, 3) best partners, 4) efficient actively promotes safe practices among replacements. new ways. The main growth drivers for and reliability. The customer relationships manufacturing and delivery chain as well our own employees, our partners and the CREATING VALUE BY IMPROVING THE FLOW OF URBAN LIFE INPUTS BUSINESS MODEL OUTPUTS IMPACT PEOPLE AND LEADERSHIP MANUFACTURING AND WINNING WITH CUSTOMERS THE MOST SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDERS • >55,000 employees in >60 countries, INSTALLATION OFFERING • Dividend 1.65 EUR per class B share >half of them in the ﬁeld • 13 manufacturing units in • 141,000 new elevators and escalators delivered in 2017 • Basic earnings per share 1.89 EUR • Personnel turnover rate 7.7% 9 countries • Maintenance and modernization services, NEW EQUIPMENT 53 • Return on equity 34% • 92% of employees with individual • ~2,000 component suppliers Share of sales % >1.2 million units in maintenance base development plan • Thousands of installation • Best in class energy efﬁciency, ISO 25745 SOCIETY • Wide training opportunities on all suppliers A-class energy rating as the ﬁrst elevator company • Contribution to sustainable urban environment organizational levels around the world • Logistics network • Up to 70% energy savings through modernization of elevators • Wages, salaries, other employment expenses and • >35 training centers Creating value for pensions EUR 2.7 billion • 3,900 courses in 30 different languages customers through • Focus on safety and accessibility MAINTENA M O D E R NI • Industrial Injury Frequency Rate (IIFR) 1.9 (-11% y/y) • Management systems and certiﬁcates (e.g. BRAND AND REPUTATION the whole life cycle of • Promoting diversity and non-discrimination ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001) the building • Increased amount of skilled workforce • Governance structures and Code of Conduct EMISSIONS AND WASTE FINANCIAL Z AT NC • Direct purchases EUR 3.4 billion • Carbon footprint from own operations N IO E 32 • Equity EUR 2.9 billion 14 319,600 tCO2e • Income taxes EUR 300 million with effective tax rate • Interest-bearing net debt % % • Waste, 40,600 tonnes 23.5% INNOVATIONS AND PROCESSES EUR -1.7 billion • >3,000 patents • Wastewater efﬂuents 9 tonnes • Net working capital ENVIRONMENT • R&D spend 1.8% of sales, 9 global R&D units EUR -0.9 billion • -0.2% y/y reduction of operational carbon footprint • >1,000 technology professionals in R&D • Capital expenditure relative to net sales • Global KONE Way processes and systems 1.3% of sales • -2.6% y/y reduction of Scope 1&2 carbon footprint • Safe and efﬁcient maintenance and MOVING OVER relative to net sales installation methods 1 BILLION PEOPLE • 30% of green electricity NATURAL RESOURCES EVERY DAY • 93% of waste recycled or incinerated • Materials used 737,200 • 100% corporate units, major manufacturing units and PARTNERING tonnes R&D units are ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certiﬁed • Co-creation with customers • Heating and vehicle ﬂeet • 94% of strategic suppliers with ISO 14001 certiﬁcation fuels 424,600 MWh • Partnering to develop new technologies • Electricity and district • Collaboration with >300 universities and heat 82,000 MWh educational institutions • Water consumption • Distributors and agents important part of 403,000 m3 go-to-market 8 9 Str ategy and megatrends KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Str ategy and megatrends WINNING WITH CUSTOMERS – OUR STRATEGY AND MEGATRENDS KONE Way is our operating model and support profitable growth. The objective faster than the market, have the best finandefines how we implement the Ways to of the program is to create a faster-movcial development in our industry and be a Win and run our business with the right ing, customer-centric organization that levleader in sustainability. At KONE, our vision is to deliver the best People Flow® experience. This means that we make sure roles, processes, IT tools and data. KONE erages scale efficiently in a rapidly changing Way enables us to deliver better service environment. The program includes both Our culture that the people who use our products and services, the people who live in towns and cities, can move to our customers through speed and organizational adjustments, as well as the We are passionate about safety, quality, around more easily, more efficiently and have more enjoyable experiences. Our job is to make the consistency. development and further harmonization of and our values, which together form a best of the world’s cities, buildings and public spaces, because we believe that cities are part of the roles, processes and tools. strong foundation for our company culAccelerate winning with customers ture. Our culture builds on our values solution for a better future. Our mission is to improve the flow of urban life. In September 2017, KONE launched its Strategic targets of delighting the customer, energy for Accelerate winning with customers proOur strategic targets are how we measure renewal, passion for performance, and gram to speed up the execution of the our success. We aim to have the most loyal winning together. Winning with customers strategy and to customers, be a great place to work, grow Our cities will undergo enormous change, and services, Fast and smart execution, with the UN predicting that 6.3 billion and finally, True service mindset. people will be living in cities by 2050. MEGATRENDS Around 200,000 people move into cities COLLABORATIVE INNOVATION AND NEW VISION across the globe each and every day. It is COMPETENCIES by understanding urbanization and focusTo be able to bring new solutions and serURBANIZATION KONE DELIVERS THE BEST ing on improvements for people that we vices to our customers more quickly, we TECHNOLOGICAL PEOPLE FLOW® EXPERIENCE DISRUPTION can create better buildings, better low-carneed to collaborate much more with our STRATEGIC TARGETS bon cities and a better world. partners and customers. As we introduce Rapid technological advancements new technologies in order to deliver better Most loyal Great place Faster than Best ﬁnancial Leader in customers to work market growth development sustainability in connectivity, mobility, and computvalue to our customers, we all need to ing power are changing many aspects of develop new competencies to bring these our lives. Technological disruption drives innovations to life. OUR MISSION WINNING WITH CUSTOMERS change and means a faster pace of business and new expectations for ways of CUSTOMER-CENTRIC SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES IS TO IMPROVE Collaborative innovation Customer-centric working. New technologies give us a great opportunity to serve our customers Customers choose partners who best understand their changing needs and help them THE FLOW OF and new competencies solutions and services in smarter and more exciting ways. succeed. We understand these needs, and URBAN LIFE offer flexible solutions and services which EVERYTHING STARTS WITH THE benefit customers and users in the best way. CUSTOMER KONE’s strategic phase for 2017–2020 is FAST AND SMART EXECUTION WAYS TO WIN KONE called “Winning with customers” and it Customers want their partners in construcWAY True service Fast and smart was introduced in the beginning of 2017. tion projects and building services to be The objective is to drive differentiation professional, fast and reliable. They choose mindset execution further by putting the needs of customers partners that continuously improve and and users at the center of all development. focus on what is essential. We will increase Every one of our customers is differspeed and work smarter to focus on activient. We want to deliver better value and ties that are valuable to the customer. meet their individual needs. To do this, we are investing more than ever in new techTRUE SERVICE MINDSET nologies, connectivity and new solutions. Customers value partners who strive to CULTURE SAFETY QUALITY With new ways of working, partnering and understand and take action to exceed VALUES co-creation, we will help our customers expectations. We can make a difference Delighting the Energy for Passion for Winning improve their businesses. by serving our customers better than anycustomer renewal performance together body else. Four Ways to Win To bring the strategy to life, we have introEach of the Ways to Win has a number duced four Ways to Win with our customof development programs within them, ers: Collaborative innovation and new which are the practical way to make procompetencies, Customer-centric solutions gress in our daily work. 10 11 Managing sustainability KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Managing sustainability MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY AT KONE LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS KONE is committed to conducting its busiOur management and supervisors work requirements of the Finnish Accounting We work closely with our stakeholders Keeping an open and continuous ness in a responsible and sustainable way, to ensure that our employees are familiar Act, KONE has identified the most signifion the various topics of sustainability and dialogue enables us to collaborate effiand we expect the same commitment with and comply with the legislation, regcant non-financial risks. Read more about maintain an active dialogue with them. ciently and ensures a predictable busifrom all our suppliers. We comply with the ulations, and internal operating guidelines KONE’s non-financial risks and their mitKONE’s main stakeholders are our customness environment for all parties. laws and rules of the societies in which of their respective areas of responsibility, igation in our Annual Review, p. 16–18. ers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, we operate. Our everyday work is guided and that our products and services are in distributors, media, educational instituby the KONE Code of Conduct and other full compliance with all codes and standtions, and local communities. company policies and guidelines. ards applicable to them. Sustainability and its management The assessment and analysis of KONE’s are the responsibilities of KONE’s Execumost significant risks also covers mateStakeholder group Channels of dialogue Assessments and key topics raised tive Board and our President and CEO. rial non-financial risks. In line with the KONE has over Customer meetings and events, constant Annual global customer loyalty survey: Continued 450,000 customers dialogue through solution support, seminars positive feedback on product and maintenance worldwide. Our main and conferences, company reports, marketing quality and customer service. Management systems and certificates Management bodies in KONE customers are builders, materials, website and social media channels. building owners, facility Economic Finnish Corporate Governance Code, internal control, Board of Directors, Executive Board, President and managers and developers. responsibility internal auditing CEO, Annual General Meeting, Internal Audit function KONE pays wages and Performance discussions, continuous face-to-face Pulse employee survey, annual performance salaries to approximately dialogue between employees and managers, discussions, idea management system, innovation Social KONE Code of Conduct, KONE’s Competition Board of Directors, Executive Board, President and 55,000 employees in over training events, global learning solutions, tool. The Pulse results showed clear improvements responsibility Compliance Policy, KONE Supplier Code of Conduct, CEO, Internal Audit function, Global Compliance 60 countries. innovation creation through innovation tool, in the perceived learning, development, and training KONE Distributor Code of Conduct, OHSAS 18001 Committee European Annual Employee Forum, internal opportunities available to employees. Cross-team Occupational health and safety management system social media channels, company intranet and workgroups continued to drive further development internal employee publications. of work processes and collaboration. Environmental ISO 14001 Environmental management system, ISO Board of Directors, Executive Board, President and KONE conducts business Continuous one-to-one dialogue, annual supplier Annual supplier survey, supplier performance and product 9001 Quality management system, ISO 25745 Energy CEO, Quality and Solution Board with approximately day for strategic suppliers, trade fairs, steering assessment with the Supplier Excellence Certification responsibility performance of lifts, escalators and moving walks, 20,000 suppliers. group meetings, supplier workshops. Program. No material concerns raised, discussions KONE’s Supplier Excellence Certification, ISO 50001 about day-to-day operational issues, for example on Energy Management System, LEED, BREEAM or other how to further improve the logistic processes and green building certification systems quality. KONE pays dividends to An active and open dialogue: Financial disclosure Some of the most discussed topics with KONE’s over 61,000 shareholders, is provided through stock exchange releases, as stakeholders include current and future business ranging from institutional well as financial and other company reports. In performance, KONE’s strategy, the development investors and companies addition, more personal channels of dialogue of KONE’s end markets as well as KONE’s capital MEMBERSHIPS AND • United Nations Global Compact to individuals, public include management meetings with investors allocation. We receive direct feedback from • The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) institutions, and nonand analysts, annual general meetings, and financial market representatives in discussions and POSITIONS OF TRUST profit organizations. capital markets days. We have a dedicated meetings, and we collect feedback from the financial • Standardization Administration of China (SAC) investor relations team at KONE, which community also through surveys. KONE is an active participant in • Smart & Clean Foundation: Smart & Clean Helsinki Metropolitan coordinates all of KONE’s investor relations organizations developing codes, activities. This ensures a fair and equal access to • The European Committee for Standardization (CEN) company information and to its spokespersons. standards and guidelines for improving safety, accessibility, • Standardization committees at the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) KONE collaborates with Continuous dialogue through daily contacts, Monitoring of sales-related activities and direct energy efficiency, as well as other • International Trade Associations, such as the European Lift Association (ELA), authorized distributors in regular country visits, distributors’ meetings and feedback from distributors. No material concerns organizations advancing sustainthe Pacific Asia Lift and Escalator Association (PALEA), almost 100 countries. various support tools. raised. able development. In 2017, KONE and the National Elevator Industry, Inc. (NEII) in North America continued to be a member or KONE communicates Press releases, interviews, background briefings, Surveys, media analysis, reputation studies. No special • World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) proactively and openly visits, press events, publications, company issues raised during the reporting period. joined the following organizations: • Green building councils in the United States, Finland, India, Italy, Romania, Singapore, with representatives of website and social media channels. the Netherlands, Sweden, Vietnam and the Czech Republic the media. • World Alliance of Low Carbon Cities (WALCC) KONE collaborates with KONE International Trainee Program, CEMS, thesis Most attractive workplace surveys, online tracking. educational institutions opportunities, local internships, participation in Efforts for deepening school collaboration and • European Round Table of Industrialists’ Energy and Climate Change Working Group (ERT) locally and globally. recruitment fairs, common projects, guest lectures, social media visibility have been increased to further • Cleantech Finland participation in research programs and social media strengthen talent acquisition and employer brand. platforms. • Climate Leadership Coalition • Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH) KONE pays direct taxes, Social media channels, company website, Sustainability surveys, reputation studies. No special • FIBS Finnish corporate responsibility network and FIBS’ Diversity Charter Finland social security, and stakeholder relations, reports. issues raised during the reporting period. employer expenses in more than 60 countries. 12 13 Materiality analysis KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Materiality analysis SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS AND MATERIAL TOPICS KONE’s sustainability reporting follows Driving innovation and improving Being the best employer and SUPPORTING THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT KONE’s Code of Conduct, Competition the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 resource efficiency attracting talent KONE is a committed member of the Compliance Policy, and our Environmenguidelines. In 2016, we conducted a mateAt KONE, innovations in urban development One of our strategic targets is to make UN Global Compact. We are dedicated tal Excellence Program. Every day, our riality assessment to update our sustainahave an important role in tackling issues KONE a great place to work. We strive to to carrying out business in a sustainable solutions help to address the challenges bility focus areas and topics. Those were such as social progress, economic prospermaintain a safe and healthy working enviway, and we are active on many fronts created by urbanization, demographic aligned with new KONE’s strategy, “Winity and climate change. For example today’s ronment and foster a collaborative culture, with selected organizations, in order change, the need for improved energy ning with customers”. cities take up about 2% of the world’s land where people are motivated to develop to make the best impact, says Henrik efficiency, and increased safety demands, The identified topics are ranked in mass, but account for 75% of global energy their competencies and deliver the best Ehrnrooth, President and CEO, KONE Ehrnrooth adds. regards to their impact on our value chain, consumption and 80% of manmade carbon results. We see diversity as a strength and Corporation. business implications and stakeholder interemissions. Reducing the impact urban areas prohibit discrimination of any kind. As a member of the UN Global ComUN Sustainable Development Goals est. This report is structured to correspond make on the environment is essential for a pact, KONE is committed to upholding KONE supports the Sustainable Developwith the focus areas, and the results of the more sustainable future. Enabling our partners and its ten principles, which are aimed at proment agenda and its goals. materiality analysis and prioritization are societies to prosper moting sustainability and fairness in the We have chosen the goals where presented in the chart below. Please see Providing the most sustainable offering KONE directly contributes to economic business environment. Our SustainabilKONE can make the biggest impact kone.com/sustainability for more detailed Elevators, escalators and automatic building development in the countries where we ity Report communicates our progress through its own operations, and we have information about how we identified the doors are everywhere in urban areas, and operate. In addition, we work with approxon some of the specific initiatives across mapped them to our own sustainability material topics. the safety of the millions of people who use imately 20,000 suppliers who provide us the breadth of our businesses, including focus areas. Global governance and compliance, them is our first priority. In addition, the with raw materials, components and modrisk management, stakeholder engagequality and eco-efficiency of our solutions is ules, and logistics and installation services. ment and proactive communications form critical. Quality is embedded in everything As a responsible corporate citizen and the basis of our sustainability framework. we do, as we strive to deliver the best cusbusiness partner, we are committed to These topics cut across all four focus areas, tomer and user experience. Smart and making a positive impact throughout the reflecting our continuous efforts towards eco-efficient solutions are a must in comwhole value chain. effective global enforcement and transparbatting climate change and for sustainable ency in our communications. and smart urban developments. BE A LEADER IN SUSTAINABILITY DRIVING INNOVATION AND IMPROVING RESOURCE PROVIDING THE MOST SUSTAINABLE OFFERING BEING THE BEST EMPLOYER AND ATTRACTING TALENT ENABLING OUR PARTNERS AND SOCIETIES TO PROSPER EFFICIENCY • Customer satisfaction • Competence development • Generating long-term returns • Deep understanding of customer needs • Product and service quality • Fair employment practices • Creating wealth via taxes and employment • Sustainable innovations and business models • End user safety and accessibility • Motivated and engaged employees • Ethical business practices • Resource efficiency • Energy efficiency of solutions and life cycle thinking • Diversity and non-discrimination • Long-term relationships with our suppliers • Low-carbon operations • Employee safety and well-being • Supporting local communities Global governance & compliance Risk management Stakeholder engagement Proactive communications Sustainable social, environmental and economic performance 14 15 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency DRIVING INNOVATION INNOVATION FOCUS AREAS In the past, KONE’s business has been in more than 60 countries. In addition to these daily interactions, we systematically elevator maintenance offering designed to meet individual customer needs, and KONE AND IMPROVING driven by advances in mechanical engicollect customer feedback from the differ24/7 Connected Services, which bring neering. Innovation in today’s world is ent phases of the customer relationship. more intelligent services to elevators and much more. It involves customer-centricWe also make use of opportunities preescalators. KONE Care™, which can be fully RESOURCE EFFICIENCY ity, co-creation, partnering, new collaborative innovation methods, and new, faster sented by the market such as the demands of ever-higher buildings and their growcustomized to meet the individual needs of our customers, brings new levels of flexibilprocesses enabled by new integrated teching populations, as well as ideas generated ity to elevator maintenance. KONE’s 24/7 nologies and connectivity. It also means through our own innovation processes. Connected Services uses the IBM Watson At KONE, innovations in urban development setting new standards for customer service. KONE also gathers and analyzes market Internet of Things (IoT) Platform to bring At KONE, we have mapped our innoand customer trends in different parts of new added value to customers and enables have an important role in tackling issues such vation focus areas in line with universal the world. elevator data to be monitored and analyzed as social progress, economic prosperity and needs for sustainable and smart urban to improve equipment performance. Both climate change. For example today’s cities development: affordable, accessible verCollaborative approach the new KONE Care™ service offering and tical housing; safe, reliable, efficient infraWe take a collaborative approach to 24/7 Connected Services were made comtake up about 2% of the world’s land mass, but structure; improving living standards and innovation. By doing so, and by encourmercially available during 2017 with the account for 75% of global energy consumption convenience; eco-efficiency and sustainaaging new ideas from outside as well as roll-out continuing throughout 2018. bility; growing building intelligence, and from inside KONE, we develop new skills, The next generation of the inclined and 80% of manmade carbon emissions. well-being and happiness are all trends we identify existing and new challenges and KONE TravelMaster™ autowalk was Reducing the impact urban areas make on the take into account. Read more in the table solutions, as well as pilot and commerciallaunched, providing easy and safe access environment is essential for a more sustainable below. ize new products and services at a faster for environments with demanding people pace. We work closely with our customflow needs. In India, KONE launched a future. Continuous search for new ideas ers, partners, universities, and research small-machine-room, gearless elevator KONE has made systematic, long-term centers to create value to our customers KONE Neo™ for the residential segment. investments into its research and developand end-users. In 2017, KONE organized In March 2017, KONE unveiled its ment (R&D) capabilities. Today we have globally over 400 customer co-creation renewed high-rise elevator testing facility eight global R&D competence centers sessions, 8 hackathons, and a mechathon in Tytyri, Finland. The test lab reaches a which are located in Finland, China, Italy, – a hackathon for mechanical engineers – depth of 350 meters and hosts the world’s SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS RELATED TO THIS FOCUS AREA India, the United States, Mexico, Germany, and sponsored and participated in several tallest elevator test shaft. and the Netherlands, with over 1,100 dedhackathons arranged by partners. During the second quarter of 2017, icated technology professionals working Throughout the entire R&D process, KONE CombiSpace™, a new full replacefor R&D. eco-efficiency, safety and quality are of ment elevator solution, was launched for Our R&D process is about a continuous utmost importance. the residential and small-scale commercial search for new ideas and opportunities. Our segment in Europe and the Middle East. starting point encompasses a wide variety of Highlights from 2017 Updates were made to KONE EcoSpace™, sources, the most important ones being our In 2017, we continued to develop our an elevator for low-rise residential buildG4 INDICATORS RELATED TO THIS SECTION customers, equipment users, and the data offering, launching both a number of new ings, in the EMEA region enabling it to we gather from the equipment we service. solutions as well as enhancements to existbe used as a full replacement solution. In G4 EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Over half of KONE’s 55,000 employees ing ones. During the first quarter of 2017, North America, enhancements were made G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption are in the field every day serving customers KONE launched KONE Care™, a unique to the KONE MonoSpace® 500 elevator G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN15: Direct GHG emissions Needs for sustainable and smart living G4-EN16: Indirect GHG emissions G4-EN17: Other indirect GHG emissions • Providing innovative, affordable vertical housing to facilitate better living for aging populations as well as the changing needs of inhabitants. G4-EN18: GHG emissions intensity • Maintaining safe and reliable infrastructure. As populations grow, the design of infrastructure needs to be modernized and G4-EN19: Reduction of GHG emissions made more efficient. G4-EN23: Total waste by type and disposal method • Improving living standards and convenience, especially as the global middle classes increase their income and develop inG4-EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of creased expectations. non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental • Putting more of a premium on eco-efficiency and sustainability, to reduce energy consumption, manage waste and pollution laws and regulations and use materials smartly. G4-EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transport • Smart cities are evolving, buildings and complexes are getting bigger and more complicated; so for instance, heating, cooling and utilities all need to work together. Digital technologies and connectivity can also enable better public services for citizens, better use of resources and increased comfort and reliability. The iconic Sky Tower in Auckland uses KONE UltraRope®, a • Finally, addressing the growing value placed on well-being and better living standards, as people increasingly want to live in revolutionary carbon fibre based hoisting technology. The building, at 328m high, is the tallest man-made structure in New Zealand and the harmony with their surroundings. country's most popular tourist attraction. 16 17 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency offering for low and mid-rise residential solution allows for easy sharing of buildinformation channels, and intercom systo improve energy, material, and water • reducing material use, including and commercial buildings, enabling inteing information and managing access tems via an easy-to-use smartphone appliefficiency. KONE Code of Conduct, the packaging and waste LONG-TERM ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS gration with KONE’s People Flow solutions. rights from anywhere. It brings new levels cation. KONE Residential Flow is being Supplier Code of Conduct, the Distribu• avoiding the use of hazardous In the third quarter of 2017, KONE of convenience for homeowners and tenpiloted and is commercially available in a tor Code of Conduct and KONE 's Global substances PRODUCTS AND SERVICES: launched a new solution for residential ants by using mobile and cloud technologrowing number of countries. Facility Policy also set out environmental • material durability, non-toxicity, and Leader in low-carbon People Flow® developments, KONE Residential Flow. The gies to connect building doors, elevators, requirements relevant to our own operarecycled content solutions for smart eco-cities tions or those of our partners. Read more • minimizing water consumption about our Facility Policy on p. 24. • ensuring that our products meet green OPERATIONS: KONE R&D aims to maximize the building requirements. Efficient low-carbon operations positive environmental impacts and minKONE’s R&D process supports innovations imize the adverse ones throughout the Environmental Excellence Read more about the eco-efficiency of our products and services on p. 30. life cycle of our solutions. This extends program 2017–2021 Market environment and megatrends from raw material extraction to end-of-life Our Environmental Excellence program for ⬃ treatment such as recycling the materials. We focus on: 2017–2021 supports the ongoing green transformation of the urban environment View the KONE Environmental Collaborative innovation: customer co-creation and partnering • reducing energy consumption into smart eco-cities, low-carbon commuExcellence 2017–2021 video at • developing new smart technologies nities, and net zero energy buildings. for green buildings kone.com/sustainability Creation of Concept Research new products creation and services Environmental Excellence program 2017–2021 Eco-efficiency Safety Quality Key initiative Achievements in 2017 Target 2017–2021 Solutions The best possible A+++ energy efficiency classification according to the ISO 25745-3 Further reduction Our solutions are energy efficiency standard received for the KONE TravelMaster™ 115 inclined autowalk. in energy highly eco-efficient consumption Externally verified Environmental Product Declaration according to the new Product and contribute to Category Rules for KONE MonoSpace® 500 published as the first elevator company in green building ratings. Europe. Green Certification by the Singapore Green Building Council (SGBC) for the KONE RESOURCE EFFICIENCY N MonoSpace® and KONE N MiniSpace™ elevators renewed and a new Green KONE aims to be a leader in sustainability Certification for the KONE TravelMaster™ 110 escalator achieved. TAKING SERVICES TO THE NEXT LEVEL and we strive for continuous improvement KONE solutions delivered to LEED, BREEAM and other certified green buildings globally. in all our business activities. Increasing resource efficiency is among our top priKONE has increased investments in data from sensors on KONE’s installed orities and we always work to do things in new technologies and has broadened equipment. The data is displayed, smarter ways. We give importance to our Operations In 2017, KONE’s relative carbon footprint decreased by 0.2% with sales growth 3% annual its digital capabilities. Our latest prodmonitored and analyzed in real time, natural resource use throughout the whole We do business by calculated at comparable exchange rates. The carbon footprint of scope 1 and scope reduction of CO2 developing resource 2 greenhouse gas emissions relative to net sales decreased by 2.6%. KONE’s carbon relative to net sales uct and service launches underline the improving equipment performance, value chain as this offers significant ecoefficiency and minimizing footprint data is externally assured. importance of upgradable and adaptreliability and safety. By boosting effinomic opportunities, brings down costs carbon footprint of our able solutions which make buildings ciency, the equipment’s life cycle is and boosts productivity. Resource efficiency operations and services. and urban environments more responextended, which translates into less of is very important to our customers, whether sive to people and their surroundings. a drain on resources. This also means it is savings in materials, emissions, or time. less equipment downtime, fewer faults It is essential that we create extra value for Enabling sustainable cities and the availability of more detailed our customers by resource efficiency. One such innovation is KONE’s 24/7 information on maintenance work. Culture KONE was recognized among the top climate change performers by CDP both in their CDP Leadership Connected Services, which is revoluKONE’s environmental policy We build eco-culture investor and supply chain programs. We were also included in the FTSE4Good ESG ISO 14001 tionizing the way maintenance serOur environmental policy is to provide together with customers index. vices are carried out in the elevator innovative, safe, high-quality and environand suppliers. KONE New Zealand achieved carboNZero™ certification by Enviro-Mark Solutions as the and escalator industry. Built on the mentally efficient products and services. first elevator company. IBM Watson IoT platform, the 24/7 We strive for continuous improvement in KONE Austria achieved carbon neutrality for 2017–2018. Read the whole story at Connected Services system enables the all our business operations. In addition to kone.com/sustainability KONE’s corporate units, all major manufacturing units, and R&D units are ISO 14001 secure collection of vast amounts of complying with, or exceeding applicable and ISO 9001 certified. laws, rules, and regulations, we work with 20 major country organizations are ISO 14001 certified (2016: 20), and KONE’s our suppliers and customers to increase manufacturing units in the Czech Republic and Italy are ISO 50001 certified. circular economy opportunities, envi94% of strategic suppliers are ISO 14001 certified (2016: 93%). ronmental awareness and minimize our operational carbon footprint as well as 18 19 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency Showing commitment Relative operational carbon footprint trend Logistics amounts to 50% of 100% As a member of the UN Global Compact, Data assured externally KONE’s operational greenhouse of the electricity consumed at KONE’s corporate head offices and its KONE supports the Sustainable Developgas emissions ment agenda, addressing the social, ecoTarget: 3% annual reduction relative to net sales* 2015 2016 2017 manufacturing and R&D sites in Finland, Italy, and the Netherlands nomic, and environmental dimensions of is green electricity. Other KONE units that purchase green electricity sustainability. KONE also reports on its Overall operations (scope 1, 2, 3) -4.6% -4.0% -0.2% are our Austrian, Belgian, Danish, Dutch, German, Italian, Norwegian, sustainability performance annually in line Scope 1, 2 -8.7% -4.2% -2.6% with the Communication of Progress proSwedish, and Swiss country organizations. In addition, we have some cess of the UN Global Compact. KONE´s * Calculated at comparable exchange rates onsite renewable energy production in the U.S., Italy, Norway, Finland, solutions help to address the challenges and China. created by urbanization, climate change, demographic change, and increased safety 30% demands – all covered in the new UN Sustainable Development Goals. KONE has also signed the Paris Pledge of all electricity consumption at KONE facilities is green electricity Logistics 50% for Action climate initiative, showing climate leadership and commitment to limVehicle fleet 30% produced from renewable sources. Electricity and district heat 11% iting global warming to under 2 degrees Business air travel 5% 225 Celsius in accordance with the Paris CliDISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION mate Agreement. In 2017 KONE signed Heating fuels and cooling gases 3% the #BeatPollution pledge of the UN Waste 1% hybrid cars on the road in the United States. Environment Assembly, aiming towards a pollution-free planet. In addition, a record number of KONE units from over 30 countries participated in WWF’s Earth Hour worldwide. During the year KONE also participated, together with other leading companies, in a project where a new methodology for measuring the carbon LOW-CARBON OPERATIONS mainly because of an increased logistics As positive developments we can see some is the increase of kilometers driven, which During the second half of 2017 KONE also handprint of a company’s solutions is KONE’s operational environmental work carbon footprint. emission reductions in North America and in turn results from an increased number issued strict travel restrictions, which are being developed. Results from the project focuses on resource efficiency and reducIndia. of elevators, escalators and automatic reflected in the significant reductions of are expected during 2018. ing our carbon footprint. Logistics KONE’s logistics operations are based building doors under KONE maintenance our 2017 greenhouse gas emissions from We work together with our suppliers Our logistics operations cover the transon accurate and timely information at all contracts. business air travel. KONE a top climate change and customers to minimize greenhouse portation of products from KONE’s manphases of the delivery chain, and on using We continuously search for new and performer in CDP 2017 gas emissions and other adverse environufacturing units to our customers and distribution models that take eco-efficiency innovative ways to reduce the carbon footElectricity In 2017 KONE was recognized for its mental impacts. We consider the following the transportation of modules delivered into account. KONE has strict requireprint of our vehicle fleet. We have been furKONE is committed to reducing elecactions and strategies in response to cliour most significant environmental risks: straight from our suppliers to our distribuments concerning the eco-efficiency of its ther exploring the use of alternative fuels tricity consumption in its operations and mate change. We received a leadership • Controlling the usage of hazardous tion centers and onward to customers. In service providers’ operations. KONE’s bigand planning for the long-term (2030) has set a long-term target to increase score of Aon climate action and were substances in the supply chain 2017 we delivered over 3.4 million packgest logistics service providers have ambirestructuring of our vehicle fleet compothe share of green electricity to more in the top category for advancing envi• Measuring the environmental impact ages to new installation sites, and around tious environmental programs, and KONE sition. Our aim is to shift from fuel cars than 50% by 2021. Electricity is used in ronmental stewardship. The score ranges of our solutions during their life-cycle. 1.4 million packages of spare parts to as a customer enjoys the achievements of to electric vehicles in our fleet as soon as KONE’s offices, warehouses, and manufrom A to D and is based on independent existing customer sites. 3.4 million packthese programs. Read a case story on how the leasing contract renewal periods allow facturing facilities. The reported electricassessment against the scoring criteria of Environmental risks are managed by conages amount to a weight of 1,370 million we work with DHL on p. 42. and the needed infrastructure is in place in ity/district heat emissions 34,100 tCO2e CDP, an international not-for-profit organducting internal and external audits and by kilograms, or 3.3 million cubic meters in those countries where we operate. (2016: 34,100) take into account our ization that drives sustainable economies. regularly tracking compliance requirements volume. Vehicle fleet usage of green electricity produced using In addition to the recognition in CDP’s Cliand our environmental per­formance. The biggest contributors to the The total size of KONE’s fleet during 2017 Business air travel renewable sources (market-based calculamate Change program, KONE received a increased logistics carbon footprint in was around 16,900, out of which 15,900 In order to reduce the need for travel tion method). Without the use of green place on CDP’s Supplier Climate A List for Reducing our carbon footprint 2017 are: (94%) were in the scope of KONE’s enviand to facilitate global virtual collaboraelectricity (location-based method), our the second year running in 2017. KONE is KONE’s overall carbon footprint relative • Ocean freight increase due to longer ronmental reporting globally. Service vehition, KONE continues to invest in better electricity/district heat carbon footprint proud to have reported in CDP since 2009 to net sales decreased by 0.2% compared distances to sites and an increased cles made up in total two thirds of the fleet online meeting solutions and video conwould have amounted to 38,200 tCO2e and to continuously be listed among the to 2016, with sales growth calculated at weight per delivered elevator/escalator while benefit cars accounted for the rest. ferencing equipment. In addition, KONE (2016: 39,700). top performers. We have received a leadercomparable exchange rates. The carbon • Increased air and courier freight from The reporting scope, covering 26 councarefully considers the need for travel in ship score in the Climate Change program footprint of Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas the supply; one of KONE's suppliers tries, was extended during the year by the first place, and in the second place for four consecutive years. KONE is one of emissions relative to net sales decreased had delivery issues in 2017 with the adding Greece, Hong Kong, the Philiprecommends optimizing the locations of more than 1,800 companies selected by by 2.6%. situation improving during the year pines, Russia as well as some employee meetings and conferences. In 2017 virCDP to form a sample group that is now Logistics amounts to 50% of KONE’s • Increased road freight emissions in benefit cars from our Italian manufacturing tual meeting time increased by 5% combeing used as a baseline for tracking prooperational greenhouse gas emissions. In China due to longer distances to cusunit to the scope (impact altogether 1,900 pared to 2016. This has been achieved gress in greenhouse gas reductions in line 2017, we were not able to meet the 3% tomer sites and changes in our matetCO2e). The main reason for the increased by encouraging KONE personnel to use with the Paris Agreement. annual carbon footprint decrease target rial supplier base. carbon footprint related to the vehicle fleet online meeting tools instead of travel. 20 21 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency Absolute operational carbon footprint per category, tCO2e How KONE reduces the environmental impacts of logistics Data assured externally Development action Impact on eco-efficiency Optimized use of transportation networks. Optimal routing of material through distribution center network +4.0% 350,000 -0.3% and selection of suppliers located close to distribution centers. 300,000 Waterway and railway transportation prioritized over air freight. Less CO2 emissions per tonne-kilometer. Improved space utilization ratio in loading. Better load planning of outbound trucks and containers resulting 250,000 in improved container space utilization, optimization of transpor+8.4% tation units used and more products delivered per shipment. 200,000 -0.5% Centralized volumes to main suppliers, convenient location of suppliFewer transportation routes and improved transportation 150,000 +2.2% ers close to distribution centers. efficiency ratio. +2.1% Use of more eco-efficient transportation equipment. Truck equipment selection from eco-efficiency perspective. 100,000 +3.3% +18.2% Requirement for Euro 4 trucks for European logistics service -15.7% +1.0% -6.6% 0.0% -14.0% providers (European emission standard for vehicles). 50,000 0.0% Improved logistics reporting. Continuous development of reporting methods and tools in 0 collaboration with logistics service providers for optimal use of Vehicle fleet Heating fuels and Electricity and Logistics Business air travel Waste* Total logistics data. cooling gases district heat 2015 2016 2017 % (change) *Increased waste emissions in 2017 largely due to improved data collection. How KONE reduces packaging-related emissions and waste Development action Impact on eco-efficiency Optimized packaging to better fit into logistics chain. More products delivered per transportation unit. Relative operational carbon footprint Optimized use of packaging materials. Less packaging material used, more effective waste management, increased recyclability of materials. Data assured externally Management and development of suppliers’ packaging. Less packaging material used, more effective waste management, improved logistics efficiency. Vehicle fleet (Scope 1) Electricity (Scope 2) Business air travel (Scope 3) Logistics (Scope 3) How KONE reduces the environmental impact of its vehicle fleet Development action Impact on eco-efficiency Compliance with KONE Defines maximum CO2 emission limits and encourages employees to select vehicles with lower CO2 emissions +6.3% vehicle fleet policy. for benefit cars. 1,200 -1.1% Selecting fuel-efficient Fuel-efficiency and compactness are the main criteria when renewing our passenger and commercial vehicles. 1,050 vehicles. KONE cooperates with suppliers who comply with the Euro 6 emission standard for light passenger and com1,087 1,034 1,023 mercial vehicles. 900 -10.9% -5.4% 750 The vehicle rightsizing program continued in 2017. KONE has continuously paid attention to selecting correctly -1.4% sized commercial vans when replacing existing models. The proportion of compact and medium-sized vans in 600 734 the global fleet continues to grow. 654 619 -18.7% 450 Introduction of electric To reduce CO2 emissions in the long term, piloting full electric vehicles continued in Norway, France, the UK, 300 vehicles. and piloting hybrid electric vehicles continued in the United States and the Netherlands. In the US, KONE +1.9% 362 357 currently has 225 (2016: 145) hybrid sedans on the road, where in the Netherlands we have around 15 (2016: 0.0% 150 290 15) hybrid vehicles. 0 71.4 71.4 72.8 Driving performance. KONE monitors the driving performance, such as fuel efficiency and driving behavior, of its service drivers in several European countries and the US. Telematics systems are also in use in the UK and Sweden to increase kgCO2e / unit in service kgCO2e / headcount kgCO2e / headcount kgCO2e / delivered unit driver safety and fuel efficiency. KONE also encourages vehicle sharing. Remote monitoring and mobile tools for technicians reduce the need for site visits. 2015 2016 2017 % (change) 22 23 Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Driving innovation and improving resource efficiency Waste optimization in the Environmental impacts of KONE's operations 40% our aim is to improve our water data colmanufacturing chain lection capabilities together with our supCarbon footprint, energy consumption and waste data for all KONE and water consumption at KONE's manufacturing units KONE’s long-term target (2030) for waste pliers by extending the data collection to assured by Mitopro Oy. management is 0% landfill waste at our our supply chain. of global CO2 emissions come Carbon footprint of KONE’s operations, tCO2e 2015 2016 2017 manufacturing units. from electricity consumption. Direct energy (scope 1) Vehicle fleet 88,500 92,000 95,900 We aim to reduce the waste generImproving the eco-efficiency of our ated by our manufacturing processes and facilities Corporations are responsible Heating fuels 10,400* 9,400* 9,500 offices by: KONE has over 1,000 facilities globally, for 50% of that.* Cooling gases 1,100* 300* 300 • Optimizing manufacturing material including office spaces and installation Indirect energy (scope 2) Electricity consumption and district heat, market-based 36,500* 34,100* 34,100 use by effective use of robotics and and service operation hubs. Our facilities *Source: World Resources Institute (WRI) (location-based 2017: 38,200 tCO2e) automation account for approximately 15% of our Other relevant Logistics 149,500* 148,700* 161,200 • Reusing for example packaging operational carbon footprint. indirect (scope 3) 0% materials We have a Global Facility Policy, which Business air travel 18,000 18,600 16,000 • Recycling waste wherever possible. aims at a harmonized approach in the Waste 2,200* 2,200* 2,600 selection and management of our faciliWaste is always handled according to ties, developing fit-for-purpose facilities landfill waste at our Total 306,200* 305,300* 319,600 applicable laws and regulations, and we and eco-efficient operations, and providmanufacturing units in China, aim to exceed legal requirements. 99.2% ing a safe and secure work environment of the waste generated by KONE’s 13 manfor KONE employees. the Czech Republic, Finland, Italy, Energy consumption, MWh 2015 2016 2017 ufacturing units in our environmental data According to the policy, our target is to Mexico, and the Netherlands. In Direct Heating and vehicle fleet fuels 399,500* 409,300* 424,600 collection scope was recycled or incinerreduce our facility-related carbon footprint (heating oil, natural gas, petrol, diesel, biodiesel) ated in 2017. Only 0.8% (2016: 9.7%) was by 15% by 2022 (base year 2017). Exam2017 the landfill waste from our Indirect Green electricity 15,500* 21,500* 20,500 landfilled. ples of ways to achieve this target are: manufacturing was reduced to Other than green electricity 56,400* 49,500* 49,000 • Improving space efficiency Material management • Optimizing energy usage in heat120 tonnes in total (2016: 1,300 District heat 13,100* 14,700* 12,500 In 2017, KONE used 737,200 tonnes ing, ventilating, air conditioning and tonnes). Total 484,500* 495,000* 506,600 (2016: 701,200) of materials for producing lighting systems by using proximity and packaging its elevators, escalators, and sensors, LED lighting, power-saving Waste, tonnes 2015 2016 2017 building doors. The figures have been calpractices for IT and office equipment culated based on life cycle assessment data. • Increasing the share of green electricity Recycled waste 16,300* 24,300* 33,700 We aim to continuously improve our data to a minimum of 50% (onsite producIncinerated waste 2,200 2,800* 4,000 collection capabilities together with our tion or purchased renewable energy) In 2017 water consumption at Landfill waste 3,000 1,900* 1,900 suppliers in order to provide transparent • Setting up onsite renewable energy our manufacturing units was Hazardous waste 800 1000* 1,000 and reliable information about the mateproduction at manufacturing units rial content and environmental impacts of • Improving material efficiency (manuadded to the assurance scope Total 22,300* 30,000* 40,600 our products to our customers. Read more facturing/warehousing/office activities) of KONE’s environmental data. about our product material use on p. 32. • Reducing waste and improving reuse Water consumption, m3 2015 2016 2017 and recycling Municipal water 373,000 327,000 393,000 Water consumption • Preferring eco-efficient service Ground water 13,000 10,000 10,000 Water consumption in KONE’s production suppliers. and maintenance processes is minimal, Total 386,000* 337,000* 403,000 and we aim to further optimize our usage In addition, new KONE buildings should of water. KONE uses municipal water and be designed according to LEED, BREEAM Wastewater effluents from manufacturing units, tonnes 2015 2016 2017 wastewater is released into municipal or other green rating systems. Green 17 13* 9 treatment systems that abide by local regbuildings should be favored when reloulations. As with material management, cating KONE facilities to existing buildings. * Restated due to improved data accuracy or changes in calculation methodology. 24 25 Providing the most sustainable offering KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Providing the most sustainable offering PROVIDING THE MOST SUSTAINABLE OFFERING QUALITY AT KONE Quality is an integral part of KONE’s they qualify to be released to production. This process is applied to all prodThe services also enable vast amounts of data from elevator sensors to be moniculture and embedded into all our proucts from electrification and mechanics tored, analyzed and displayed in real-time, cesses. We work continuously to improve to software. improving equipment performance, reliaElevators, escalators and automatic building the quality of our products and services bility and safety. throughout the equipment and building Quality in manufacturing and delivery doors are everywhere, and the safety of the life cycle. We want to deliver consistent KONE continuously improves its delivery Developing quality together millions of people who use them is our first high quality to make people’s journeys chain in terms of quality, responsiveness, with our suppliers priority. In addition, the quality and ecosafe, convenient and reliable. and efficiency. KONE’s supplier development and supWe look at all our operations from In 2017, we implemented a new plier quality management function conefficiency of our solutions are critical. Quality is our customers’ point of view and this is manufacturing execution system in our tinuously strives to coach our suppliers embedded in everything we do, as we strive to also visible in our targets and key perforescalator factory in China and in our electo implement best practice quality manmance indicators for quality. Ratings show trification factory in Finland. KONE also agement methods in their factories. This deliver the best customer and user experience. that quality is among the top reasons for continued its 10X better factory program includes the implementation of process Eco-efficient solutions are a must in combatting choosing KONE as a partner. aimed to further enhance the quality of quality control points in manufacturing climate change and responsible consumption. At KONE, everyone is responsible for our in-house production and support harlines to check specific product and process the quality of their own work. We encourmonization of process control activities in characteristics that are considered critical age people to adopt a “quality starts with production lines. Read more about KONE’s to the end product’s quality. me” attitude. supply chain operations on page 40–41. When new KONE products or changes Good, solid working practices help KONE pays special attention to ensurto our products are implemented, KONE’s us deliver world-class products and sering our suppliers have excellent manufacsupplier operations project managers follow vices. If there is an issue regarding quality, turing processes and process controls in up the implementation with the suppliers’ we investigate the root causes and take place. We audit all of the main suppliers that quality and production managers. This immediate action to solve it. deliver direct materials to KONE distribution helps ensure that aspects related to prodWe support our employees so that centers or factories on a regular basis. uct and process quality are taken care of they have the skills to solve quality issues KONE’s installation process qualand KONE’s requirements are met from in the most effective way possible. We ity enables us to monitor the installation day one. When suppliers make changes give practical guidance to our employees quality at different stages of the process. to their products or processes affecting and provide them with effective and easyWe take corrective action if needed during products delivered to KONE, they need to to-use problem solving tools. Employees installation and conduct thorough quality inform KONE about these changes. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS RELATED TO THIS FOCUS AREA are actively encouraged to take part in tests to monitor the outcome. On a case-by-case basis, KONE’s supimproving product quality and processes plier quality engineers evaluate what kind of through an idea management system and Maintenance quality evidence is requested in order to check that Kaizen continuous improvement practices. KONE develops a unique maintenance the change is made in a controlled manner. plan for each piece of equipment. Each To develop our cooperation with our Positive feedback on quality technical module is maintained at approsuppliers, during 2017 we have benchAt KONE, we have a systematic way of colpriate intervals. This enhances quality and marked the automotive industry. As a result, lecting customer feedback through cusend user safety, and minimizes equipKONE will for example implement KDA G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO THIS SECTION tomer loyalty and transactional surveys. In ment downtime. Clear procedures for call audits (VDA6.3), the German automotive G4 EN1: Materials used by weight or volume addition, we for example also measure the handling, strong, real-time support from industry quality standard. With these audits ride comfort of our equipment, accuracy the KONE Customer Care Center and we will help our suppliers to improve for G4-EN7: reductions in energy requirements of products and services of deliveries and percentage of defect-free detailed reporting and quality control on example their project management, manuG4-EN27: Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of units. We also analyze data from different every site visit strive to guarantee quality facturing quality control, supplier manageproducts and services sources to improve our own performance in everything we do. About 50 training ment and customers claim management. G4-PR1: Percentage of significant product and service categories for and enable smooth journeys for the people hours per person per year give KONE serWe have also renewed KONE supplier audit which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement using our equipment. vice technicians the latest technical knowcontent and these new audits will be fully in Our net promoter score has developed how of the equipment they maintain. place in 2018. Another key element that will G4-PR5: Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction favorably for several years. In our annual KONE’s 24/7 Connected Services, improve our performance is the implemenG4-PR9: Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with global customer loyalty survey, we have launched in 2017, sets new standards for tation of a mistake proofing method, which laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and received continued positive feedback on customer service. Using IBM Watson IoT will help prevent and detect mistakes before services product and maintenance quality and cusplatform enables KONE elevator data to they negatively impact our customers. tomer service. be monitored and analyzed to improve During the reporting period, we also equipment performance. These cloudcreated a distribution center quality audit KONE is passionate about safety and quality. Safety is a joint effort Solution creation quality based services enable us to deliver faster, process and it was implemented in our disthat involves everyone, from technology and maintenance owners to KONE’s new solutions go through sevsmarter and more personalized support for tribution centers in China and Italy. equipment users. eral quality and reliability gates before our customers worldwide. 26 27 Providing the most sustainable offering KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Providing the most sustainable offering END USER SAFETY AND owners should, for example, inform serimproving safety through modernization Safety is an integral part of our solutions and operations ACCESSIBILITY vice providers if they identify any recogof the existing equipment. We enhance the safety of our products and services through rigorous attention to our design, manufacturing, installation, and mainMillions of people use elevators, escalators nizable hazards, such as abnormal noises Elevator modernization enhances tenance processes. Our policies, processes, and tools enable all our business activities to be organized and conducted in a structured and automatic building door equipment or debris on the equipment. safety, for example, by improving levelling and globally harmonized way. every day. The safety of those people, and Everyone who uses an elevator or escaaccuracy to prevent tripping and falling, the safety of our employees, is our first prilator needs to be conscious of their own adding electronic sensors to doors to preority. It is our strong belief that all incidents behavior by for example making sure to vent collision with persons, and providing are preventable, and we want everyone to hold the handrail and hand of any young a voice link to the service center to assist 1 R&D by using the 5S* methodology and by conWe organize activities in different parts of return home safe at the end of each day. children when riding escalators, refraining passengers, in case of emergencies. Safety is embedded in the product develducting regular safety training. the world and provide training along with from blocking closing elevator doors, and As a technology provider, KONE manopment process. Potential safety hazards educational materials to our customers A proactive approach stepping away from the doors when they ufactures equipment that meets applicable affecting the products’ full life cycle are sys4 OFFICE and the general public to help equipment Safety is an integral part of our strategy are opening or closing. codes and standards, and often includes tematically identified and eliminated before KONE promotes safety awareness among users stay safe. Our safety mascots, Max and we work to develop a culture where additional safety features that exceed the products are introduced to the market. its employees through health and safety and Bob, help teach children about the people know why and how to act safely Active contribution in standard regulatory requirements. Existing products are continuously training as well as safety-related internal safe use of equipment through events, leafand actively promote safe practices. We development developed to further improve their safety communication. lets, and an animated video and games. build a strong safety mindset among our The safety requirements of elevators, Accessibility and functionality. Building managers promote and mainown employees, our partners, and the escalators, and automatic building doors As populations age, the demand for accestain safe and healthy working environ7 MODERNIZATION general public. By shifting from a reactive are largely determined by national and sible, safe and convenient People Flow® 2 SUPPLIERS ments in KONE premises. KONE develops modernization solutions to proactive safety approach, we have sucinternational safety codes and standsolutions increases. Buildings and transporKONE has defined clear quality requirefor upgrading or replacing existing equipcessfully reduced workplace and equipards. KONE is a strong contributor to tation hubs need to be designed and built ments which are continuously measured 5 INSTALLATION ment with new solutions that meet or ment user injuries. the development of codes and standards in a way that enables people with impaired and followed. (Read more about quality KONE’s processes and certified installaexceed the latest safety standards, improvthat aim to further improve equipment mobility to move around easily. With our on p. 27.) tion methods are designed to enhance the ing equipment reliability and user safety. Safety is a joint effort safety. We also promote safety through elevator solutions, we also help improve In addition, our quality professionals safety of installers and third parties whilst Products are installed by professional Safety is a joint effort that involves everyour involvement in industry trade associaaccessibility. For example, increased eleregularly audit key suppliers to monitor the enabling product quality and reliability. technicians following strict modernization one, from technology and maintenance tions around the world. Our experts have, vator cabin size improves building access safety and quality of delivered components KONE constantly improves the safety, processes. service providers to building owners and for example, been involved in the planfor people with baby strollers and those and products. quality and efficiency of its installation proequipment users. ning and development of the main safety using wheelchairs. We believe that it is our KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct cesses, for example, by using the Kaizen 8 MAINTENANCE We work closely with our customers standards such, such as EN 81-20:2014 obligation to contribute to the standardirequires all of our suppliers to protect the methodology. KONE maintains the safety of elevators, to help them recognize and deal with and EN115-1:2017 for elevators and escazation development and improving safety health and safety of their employees. We use continuous training, instalescalators, and automatic doors using presituations that could lead to safety risks. lators respectively. and accessibility for all. lation safety and method passport, site ventive maintenance methods. Building owners and maintenance service The aging of urban infrastructure sys3 PRODUCTION SITE audits, and risk-assessed methods to conWe train our maintenance technicians providers are responsible for making sure tems in cities around the world is a major KONE enhances the quality and safety trol site safety. regularly to ensure they have the required equipment is professionally maintained concern for our industry. Many counof all components used in production by competence to perform their work safely and kept in good condition. Building tries have adopted strict standards for carefully controlling raw materials and pro6 USE and provide them with mobile tools to duction processes. KONE supports customers and building have digital access to the latest up-to-date All of KONE’s major production sites are owners in promoting the safe use of eleinformation. Our supervisors continually certified to ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS vators, escalators and automatic building coach and audit technicians to assure that 18001 standards. doors. processes are followed and needed comWe make sure that all our production We actively communicate about safety petences exist. sites are safe places to work, for example, with our customers and equipment users. *5S methodology: sort, stabilize, shine, standardize, and sustain. 5 ways to improve elevator safety • Adequate lighting prevents accidents and makes people feel safer 5 • A two-way voice communication system improves safety and passengers’ peace of mind 4 • Interior doors and automatic landing doors prevent accidents and improve accessibility • Accurate stopping prevents people from stumbling on the door sill • An emergency system includes an alarm with two way phone and an emergency power supply 7 5 ways to improve accessibility 6 • By modernizing an elevator, the space inside the car can be increased by 50% 1 • Wide-opening doors make entry and exit easier for passengers using a wheelchair or pushing a stroller 2 3 8 • Accessories such as handrails and mirrors provide support and help to improve visibility • Braille signalization and audio announcements help people with hearing and vision impairments • An elevator can be installed in a building previously without one, in the stairwell or attached to an outside wall 28 29 Providing the most sustainable offering KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Providing the most sustainable offering ENERGY EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS AND Elevators and escalators currently in technology. On the European level this Top-class energy efficiency Green Certification in Singapore A-class energy efficiency LIFE CYCLE THINKING operation are aging, especially in Europe. would amount to 11.6 TWh of saved energy. In 2014 KONE was the first company to KONE was the first elevator company to according to VDI 4707* The most significant environmental impact Equipment over 20 years is expected to achieve the best A-class energy efficiency receive the Green Certification by the Sinof KONE’s business relates to the amount increase from 2.2 million units to 3.2 by Eco-efficiency in every phase classification for as many as eight volume gapore Green Building Council (SGBC) of electricity used by KONE’s solutions during their lifetime. 2020, representing 60% of the European equipment base (Source: European Lift of a building’s life cycle We provide services that help our customelevator installations according to the new international standard ISO 25745 for its KONE N MiniSpace™ and KONE N MonoSpace® elevators in 2013. In 2017, A KONE is a pioneer in developing Association ELA). Elevator modernization can ers achieve their eco-efficiency goals in Energy performance of lifts, escalators we renewed our SGBC Green Certification eco-efficient solutions in the elevator bring vast energy savings. According to the every phase of their buildings’ life cycle – and moving walks. Currently altogether for the KONE N MonoSpace® and KONE KONE EcoSpace® and escalator industry. The KONE MonoEnergy Efficiency of Elevators and Escalators from designing and constructing buildings 11 of our elevator models have received N MiniSpace™ elevators and received a KONE MonoSpace® 500 Space®500, our current machine-room(E4) study supported by the European Comto maintaining and modernizing them. We the best A-class classification. In 2017, new one for the KONE TravelMaster™ KONE MonoSpace® 700 less volume elevator, is up to 90% more mission, energy savings of up to 63% can be pay careful attention to the way our sera KONE TravelMaster™ 115 inclined 110 escalator. Through the SGBC Green KONE N MonoSpace® energy efficient than KONE’s elevators achieved by modernizing elevators installed vices are produced and delivered to ensure autowalk installation received the best Certification, these products are recomKONE S MonoSpace® from the 1990s. in 1985 or earlier with the best available that they are environmentally efficient. A+++ classification for escalators and mended for Green Mark certified green KONE E MiniSpace™ autowalks, in addition to KONE Travelbuildings. Green Mark is a green building Master™ 110 and KONE TransitMaster™ certification scheme of the Singaporean KONE N MiniSpace™ 140 which have received the A+++ clasBuilding and Construction Authority, proKONE S MiniSpace™ Eco-efficiency in every phase of a building’s life cycle sification earlier. moting sustainability in the construction KONE MiniSpace™ Our revolutionary KONE UltraRope® and real estate sectors. KONE Double Deck 1. Supporting green building design 2. Eco-efficient installation high-rise hoisting technology cuts the Calculating our products’ energy use Considering the environment when installenergy consumption of a 500-meter ele*VDI 4707 is a guideline published by and enabling green building construcing new equipment. Our well-planned and vator ride by 15%. For higher buildings, the Association of German Engineers tion. We publish the environmental efficient installation processes minimize the the energy saving is even bigger. (Verein Deutscher Ingenieure), which impact of KONE products and conadverse environmental impacts of installaclassifies elevators based on their energy tribute to developing global energy tion work and our systems ensure we reduce consumption. management standards. our chemical use and handle waste efficiently on site. Best-in-class energy efficiency according to ISO 25745 Up to 70% energy savings 3% annual carbon footprint Elevator Building Load Speed Energy efficiency class type (kg) (m/s) (A to G) by modernizing an elevator reduction target relative to net sales KONE EcoSpace® Office 630 0.63 A KONE MonoSpace® 500 Residential 630 1.0 A 4. Eco-efficiency through modernization 3. Efficient maintenance processes KONE E MonoSpace® Residential 1,000 1.75 A Applying a range of solutions to make the Using smart technologies and a green vehiKONE Z MiniSpace™ Residential 1,000 2.0 A biggest difference with the lowest possible cle fleet to minimize emissions and maxienvironmental impact. Our modernization mize efficiency. Remote monitoring solutions A KONE E MiniSpace™ Residential 1,000 2.0 solutions range from retrofitting LED lights reduce unnecessary technician callouts. By to a completely new elevator with enercarrying optimized spare part stocks in our A KONE S MiniSpace™ Residential 1,000 2.0 gy-regeneration technology. vehicles we reduce warehouse visits, further decreasing emissions. KONE N MiniSpace™ Hotel 1,000 2.5 A KONE MiniSpace™ Office 1,000 2.5 A A KONE's current volume elevator is up to 90% more energy efficient than in the 90s KONE N MonoSpace® Retail 1,150 1.75 Annual energy consumption (kWh/year) KONE S MonoSpace® Office 1,150 2.5 A KONE MiniSpace™ Hotel 1,200 4.0 A 8,000 Calculation is based on: Speed: 1 m/s, KONE MiniSpace™ Observation tower 2,500 5.0 A 7,000 load: 630 kg. Since 2008 also: 150,000 6,000 starts per year, travel height 9 m, 4 floors 5,000 Due to historical reasons, the data for Escalator Building Rise Step width Speed Energy efficiency class 4,000 starts, travel height and floors is not availtype (m) Inclination° (mm) (m/s) (A+++ to E) 3,000 able for the 1990s elevators. KONE TravelMaster™ 110 Retail 5.0 30 1,000 0.5 A+++ 2,000 KONE TravelMaster™115 Retail 5.0 12 1000 0.5 A +++ 1,000 0 KONE TransitMaster™ 140 Public transportation 5.0 30 1,000 0.65 A+++ 90s KONE 1996 KONE 2008 KONE Current KONE elevators MonoSpace MonoSpace MonoSpace® 500 30 31 Providing the most sustainable offering KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Providing the most sustainable offering New Environmental Product The environmental impact* of KONE New KONE MonoSpace® How one of our volume elevators, KONE MonoSpace® 500 saves energy Declarations MonoSpace® 500 elevator 500 Environmental Product KONE’s environmental responsibility covers the full life cycle of its products from Declarations are externally 1 KONE EcoDisc® hoisting machinery is highly efficient and 1 design and manufacturing to installation, verified and published at reduces the energy consumption of the elevator. maintenance, modernization, and end-oflife treatment. environdec.com. Eco-efficient regenerative drive enables energy to be reused 2 within the building and cuts energy consumption up to 35%. In 2017, as the first elevator company 2 in Europe, KONE published new Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) for the Long-lasting LED lighting lasts 10 times longer and is 80% KONE MonoSpace® 500 elevator accord3 more efficient than halogen lighting. ing to the new elevator Product Category Rules (PCR). PCR defines common require3 More advanced standby solutions power down the equipment ments for all elevator manufacturers pub4 4 when not used and provide substantial energy savings, Materials manufacturing 55% lishing EPDs, promotes transparency and especially in residential buildings with low or medium traffic. Energy consumption 30% allows customers to easily compare the environmental impacts of different manTransport from manufacturing to building site 6% ufacturers’ products. KONE is an active In-house manufacturing 3% member of the European Lift Association (ELA) working group that published the Maintenance 2% elevator PCR in 2015. Installation 2% Transport to manufacturing site 1% Waste processing 1% Outsourced manufacturing 0% *Global warming potential i.e. carbon CATERING TO THE INCREASING POPULATIONS OF URBAN AREAS footprint Cities around the world are witnessAn excellent example is China while recovering up to 30% of the ing a boom in the construction of new Plaza 66, which KONE helped to refurenergy consumed. buildings and public infrastructure to bish. Completed in 2001, the buildThe modernization of China Plaza create living spaces for the increasing ing complex is one of the most iconic 66 had immediate and tangible results. Environmental impacts of KONE's products population. The demand, however, properties in Shanghai. However, the It helped reduce operational costs, often outstrips the supply. passage of time was taking its toll and increased rental value for the owners Carbon footprint of KONE’s products tCO2e* 2015 2016 2017 We cannot look at only new some of the facilities of the property and enhanced user safety and comfort. Production of materials for products (calculated) 2,320,000 2,364,000 3,041,000 buildings for all the new people in the appeared dated. This is what led its Why tear down a building that has cities. There are many older buildings developers to decide to modernize years of life left in it? Like with China Lifetime energy consumption of products ordered from KONE during the reporting year (calculated) 5,017,000 5,034,000 4,624,000 that have years of life left in them. the property and turn to KONE for a Plaza 66, we certainly have the ability If they are modernized to use fewer solution. to increase the efficiency of a building *2017 figures not fully comparable with previous years due to emission factor revision and other changes in calculation methodology. resources, become more efficient and KONE used its proprietary techand make it use fewer resources and 2015 excluding automatic building doors. integrate more seamlessly with their nologies to address challenges like create less of a negative impact on its environments, then they can go a increasing energy efficiency and environment, concludes Uusitalo. Materials used, tonnes Materials 2015 2016 2017 long way in catering to the increasimproving people flow. For instance, ing populations of urban areas, says KONE’s ReGenerate800 solution proManufacturing (calculated) Metals (steel, aluminum, copper) 622,900 604,100 612,500 Read the whole story at Hanna Uusitalo, environmental direcvided greater reliability and safety as Electronics 29,500 29,400 33,600 kone.com/sustainability tor at KONE. compared with the older elevators, Miscellaneous 3,200 2,900 10,300 Plastics 4,100 3,900 4,800 Glass 4,800 5,500 4,800 Rubber 700 700 700 Packaging (calculated) Wood 38,000 37,100 51,800 Plywood 16,000 14,800 14,300 Plastics 1,200 1,100 1,300 Cartonboard 800 700 1,500 Miscellaneous 500 400 700 Office consumables (actual data) Paper 800 600 900 Total 722,500 701,200 737,200 Calculations are based on Life Cycle Assessment data and products ordered from KONE. 2015 excluding building doors. 32 33 Being the best employer and attr acting talent KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Being the best employer and attr acting talent BEING THE BEST CONTINUOUS LEARNING KONE’s new strategy, Winning with cusperspective, agility, leading change as well as talent and diversity building. The KONE International Trainee Program offers students and graduates opporEMPLOYER AND tomers, focuses on putting the needs of tunities to work on projects at different our customers and users at the center Professional growth KONE units around the world. KONE also of all development at KONE. People are At KONE, we strive to have the best possioffers various summer traineeships and ATTRACTING TALENT key to the new strategy’s success, which requires us to develop and obtain new ble professionals with the right competencies in each position. We facilitate this effort thesis opportunities in several countries. competences in the fields of digitalizathrough regular performance discussions FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES tion, partnering, understanding custombetween individual employees and their At KONE, creating a great place to work ers’ businesses and project management. managers, which take place at least twice a means treating every employee fairly and One of our strategic targets is to make KONE KONE supports its employees in develyear. In 2017, over 99% of eligible staff and providing a safe working environment. oping their competencies with over 3,900 over 92% of eligible operatives reported in a great place to work. Our personnel strategy training programs and online modules. the tool having taken part in performance Clear rewards aims to ensure the availability, engagement, Over 6,500 employees had the chance and development discussions. Our total reward framework consists of motivation and continuous development of to try out new learning methods such as In addition to using these discussions easy-to-understand policies, guidelines, virtual reality, gamification and mobile to set goals and review job content, KONE and practices that are aligned with our our employees. We strive to maintain a safe toolbox talks. managers are advised to discuss employee business strategy and development proand healthy working environment and foster KONE’s global learning management well-being, as well as career development grams. We invest significantly in a range system, konelearning.com makes trainand growth opportunities. of monetary and non-monetary rewards a collaborative culture, where people are ing options more visible and simplifies We actively encourage all employees offered to employees. This framework motivated to develop their competencies and the management of certifications, trainto prepare individual development plans, focuses on pay for performance and our deliver the best results. We see diversity as a ing requirements, and personnel developand in 2017, we achieved a level of 92% of aim is to make it transparent and to comment. Mobile learning is in active use in eligible employees with their development municate about it clearly. While reward strength and prohibit discrimination of any kind. several countries. plans in place. policies are consistent across KONE, the Job rotation is an important way for practices are flexible to meet local needs. KONE employees to develop their skills Attracting talent The compensation and other benefits and knowledge. It also helps boost collabKONE’s apprentice programs in key counof the Board of Directors, President and oration. Visit-a-job is our concept to drive tries are a good way for us to recruit new CEO, and the Executive Board are disclosed short-term job rotation across units and professionals. We also collaborate actively in KONE’s Annual Review 2017 (p. 58–59). countries. with educational institutions. Employee agreements are managed on We continued to develop global learnIn 2017, we started a collaboration with a national level, and there are differences ing programs for all leaders at KONE, several new schools world-wide. We also in national legislations. Approximately SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS RELATED TO THIS FOCUS AREA from executives to first line managers. In continued our promoters program to pro60% of KONE’s employees are covered 2017, we introduced new learning entivide information about KONE in schools, by collective bargaining agreements. ties related to strengthening an outside-in universities, and other relevant sites. Employees, 2017 Gender distribution Men Women Total number of employees, year end 55,075 per market, 2017 Share of women in employees, % 12 EMEA 85% 15% G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO THIS SECTION Asia Pacific 90% 10% Share of women in management teams (492 persons), % 17 G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee Americas 89% 11% Share of women in the Executive Board, % 7 turnover by age group, gender and region Share of women in the Board of Directors, % 38 G4-LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Total turnover rate, %, compared to 12 month average headcount 7.6 days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Age distribution, 2017 30 and under 31–50 51 and above Employees per contract type, 2017 G4-LA10: Programs for skills management and lifelong learning All KONE employees 33% 52% 15% Employees with Permanent contract 97% G4-LA11: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Executive Board 0% 60% 40% Females with Permanent contract 97% career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Board of Directors 13% 13% 75% Males with Permanent contract 97% G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender and age group Trainings Training programs and online modules 3,900 Training centers 30 In 2017, KONE was recognized as one of the best employers in the world by business magazine Forbes. Being a great place to work has konelearning.com coverage 95% of personnel been one of KONE's strategic targets for years. One of the ways in Completed online courses 226,000 in 29 different languages which KONE works towards this target is by having a strong focus on International trainee program 2,054 applications, 12 trainees representing 9 nationalities competence development and leadership competencies. 34 35 Being the best employer and attr acting talent KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Being the best employer and attr acting talent European Employee Forum Personnel by country Dec. 31, 2017 Average workforce tenure in years The root causes of incidents are idenKONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct socially healthy. In the context of work and KONE organizes the European Employee 10 largest countries (2016 figures in brackets) (2016 figures in brackets) tified and corrective actions are implerequires all our suppliers, including subcareer, it is about leading a balanced life. Forum every year to bring together mented to prevent the incident or contractors, to protect the health and KONE’s “Elevate your health” program employee representatives and top manChina 16,505 (14,892) near-miss from being repeated. safety of their employees. is in place in all our units. It covers topics China 4.4 (3.6) agement to discuss issues ranging from Lessons learned from incidents and ranging from taking care of joints and mussafety to business development. A smaller United States 5,325 (5,197) United States 7.6 (6.9) near misses are shared in quarterly safety Well-being cles to weight loss initiatives, the importance working group meets two to four times India 4,514 (4,287) India 5.9 (5.3) network meetings. In addition, safety KONE has a global framework and program of sleep and strengthening your mental a year to ensure continuous consultation managers gather monthly to discuss confor employee well-being. For us, employee well-being. France 2,930 (3,007) France 12.2 (11.3) and communication on important develcerns and share best practices. well-being is being physically, mentally and opments affecting KONE employees. Finland 2,345 (2,207) Finland 12.1 (11.6) In 2017, the theme of the Forum was Germany 2,093 (1,943) Germany 10.6 (11.2) digitalization and new competencies. Italy 1,925 (1,940) Italy 15.7 (13.8) Twenty-one employees from 15 European Industrial Injury Frequency Rate development among KONE employees countries participated. United Kingdom 1,889 (1,917) United Kingdom 9.4 (8.6) Australia 1,432 (1,468 ) Australia 8.7 (7.6) 8 Diversity and non-discrimination Mexico 1,027 (929) Mexico 5.3 (4.8) 7 High ethical principles guide all our activities. As an employer, KONE is committed 6 to an equal opportunity approach that places people in the positions that best 5 suit their abilities. We prohibit discrimi4 nation of any kind and do not differentiate between job applicants based on their The Pulse survey covers topics such Corrective actions are taken if deviations 3 gender, race, or other aspects of their peras employee engagement, performance are identified. 2 sonal backgrounds. enablement, sustainability, strategy and At KONE, we recognize and reward We actively encourage diversity at values, leadership, communication and safe behavior and share best practices. 1 KONE, and our values guide us in nurturinvolvement, customer relationships, and KONE trains its employees to assess the 0 ing an inclusive culture. To strengthen our growth and development opportunities. safety of their tasks and they are empowglobal approach and deepen our insights In addition, the survey examines how ered to stop work and ask for support if 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 on customers and markets, we have set respondents view their jobs, managers, they suspect a safety risk. A key safety performance indicators, KONE tracks the number of lost time injuries of one day or more In 2017, KONE was recognized as one of goals for cultural diversity in our headquarand performance reviews. KONE employees receive regular trainper million hours worked, as well as the average number of lost days per incident. the best employers in the world by business ter teams. KONE’s eleventh global employee ing on health and safety, and safety is a magazine Forbes. KONE ranked as 73rd in the In 2017 our Industrial Injury Frequency Rate (IIFR) fell to 1.9 (2016: 2.1). The IIFR covers KONE’s own During the reporting year, KONE’s survey was carried out between December key element in all our product and operemployees. The average lost days per incident improved as well to 28.9 days (2016: 32.5). Global 2000: World's Best Employers list. workforce included 129 nationalities. 2016 and January 2017. The survey results ations training. A wide variety of training were published during the first quarter of solutions are used, from classroom based Motivated and engaged employees 2017 and action plans were made in teams training and e-learning to on-the-job trainAt KONE, we believe employee engagebased on the results. ing. Toolbox talks serve to communicate ment is built on open and timely commuSome 46,000 employees provided feedshort refreshers and safety messages to nication about the company’s goals and back in the Pulse survey and we reached a field employees. ways of doing business. record high response rate of 93% (based Safety is also one of the key topics in We use multiple channels to interon the number of employees at the end communications to employees. For examBUILDING DIGITAL COMPETENCIES act with employees, motivate them, and of 2016). ple, KONE organizes a global Safety Week encourage collaboration. KONE’s global for all employees annually. The week preintranet, for example, acts as both a news EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING sents KONE employees with different At KONE, we need to continuously employees. Digitalization is making it actionable intelligence – is changchannel for all the latest news and events At KONE safety is our highest priority. This trainings, special events and activities. enrich the capabilities of our people to possible for us to develop new ways of ing the way we work at KONE. As an as well as a virtual teamwork site. means making sure each of our employees Many countries also organize events and make sure that we are able to meet and learning and build competences evenexample, soon 24/7 mobile access to The latest KONE news is also shared has the necessary competence, tools and trainings together with customers and exceed our customers’ expectations. faster. Motivating and supporting our detailed data and analytics on equipthrough internal video news broadcasts instructions to perform their work professubcontractors during the week. Technology development is speeding employees in learning new skills forms ment status will keep our equipment, and newsletters. sionally and safely. up and it holds exciting opportunia significant part of our efforts to make data and people connected. This will Safety reporting ties for companies. It provides a chalKONE a great place to work. help us predict and prevent problems Measuring workplace satisfaction Managing safety Incidents, lost days per incident, and near lenging landscape not just for senior and minimize customer downtime. The most important metric for employee Every leader is responsible for providing misses are part of each unit’s monthly leadership, but for employees as well. The impact of data on engagement at KONE is the Pulse their team with all the necessary means reporting to global functions. KONE is committed to deliver trainthe way we work employee survey that measures the level for working safely. They lead by examDuring 2017, KONE developed a ing that will meet shifting skills and The availability of all kinds of data – Read the whole story at of employees’ workplace satisfaction. The ple, coach and train, ensure accountmobile tool to report near misses and incicompetence profiles and unlock the along with the ability to organize and kone.com/sustainability survey offers our people an opportunity ability and drive safety improvements. dents. The tool is in use in 47 countries. potential in our present and future interpret large volumes of it to get to give feedback and provides insights Managers perform regular audits to Local safety personnel analyze the data into their engagement with KONE’s core measure compliance with KONE’s poliand use it to implement activities, and values. cies, rules, and defined working methods. improvements in processes and methods. 36 37 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Enabling our partners and societies to prosper ENABLING OUR GENERATING LONG-TERM RETURNS KONE continuously develops its business KONE’s strong financial performance has enabled increasing dividends to our collaborating with the Finnish Tax Authorities in promoting tax transparency since PARTNERS AND with a long-term focus. We have a chalshareholders. Also with a longer-term per2015. lenger mindset and we are constantly spective, our track record on dividend disKONE’s complete tax strategy can be developing our competitiveness in order tribution has been sustainable. KONE had found at kone.com. SOCIETIES TO PROSPER to strengthen our position as one of the global leaders in the elevator and escalaover 61,000 shareholders at the end of December 2017 (Dec. 2016: over 57,000 KONE’s income taxes globally amounted to EUR 300.1 (307.7) million tor industry. shareholders). in 2017, with the ten largest countries by sales accounting for 80% of the corporate Long-term financial targets Creating wealth via taxes and taxes. Income taxes of the Finnish KONE KONE directly contributes to economic KONE has three long-term financial targets: employment companies totalled EUR 68.4 (56.7) milGrowing faster than the market, achieving We are committed to paying all taxes that lion in 2017. development in the over 60 countries where we an EBIT margin of 16%, and improving are legally due, and to meeting all discloOur largest direct economic impacts operate. In addition, we work with approximately working capital rotation. sure requirements in the countries where come from the employment opportunities 20,000 suppliers who provide us with for We have achieved two of them: In we operate. Our objective is to ensure we provide. KONE is a global company recent years, KONE has grown faster than predictability in all tax matters. In addiwith global processes and guidelines, but example raw materials, components and the market and we have improved our tion, every transaction must have a solid our operations are at the same time very modules, and logistics and installation services. working capital rotation at the same time. business rationale without compromising local. In our subsidiaries, management and For the 16% EBIT margin, no target tax compliance principles. The location of field personnel are predominantly local. In As a responsible corporate citizen and business date has been set. With our life cycle busiKONE’s group entities is driven by business 2017, the largest KONE countries by the partner, we are committed to making a positive ness model, the short-term focus is on reasons, such as the location of customers, number of employees were China, the impact throughout the whole value chain. growing absolute EBIT while achieving suppliers, raw materials and know-how. United States and India. Read more about improved relative profitability over time We insist on transparency in all our our people on p. 34–37. with growth, further differentiation and activities, including our relationships productivity gains. with tax authorities. KONE has been Adjusted EBIT (MEUR) and adjusted Orders received (MEUR)* Sales (MEUR) EBIT margin (%) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS RELATED TO THIS FOCUS AREA 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 1,500 24 1,250 1,293 20 2017 7,554 2017 8,942 1,241 1,230 1,000 16 750 14.4% 14.7% 12 13.8% 2016 7,621 2016 8,784 500 8 250 4 2015 7,959 2015 8,647 G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO THIS SECTION 0 0 2015 2016 2017 G4 EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed *Orders received do not include maintenance contracts. Adjusted EBIT* G4-EC6: Proportion of senior management hired from the local Adjusted EBIT margin community at significant locations of operation KONE class B share dividend per share, 2005–2017 EUR * In September 2017, KONE introduced a new G4-SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and alternative performance measure, adjusted 1.80 procedures EBIT, to enhance comparability of the business 1.60 performance between reporting periods G4-SO7: Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, during the Accelerate program. Restructuring 1.40 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes costs related to the Accelerate program are 1.20 excluded from the calculation of the adjusted G4-SO8: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEBIT. monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 1.00 0.80 G4-EN32: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 0.60 KONE’s largest individual shareholder is Antti Herlin, Chairman of KONE’s Board of Directors, 0.40 G4-LA14: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using who controls over 20% of the share capital and labor practices criteria 0.20 over 60% of votes. For KONE’s domestically 0 registered major shareholders, see monthly updated list on kone.com. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 KONE has operations in over 60 countries. As a global corporate citizen, we are fully committed to the laws and regulations of the Dividend Extraordinary dividend countries where we operate. Read more about KONE's financial performance in our Annual Review 2017. 38 39 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Enabling our partners and societies to prosper KONE’s economic impacts in 2017 Stakeholders document the transformation of raw matesituation improving during the year. KONE rials to finished goods. The MES provides and the supplier worked to mitigate the Employees 2,030 (1,962) MEUR Customers Suppliers Added value information that helps understand how impact to KONE's customers. This was one = current conditions on the factory floor of the reasons contribution to the fact that 8,942 5,001 3,942 Creditors -58 (-36) MEUR can be optimized to improve production we were not able to meet the 3% annual Public sector 994 (979) MEUR output and implement production quality carbon footprint decrease target. (8,784) (4,857) (3,927) improvements. KONE also started a proMEUR MEUR MEUR Shareholders 849 (795) MEUR ject to develop its long-term product life Better quality and productivity through Economic value retained cycle management. learning 126 (226) MEUR The 10X Better Factory program conAt KONE, we employ a set of techniques 2016 figures in brackets. in the company tinued aiming to further enhance the and tools to improve the productivity and quality of our in-house production and to quality of our operations. By applying Lean Each year, KONE delivers over 3.4 million support the harmonization of process conand Six Sigma philosophies, we are able to packages from distribution centers to ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES that we expect from our suppliers. It compliance training is also provided to trol activities in production lines. reduce waste and control process variation installation sites, and around 1.4 million KONE has operations in over 60 countries covers areas such as legal compliance, ethmanagers and other target groups. For Investments in production automation, throughout the entire supply chain as well packages of spare parts from distribution and collaborates with authorized distribuical conduct, our zero tolerance for bribexample, in 2017 over 1,600 employees especially in factories in Italy, Finland, the as in product and process transitions. centers to customer sites. 3.4 million tors in over 80 countries around the world. ery and corruption, and the standards we in China, over 450 employees in India, and Czech Republic and China, continued. In the supply line the trainings during packages amount to a weight of As a global corporate citizen, we are fully require from our suppliers in terms of labor 104 employees in Sourcing received faceThe volume ramp-up of KONE’s 2017 focused especially on overall capa1,370 million kilograms, or 3.3 million committed to the laws and regulations and human rights, health and safety, and to-face compliance training. newest factory in Allen, Texas, was combility development. A large number of cubic meters in volume. of the countries where we operate. The the environment. KONE expects its suppliA selected group of employees is also pleted during 2017. First opened in 2016, employees gained new skills when they KONE Code of Conduct sets out our comers to conform to the requirements of the required to complete Competition Comthe new site enables more efficient logisreceived Kaizen training as part of Kaizen pany’s commitment to integrity, honesty, Supplier Code of Conduct in all their dealpliance online training based on their role tics operations due to reduced transporevents. and fair play. ings with KONE, as well as with their own and position in the company. They include tation distances. KONE’s project to build Each production unit completed many Top 10 supplier locations1 KONE’s global presence makes it cruemployees and suppliers, and third parmembers of KONE’s Executive Board and a second factory in India has moved to corrective actions as part of a continuous cial for us to ensure that we have clear ties including government officials. KONE employees involved, for example, in manthe construction phase which will continue improvement program with a greater compliance rules and guidance in place, may terminate its contracts with suppliers agement, sales, sourcing, and trade associduring the year 2018. focus on full chain activities. We have also • China which enable us to conduct business in an if they fail to adhere to the Code. ation related activities. Individual business In logistics, the connections between continued our Lean Capability Process • Italy ethically and socially responsible manner All our new suppliers must sign KONE’s units can nominate additional participants China and Europe have developed signifControl & Zero Defect activities by conthroughout our entire value chain. Supplier Code of Conduct. It is available when necessary. icantly. There are currently several direct ducting regular assessments and setting • Finland in over 20 languages and can be found at Dedicated compliance officers help rail connections between the two contitargets and action plans. • United States The KONE Code of Conduct kone.com/suppliers. employees comply with KONE’s Code nents, and the latest one is direct route We continued implementing and • Austria The KONE Code of Conduct (the Code) As KONE’s business partners, our disof Conduct, and our global and regional from Finland to China. This is important maintaining the 5S* method in our offices, • India is an integral part of KONE’s culture and tributors are expected to comply with the compliance committees advise and take because it allows us to minimize the usage factories, installation sites, and distribution defines our standards of ethical conduct. requirements of the Distributor Code of decisions on compliance matters, includof air freight and we have already achieved centers. Furthermore, we have developed • Czech Republic The Code addresses what is expected of Conduct in all their dealings with KONE, as ing investigations into allegations of significant results in this regard in 2017. a Lean manual and a management model • Estonia KONE employees and KONE companies. well as in respect of their own employees, employee misconduct as well as human of continuous improvement in implement• Mexico It also explains how we conduct our busicustomers and suppliers, and third parties rights and corruption violations. Responding to customers’ needs ing these principles. • Germany ness in a responsible and ethical manner including government officials. The KONE We adapt our supply chain to take cusSeveral hundred Lean and over 100 in order to win and retain customer trust. Distributor Code of Conduct is available in INDUSTRY-LEADING SUPPLY CHAIN tomers’ different requirements into Six Sigma projects were also successfully 1 Suppliers that provide products for new The KONE Code of Conduct is on kone. four languages. In 2017 KONE had nine production sites account. One of the latest examples of completed in 2017. To date, over 280 equipment to KONE distribution centers and com in over 30 languages. for elevators, escalators and building this involves packaging development, KONE employees have qualified as Six factories. Training and awareness building doors, 10 global distribution centers for where we are working on solutions to Sigma Green Belts and Black Belts, and KONE’s Competition Compliance Policy All KONE employees are expected to underelevators, and five distribution centers for allow us to better accommodate various the training continued during 2017 in the KONE’s Competition Compliance Policy stand and abide by the Code and to report spare parts. customer needs and make installation as same way as in previous years. promotes the principles of fair competition any violations using the channels available KONE’s supply chain operations cover smooth as possible. that are presented in the Code of Conduct. for this purpose. During 2017, KONE intronew equipment production, moderniWe collect customer feedback on the LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS WITH The policy details our unambiguous posiduced an additional confidential externally zation, and spares supply. We also work quality performance of our supply chain OUR SUPPLIERS supply chain. Our approximately 20,000 tion against anti-competitive practices. It hosted reporting channel, the Compliance closely with selected key material supplioperations systematically and analyze it We seek to build long-term relationships suppliers provide KONE with raw materisets out the rules and principles that all Line, where employees can report concerns ers and logistics service providers. Approxusing Six Sigma tools before taking corwith our suppliers and customers. Our als, components, modules, and logistics KONE employees must follow to ensure either by phone or web. Reports can be imately 4,600 people keep KONE’s supply rective action. supplier relationships provide business and installation services. In addition, there that we comply fully with competition made in the employee’s native language operations running. According to the global NPI Customer opportunities and employment for thouare approximately 10,000 suppliers who laws. The Competition Compliance policy and the Compliance Line can be used anonKONE improves its supply chain conLoyalty Survey we carry out each year, our sands of suppliers globally. deliver indirect materials and services to is available in over 30 languages. ymously where permitted by local law. tinuously. In 2017 the implementation of efforts to achieve supply chain excellence KONE only produces selected compoKONE. All KONE employees who have daily a new manufacturing execution system have been successful from the perspective nents in-house, and our own production All our new suppliers must sign KONE’s KONE Supplier and access to a computer are required to com(MES) continued and at the moment, the of both product quality and installation consists largely of the assembly of sourced Supplier Code of Conduct and all our straDistributor Codes of Conduct plete the Code of Conduct online training. MES has been taken into use in our facquality. However, one of KONE's supplicomponents. Our suppliers and their subtegic suppliers are required to comply with KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct sets out In 2017, the completion rate for the target tories in China and Finland. It is a comers had delivery issues in 2017, with the tier suppliers are a critical part of KONE’s ISO 14001 certification. the ethical business practice requirements group was 95%. Regular face-to-face puterized system that is used to track and *5S methodology: sort, stabilize, shine, standardize, and sustain. 40 41 Enabling our partners and societies to prosper KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Enabling our partners and societies to prosper Managing relationships with our Supplier audits Breakdown of material and service During the reporting year we develaround the world. KCF cooperates closely production and entrepreneurship to actual suppliers All of the main suppliers of direct materials purchases from our suppliers oped and piloted a new risk engineering with local partners and a designated prostart-up creation and incubation, urban We purchase approximately 80% of our to KONE distribution centers or factories audit concept that covers for example: ject coordinator in each country to plan gardening and theatrical productions. raw materials, components, and systems undergo regular audits. Of KONE’s strate• Facility risks such as fire risks and risks and monitor projects, aiming to ensure In Mexico City, KCF has been supsupply for new equipment production gic suppliers, 93% were audited in 2017. related to the main machinery efficient resource allocation and respect porting Xico Arte, a local archeology and from approximately 120 suppliers, the We review our audit plan every year to • Production risks such as production for local culture and priorities. Wherever art-against-violence collective, since 2015. majority of whom are located in the same prioritize and schedule audits according to transfer possibilities, buffer stocks and possible, KCF chooses projects where local The organization sends young trainees countries as KONE factories or distribution our business needs. The audits are schedbusiness continuity management KONE units can contribute practical supinto schools in troubled communities in centers. uled to check on changes in products • IT risks such as cyber risks port and KONE volunteers can participate the surrounding Valle de Chalco to teach Our aim is to build long-term relationor production processes, to validate fol• Natural hazards in their spare time. local history and traditions and hold art ships with our suppliers. We manage them low-through on improvement initiatives, • Second tier supplier risks workshops. With help from KCF, Xico according to a tailored approach that evalto assess quality and environmental man• Financial risks. Supporting programs globally Arte has formalized its status as a not-foruates their importance to KONE. This is agement systems – especially when suppliCurrently, KCF is supporting programs profit association in 2017 and improved done through the regular, critical assessers are not ISO certified; or to preaudit the Assessing supplier performance in China, Finland, India, Mexico, South its operating procedures and administrament of multiple factors such as the busisuitability of potential suppliers. Total 4,812.6 MEUR We monitor the performance of our main Africa and Thailand. In addition, KCF contive practices. ness scope and spend with the supplier, Direct materials and supplies 58.8% suppliers of our direct production materials tinues to support teacher exchanges and In 2017 KCF began supporting the their innovation potential, the criticality of Assessing supplier risks (58.8%) through a monthly KPI measurement and exceptional schools such as the DandeZero-to-Hero (Z2H) Foundation’s child the materials or services they provide, the KONE’s sourcing risk monitoring system is follow-up process. We also run a supplier lion School in Beijing as well as providing development program in the rural Na Subcontracting 13.0% (12.7%) supply chain situation, and KONE’s investbased on a thorough assessment of supscorecard system that evaluates key supmatching funds for appropriate fund-raisYom region of Thailand, north of Bangment or integration level with the supplier. pliers, including analyses of their financial Other production costs* 14.4% pliers of direct materials. The results of the ing initiatives by KONE employees around kok. This innovative program combines Based on the supplier’s status, our and business viability and their depend(14.3%) scorecards represent a balanced view of the world. Finnish early childhood development best management and measurement techence on business from KONE. We also Selling, administrative and other quantitative and qualitative performance The Foundation’s first project was the practices with a deep understanding of niques include audits, assessment and work closely with our strategic suppliers to expenses** 14.1% (14.2%) criteria from a number of angles, such as creation of a mobile library serving chillocal Thai culture and traditions to involve mitigation of supplier-related risk, the use find competitive raw material price levels. quality, cost and logistics, for example. dren of migrant workers in China’s cities. the population of entire villages in pro* Mainly freight and packaging costs as well as of standardized contractual agreements We regularly discuss performance Now in its seventh year of operation, the viding educational opportunities for local other variable costs such as utilities, tools and that include the KONE Supplier Code of operatives related costs. evaluations with our suppliers. When their mobile library continues to bring the joy children and ensuring a healthy start to Conduct, the assessment of supplier perperformance does not meet our expecof reading to thousands of children with their lives. ** Related to for example administration formance, and supplier certification. tations, we initiate corrective actions severely limited access to books. Through The refugee crisis unleashed by the expenses, covering IT, marketing, trainings, and Read more about KONE’s Supplier insurances. or development projects and conduct cooperation with the Hangzhou Children’s war in Syria brought more than 32,000 Code of Conduct on page 40. follow-ups. Library and the Beijing Normal University, asylum seekers to Finland in 2015. KCF the mobile library has expanded its serjoined forces in 2017 with The Shortcut, Supplier Excellence Certification vices to children with limited access to a community organization in Helsinki We aim to maintain a supply base that appropriate reading material. that promotes diversity as an engine for complies with international quality and After four years of cooperating with growth. KCF agreed to provide funding environmental standards as well as the the Rotary Club of Madras to support a for coding and entrepreneurship courses standards of KONE. We expect all of our youth center located in an inner-city slum for young asylum seekers and immigrants key suppliers’ factories to attain Supplier in Chennai, KCF’s focus shifted at the run by The Shortcut out of its facilities in PROSPERING THROUGH A STRATEGIC COLLABORATION Excellence Certifications. end of 2016 to an area closer to the new the tech center located in the former Maria KONE’s Supplier Excellence CertificaKONE India factory. KCF and KONE India, Hospital. tion Program assesses key suppliers’ sites, in collaboration with the Single Teacher The key to KONE’s successful logisthe globe. While these journeys can be KONE’s key logistics service providers examining aspects that include environSchools organization, now support 20 Cooperation with KONE companies and tics operations is having accurate extensive and complicated, we do our are required to provide, covering all mental and quality management systems, micro-schools in rural villages. Support is KONE volunteers and timely information available at all best to minimize the carbon footprint modes of transport, including also the performance scorecards, and supplier expanding to include sanitation facilities Although KCF is an independent entity, phases of the delivery chain. Reducing of our operations and services. carbon footprint for each shipment, audit results. ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 and other improvements in these commucooperation with KONE companies and the environmental impact of transporTo carry this out, KONE has been says Timo Skötsch, KONE’s global compliance are also assessed. nities, which will create a better living envithe participation of KONE volunteers are tation through route and shipment collaborating with DHL for nearly a customer manager at DHL Customer In 2017, 97% of our strategic supplier ronment for the children and their families. central to its ability to meet its objectives. optimization – and through careful decade, working together to solve Solution & Innovation. factories were ISO 9001 certified, and 93% The Westbury Youth Centre (WYC), KCF welcomes enquiries and initiatives analysis of eco-efficient transpora wide range of logistics challenges. of them had ISO 14001 certifications. located between downtown Johannesfrom KONE employees and appreciates tation modes – is also an important This co-operation involves KONE’s new burg and Soweto, was founded in 2012 the enthusiastic cooperation it receives focus area. This is made possible by equipment business and service busiSUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES in an initiative backed by KCF and Finfrom KONE companies in the countries utilizing the internal expertise as well ness areas. The KONE Centennial Foundation (KCF), land’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Located where it supports ongoing projects. as support from our key logistics seran independent, non-profit organizain a secondary school hostel that had vice providers, such as DHL, who have Working smarter together tion founded by KONE in celebration of been empty for years, WYC serves hunsimilar ambitious targets. The foundation for the collaboraits 100th anniversary in 2010, focuses on dreds of school-leavers and unemployed Our products and components tion around sustainability and operinnovative programs that advance and youth as well as students from the WestRead the whole story at need to be delivered effectively to ational improvement starts with the www.kone.com/sustainability support developmental, educational, and bury Secondary School. Programs range more than 450,000 customers across monthly performance report that all of cultural activities for children and youth from classes in computer skills, media 42 43 REPORTING SCOPE KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REPORTING SCOPE REPORTING SCOPE KONE has chosen to report using the 14). KONE’s approach to sustainability has 86%) of all KONE’s employees and 100% KONE has been using an environmental KONE’s global logistics team. The environhave been externally assured by Mitopro Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines also been described in the Interview with of employees working at our manufacturperformance software system since 2011. mental performance has been reported in Oy. The emission factors are based on the in order to facilitate easier comparison of the chairman and the president and CEO ing units. Business air travel data, covering In 2017, we changed to a new system proaccordance with ISO 14064 and the Greendata sources of DEFRA (UK Department for our performance with other companies on p. 4–5, and in the strategy description 31 countries and over 95% of our employvided by one of the world’s leading EHS house Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting Environment, Food & Rural Affairs), World and to streamline our own corporate on p. 10–11. ees, has been collected from KONE’s five system vendors. The facility-related enviand Reporting Standard and Corporate Resources Institute GHG Emission Factors responsibility reporting efforts. KONE has All major local and regional organizabiggest travel agencies. Vehicle fleet fuel ronmental data has been collected from Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Compilation, and AIB European Residual published Sustainability Report annually tions and all production units are included consumption data has been collected branch offices using a customized data Reporting Standard. The Scope 2 emisMix Report. Due to the reporting system since 2008. The previous report was pubin the reporting scope. All financial data from 26 countries, representing 94% of collection spreadsheet consolidated on the sions have been calculated according to the renewal and a change of some emission lished in April 2017. and a significant proportion of the employthe total fleet. The logistics data covers the country level. The country-level data as well dual reporting principles of the GHG Profactor sources for 2017, the Scope 1 and 2 The report follows GRI (G4) reporting ee-related data has been collected through transportation of products from KONE’s as the data from manufacturing units and tocol Scope 2 Guidance (marketand locaand Scope 3 waste emission figures are not guidelines as far as they are applicable, and KONE’s enterprise resource management manufacturing units to customers and the global functions has been entered into the tion-based method). RES-GO guarantees of fully comparable with the previous years. covers economic, social, and environmenand financial reporting systems. All finantransportation of modules that are delivenvironmental performance system. The origin subject to EECS (European Energy We welcome any feedback on this tal responsibility. A table detailing how this cial figures presented in this report are based ered straight from our suppliers to our data has been further consolidated globally. Certificate System) have been acquired for report or our overall sustainability perforreport complies with the GRI guidelines is on KONE Corporation’s consolidated and delivery centers and onward to customProduct and spare parts logistics data has the purchased green electricity. KONE’s mance − please contact corporate comshown on pages 46–47. We have self-deaudited Financial Statements. ers. Spare part deliveries are also within been calculated using an in-house logistics greenhouse gas emissions and water conmunications at contact@kone.com. clared our reporting to be in accordance The personnel data is provided by our the reporting scope. Inbound logistics of emission calculation system developed by sumption at KONE's manufacturing units with the Core level. HR organization – with the exception of the materials to KONE’s manufacturing sites is The reporting period corresponds with data relating to gender and age distribution excluded from the reporting scope because the calendar year and with KONE’s finanin management. of its insignificant impact. KONE prefers cial year of January 1–December 31, 2017. The facility-related environmental data material suppliers located close to our manINDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT When developing the report content and has been collected from KONE’s 13 manufacturing units and distribution centers, choosing indicators, the driver has been ufacturing units worldwide and from 31 and a large part of the modules are delivTo the Management and Stakeholders of KONE Oyj the materiality to KONE’s operations. country organizations with sales, installaered directly from suppliers to KONE distriDuring 2016, we conducted a materialtion, and service operations in Asia-Pacific, bution centers. The quality and coverage Scope and Objectives • Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate at Group level and in selected sites. ity analysis and defined the focus areas for EMEA, and North America. The collected of data provided by our logistics suppliers The Management of KONE Oyj commisValue Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and • Review of Group-level systems and KONE’s sustainability work (see more on p. environmental data covers 85% (2016: has over the years continuously improved. sioned us to perform a limited third-party Reporting, and procedures to generate, collect assurance engagement regarding green• Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability and report quantitative data on the house gas emissions inventory including Reporting Guidelines (4.0). Selected information. Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and water • Assessment of Group-level calculations KONE FOCUS AREAS AND GRI G4 ASPECTS consumption data (“Selected informaAssurance Provider’s Independence and and data consolidation procedures tion”) disclosed in KONE’s SustainabilCompetence and internal controls to ensure the KONE Focus Areas GRI G4 Aspect (G4-19) Boundary ity Report (“Report”) for the period of We have conducted our assessment as indeaccuracy of data. 1st January to 31st December 2017. The pendent and impartial from the reporting • Testing the accuracy and completeness DRIVING INNOVATION AND Aspect: Energy Within the Organisation Outside the Organisation IMPROVING RESOURCE EFFICIENCY (G4-20) (G4-21) assurance engagement was conducted in organisation. We were not committed to of the information from original docuAspect: Water • Deep understanding of customer needs Aspect: Emissions accordance with the International Standany assignments for KONE that would conments and systems on a sample basis. • Sustainable innovations and business models Aspect: Effluents and Waste KONE Operations (ManIndirect (Scope 3) ard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) flict with our independence, nor were we ufacturing units + 30 Energy use and GHG • Resource efficiency and life cycle thinking Aspect: Compliance Country organisations) Emission sources 3000 revised – ‘Assurance Engagements involved in the preparation of the Report. Conclusion • Low-carbon operations Aspect Transports other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Our team consists of competent and expeBased on the work described in this report, Financial Information’. rienced sustainability reporting experts, who nothing has come to our attention that PROVIDING THE MOST SUSTAINABLE OFFERING Aspect: Materials KONE Operations Customers • Customer satisfaction Aspect: Energy have the necessary skills to perform an assurcauses us to believe that the Selected infor• Product and service quality Aspect: Products and services Responsibilities ance process. mation disclosed in KONE Sustainability • End user safety Aspect: Customer Health & Safety KONE is responsible for the collection, calReport 2017 is not reliable, in all material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling • Accessibility culation, and presentation of the Selected Basis of Our Opinion respects, based on the reporting criteria. • Energy efficiency of solutions Aspect: Compliance information according to the reporting Assurance providers are obliged to plan BEING THE BEST EMPLOYER AND Aspect: Employment KONE Operations Subcontractors criteria. The Management of KONE has and perform the assurance process so as Helsinki, Finland, 28th March 2018 ATTRACTING TALENT Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety approved the Selected information disto ensure that they collect adequate eviMitopro Oy • Fair employment practices Aspect: Training and Education closed in the Report. Our responsibility as dence for the necessary conclusions to be • Competence development Aspect: Diversity & Equal Opportunity assurance providers is to express an indedrawn. The procedures selected depend • Motivated and engaged employees • Diversity and non-discrimination pendent conclusion on the Selected inforon the assurance provider’s judgement, • Employee safety and well-being mation subject to the limited assurance including their assessment of the risk of engagement. The reporting criteria used material misstatement adhering to the Mikael Niskala ENABLING OUR PARTNERS AND Aspect: Economic Performance KONE Operations Community Suppliers / Strategic for our assessment include the following reporting criteria. Independent Sustainability Expert SOCIETIES TO PROSPER Aspect: Market Presence suppliers guidelines and standards: Our opinion is based on the following pro• Creating wealth via taxes and employment Aspect: Anti-corruption • Generating long-term returns Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior • Greenhouse Gas Protocol. A Corporate cedures performed: • Supporting local communities Aspect: Compliance Accounting and Reporting Standard, • Interviews with KONE specialists • Ethical business practices Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment • Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 responsible for data collection and Tomi Pajunen • Long-term relationships with our suppliers Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Guidance, reporting of the Selected information Independent Sustainability Expert • Diversity and equal opportunity 44 45 REPORTING SCOPE KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2017 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REPORTING SCOPE Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Page Further information and Omissions GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach (dma) Generic DMA: p. 12, and by category and aspects ECONOMIC DMA: 39 COMPARISON WITH GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE GUIDELINES Economic Performance GRI G4 Standard Disclosures Page Further information G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 9–39 Strategy and Analysis G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 19–20 Annual Review p. 17 G4-1 Statement from the Chairman and the President and CEO 4–5 Market Presence G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4–5, 8–9, 10–11 Annual Review p. 17–18 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 34–36 Percentage not reported, Organizational Profile local hiring practices described G4-3 Name of the organization Back cover Procurement Practices G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 3, 8–9, 31, Back www.kone.com/en/company/in-brief/ G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Performance indicator G4-EC9 is not cover material for KONE. Purchasing practises G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Back cover described in the DMA. G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 3, 36 www.kone.com/en/company/in-brief/ ENVIRONMENTAL DMA: G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 3, 39 www.kone.com/en/company/ 19–20, 30 organization/ Materials G4-8 Markets served 3 www.kone.com/en/company/in-brief/ G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 32 G4-9 Scale of the organization 3, 39 Energy G4-10 Workforce 3, 35–36 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 25 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 35 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 20–25 G4-12 Supply chain 40–43 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 30–33 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its 10–11, 40–43 No significant changes Water supply chain. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 24–25 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary principle Annual review, Board of Directors’ Emissions report, p. 17-18. KONE is committed to the UN Global Compact’s ten prinG4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (SCOPE 1) 20–25 ciples. We address the precautionary G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (SCOPE 2) 20–25 principle, especially in areas involving G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (SCOPE 3) 20–25 environmental risks. G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity 22 G4-15 External charters, principles or initiatives endorsed 12, 15, 20 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 20–25 G4-16 Memberships of associations 12 Effluents and Waste Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-EN23 Total waste by type and disposal method 24–25 G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements Annual Review 2017, Subsidiaries and Products and Services associated companies, p. 77-79 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 30–33 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 14, 44–45 www.kone.com/sustainability Compliance G4-19 Material Aspects identified 14–15 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with No significant fines or sanctions regarding G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 44 environmental laws and regulations non-compliance with environmental laws G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 44 and regulations. G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such 44–45 Reported in connection with the Transport restatements indicators in question G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transport 20–25 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 44–45 Supplier Environmental Assessment DMA: 42–43 Stakeholder Engagement G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 42 Percentage of strategic suppliers audited G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 13 reported G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 13 SOCIAL G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. 13 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 13 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA: 34–37 Report Profile Employment G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 44 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. 35–36 Total number of employees and employee G4-29 Date of the previous report 44 turnover by age group, gender and region reported. G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) 44 DMA: 29, G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover Occupational Health and Safety 36–37 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. 44 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of 36–37 Industry injury frequency rate (IIFR) and G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 45 GHG Emissions assured externally work-related fatalities, by region and by gender average lost days per injury reported. Occupational diseases, absenteeism, and total GOVERNANCE number of work-related fatalities, by region Governance structure and composition and by gender not reported in this report. G4-34 Governance structure and committees Annual Review 2017, All injuries, including fatalities, are reported Corporate Governance Statement, to the local authorities according to the local p. 80–83 regulations. G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to 12 Training and Education senior executives and other employees G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. 35 G4-36 Executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether 12 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by 6,35 post holders report directly to the highest governance body. employee category. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. Annual Review 2017, Corporate Diversity and Equal Opportunity Governance Statement, p. 80–83 G4-39 Position of the Chair of the Board Annual Review 2017, Corporate G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender 35–36 Governance Statement, p. 80–83 and age group. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN SETTING PURPOSE, VALUES, AND STRATEGY Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices DMA: 42–43 G4-42 Board's role in setting the organisation's purpose, values and strategy Annual Review 2017, Corporate G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 42 Amount of strategic suppliers audited Governance Statement, p. 80–83 SOCIETY DMA: 39–40 Highest governance body’s role in risk management Anti-corruption G4-45 Board’s role in the identification and management of risks Annual Review 2017, Corporate G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 40 Part of code of conduct training Governance Statement, p. 80–83 Anti-competitive Behaviour Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Annual Review, Board of Directors’ report, G4-48 Formal approval of the organisation’s sustainability report Sustainability Report is reviewed by outcomes p. 18 KONE’s management and approved Compliance by the President and CEO. G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws No significant fines or sanctions during the Remuneration and incentives and regulations reporting period. G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives Annual Review 2017, Corporate Governance Statement, p. 80–83 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Ethics and integrity Customer Health and Safety DMA: 27–29 G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 12, 40 www.kone.com/en/company/ G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for 29 vision-and-strategy/ improvement G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, a 40 DMA: Product and Service Labelling nd matters related to organizational integrity 12, 27,40–41 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour 40 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 5, 27 Compliance DMA: 27 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and No significant fines during the reporting use of products and services period 46 KONE CORPORATION Corporate Offices Keilasatama 3 P.O. Box 7 Espoo, 02150 Finland Tel.: +358 (0)204 75 1 Fax: +358 (0)204 75 4496 Business Identity Code: 1927400-1 KONE Corporation www.kone.com contact@kone.com Publication Liisa Kivelä Director, Communications Economic performance Sanna Kaje Vice President, Investor Relations Environmental performance Hanna Uusitalo Environmental Director Personnel and social performance Susanne Skippari Executive Vice President Human Resources This publication is for general informational purposes only and we reserve the right at any time to alter the product design and specifications. No statement this publication contains shall be construed as a warranty or condition, express or implied, as to any product, its fitness for any particular purpose, merchantability, quality or representation IC ECOL A RD of the terms of any purchase agreement. Minor differences NO BE L between printed and actual colors may exist. KONE MonoSpace®, KONE EcoDisc®, KONE CareTM, KONE People Flow®, KONE UltraRope® and KONE NanoSpaceTM are PEFC/02-31-175 441 763 registered trademarks of KONE Corporation. Printed matter Copyright © 2018 KONE Corporation. 9074
