FINAL Communication on progress (COP) The period covered by this COP runs from 9 June 2017, up to and including 8 June 2018. 1. Statement of continued support by the Managing Partner and the Head of Sustainability 8 June 2018 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this annual COP, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. As one of the largest law firms in the Nordic region, we have a responsibility to influence and set an agenda that is challenging and important – not only for our own and our clients’ businesses, but also for the development of a more sustainable world and to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our approach to sustainability has always been based on our business – providing our clients with the best legal counselling. We systematically integrate sustainability in our legal advice, helping our clients to become even better at managing risks and business opportunities. Counselling and supporting our clients on sustainability in the business law context is one of the three pillars of the firm's strategic approach to sustainability. We integrate Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption in our legal counsel, helping our clients manage risks and business opportunities connected to sustainability. Read more here. Our internal sustainability initiatives are the second pillar of our sustainability strategy. We have systemised our internal efforts to enable continuous skills development for all of our employees; to ensure processes for adherence to regulations and the firm's core values, quality control, business focus and team spirit, and to minimise our negative environmental impact. Read more here. The third pillar of our sustainability strategy is our pro bono work, through which we contribute to the community. Pro bono projects with clear links to our business builds our expertise in important and relevant societal issues, while also actively engaging our employees and taking our responsibility in the community. Read more here. FINAL 2(3) We must be responsive and engage in ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders in order to understand where the firm has the greatest impact, and thereby identify the key issues for our strategic sustainability initiatives. Stakeholder dialogues are central to our efforts to develop our business and are natural parts of the day-to-day business. Our stakeholders include, among others, Swedish and international clients, the Swedish Bar Association, trade associations, administrative authorities, employees, suppliers as well as our pro bono partners. Stakeholder dialogues play a central part in the materiality analysis on which our sustainability initiatives are based. These initiatives are also guided by our strategy, directives issued by the board, and our assessment of risk. Mannheimer Swartling’s most important sustainability issues are long-term and focus on: • Continuing to develop our sustainability advisory services to clients. • Working for increased diversity, provide a more even workload, and improve employees' work-life balance. • Monitoring the firm’s information security, personal data processing, and policies and procedures as required by anti-money laundering legislation. • Minimising the firm’s negative environmental impact. • Strategically developing our pro bono work. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT To us, the way forward is obvious: we must be a firm that accepts responsibility for our own business activities as well as for the community around us. As one of the largest law firms in the Nordic region, we have the opportunity and the responsibility to be part of the transition to a more sustainable society, but we need to work together. We want to be a positive force and contribute to sustainable growth through dialogue and co-operation with other legal professionals and community stakeholders such as the UN, the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs and NGOs. MANNHEIMER SWARTLING AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We take the SDGs into account in our approach to strategic sustainability with our clients, internally and in our pro bono work. This involves everything from providing legal advice and expertise concerning our clients’ business goals, to taking active steps within the firm to improve diversity and reduce climate impact, to our pro bono projects, where our work includes promoting the rule of law and individual freedoms and rights (e.g. for example through our partner, the Centre for Justice). Given our business and industry, we focus on three main goals: • Goal 5: Equality concentrating on diversity, a strategically important issue we have been working with for several years. • Goal 16: Peaceful and inclusive communities concentrating on promoting the rule of law. • Goal 17: Implementation and global partnerships concentrating on collaborations and partnerships with other stakeholders to exchange knowledge and expertise. FINAL 3(3) As we are simultaneously reporting on sustainability using GRI Standards at Core level, our outcomes will be by reference to the sections of our 2017 Annual and Sustainability Report that are also relevant to this COP. The below matrix provides easy reference and comparison to the Global Compact's framework. It also provides details on our pro bono initiatives and specifies the practice groups that have main responsibility for the various parts of our advisory. Mannheimer Advisory Internal Pro bono Swartling / ref to A&SR p. 25 ref to A&SR pp. 26-31 ref to A&SR p. 33 Global Compact & webpage Human rights Practice Group Ethics and SOS Children's Corporate regulatory Villages Sustainability & Risk compliance , pp. Management 29-30, as well as Human Rights (CS&RM) Internal Too1Box sustainability work Centre for Justice organisation and staff', pp. 26-28 RAOUL Labour Practice Group Internal Rapid Acceleration Employment and sustainability work Management Pensions as well as organisation and Program CS&RM staff', pp. 26-28 Good Malmoe Open House Environment Practice Group Environment , Race for the Environment as pp. 30-31 Baltic well as CS&RM Anti-corruption Practice Group Ethics and Member of the Health Care as regulatory Ethics Committee of well as CS&RM compliance , the Swedish Antipp. 29-30 corruption Institute The complete English version of the 2017 Annual and Sustainability Report can be found here. Head of Sustainability
