Communication on progress. From 02/6/18 – 02/06/19 To our stakeholders. I am pleased to confirm that Spera Ltd. reaffirms its support of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the global compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Your sincerely Paul Vaughan Managing Director • Human Rights Spera ensures that all its employees have a safe working environment, free from unnecessary stress. The working environment is equipped with modern equipment and technology, which is maintained on a regular basis. Employees are given training on the use of the equipment and provided with appropriate clothing and PPE. Suitable welfare facilities are provided with a wellequipped canteen. Suitable sanitary facilities are provided for male and female employees which are maintained on a regular basis. Spera provides a safe and healthy working environment, free from harassment, including verbal, physical, sexual or psychological harassment abuse or threats. Our people are our assets and the core of our business. It is our belief that we must look after them. We have assessed the risks in the working environment and have put control measures both technological and engineered, to protect our personnel during the manufacturing process, to reduce and eliminate side effects that could harm or threaten human life. • Labour Spera ensures that the Company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. The Company complies with legislation on minimum wage standards. All employment related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria and equal opportunities are available to both male and female employees within the business. Each employee has a contract of employment in which these criteria are clearly set out. • Environment The Company ensures that any environmental aspects of the manufacturing process does not in adversely impact the environment. An environmental Aspect/Impact matrix has been drawn up, to identify impacts to the environment. The Company is working on reducing these impacts and maintaining them at an acceptable level. Production process equipment is maintained on a daily/annual basis. Local exhaust ventilation systems are in place. Spill kits are available. Emergency procedures are in place and employee are given training in the event of an emergency. All chemicals are stored safely, and employees are trained in their use. MSDS are available, risks are assessed and COSHH assessments are completed for all chemicals and made available to all who are using them. All waste produced is transferred to a licensed waste disposal company for recycling. Waste transfer notes are signed and kept for all waste produced by the Company. HOW WASTE IN DUBLIN WAS RECYCLED IN 2017 5% Landfill 95% Mixed Recyclable • Anti-Corruption Spera is committed to making anti-corruption part of the company’s culture in its operations. We have a zero-tolerance policy for bribery and corruption, and we mention anti – corruption and unethical behaviour in contracts with our business partners.
