UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE 2017/18 FINANCIAL YEAR HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 1: PRINCIPLE 7: SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS PRECAUTIONARY Pages 3, 5, 11 — 12, 13 — 15, 16 — 17 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Pages 3, 6, 9, 11 — 12, 13 — 15, 16 — 19 PRINCIPLE 2: AR 110, 111 EXCLUSION OF ANY HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES PRINCIPLE 8: Pages 3, 5, 11 — 12, 13 — 15, 16 — 17 INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Pages 5, 6, 10 — 12, 20 — 21 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 9: DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY PRINCIPLE 3: FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES UPHOLDING FREEDOM OF Pages 4 — 6, 18 — 19 ASSOCIATION Pages 10 — 12, 18 — 19 PRINCIPLE 4: ANTI-CORRUPTION ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED LABOUR Pages 3, 7, 8, 9 — 12,15 — 16,17 PRINCIPLE 10: AR 110, 111 MEASURES TO COMBAT CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 5: Pages 3, 16 ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Pages 3, 7, 8, 9 — 12, 15 — 16 AR 110, 111 PRINCIPLE 6: ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION Pages 3, 6, 14 — 15 AR 108 — 111 AR = Otto Group Annual Report 2017/18 OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 1 Ladies and gentlemen, partners and friends of the Otto Group, Our company has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2002, promoting its Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. As Chairman of the Otto Group Executive Board and CEO, I renew our company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. In the age of digitisation and globalisation, it is our responsibility to engage in sustainable business practices. These are deeply embedded in the Group’s organisational structure and are of paramount importance to our success. The Otto Group continues to uphold our long-term sustainability goals through our CR Strategy 2020. Over the past year, we were able to advance all of our key performance indicators — growing the amount of sustainable cotton, expanding FSC-certified furniture products and increasing FSC-certified catalogue paper. We are on track to include more and more suppliers in our Social ProTherefore, we keep engaging in multi-stakegramme, while at the same time reducing our holder initiatives like the Partnership for CO2 emissions significantly. Sustainable Textiles and the Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative (CPI2). As a global retail and services group, we believe that business needs values. We aim OVER THE PAST YEAR, WE to make positive impact and continue our considerable efforts to achieve our goals. We WERE ABLE TO ADVANCE invite you, as partners and friends of the ALL OF OUR CR STRATEGY Otto Group, to engage in dialogue with us and help us on our journey to continuously 2020 KEY PERFORMANCE become better — on the market and for sociINDICATORS. ety as a whole. Hamburg, Germany, August 2018 These achievements were made possible with the on behalf of the Otto Group ideas, skills and courage of our colleagues. Executive Board By addressing our biggest environmental and social challenges through our impACT management process, we continue to make advances in our production and global supply chains for a world worth living in. But we cannot do it alone, as we often exert only indirect influence across our value chain. It is vital to combine ideas and resources within Alexander Birken our industry, politics and civil society to Chairman of the Executive Board & jointly contribute to sustainable development. CEO Otto Group OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 2 HOW THE OTTO GROUP LIVES SUSTAINABILITY For over 30 years, the Otto Group has combined economic goals with responsibility for humans and nature. This fundamental principle is deeply rooted in its corporate culture together with a strong set of values. In a world characterized by great challenges and rapid change, these values assist the Group in staying on target, operating successfully and preserving its sustainability. SUSTAINABLE set, measures are developed ­DEVELOPMENT AS and assessed. In the end, those THE MODEL PROF DR measures that indicate the most The belief of former CEO and ­M ICHAEL OTTO optimal relationship between cost current Chairman of the Supervisory Board Prof Dr Michael Otto DECLARED ENand benefit are implemented. This process follows a holistic approach, to conduct business in a way VIRONMENTAL helping to use financial and human that protects the quality of life for current and future generaPROTECTION AS resources where they are most effective and have the greatest tions guides the Otto Group in its A CORPORATE impact on sustainability. The clear day-to-day actions. As an interGOAL IN 1986. focus on effectiveness and effinationally engaged retailer and ciency, combined with business service provider, the Otto Group opportunities and risks, allows the strives to achieve sustainable Otto Group to embed sustainability development in all areas of the company. Its business at the core of its business processes. With developing the strategy combines economic success with the attainment of future CR Strategy 2025, the materiality analysis and assessecological and social objectives. It seeks to minimize negament of measures of the impACT management process are tive impacts of its business activities while achieving added further developed. value for the society. This strategy is driven by the Group’s desire to support social responsibility, environmental protecBEARING IN MIND THE VALUE CHAIN tion and fair cooperation to the best of its ability. This is The CR Strategy 2020 encompasses the entire value achieved through the sustainability management process chain. For the Otto Group as a retailer and service provider, “impACT”, which forms the foundation of its responsibiliit is especially complex, tied to numerous procedural steps ty-minded actions. Results and findings of this process feed and multiple challenges (see graphic page 58). The greatest into the CR Strategy 2020 (CR = corporate responsibility), ecological and social impact is felt in the preliminary stages which forms an integral part of the Group’s strategy. of widely branching supply chains. In addition, the issue of data security and how to safeguard it in platform business impACT AS THE BASIS OF ACTION is becoming increasingly important in the Customer valueThe impACT management process fully determines adding stage. The impACT management process makes it the impact of the Corporate Group’s business activities, possible to determine and quantify the effects of external and targeted actions (act) are derived from it. Crucial factor: costs and risk-working hours along the entire value chain. Effectiveness of the measures. The process consists of three steps. Once material issues are analysed and priorities OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 3 DEALING WITH GROWING ­DEMANDS Technological changes, political and regulatory developments as well as market trends affect sustainability management and business ­activities. At an early stage, the Otto Group identifies how conditions are changing and adjusts its strategy accordingly. CONSEQUENCES OF DIGITALIZATION Differentiation of The digital transformation has a significant effect on the Otto ­usiness models b Group’s business activities and resulting business models. It changes To reposition itself to succeed in swiftly changing marconsumers’ behavior and their means of interaction, exemplified by kets, the Group is focused on voice-accessed virtual assistants or augmented reality apps that can differentiating existing busicreate virtual homes, for example. Equipped with smartphones and ness models and developing new wearables and driven by innovative technology groups, customers ones. On one hand, acting as make new demands on both brick-and-mortar and online trade. an incubator, the corporation By connecting to and processing huge datasets – extending from is awarding initial capital to the demand side to the availability of supply – it becomes possible to startups through its companies analyse and service customer needs in a targeted approach. Linking Eventures, Project A and Liqmultiple data sources also offers new perspectives in sustainability uid Labs. On the other hand, management: Utilization of new tracking and tracing methods such existing business models like as blockchain technologies will allow for an improved traceability the OTTO online retailer are of products along the entire value chain, achieving transparency for being enhanced to become platforms open to third-party profurther improvement measures in upstream production steps. viders. These combined efforts Besides creating opportunities, this growing digitalization also influence changes in the value offers major challenges such as protection against the misuse of data, chain: Such business models do dynamic online pricing of products, or devices such as digital virtual not involve directly influencassistants that are tied exclusively to a single online merchant. Also in ing the value-adding stages the digital world, the Otto Group strives to meet its high requirements Raw Materials and Processing or to act responsibly. Against this backdrop, the Group is systematically Final Production. For the Otto addressing the issue of corporate digital responsibility. Group’s sustainability activities, business relationships POLITICAL AND REGULATORY with platform partners and colDEVELOPMENTS laboration with customers are Political initiatives and regulatory requirements have a direct moving more into the spotlight. impact on business activity, as do the voluntary commitments of individual industries. The Otto Group systematically monitors emerging changes in framework conditions – such as a possible pricing of CO₂ emissions, regulatory steps that target greater energy efficiency in the building sector or alternative drive systems in road transport. With proactive and ambitious environmental and social activities, the Otto Group is well-positioned and prepared to be able to react quickly to future regulations. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 4 NATIONAL ACTION PLAN ON BUSINESS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND HUMAN RIGHTS The Otto Group is committed to the global SustainAt the end of 2016, the German Federal Government able Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations and voted to implement the Guiding Principles of the United supports these without restriction. With the CR Strategy Nations National Action Plan (NAP) on Business and Human 2020 and other sustainability programs and the commitment Rights. The implementation extends over a four-year period to initiatives and alliances, the Group is already contributing and envisions that one half of German companies with 500 to the achievement of numerous SDGs as exemplified by its employers or more will meet their corporate due diligence involvement in the “Cotton made in Africa” (CmiA) initiaresponsibilities by 2020. In accordance with applicable laws, tive. CmiA promotes actions to combat poverty and protect conventions and provisions, the Otto Group commits itself to the environment, advocates for women’s rights in Africa and adhere to human rights around the world and to take approinvests in formal education. priate corrective measures where these are violated. The goal of the Otto Group is the systematic involvement of SDGs into the sustainability management process currently taking place. Especially for the CR Strategy 2025 the SDGs will play an important role for measuring positive effects within the impACT process. FOUR VALUE STAGES RAW MATERIALS AND PROCESSING FINAL PRODUCTION TRADE CUSTOMER (extracting and processing (product manufacturing and (transporting goods from (includes the entire usage raw materials, manufacturing packaging for shipment) producing countries to phase, product disposal, intermediate products markets, warehousing them and return and recycling) and preparing them for delivery to customers) production) Procedural steps in the textile process Transport Raw Material Extraction Sewing Use Spinning Warehousing Yarn Sales Weaving & knitting Refinement Finishing & Disposal & Packaging Distribution Recycling OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 5 FOCUSING ON WHAT IS MATERIAL In the context of sustainability management, the Otto Group determines and assesses its impact along the value chain – and develops targeted measures. The results of the impACT process serve as the basis of decisions that efficiently and effectively orient business processes in the direction of sustainability. The impACT management process developed by the Social effects are measured using risk-working hours. This Otto Group employs the triad: analyse, assess, act. In its quantification enables the Otto Group to form a realistic materiality analysis, the impact of the business activity on picture of its ecological and social footprint (see graphic humans and nature is determined and the material topic on page 62, y-axis). areas are identified. In the second step, this priority setting serves to develop the objectives and measures and assess Qualitative assessment by stakeholders these according to their cost and benefit. In this way, the As a complement to this, the 19 topic areas plus the Otto Group can allocate financial and human resources three additional topics of animal welfare, recycling and precisely where they will have the greatest impact – and resource efficiency are evaluated by the stakeholders (see can act sustainably. graphic on page 62, x-axis) so that by now there are 22 topic areas. The qualitative assessment consists of four surveys. impACT STEP 1: ANALYSE To understand the expectations of external stakeholders, In its materiality analysis, the Otto Group combines the a group of experts representing science, politics, non-govquantitative valuation of the ecological and social impacts ernmental organisations and research regularly conducts of its business activities with the assessment of these chalan online survey. Internal stakeholders evaluate the topic lenges from the point of view of stakeholders, integrating areas from three perspectives: reputation-related opporthese in the materiality matrix (page 62). tunities and risks, regulation risks and business activity. In this way, the weighted findings from internal and external Impact categories and topic areas stakeholders are incorporated into the assessment. Their Ecological and social impacts across the four valuevalidity ranges from two to five years. adding stages are initially determined. Ecological impact is segmented into the impact categories of greenhouse gases, Materiality matrix pollutants, water usage and land use. Social impact is illusThe matrix (see graphic page 62) indicates which trated using the fifth impact category social risks. The Otto topics are especially relevant for the Otto Group due to their Group refers to the effects in the respective impact category/ high external effects and/or their significance as assessed by value-adding stage intersections as topic areas. Nineteen the various stakeholder groups. topic areas are examined using quantitative analysis (for ex., greenhouse gases within the Raw Materials and Processing impACT STEP 2: ASSESS value-adding stage). The materiality analysis provides a content-rich foundation for decision-making and indicates the priorities for Quantitative assessment of external costs action. With this well-founded knowledge, the Otto Group and risks is developing potential measures to be able to go into action In its calculation of ecological impact, the Otto at precisely the most important and beneficial point in the Group combines its procurement and distribution statisvalue chain. To achieve maximum effect, various possible tics with figures from external databases regarding effects measures are comprehensively assessed with regard to their on ecosystems and human health. This results in quantitacost and benefit. The assessment of these measures consists tive values that are converted into “caused” external costs. of three components: An initial determination will be made OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 6 IMPACT OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES RAW MATERIALS FINAL & PROCESSING PRODUCTION TRADE CUSTOMER Value-adding Stages Ecological Impacts 72% 6% 9% 13% GREENHOUSE GASES POLLUTANTS Four Ecological Impact Categories WATER CONSUMPTION LAND USE Social Risks 67% 24% 9% not applicable OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 7 of the extent to which each measure can reduce environmental and social impacts and achieve positive effects. Further, the benefit resulting for the Otto Group, such as whether it meets stakeholder expectations, reduces risks to reputation or expands market opportunities, is incorporated. This is compared to estimated expenses such as investment or personnel costs. The three steps of the In the context of CR Strategy 2025, the second step of impACT process the impACT management process is further developed. For 1 example, the SDGs are included to assess the measures’ positive effects on environment and society. impACT STEP 3: ACT The measures displaying the most favorable cost-benefit ratio will be discussed and adopted by the CR deciANALYZE: sion-making bodies. Implementing specific approved measCARRY OUT A MATERIALITY ures and monitoring the achievement of targets takes place ANALYSIS see graphic page 62 under the umbrella of the CR Strategy. That way the Otto Group integrates the findings from the previous steps of the impACT management process into its strategic action plan. 2 The centrally monitored measures that are of group-wide relevance will be supplemented by specific activities by individual Group companies. ASSESS: DEVELOP MEASURES AND ­PERFORM COST-BENEFIT ­EVALUATION see page 59 IN 2017 ALL FIVE KPI OF THE CR STRATEGY 3 ACT: 2020 HAVE DEVELOPED IMPLEMENT MEASURES ­UNDER THE UMBRELLA POSITIVELY. OF THE CR STRATEGY see graphic page 64 For more information see graphic page 64 OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 8 MATERIALITY MATRIX 2017 Relevance of the topic areas to the Otto Group When considering the whole value chain the biggest social and ecological challenges lay within the extraction of resources and their processing. Also the final production is exposed to high social risks. For the derivation of the materiality matrix see section “impACT step 1: Analyse” on page 59. Pollutants Social Risks very high Quantitative Assessment Greenhouse Gases Water Consumption Social Risks Greenhouse Gases Land Use Greenhouse Gases Greenhouse Gases Social Risks Pollutants Pollutants Water Land Use Consumption Water Consumption Pollutants Water very high Consumption Land Use Stakeholder Evaluation Animal Welfare Recycling Resource Efficiency (50% internal, 50% external) VALUE-ADDING STAGES IMPACT CATEGORIES CR Strategy 2025 is under preparation In 2017 external frameworks including the Global Reporting Initiative, Greenhouse Gases Raw Materials & German Sustainability Code and Law Pollutants Processing on Implementing the CSR Guidelines Water Consumption Land Use were analyzed. In this light and as a result of the Otto Group’s diversification of its business portfolio (see p. 57), the 22 CR topic Social Risks Final Production areas were expanded to include three additional topics: corporate digiADDITIONAL TOPIC AREAS tal responsibility, impact investSince 2016 stakeholders have ment and sustainability awareness. evaluated other topic areas Additionally, an internal stakewhich cannot yet be quantified. Trade holder evaluation was performed. The In the most recent survey, the stakeholders also estimated the expanded findings are incorporated qualitative relevance for these topics. into the elaboration of CR Strategy 2025. Animal Welfare Recycling Customer Resource Efficiency OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 9 SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS ­INTEGRATED STRATEGICALLY The impACT management process provides for the implementation of ecological and social criteria in all Otto Group business models and processes. The CR Strategy 2020 is derived from the findings and is an element of the Group’s strategy. Its achievement of targets directly relates to the variable remuneration of the Group Executive Board. This is how sustainability is firmly ­embedded in the corporate group. CR STRATEGY 2020 AND OUTLOOK RESPONSIBILITIES AND STRUCTURES The CR Strategy 2020, approved in 2012, covers five To enable the Otto Group to provide holistic managesub-strategies. Its objectives include careful extraction and ment of sustainability, the responsible individuals from processing of raw materials (Textile, Furniture and Paper various positions and Group companies have been Strategy), factory conformity with societal standards in Final networked with one another. Under the direction of the CEO, Production (Social Programme) and reduction of the carbon Alexander Birken, the CR Board is the decision-making body footprint at its own sites in both procurement and distribuof greatest importance. The annual variable remuneration of tion transport (Climate Strategy). In the context of the CR the Group Executive Board is tied to attainment of the five Strategy 2020, strategic targets were modified for paper (55% CR Strategy 2020 goals among other things. Since 2014 the FSC®-certified catalogue paper by 2019, 60% by 2020) and Sustainable Supply Chain Management Board (SSCM Board), furniture (100% FSC®-certified furniture by 2025) strategy. consisting of managers and directors of the Group compaApart from this, CR Strategy 2025 targets will be derived nies generating the highest revenue, has been an important from the continued development of the impACT managebody. ment process (beginning on page 59). Within the Otto Group, the Corporate Responsibility division monitors sustainability actions across the Group, GROUP COMPANY INVOLVEMENT develops objectives and concepts and advises Group compaCR Strategy 2020 is being carried out by all major nies. Due to the Otto Group’s decentralized organisation Group companies headquartered in Germany and Austria structure, the managers of the individual Group companies (annual external revenue of more than EUR 100 million). hold responsibility for implementing the five sub-strategies These companies account for 57% of corporate revenues of the CR Strategy 2020. They receive support from CR coorand are responsible for approximately 80% of Otto Group’s dinators who are in constant contact with the Group’s CR ecological impact. While Frankonia has not met the requiredivision. ments of the textile strategy since 2017 and has thus been A restructuring of sustainability coordination will excluded from it, preparations are currently underway for take effect in financial year 2018/2019: The CR Board and the integration of new Group companies. SSCM Board will be merged into a cross-hierarchical deciIn addition, the principle foreign enterprises of Bonprix sion-making body. Decision-making responsibility will be (IT, USA, PL, FR) as well as Freemans Grattan Holdings (GBR) increasingly transferred to the operational level. and Crate and Barrel (USA and Canada) – have been integrated into CR Strategy 2020 since 2016. Due to their later COMMUNICATION WITH integration, the individual Group companies are following STAKEHOLDERS separate trajectories. For many years the Otto Group has engaged in dialogue with other sociopolitical players, and it is actively involved in policy debates on improvement of the environment and the working world. The Group provides transparency and invites OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 10 CR STRATEGY 2020 TEXTILE STRATEGY FURNITURE STRATEGY PAPER STRATEGY Target until 2020 SUSTAINABLE Target until 2025* Target until 2020 FSC®FSC®100% 100% 60% COTTON FOR CERTIFIED OWN AND CERTIFIED CATALOGUE LICENSED BRANDS FURNITURE PAPER 2016 target 2017 target 2016 target 2017 target 2016 target 2017 target achievement achievement achievement achievement achievement achievement 49% 78% 46% 52% 34% 43% SOCIAL PROGRAMME** CLIMATE STRATEGY DECENTRALISED MEASURES BY Target until 2020 INTEGRATED SUPTarget until 2020 REDUCTION GROUP COMPANIES 100% -50% PLIERS FOR OWN IN CO₂ AND ­LICENSED EMISSIONS BRANDS (compared to 2006) 2016 target 2017 target 2016 target 2017 target achievement achievement achievement achievement 80% 91% -36% -42% Those included in the CR Strategy 2020 displayed on page 61 of the 2016/17 Annual since the beginning are Baumarkt Direkt, Report. The five KPIs of the CR StratBaur, Bonprix, EOS, Frankonia, Heine, egy 2020 were audited by the independHermes, Mytoys, OTTO, Schwab/Sheego, ­ ent accounting firm Pricewaterhouse ­ Sportscheck, Unito and Witt-Gruppe. InforCoopers (PwC) in accordance with Internamation regarding criteria for inclusion of tional Standard on Assurance Engagements Group companies in the sub-strategies is (ISAE) 3000. * I n coordination with the FSC, the relevant NGOs and the accounting firm PwC, the Otto Group has pushed back the target year for 100% FSC-certified furniture from 2020 to 2025. This is due to a short supply of FSC-certified wood materials (particle board/MDF) in the German market. ** Frankonia, Mytoys and Unito are incorporated into the Social Programme, but their statistics on target attainment remain separately recorded and are not integrated into the Otto Group’s target achievement figures. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 11 critical feedback to clarify expectations and demands and In exchange with stakeholders – facilitate a steady transfer of knowledge. Besides involvethree examples ment by the impACT management process via online surveys and workshops, communication occurs through discussions Environmental Foundation in the context of events and segment initiatives. Michael Otto For almost 25 years the Environmental Foundation Michael Otto has paved Selected memberships and alliances the way for future-oriented solu> Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh tions in the areas of environmental (since 2013) protection and nature conservation. > amfori, formerly Foreign Trade Association = FTA Among others, it promotes the project (since 1985) F.R.A.N.Z. (the German acronym ‘Für > amfori BSCI, Business Social Compliance Initiative Ressourcen, Agrarwirtschaft & Natur(founding member since 2004) schutz mit ­Zukunft’ – in English, Pro> Sustainable Textile Alliance moting Resources, Farming and Nature (since 2015) Conservation with a Future) for greater > German Environmentally Sensititive Management biodiversity in farming. In addition, the Foundation was a key co-founder of Working Group (Bundesdeutscher Arbeitskreis für Umweltthe platform Foundations 20, an assobewusstes Management B.A.U.M.) ciation of over 30 international foun(since 1987) dations devoted to greater climate pro> Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative, CPI₂ tection and a global energy revolution. (founding member since 2012) > Fur Free Retailer, a program of the Four Paws organisation FSC® Vancouver Declaration (since 2014) In October 2017 the Otto Group signed the > Forest Stewardship Council Deutschland, FSC® Forest Stewardship Council’s® Vancouver (since 2006) Declaration, which seeks to expand wood > German Retail Association certification around the world. Among (Handelsverband Deutschland = HDE) other links, the declaration is tied to the UN’s global Sustainable Devel(member since 2009) opment Goals (SDGs). Its signatories > Biodiversity in Good Company Initiative commit themselves to responsible forest (founding member since 2008) management and a thoughtful handling > Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) Initiative of natural resources. (founding member since 2005) > Stiftung 2° – German Companies for Climate Protection (initiation and participation by Partnership between CPI2 and SAC Prof Dr Michael Otto since 2007) In 2017 the Otto Group’s sector-wide > Textile Exchange (member since 2006) initiative CPI2 formed a partnership > United Nations Global Compact, UNGC (since 2002) with the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), the most significant international platform for sustainable textile supply chain management. The common goal is to achieve synergies and reduce negative social and ecological impact on the global supply chain. The partnership has succeeded in expanding the use of the CPI2 tool for manufacturers and companies in the textile and footwear segments. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 12 RAW MATERIALS AND PROCESSING The Otto Group also keeps its eye on the initial value-adding stage, and depending on its potential influence, implements targeted measures where they can have greatest effect. With three sub-strategies of the CR Strategy 2020, the company contributes to sustainable extraction and processing of resources. Approximately 70 percent of the total ecological development above all is due to the established process of impact and social risks of the Otto Group’s business activprocuring cotton from the “Cotton made in Africa” (CmiA) ities occur in the first value-adding stage. The stakeholder initiative and the resulting increased use of this cotton by evaluation also indicate that the greatest relevance is seen Bonprix, OTTO and the Witt-Group. Beginning in 2018, the in social risks and pollution. In the examples of wood or proportion of recycled cotton will be included in the textile cotton, chemicals that can be harmful to humans and the strategy KPI. In this way, the Otto Group expects a further environment are introduced in the cultivation state and increase in the proportion of sustainable cotton by pursuing also used in the subsequent processing of textiles. The the utilization of recycled cotton and further expanding Otto Group is working intensively to extract raw materials CmiA procurement quantities for 2018. in a manner that protects the environment and to promote improved management of chemicals in manufacturing operations along the supply chain. MANAGEMENT OF CHEMICALS IN 2017 THE OTTO GROUP During the reporting period, the Otto Group developed PURCHASED NEARLY a holistic approach to handling chemicals that are primarily 28,000 TONNES OF managed by manufacturers employing wet processing technology in textile production. As a retailer, the corporation ­SUSTAINABLE COTTON. has limited options to influence the preliminary stages in the absence of direct contractual relationships. This leads to a focus on a partnership approach in imparting important STATUS FURNITURE STRATEGY knowledge and skills for using and managing chemicals. The The goal is the complete switch of own and licensed Otto Group therefore primarily relies on the power of the brands and strategically relevant third-party brands to artimany, seeking along with others (such as the Partnership cles coming from responsible forest management that have for Sustainable Textiles) to promote on-site improvements been certified under the standards of the Forest Stewardthrough a comprehensive training program on chemicals ship Council® (FSC®). Due to the short supply of FSC®-cermanagement or the use of CPI₂ tools, to cite two examples. tified wood-based materials (especially particle board) The online tool provides an action-oriented approach to in Germany, the target year was pushed back from 2020 improving use of energy, water and chemicals in factories. to 2025. In addition, the 10% proportion of FSC®-certified forest lands in Germany is relatively small. The Otto Group STATUS TEXTILE STRATEGY has therefore expanded its contact to FSC®, collaborating With its Textile Strategy, the Otto Group is pursuing at various levels of the organisation. For example, the Otto the goal of exclusively using sustainably grown cotton in Group has joined representatives of FSC® and other furniture its own and licensed brands by 2020. In 2017 the use of traders in a working group that promotes increased supply sustainable cotton rose to 78% (2016: 49%). This positive of and demand for FSC®-certified wood-based materials in OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 13 Germany. In 2017 the proportion of FSC®-certified wood used Cotton made in Africa by the Otto Group was 52% (2016: 46%). The slight increase Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) is an resulted from the expanded offering of FSC®-certified furniinitiative of the Aid by Trade Founture products by Heine and OTTO. dation, founded in 2005 by Prof Dr Michael Otto. Its goal: By building an alliance of textile companies that choose CmiA-certified cotton for their manufacturing, it supports self-help IN 2017 THE OTTO GROUP for African cotton farmers while proREDUCED ITS PAPER tecting the environment. CmiA provides instruction for small farmers, training CONSUMPTION FOR them in sustainable and efficient cotCATALOGUES AND ADton production; it stands up for children’s rights, promotes improved workVERTISING MATERIAL BY ing conditions for small farmers and APPROXIMATELY 10%. those who work in the cotton-processing industry in Africa, and supports female small farmers in their quest for greater independence. It rejects genetically altered seeds, pesticides STATUS PAPER STRATEGY labelled as dangerous by international With its Paper Strategy, the Otto Group intends to conventions, and the deforestation of expand the use of FSC®-certified paper for gravure and offset primary forest lands. In comparison printing of its catalogues and promotional materials. In the to conventional cotton, CmiA-certified reporting period, the increased target figure was reviewed cotton produces up to 40% lower greenand approved: By 2019 the proportion of FSC®-certified house gas emissions and saves around paper is targeted to reach 55%, by 2020 60% (previously 2,100 litres of water per kilo by global 50%). In 2017 the FSC® proportion amounted to 43% (2016: comparison through the elimination of 34%). The significant increase is attributed to the long-term artificial irrigation. In Tanzania and agreements worked out with suppliers by the OTTO Group Zambia, on-site cooperation with local cotton enterprises made it possible company, which accounts for the bulk of catalogue paper to develop accessible and inexpensive procurement within the Otto Group. options for effective organic crop protection. In 2017 over one million small farmers in nine African countries benefited from the initiative. They produced over 496,000 tonnes of sustainable cotton. From that quantity, the Otto Group received an amount equivalent to 27,156 tonnes. Example from practice BONPRIX: SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS In its product portfolio, Bonprix emphasizes FSC®-certified wood, CmiA and organic cotton, recycled cotton, recycled polyester and TENCEL®. CmiA cotton accounts for the largest share, currently meeting almost 80% of the total cotton need. Besides its increased utilization of sustainable materials, Bonprix also promotes transparent operations, collaborative approaches and technological innovations – with a focus on the manufacturing process area. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 14 Forest Stewardship Council® Example from practice The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) seeks to preserve woodlands. It acts to achieve BONPRIX: CleanDye this by protecting forests and promoting In the context of the “CleanDye” joint responsible forest management. The FSC® venture founded in 2017, Bonprix is coldefines uniform basic principles throughout laborating in the development of a facthe world. For example, long-term ownership tory in Vietnam. The plant will employ claims and usage rights regarding land and forest resources must be resolved. To be a revolutionary method to dye prodrespected as well are the legal and traucts with CO₂ instead of water. The carditional rights of indigenous groups conbon dioxide will be 95% recycled, the cerning ownership, usage and cultivation of methodology yields a water saving of land, territories and resources. Stringent around 25 litres per T-shirt, and the procriteria governing cultivation will prevent ject uses no process chemicals. The first deforestation, human rights violations and excessive environmental degradation. MeanCleanDye products will reach the marwhile, forest capacity remains unaffected. ket by the end of 2018. Through certification of the timber processing and trade chain from the forest to the retail market, more transparency for the consumer is assured. Sustainable cotton * (in tonnes) 2014 2015 2016 2017 Entire quantity of cotton 35,599 35,941 33,664 35,943 Organic cotton quantity 478 504 639 750 CmiA cotton quantity 3,405 9,225 15,913 27,156 Sustainable cotton proportion 11% 27% 49% 78% * Based on raw cotton procurement quantity. FSC®-certified furniture ** (articles) 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total furniture articles 56,350 49,694 58,527 62,270 Of those, number of FSC®-certified articles 18,688 21,281 26,829 32,229 in product portfolio Proportion of FSC®-certified articles 33% 43% 46% 52% in full product portfolio ** Since 2015 without OTTO Office. Paper consumption for catalogues and promotional materials *** (in tonnes) 2014 2015 2016 2017 Entire quantity 264,189 239,560 221,497 200,559 FSC® paper quantity 51,172 67,833 75,047 85,821 Proportion of FSC® paper 19% 28% 34% 43% *** Since 2015 without OTTO Office. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 15 FINAL PRODUCTION In the Final Production value-adding stage, products are finished and packaged for transport. The focus is on production facility working conditions in risk countries, where the Otto Group directs its attention to its Social Programme and forming collaborations. Through its Group companies, the goods, each of which defines social in legal regulations – for example, in Otto Group offers a wide range of artistandards. Beginning in mid-2018, the workplace safety and options for cles and works with a variety of direct to contribute to greater consistency improving social management systems and indirect suppliers. In addition, within the segment, the Otto Group were developed. approximately half the traded goods will adopt the amfori BSCI Code of are foreign brands – responsibility Conduct. GROUP DIRECTIVE for monitoring and complying with “SUSTAINABILITY IN human rights in such cases falls to the STATUS SOCIAL PROCUREMENT” brand manufacturers: In these collabPROGRAMME The internal “sustainability in orative arrangements, manufacturers Integrated into the program procurement” guideline specifies are required to comply with the Otto are all suppliers for own and licensed minimum social and ecological requireGroup Code of Conduct (CoC). Own and brands of the Group companies, that ments for overall sourcing of goods by licensed brands work through their own produce these goods in risk countries Group companies. Among other stipprocurement agencies or importers. (as defined in the amfori BSCI classiulations, it contains provisions for the Due to complex procurement strucfication*). This includes all suppliers use of animal-based and textile matetures, the Otto Group frequently has that submit valid and acceptable social rials, transparency and worker proteconly minimal influence on conditions audits or certifications for all production at production sites and chemical of production, electing for this reason tion facilities where goods are manustandards for final products. to collaborate closely with suppliers. factured on behalf of the Otto Group. The Social Programme, under continIn 2017 the Group Company SportsSIGNING THE uous development, aims to ensure check was added into the KPI. The “­BANGLADESH ACCORD” acceptable working conditions and share of suppliers integrated into the The Otto Group is a signatory to robust social management systems Social Programme was 91% for the the Accord on Fire and Building Safety at the production sites. In addition, reporting period (2016: 80%). Collabin Bangladesh, which regulates textile the Otto Group stresses the power of oration is terminated with suppliers factories. The accord contains mandasuch cooperative associations as the that do not guarantee the required tory regulations regarding indeBusiness Social Compliance Initiative transparency and do not apply the pendent inspections with publicly (amfori BSCI). corresponding standards. accessible reports and mandatory In 2017, 50 production facilities repair measures. It was signed in 2013 CODES OF CONDUCT in the principal procurement counand was written to expire after five According to its procurement tries of China, Turkey, India and Bangyears. During the reporting period structure, besides its Code of Conduct ladesh participated in the Otto Group’s the Otto Group signed the 2018 for merchandising goods, the Otto qualification program. Over a period of accord – containing an extension of Group has also introduced similar codes eight months, selected factory reprethe agreement until 2021. for services and non-merchandising sentatives were trained in changes * Amfori BSCI, Country Risk Classification: ( http://www.amfori.org/sites/default/files/amfori%20BSCI%20CRC%20V2018_HM_AD.pdf) OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 16 PARTNERSHIPS amfori BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) Partnership for Sustainable Textiles In 2004 the Otto Group helped to found the Business The Textile Partnership was founded in October 2014 Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), known today as amfori as an initiative of the German Federal Ministry for Economic BSCI. It brings together retailers and producers with the Cooperation and Development. It is a response to several goal of improving working conditions in the supply chain. accidents in textile factories in Bangladesh and Pakistan In March 2017 amfori BSCI and the Otto Group initiated the aimed at improving worldwide conditions for the textile multi-stakeholder forum “Protection of Syrian Labor Rights industry – from raw materials production to waste disposal in Turkey – A Business-Led Call for Supply Chain Action”. and recycling. Since 2015 the Otto Group is a member of the Syrian citizens in Turkey are regarded as ‘temporary’ refuTextile Partnership; at the start of 2017, in the context of gees with no legal access to work, education or health care. its participation in the Alliance, it distributed a road map As a result, many Syrians work illegally. The group’s objeclaying out objectives. The focus is on the areas of social and tives included developing solutions to integration, strengthchemicals management as well as natural fibres. A yearly ening legal protection and improving working conditions in report charts its attainment of these objectives. Dr Johannes the Turkish apparel industry. Merck, the Otto Group’s Vice President Corporate Responsibility, is one of four business representatives sitting on the Textile Partnership Steering Committee. Social Programme: Integration status and supplier performance Description 2017 Status: integrated 91% All of a supplier’s active factories have valid accepted accepted standards and assessments in place or they are 57% participating in the qualification program There are valid SA8000 certificates or amfori advanced BSCI audits with A or B scores in place for all of 21% a supplier’s active factories BSCI member Importer is a member of amfori BSCI 13% Status: not integrated 9% Not all of a supplier’s active factories have valid standnot accepted ards or assessments in place or the factory information 5% is not up-to-date Integration status still unclear since, for example, there no performance 4% is still no transparency regarding active factories Social Programme: Integration status and factory performance Description 2017 Status: integrated 95% There are valid accepted standards and assessments accepted 70% in place There are valid SA8000 certificates or amfori BSCI advanced 25% audits with A or B scores in place Status: not integrated 5% There are no valid accepted standards and assessments not accepted 5% in place OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 17 TRADE Elements of the value-adding stage Trade include procurement transport, warehousing and goods shipment. The social risks and ecological impacts are assessed by the stakeholders as significant. The main causes include transport-related emissions of greenhouse gases and particulate matter. In its Climate Strategy, the Otto Group is pursuing a reduction in CO₂ exhaust gases. Compliance with legal working conditions is being reviewed by the Group company Hermes Germany through the use of a certification system developed by SGS-TÜV Saar. Besides procurement and districoncepts. Especially through its plan to STATUS CLIMATE bution transport systems, the Trade switch its urban vehicle fleet to electric STRATEGY value-adding stage also includes activpower, Hermes has approved a target In its Climate Strategy, the Otto ities taking place at around 400 of its of delivering emissions-free in German Group pursues the goal of cutting in own sites in Germany. The Otto Group’s cities by 2025. half the adjusted CO₂ emissions from potential influence is especially high The Otto Group climate strategy its own sites, procurement and distriat this stage. Legal regulations on the aims to reduce CO₂ emissions by its bution transport and business travel horizon limiting pollutant emissions transports and onsite operations. To by 2020, using 2006 as the benchmark strengthen the need for action in the accomplish this, the Group has defined year. In 2017, emissions were reduced transport segment. Provisions such as a clear goal and implementation to 171,000 tonnes from 189,000 in the those restricting central city vehicle framework in which Group compaprevious year. Compared to the benchaccess present a challenge for retailers nies take action on their own. Even the mark year, this represents a reducand logistics service providers. The Otto direction and implementation of envition of 42% (2016: 36 %). On one hand, Group has already become involved ronmental management at individual this development is due to increased in the development of alternative sites is decentralized. energy efficiency and the shift from air Example from practice HERMES GERMANY: URBAN BLUE With its Urban Blue concept, the Corporation is striving to achieve its strategic objective of emission-free delivery of goods to the city centre areas of the 80 largest cities in Germany by 2025. Reaching this point involves such measures as a gradual changeover of its vehicle fleet to low-emission or emission-free drives, development of small, decentralized distribution centres and the use of eCargobikes. In November 2017 Hermes Germany, through a strategic partnership with Mercedes Benz Vans, launched the pilot phase featuring electric vans. Since spring 2018 a test of five Volkswagen e-Crafter vans is conducted. Following a successful pilot phase, the series production phase in around 40 German large cities will start at the beginning of 2019, until 2020 a total of 1500 electric vehicles should be in use. For its Urban Blue program Hermes Germany was honoured with the 2017 Hanse Globe – Hamburgs Award for sustainable logistics – in February 2018. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 18 Example from practice CRATE AND BARREL: COMPLETE CONVERSION TO LED An active partner in our climate strategy, the home furnishings and accessories specialty retailer Crate and Barrel has retrofitted all store sales floors with LED lighting. Similarly, the stores of their CB2 brand will be completely retrofitted in 2018. It is projected that energy efficiency from LED lighting at the stores will increase by 66%. Crate and Barrel brands are proactively working to ensure that all future stores are 100% LED – which would include the sales floor, back of the house and office space. cargo to lower-emission sea, road and include the careful use of natural company in the market to maintain rail transport of goods procured from resources like water and packaging an independent third-party-supported producing countries. On the other materials and responsible handling of auditing system. hand, purchases of high-quality certiwaste. What cannot be prevented is During the reporting period, 510 fied green electricity by Group comparecycled or properly disposed of. audits were performed on a total of nies in Germany (approximately 25% 367 active partners. Contracts were of the overall power need at these DEALING WITH terminated with five partners who sites) also contributed to reducing CO₂ CONTRACTORS FOR PARCEL were unable to meet auditing requireemissions. DELIVERY ments. Moreover, the auditing system At Hermes Germany parcel shiphas evolved to assign SGS-TÜV Saar to ENVIRONMENTAL ment is generally contracted to indeconduct more frequent and extensive PROTECTION AT THE SITES pendent partner entrepreneurs. Since audits of remuneration, working time The Otto Group carries out 2012 these have been monitored on a and subcontractor management. Since decentralized environmental manageregular basis for such issues as work2017, the established whistleblower ment through its individual sites. place security, remuneration, working system has been broadened to include At the current time, 17 of the sites time, quality and the environment by investigations of any shortcomings by included in this report maintain an an internal auditing team as well as partners, including those revealed in ISO 14001-certified environmental the SGS-TÜV Saar certification firm. unannounced special audits. management system. Environmental Hermes Germany thus continues management priorities at Group sites to be the first and only courier CO₂ emissions (in tonnes) Benchmark year (2006) 2015 2016 2017 Absolute in tonnes 296,200 245,891 231,679 221,732 Adjusted in tonnes 296,200 212,241 189,028 171,077 Reduction of adjusted CO₂ emissions – – 28 % – 36%* – 42% compared to 2006 * Updated site data resulted in a revision of this figure from – 34% to – 36% compared to the 2016/2017 Annual Report. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 19 CUSTOMER This value-adding stage includes environmental effects, above all those brought about by the use of power to operate electric devices and by the washing of textiles. Sustainable design and marketing of the product line can reduce these effects. For this reason, Group companies adopt customer-tailored measures to increase their awareness of sustainability when selecting and using their products. The entire product utilization effects, the Otto Group focuses on PROFESSIONAL RECYphase, ending with return, recycling designing its product portfolios in CLING/DISPOSAL OF ELECor disposal, falls into the Customer a more sustainable way. Although TRIC APPLIANCES value-adding stage. Internal and sustainable consumption addresses The Otto Group accepts the return external stakeholders assess this area social concerns, there is little consumer of electric appliances at the end of their as having a lower impact than the readiness to pay more for sustainproduct life – if the customer chooses to production of goods. Even so, over 10% ably produced and environmentally take advantage of this service – and the of overall climate gases and pollutants friendly products. Since the Corporate Group arranges for these to be profesare present in the utilization phase. companies market to divergent target sionally recycled or disposed of. Every By washing textiles, for example, groups, they differ from one another year the Group collects around 3% of chemicals penetrate into the water in the measures they employ to raise Germany’s electrical devices. This way it and the electricity used by washing awareness concerning sustainable can play a direct role in reducing harmful machines, dryers and pressing equipconsumption. ecological effects. ment is considerable. To reduce these Labelling of sustainable products According to surveys, shoppers fre69% OF ALL CONSUMquently feel overwhelmed by the amount ERS PAY ATTENTION TO of labels and stickers. To simplify customers’ familiarization process, variSUSTAINABILITY WHEN ous Group companies identify sustainable MAKING PURCHASES. products in a very clear manner – for example, by attaching the ‘GOODproduct’ label. This serves as a catch-all to Despite this, sustainable products continstand in for all seals and certificates ue to be a niche market, as evidenced by that indicate the added value of susorganic foods: The organic foods share tainability. Since the label was introof overall retail food revenues only duced by OTTO in July 2015, other Group amounted to 5.5% in 2017. companies including Baur, Heine, Schwab (Facit 2017, Statista 2018) and Unito have adopted it. In the same way, Bonprix developed the ‘sustainable product’ label. It indicates products made from materials or in manufacturing processes that meet high standards for protection of humans and the environment. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 20 Efficient large electrical appliances * 2014 2015 2016 2017 Quantity of large electrical appliances offered 2,876 2,030** 2,734*** 3058 Share of efficient large electrical appliances 68.9% 32.3%** 37.7%*** 35.9% in the total range * E  lectrical appliances are regarded as efficient when they are demonstrated to be more energy-efficient than average energy consumption figures in their product group (for example, cooling-freezing combinations in energy category A+++). ** C  riteria were tightened in the second semester of 2015 (for example, from A++ to A+++) and only data for the second semester were collected. *** Data for 2016 were corrected. Practical examples from OTTO: MAKE SPACE – WITH A HEART (IN GERMAN: PLATZ SCHAFFEN MIT HERZ) During financial year 2017/18 it was possible to bring new partners into this initiative to take back used clothing: Joining Witt, Baur and Mytoys this year are Lascana, Weight Watchers and Lillestoff. The principle is simple: Well-cared-for clothing articles and shoes can be sent via Hermes Germany at no cost to ‘Make Space – with a heart’. The initiative converts the clothing into cash donations, sending the proceeds to organizations such as Conservation Alliance Germany, World Hunger Assistance or Cotton made in Africa. OTTO NOW The internal startup company is based on the concept of leasing instead of purchasing and has concluded thousands of lease agreements since its founding in 2016. OTTO Now initially focused its business on selected multimedia devices, household electronics and sports equipment. Since then, the product range has been extended to over 100 articles. Lessees usually return the products to OTTO Now in very good condition, allowing them to be leased again. CLIMATE PROTECTION ON THE DOORSTEP OTTO provides regular support for a climate protection project to restore the moors of Jasmund National Park on the Island of Rügen. As a significant carbon reservoir, moors play a major role in protecting the climate. OTTO and its longtime partner, the Mountain Forest Project association (in German: Bergwaldprojekt e.V.), have the goal of restoring the park’s most important moors almost to their natural state by 2020. Through the raising of the moors’ water table, around 33 tonnes of CO₂ can be avoided, amounting to over 1,600 tonnes of CO₂ in the next 50 years. The climate protection effort also impacts OTTO customers. Besides supporting the climate protection project, customers are given incentives through regular promotional campaigns to purchase highly energy-efficient large home appliances. By exchanging older appliances, customers are contributing to an annual savings of over 3,600 tonnes of CO₂. This creates a twofold climate projection impact. OTTO G R O U P — UN Global Compact COP 2017/18 21
