Delivering shared value in the world of work Sustainability Review 2017 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Delivering Our vision is to ensure that people across the globe are inspired, shared value in motivated, prepared and developed to embrace the world of work the future of work. Our working lives are changing and creating new opportunities in the world of work today and tomorrow. As the leading HR solutions partner, we embrace this exciting, ever-evolving journey. Our goal is to give security and prospects for individuals and provide companies with the critical talent and solutions to stay competitive. At the Adecco Group, unlocking potential is at the heart of everything we do. 2017 performance highlights Organic revenue growth EBITA1 margin excluding Gross margin 1 EBITA is a non-US GAAP measure and refers to operating income one-offs before amortisation and impairment 6% 4.9% 18.4% of goodwill and intangible assets. 2 Cash conversion is a non-US GAAP measure and is calculated as free cash flow before interest and tax paid divided by EBITA excluding one-offs. Free cash flow is a non-US GAAP Growth accelerated, driven Continued performance, Price and mix effects in measure and is calculated as cash by strong performances in while investing for the future temporary staffing not flows from operating activities less capital expenditures. most European markets fully mitigated 3 For 2017, as proposed by the Board of Directors. Cash conversion2 Dividend per share3 Share buyback programme 80% CHF2.50 EUR150m Strong underlying cash flow, An increase of 4% year on Returning excess capital to reflecting revenue growth year and representing a shareholders, in line with our acceleration and working 46% payout ratio capital allocation policy capital investment Great Place to Work® IOC and IPC Athlete Win4Youth CEO for 1 Month ranking Career Programmes 2nd 7,000 49,814 117,222 Out of >6,000 participating Elite athletes supported Participants swam, ran and Young people engaged multinational companies with career training and cycled for Win4Youth in for 2017, a 113% growth employment in 2017 2017, positively impacting since 2016 the lives of young people around the world MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Embracing sustainability at the heart of our work Making the future work young women and men to gain experience social innovation lab to create, pilot and scale and skills that companies desire and our up new prototype products, services or ways for everyone is about Athlete Career Program has since its inception of doing business that marry both social and empowering people and enabled over 40,000 athletes to pursue their business value and drive transformation in the sport ambitions while developing essential employment realm. organisations to reach their skills to enter the workforce. The Foundation has two main areas of focus: full potential in the world This gives us a stable base from which work readiness for the underserved whose of work, thus fuelling to launch a more integrated approach skills and potential are often overlooked, economies and enriching to sustainability and unleash shared value creation across our business. By embedding and workforce vitality, finding solutions to nurture a workforce that is healthy, resilient societies. policies and practices across the Group, and fit for purpose. We want to inspire a step and demonstrating the business and social change in the world of work, creating impact At the Adecco Group, it is our aim to be the value we can generate, we can ensure staying across our industry, our clients, and the world’s most trusted HR solutions partner. power and lasting impact. workforce at large. We aspire to positively influence the world of work and lead by example in how we Our new approach is comprised of the Our ambition is to marry social value conduct our business. We are evolving following two complementary building blocks. with sustainable business to create towards a fully integrated approach to a compelling driver of differentiation and First, we have taken the decision to evolve from sustainability and demonstrating that shared innovation, and sustainable value for all our a more traditional, compliance-focused CSR value creation is a driver of good business. stakeholders. By living up to our purpose and approach to a broader culture of sustainability This aim is underscored by our continued values and integrating them into how and why which incorporates environmental, social and commitment to the important principles of we do business, we can make the future work governance (ESG) components across all the UN Global Compact. for everyone. departments. Our global business strategy of The business case for an integrated approach Perform, Transform, Innovate will be informed is compelling: it builds bridges with the by ESG considerations that are business critical societies in which we operate, it drives new for today’s world. opportunities and innovation, and it gives To identify and prioritise the most relevant us a differentiating, competitive edge in our factors, we are conducting a full materiality industry. Our clients, associates, employees, Alain Dehaze analysis of our business, harnessing the investors and society at large are increasingly insights, experiences and ideas from a broad Chief Executive interested in the social and environmental set of internal and external stakeholders. Officer impact of our business, our approach to The findings from this comprehensive and governance and ethical practices, and our very inclusive process will then directly inform contribution to sustainable development as the development of the Group’s first global well as to economic growth. sustainability strategy in Q4 2018. We have a solid history of corporate social Our second building block is the Adecco responsibility (CSR) activities and highly Group Foundation – the next generation in successful social impact programmes. Our corporate foundations. Founded in December CEO for One Month and Experience Work 2017, the Foundation is uniquely designed as a Day initiatives have enabled thousands of The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 1 THE ADECCO GROUP AT A GLANCE The world’s leading HR solutions partner We provide more than 700,000 people with permanent and flexible employment every day. By providing our clients with an integrated package of the talent, HR services and cutting-edge technology they need to succeed in an ever-changing global economy, we transform the world of work one day at a time. We lead by example, creating shared value that meets social needs while driving business innovation. Our culture of inclusivity, fairness and teamwork empowers individuals and organisations, fuels economies, and builds better societies. 5% Japan Our global footprint North Japan 4% Latin America 3% Eastern Europe & MENA Contribution to Group revenues and Rest America: 2% Asia of World: 2% Australia & 19% More than 17% New Zealand 1% India 34,000 full time equivalent employees 23% France 9% UK & Ireland 100,000+ Europe: 62% 9% Germany, Austria, Switzerland 9% Benelux & Nordics clients 8% Italy 4% Iberia Over 700,000 Lee Hecht Harrison1: 2% associates on assignment daily Workforce Professional Recruitment Talent Development MSP & RPO​ Solutions & Solutions & Career Transition We provide candidates with We support our clients in We offer services under the We offer full HR outsourcing generalist skills to small, medium finding and attracting talent with global brand Lee Hecht Harrison, solutions, including MSP and large clients, mainly through professional and highly soughtproviding solutions to large and and RPO, through Pontoon, a temporary staffing, permanent after skills. Our global lead brands small clients around the world. global leader in contingent and placement and outsourcing in Professional Staffing & Solutions General Assembly is a pioneer in permanent workforce acquisition services. Workforce Solutions are: Badenoch & Clark, Modis, education and career transformation and talent advisory solutions operates across all sectors, Spring Professional and YOSS. that offers accelerated learning across all industries. under the global Adecco brand. programs in high-demand 21st-century digital skills. Contribution to Group Contribution to Group Contribution to Group Contribution to Group revenues: revenues: revenues: revenues: 76% 21% 2% 1% 1 Lee Hecht Harrison is reported as a global business line 2 The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 OUR AGENDA FOR THE FUTURE The changing world of work The world of work is changing rapidly, with opportunities and implications for all. The Adecco Group is committed to helping our candidates, associates and clients to successfully navigate this uncertain environment and to ensure that our own organisation is fit for purpose. There are six megatrends that shape the world For example, skills imbalances are creating We are also offering innovative solutions that of work: geopolitical and economic uncertainty; barriers to entry in the labour market for help individuals and companies successfully the gig economy; skills imbalances; a new young people around the world and we adapt to the megatrends, including services demographic mix; automation, AI and machine are already responding. In 2017, we offered such as YOSS – a revolutionary platform learning; and digitisation, big data and analytics. over 11,000 work-based learning opportunities enabling flexible connections between to young women and men to help them acquire freelancers and clients, coupled with quick Each of these megatrends has implications for the experience that companies desire. CEO payments and the opportunity to opt in to our sustainability as a business and demands for One Month attracted interest from more social benefits. a strategic, integrated response, either directly than 117,000 young people in 2017. The through evolving our operations or through We will continue to develop effective, companion programme, Experience Work the social innovation projects of the Adecco sustainable programmes and services that Day, provided more than 9,000 young people Group Foundation. support our customers and business through in 46 countries with valuable mentoring in the transformation ahead. accessing the world of work from Adecco Group experts. Six megatrends shaping the world of work There are six factors that are transforming the global labour market today. Our approach to sustainability will seek to address the impact of these megatrends in an increasingly integrated way. Geopolitical & The ‘gig’ Skills New Automation, Digitisation, economic economy imbalances demographic AI & machine big data uncertainty mix learning & analytics Flexibility and People are choosing New jobs require new Populations are Combining New distribution agility are the key to work ‘gigs’ – skills, which remain ageing and the automation with channels and to prospering in performing shorter in short supply. workforce is shrinking flexible HR solutions data-driven business an uncertain and tasks or services – A new approach in many countries, will drive a step models are emerging fast-changing world. instead of traditional to education, and leading to talent change in productivity. as HR solutions Having the right full-time jobs. Online especially up-skilling shortages. Individuals While automation go digital. skills ‘on-demand’ platforms are helping and re-skilling, must are choosing to work may replace some is becoming the to efficiently match be embraced if the in ‘retirement’, often jobs, many new ones new normal. supply and demand. economy and society flexibly. Millennials will be created. are to prosper. expect different Helping people things from their successfully transition careers. will be key. Read more about the megatrends at www.adeccogroup.com The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 3 OUR APPROACH Evolving our approach in line with a changing world As the leader in our industry, we are committed to making the future work for everyone. We see sustainability as a competitive asset for our company and as a tool for positive change in the world of work. We are thus taking action to move over time towards an approach that fully integrates sustainability in the way we do business. While complying with environmental, social Understanding our material issues This strategy will set the baseline for our and governance requirements is an important journey towards seeking to fully integrate Before we can fully embrace an integrated part of being sustainable, it is only the sustainability as a modus operandi across business approach to sustainability, we beginning. As part of our Perform, Transform, our brands, operations and territories in the need to better understand the impact of Innovate strategic agenda, we are keen to next few years. We want to drive a change our activities, the needs of our stakeholders, build on this foundation and transition to a in culture that aims to position us as the and to assess our current performance way of doing business that actively embraces long-term leader in our industry. The goal is across a range of environmental, social and sustainability. We have made impressive to develop a strategy that each of our 37,000 governance benchmarks. steps forward in some important areas such employees around the world can understand as governance or employee satisfaction – for In 2018, we are conducting a full, independent and adopt in their day-to-day work, by clearly example, we achieved second place in the materiality analysis of our business and the identifying areas where we can create the most global Great Place to Work ranking in 2017. broader context in which we operate, from the shared value for our industry and society. But we also know there are areas where we social megatrends and market and regulatory In line with this approach, we will also carry can further advance our activities. developments affecting our business, to our on with our efforts to continuously strengthen own management practices and operations. how and what we measure and report on, The results of this analysis will be validated consistent with best practice standards on through engagement with a broad range of integrated reporting. internal and external stakeholders, and will form the foundation for our new global sustainability strategy for the Group. Sustainability is central to business success Sustainability as a Moving from a culture of Setting an example as competitive force compliance to integrated the market leader sustainability Sustainability has become a key The Adecco Group is moving towards a culture As the global leader in HR solutions, we see differentiator for businesses as all of fully integrated sustainability, building on it as our duty and an opportunity to set an stakeholders demand a more sustainable our existing success in CSR to positively example for sustainability and social value economy and as business leaders see the transform the way we do business. creation in our industry, and beyond. long-term value in sustainable practices. 4 The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 Empowering people Attracting, growing and retaining people who are passionate about our purpose is a core strategic priority for the Adecco Group. As a people business, we must set an example as a centre of excellence when it comes to the development and satisfaction of our own employees. We are also working hard to ensure we continuously advance our approach in the areas of human and labour rights, diversity and inclusion. Our people compared to less than 50% in 2016. We As part of our efforts to enable our people monitor retention rates to ensure we are to flourish and perform in an entrepreneurial The success and well-being of our colleagues keeping the right talent to fuel the future work environment, in 2017, we launched a job is a core aim of our company strategy and success of the company. mapping project to better manage and enable vital for the success and well-being of rewards, performance and development. our organisation. To help our colleagues reach their potential, we develop individual career plans for all of We strive to provide an inspiring place of Employee satisfaction our employees, based on the 70:20:10 guiding work through equal access to opportunities We strive to offer our employees meaningful ratio for learning and development. Under and creating a culture of inclusivity, lifetime employment. In 2017, we placed this principle, 70% of learning comes from purpose and recognition, supported by second in the World’s Best Multinational on-the-job experience, 20% from specific engagement programmes such as CEO Workplaces list of the global Great Place to guidance, and 10% from behavioural, technical for One Month and Win4Youth. Work® Trust Index©, out of more than 6,600 or competency-based training. companies, up from seventh place in 2016. Human and labour rights The Adecco Group Academy offers our We also ranked second in the 2017 Best The Adecco Group places a strong employees in-person courses in management, Workplaces in Europe. The independent emphasis on respecting and supporting performance, service, sales, operations, IT survey measures the level of trust, pride, human and labour rights. We have committed and soft skills, alongside a global exchange and camaraderie within workplaces. to high industry standards and joined programme, mentoring and coaching. In 2017, voluntary initiatives such as the UN Guiding Our exceptional performance underlines we invested in online learning solutions such Principles of Business & Human Rights, the emphasis we place on helping our people as language training, business book summaries the OECD Guidelines for Multinational to enjoy their work, reach their potential and and cross-cultural training. Enterprises, the Global Forum on Migration to find a healthy work-life balance. Factors and Development, and the ILO Global contributing to this top two ranking include Business and Disability Network. our inclusive and flexible culture, employees Great Place to feeling empowered and trusted by Work® Ranking We also offer our staff training through management, our accessible learning and the Global Adecco Compliance and Ethics career development opportunities, an inspiring programme to augment our Code of Conduct leadership that shows ethical management 2nd 2nd and human rights policy, and have established practices, and our purpose and social 5th a 24/7 Adecco Compliance & Ethics Hotline 7th programmes. We expanded the survey to 43 and Reporting Line. countries and across our global business lines, 13th representing almost 95% of our employees. Employee training & development Introduced in 2016, our talent framework 2015 Europe ranking 2016 Europe ranking 2017 Europe ranking 2016 World ranking 2017 World ranking is built on five pillars – Get, Keep, Grow, Enable, Inspire. The first two elements focus on attracting and retaining the best people in our industry. In 2017, more than 9,000 new employees across the globe joined the Adecco Group and we filled the majority of senior leader roles with internal candidates, The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 5 OUR APPROACH Diversity & Inclusion Gender distribution of the Adecco Group employees There are numerous studies that show diverse workforces are more effective and versatile. The Adecco Group believes diversity and inclusion should be embedded across the world of work. Building a culture of inclusivity in the business world has knock-on positive Branch effects for society and the economy, fostering CEO-1-2 management All understanding between diverse groups and bringing different perspectives and attributes to the workplace to enrich and enhance performance. Female: 34% Female: 57% Female: 65% Male: 66% Male: 43% Male: 35% We are also taking steps to improve access to the top jobs, with 34% of roles Athlete Career Programme listed as Global Leadership positions currently filled by women. In line with our company purpose to make the future work for everyone, we are striving to improve access for all in the world of work, starting with our own company. For example, 57% of branch managers are female and two thirds of our global team is female. We are also taking steps to improve access to the top jobs: 34% of roles listed as Global Leadership positions are currently filled by women, as well as 20% of the positions reporting to Executive Committee members. We want to create a workplace where every employee feels valued, regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, social background or physical attributes. 2017 saw the inaugural Adecco Group Global Sport and Inclusion Day, with 49 countries, 2,474 colleagues and 70 Under the Group, but aligned with the We also started thought leadership projects professional athletes taking part in activities aims of the Foundation, the Athlete Career with the European Union, focusing on designed to put the spotlight on inclusion in Programme (ACP) supports Paralympic, supporting athletes to build a business the workforce. We partnered with Olympic Olympic and other elite athletes with career career alongside their sporting career. and Paralympic athletes to create physical training and employment. From workshops activities that promoted inclusion, healthy A certification for athlete-friendly to individual advice, the programme lifestyles and work-life balance. companies was launched in Switzerland – supports these athletes as they build the LSFAG (Leistungssportfreundlicher employable skills alongside their athletic Arbeitgeber) – attracting companies such as careers. Since its inception, the ACP has SBB, Swiss Air and EuropCar, and offering a reached more than 40,000 athletes from prototype for scaling across other countries. over 185 countries, including 7,000 in 2017. Going forward we plan to expand the In 2017, the 8th IOC ACP Forum was held ACP network of countries, increase in Beijing, offering a unique opportunity for work placements, establish a mentorship more than 80 participants to exchange programme, increase alumni engagement best practices, gain from global learnings, and explore how the methodology could be and refine the strategy to continue to adapted for other target audiences. enhance the programme. Watch the video at adeccogroup.com 6 The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 Operating responsibly The Adecco Group is working toward a culture that consistently integrates sustainability and responsible business practices across the company. Business conduct Data security EcoVadis recognized our sustainability As we are focusing our efforts on creating a The protection of personal data has become performance with a Gold Rating sustainability-informed approach to business, one of the defining challenges of the digital we have already taken steps to ensure we age. The HR solutions industry stores the conduct our business in an ethical way. Our data of millions of workers and companies, Group Code of Conduct, internal policies demanding a strict approach to data security. in March 2018 and guidelines go beyond legal requirements, As the industry leader, our customers, covering areas such as legal, human resources, associates and employees trust us to protect accounting, tax and supply chain. A Group their data. We have updated all of our critical policy on bribery and corruption was data security policies and protocols to comply Responsible sourcing implemented, supported by risk assessments, with new EU data regulations. Our Global To create a truly sustainable business in training, due diligence and audit tests. We are Data Protection Policy enforces the protection the coming years, we must equally ensure a signatory to the World Economic Forum’s of data while a Global Data Protection that our suppliers operate in a sustainable Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. Programme keeps track of data protection way and meet the same high standards that laws around the world to ensure our All of our employees take part in compliance we set ourselves. Our existing Supplier Code compliance. Each employee has to complete and ethics training, covering areas such as of Conduct outlines the ethical, social and a mandatory training to help us keep privacy fair competition, data protection, conflicts of governance standards we expect our suppliers at the heart of our culture. interest and insider trading. We also operate a to adhere to. Since 2015, we have worked with 24-hour telephone hotline and an independent EcoVadis, which provides supplier sustainability Health and safety reporting tool for individuals to report ratings, to manage and monitor our supply potential wrongdoing. While we cannot directly control the chain risks. environments that our associates work in, we Risk management expect our clients to ensure the highest safety standards are in place and that all employees Our risk management process is used to have the correct training and equipment. More avoid and mitigate risks and to identify new than 80% of Adecco Group countries and opportunities, improve services and unlock brands conduct client site visits and monitoring shared value. Through risk identification, risk measures to ensure temporary staff are safe analysis, risk mitigation and monitoring, we at work. In about a third of our countries, we have created a risk management culture across provide health and safety training for clients the Group. Our enterprise risk management so that workers are properly equipped to avoid system measures strategic and operational accidents at work. risks, with regular assessments at national and international level. The key business risks we currently face include the economic environment, client, associate and employee attraction and retention, information technology, changes in the regulatory, legal and political environment, compliance with laws, disruptive technologies, and data protection. If we identify the risk of contributing to any adverse impact in the area of human and labour rights, we are committed to taking all steps necessary to cease or prevent such a negative contribution and to minimise any impacts through our broader stakeholder relationships. The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 7 OUR APPROACH The environment The largest component of our greenhouse Our Environmental Guidelines define our gas footprint is business travel, followed by We have set a goal of electricity consumption. commitment to a more environmentally reducing our average CO2 friendly way of working, and environmental We are continuously seeking ways to further ratings and performance form an important reduce the consumption of resources. equivalent emissions by part of the pre-financial indicators we For example, our GrowTogether business 12% by 2022, monitoring monitor at Group level. We have set a goal of reducing our average CO2 equivalent transformation programme is digitising paper-intensive processes such as the our progress through the emissions by 12% by 2022, monitoring our management of candidate timesheets. myclimate database. progress through the myclimate database. Total CO2 emissions (metric tonnes, scopes 1, 2 & 31) Greenhouse gas efficiency performance: Average CO2 emissions (metric tonnes, scopes 1, 2 & 31) 5.06 4.39 3.95 3.99 3.93 149,127 137,179 131,323 137,394 144,914 3.15 151,543 3.58 146,031 161,989 2.78 2.75 112,513 2.64 2.46 2.44 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2022 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2022 Scopes 1, 2 & 3 Actual per million EUR revenues Scopes 1, 2 & 3 incl. mobility infrastructure (since 2015) Actual per FTE Target (based on 2012: minus 12% by 2022) Target per million EUR revenues Target per FTE 2017 Greenhouse Gas emissions split by scope1 2017 Greenhouse Gas emissions split by source Scope 1: 37% Electricity (scopes 2 & 3): 27% Scope 2: 20% Business cars Scope 3: 43% (scopes 1 & 3): 55% Air travel (scope 3): 16% IT equipment (scope 3): 2% Paper and toner (scope 3): 1% 1 Scopes The GHG split indicates Adecco Group’s environmentally most material issues: Scope 1: All direct CO2 emissions 1 Mobility: business cars and air travelling: highest impact with 68%. Scope 2: Indirect emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam 2 Electricity consumption: high impact with 29%. Scope 3: Other indirect emissions such as from purchased goods (paper, computers), 3 Office supply (paper & toner) and IT equipment: reasonable impact or transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the Group with 2%, each. (e.g. air-travelling). 8 The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 SOCIAL INNOVATION The Adecco Group Foundation In December 2017, we launched the Adecco Group Foundation – a pioneering model for corporate foundations that will act as a social innovation lab to unleash shared value in the world of work. The Adecco Group Foundation is our first •• Work readiness for underserved populations: global foundation and our industry’s first Every day, the Group places over 700,000 Through the Foundation, programme-based foundation focused on people in work. However, many other creating social impact in the employment individuals struggle to access the labour we aim to design, test and space. It builds on the long history of social market and their potential is untapped. roll out new models and value creation by our four national foundations We will look at three main categories: (Spain, Italy, France and Germany) and ways of working that •• Young people, especially those not numerous local programmes. Through the in education, employment or training. benefit society. Foundation, we aim to design, test and roll out •• People in transition from one part of new models and ways of working that benefit the workforce to another such as society, with the potential to create ripples of refugees, people with visible and impact across our industry, our clients and the invisible disabilities or athletes moving workforce at large. from sport into the business world. The Foundation is focused on two •• Mature workers, a growing and complementary topics: valuable segment of the workforce who may be overlooked. Since 2010 raised Win4Youth Bootcamp €2.5m for youth charities In 2017, 49,814 participants logged 7,328,932km resulting in a donation of CHF 500,000 Win4Youth The Win4Youth programme encourages the Adecco Group’s core values: team spirit, We have also partnered with colleagues, associates and clients to responsibility, passion, entrepreneurship, Plan International as the global charity participate in athletic activities to make and customer centricity. partner to improve the social impact of a long-lasting difference to young people this programme on youth unemployment Since 2010, Win4Youth has raised EUR 2.5 across the world: every kilometre and hour around the world. In addition, the million for youth charities. In 2017, 49,814 of any sport is converted to charitable Foundation and Plan International will participants logged 7,328,932km resulting funding, supporting select charities in their work together to find innovative solutions in a donation of CHF 500,000 divided vital work to improve young people’s lives, to other challenges faced by young people among six charities. education and employment prospects. entering the workforce. It also improves the well-being of the participants themselves and reinforces The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 9 SOCIAL INNOVATION •• Workforce vitality: Making the future The Foundation also houses our current work for everyone goes beyond connecting flagship social programmes Win4Youth By joining forces to showcase workers with employers. The workforce must and CEO for One Month. Through the be healthy, resilient and fit for purpose, with expertise of the Adecco Group Foundation, shared value creation and special attention to nutrition and mental we aim to scale up these programmes to how it is embedded in the well-being to create a holistic approach to increase impact and inclusivity, unlock supporting people. It means tackling issues potential and drive social value creation.​ Group, the Foundation and such as burn out, work-life balance, social sustainability can strengthen engagement and purpose. It is our aim to find solutions that enable companies to create social value as a competitive a supportive environment by examining the asset for the company. role of the employer and the expectations of employees. CEO for One Month Now housed under the Adecco Group Foundation as part of its efforts to improve work readiness among underserved populations, CEO for One Month is our global programme that seeks to positively impact the lives of young people, by preparing them for future employment, and equipping them with the skills and experience necessary to succeed in the world of work. CEO for One Month This rapidly growing global programme offers young people the opportunity to develop and showcase their leadership potential, to learn what it takes to succeed as a business leader, and to acquire the skills and experience needed to get a foot on the career ladder. Ed Broadhead speech At national level, the programme selects one successful candidate from the In 2017, the programme attracted a record Experience Work Day application pool shadowing the relevant 117,222 interested candidates. A testament This companion programme is designed to Adecco Group’s country-level CEO for one to the programme’s success in helping young give young people a taste of the world of month, working side by side to experience people transition into work, numerous work to help them make their first move into and participate in the life of a senior participants go on to join the Adecco Group, the labour market. In 2017, more than business leader. Outstanding national including last year’s winner Ed Broadhead. 4,000 Adecco Group team members participants are then selected for a global We plan to increase the reach of the mentored more than 9,000 young people boot camp to decide an outright winner – programme to involve a broader cross-section across 46 countries the Global CEO for One Month – who will of society, to establish an alumni community, for a day of meaningful work experience. work alongside the Adecco Group CEO and to increase engagement with all applicants We plan to offer a broader range of work Alain Dehaze for one month. so they get value and skills from the moment experiences in the future alongside a they apply, including becoming part of a talent high-quality mentorship programme. pipeline for the Group and its clients. 10 The Adecco Group – Sustainability Review 2017 About this Report Addresses This is our twelfth Sustainability Review (previously published as Registered office “Corporate Social Responsibility Report”), disclosing publicly our Adecco Group AG approach on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts Bellerivestrasse 30 material to the company and our stakeholders. This report is also CH-8008 Zurich submitted as our Communication on Progress (CoP) to the UN Global Compact of which we are a signatory since 2003. Contact details Adecco Group AG Our Sustainability Review is complementing and building on what Bellerivestrasse 30 was published in March 2018 in our Annual Report under the chapters CH-8008 Zurich “Material Factors Impacting on Our Business”, “Our People” and T: +41 44 878 88 88 “The Foundation”. We continuously seek to understand the concerns of our key internal and external stakeholders, while taking into account Investor Relations global and industry key trends to prioritise what matters to be a T: +41 44 878 89 89 sustainable and successful business which adds value to the world E: investor.relations@adeccogroup.com of work. adeccogroup.com/investors With regards to our performance, we are measuring data from our Press Office largest markets and regions, as outlined on page 2 of this report. T: +41 44 878 87 87 E: press.office@adeccogroup.com In line with the evolution of our sustainability approach as outlined on page 4, we will also carry on with our efforts to continuously The Adecco Group online strengthen how and what we measure and report on, consistent https://www.adeccogroup.com with best practice standards on integrated reporting. https://www.adeccogroup.com/sustainability/ Find out more online adeccogroup.com
