BR GOODS® REPORT COMPROMISE WITH THE UN GLOBAL PACT The Global Pact advocates ten universal Principles taken from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, from the Declaration of the International Labor Organization on Fundamentals Principles and Rights at Work, from the Rio’s Declaration of Environment and Development and from the Convention of United Nations Against Corruption. This report has the main objective to inform how do we act in our daily lives with these principals and be a support base to begin with our work to amplify this support. HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. The ​Br Goods® implemented your own Ethical Code in 2014 that’s establish the respect and treatment for all employees with equal opportunities of job to all people regardless of race, color, nationality, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation or any other factor. The ​Br Goods® does not tolerates any form of arrestment in any sense as: jokes, insults, treads and any kind of undesirable behavior that makes reference to race, color, gender, age, religion, nationality, ancestry, citizenship, disability, social status, economics status and scholarship. Behaviors or insinuations of sexual character, sexual favors, verbal attitudes, physical attitudes of sexual nature, or exhibition of objects and images with sexual connotation. Verbal and physical conduct that disturb the performance of other employee or any conduct that creates fear or hostility in the work environment. To evidence the Human Rights, the ​Br Goods® honor and respect all the members that chosen to work for the company. Privacy of the employees and personal information only will be collect and proceed for business reasons and always being in conformity with the applicable legislation. The access of personal information of the employees is restrict, only persons with legal rights are capable to deal with them and yet, only when it’s necessary to execute the person’s work. The employees that deals with personal information are regularly remind to be aware of their responsibility to protect that information. To read more details follow the link of the ​Br Goods® Ethical Code (​http://www.brgoods.com.br/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/C%C3%B3digo-de-Etica-e-Cond uta-2.pdf​). 2. Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses​. The ​Br Goods® despite to count with only 21 officials contributors, has one entire Human Rights Department that follows the team work and takes corrective or punitive actions when identifies any actives that may disrespect the ​Br Goods® Code of Conduct. Furthermore, the company has the ​ISO 9001 since 2014 wich monitors activities in this area, (​http://www.brgoods.com.br/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/23.068_14-Certificado-15_09_18-R enova%C3%A7%C3%A3o.pdf​). LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The ​Br Goods® in the own Ethical Code establishes the respect and well treatment of all the employees as the freedom of each one to join or not associations and organizations legally constituted. The ​Br Goods® follow all the collective agreements of syndicates of the category, adjusting annularity the payments, perks and benefits established. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. The ​Br Goods® follow the collective agreement in the category of 44 hours of weekly work with remunerate rest according the Brazilian present legislation, furthermore in the own Ethical Code establishes Compensatory time policy to offer to employer and employee some flexibility on the work relationship, in reason of the economics variation and of market or bigger need of production or service that does not burden the payment sheet and either compromises the job since observed the legal demands. It will be permit the compensatory time following the prerogatives: ● it is not allowed the habitually use of compensatory time, it may be used in sporadic days or punctual tasks; ● Collectives hours arising from mobility must be previously agreed by employee and the supervisor (amount of hours and deduction form); ● Maximum daily average of work journey to be included in the compensatory has a limit of 2 hours, in the case of exceed these two hours limit, the extra, as well the 2 hours, will be considered as compensatory time and the employee may start work after eleven hours of rest in the next day (according to the Consolidation of Labour Laws); ● It will be kept by the company the individual control of the balance of the compensatory time, as well the access and monitoring of the balance by the employee party; ● It will be payment for the balance of the compensatory time when it are not compensated until the limit of one year or whenever have rescission of work contract; ● Only will be included at the compensatory time sheet values equal or superior then 30 minute; ● It will be paid compensatory time sheets above 30 hours, this mean that the positive balance equal or bigger than 30 hours will be paid in payment sheets or rest until 30 hours in the next month of closure (in the case of the balance be bigger than the cumulative difference to the next closure of 30 hours), the negative balance from 30 hours will not be accept to include it in the compensatory time sheet, instead of it, it will be discounted in the payment sheet as agreed with supervisor; ● The control of due hours or performed hours will be request through the report named “hours request” that need to be duly approved by the superior with the right of common agreement with the employee. The deadline to give it is until the day 26 in every month because the closure are made every day 25 in each month, after the deadline any request will be accepted; ● It will not be included any additional hours in the compensatory time sheet with the exception when these are financially agreed. 5. The effective abolition of child labour The ​Br Goods® does not employ childish labor in the employees board and permanently spread to the contributors the importance of the participation in the child education and in keep children in the school. To 2019 the ​Br Goods® pretends to formalize a commitment with the contributors to do not hire childish labor in the operations. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The ​Br Goods® implemented your own Ethical Code in 2014 that’s establish the respect and treatment for all employees with equal opportunities of job to all people regardless of race, color, nationality, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation or any other factor. In 2018 the company counts with 60% of the leadership composed with woman. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges In 2014 after a long report about sustainability, the founder of ​Br Goods®​, ​Beatriz Baptista Alves​, came across with the new form of look to the world, thinking of how would act differently and consciously to make a legacy that would be able to leave for future generations. After a deep analysis together with the innovation team and employees, everyone realized that they could work with various directed actions to reduce the negative environment impact, considering one more sustainable production. These new look considered the company to get the certificated of ​ISO 14.001 (​http://www.brgoods.com.br/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/38.007_14-Certificado-15_09_18-R enova%C3%A7%C3%A3o.pdf​), bringing the necessity to organize and elaborate actions and objective work goals translated to the project ​Br Goods® ​Eco Vitae 2.020 and releasing their sustainable product seal. Recently, the name was changed to “​SUSTAINABLE HIGHLIGHTS​”, and the most highlights environmental products are differentiated through that seal. More details in the link (​http://www.brgoods.com.br/sustentabilidade/​). 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility The seal moves the innovation area of ​Br Goods® in the direction of products that are more efficient and sustainable. In 2017, the company launched the disposable shower curtain ​made with polyethylene produced from sugar cane with the seal ​I’m green Braskem​; To the second semester of 2018, the ​Br Goods® pretend to launch a cubicle curtain made with a massive Brazilian yarn with antifungal and antimicrobial technology. This product will replace part of the products made with imported yarn, reducing costs, lower carbon emissions and smaller use of water to the production of the yarn. Saving 80,000 liters of water, considering the use of 40 liters per kilo of yarn. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The ​Br Goods® is an innovative industry and reference on the Brazilian market of hospital privacy and protection. Since the beginning of the company, the ​Br Goods® develop products in partnership with other manufactures, stimulating the national chain in order to promote the search for environmental solutions more friendly. Attending the biggest Brazilians hospitals, as the Albert Einstein and the Sírio Libanês. The ​Br Goods® is constantly challenged to overcome the own limits and with this stimulates the more advanced use of technologies in the segment. See another examples of importance of environment for the ​Br Goods®​: ● The Project ​Br Goods®​ Eco Vitae 2.020; ● ISO 14.001​; ● Department of Innovation and Sustainability. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The offer of gifts and entertainment in order to reinforce business bond is common in Brazil. The ​Br Goods®​, in the own Ethical Code, is clear: is forbidden give or accept gifts, favors and entertainment activities when it implies in some obligation to the given party. Either is forbidden cash given or received as gift in all the possible circumstances. The employees of ​Br Goods® are allowed to accept or give gifts, favors and entertainment if the following criteria are met: ● Not being illegal or somehow infringe company’s policy of both parties; ● Being, reasonably, related to business relations; ● Not having an expressive amount and being in agreement with the rules of the unity of the present negotiation; ● Must not be seen as BRIBERY, PAYMENT OR INAPPROPRIATE ATTEMPT TO EXERT INFLUENCE; ● Does not cause any type of embarrassment to the company or employee when publicly disclosed; ● Does not infringe, in any circumstance, the values and ethical principles that ​Br Goods®​ believes. ● If anyone offer a gift to one of our contributors that does not correspond to the above criteria, the same must be politely declined. In some rare cases, as public presentations, must be impossible to decline. In this kind of situation, the contributors must accept the gift and, immediately, give it to the ​Br Goods®​. Every gift or toast given to the employees of ​Br Goods® shall be done a prize draw and give it to the winner. The ISO 9.001 has been mapping the mean procedures of the relation between the contributors, clients and providers, which facilitates the identification of suspicious situations. 17 OBJECTIVES OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In 2018 the ​Br Goods® started the adoption of the SDG Buying Manual to identification and adoption of the ODS on the business strategy (​https://sdgcompass.org/​) that have been accelerating the adoption of practices and development of products even more sustainable. The ​ODS 8.2​, ​8.4​, ​8.8​, ​9.4​, ​12.4 and ​12.5 have high adhesion with the actives of the company and should direct the efforts to a version of the company more sustainable and responsible. The theme sustainable still being a new subject in the Brazilian business community and have been constantly modifying itself. The ​Br Goods® see this theme as strategic and have been directing the best efforts to stand out in this aspect. Director if Innovation and Sustainability Alexandre Cricci July 2018.
