Sustainability Report 2017/18 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress | August 2017 August 2018 R UPTION HU OR MA -C N TI R N 10 1 I A G H TS 9 2 ENV IRONMENT 8 3 7 4 6 5 R O L AB Table of Contents Content Headline 10/16 Medium Content 10/16 Light I. Statement of Commitment and Continued Support 3 by the Chief Executive Officer II. About iPoint 4 III. Sustainability Facts at a Glance 7 IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles 8 Human Rights 10 Principle 1 10 Principle 2 17 Labour 18 Principle 3 18 Principle 4 18 Principle 5 21 Principle 6 22 Environment 24 iPoint-systems gmbh Principle 7 24 Managing Director (CEO): Joerg Walden Principle 8 27 Ludwig-Erhard-Str. 58 Principle 9 31 72760 Reutlingen Anti-Corruption 33 Germany Principle 10 33 V. Looking Forward 34 VI. Disclosure Regarding Forward-looking Statements 36 References 37 Abbreviations 43 Imprint 44 2 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh I. Statement of Commitment and Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer of iPoint-systems gmbh, Joerg Walden To our Stakeholders: August 7, 2018 I am pleased to confirm that iPoint-systems reaffirms its support Compact. It became evident that we not only dedicate a large of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the part of our mission and work to the attainment of these goals, areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. and have ourselves taken concrete steps to do so, we actively assist other businesses to meet these very principles.1 In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global ComIncreasingly scarce resources, environmental pollution, social pact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daiexploitation – I strongly believe that the solution to many of ly operations. We also commit to sharing this information with today’s global problems lies in the combination of the Circular our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Economy with digital data, an approach we at iPoint have come to call the “Digital Circular Economy”. iPoint became a proud signatory of the UN Global Compact on August 7, 2017. Since our business strategy already reflects the For the sake of our planet, the findings in this report summarize UN Global Compact’s ten principles, it was a logical step for us to and affirm the path we have chosen to follow. What we know is join this initiative and accelerate the transition to a sustainathat we would like to be a part of that journey – and ourselves ble future. walk the walk. We are proud of what we have achieved, yet humbled We live sustainability. by how far we still need to go. Being that this is our first baseline report in which we account for our Sincerely yours, performance against these principles, this reporting exercise has given us an opportunity to pause and assess ourselves. Yet while we identified gaps, we also realized that in Joerg Walden many instances how intuitively aligned Managing Director (CEO) we are with the objectives of UN Global iPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction “I am driven by the vision of how today’s solutions can contribute to securing a sustainable world for future generations.” -Joerg Walden, CEO and founder of iPoint-systems gmbh 4 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction 150+ 97% Content Headline 10/16 Medium in business Content 10/16 Light 50,000+ since employees customer customers 250 15 renewal from 2001 rate locations 140+ leading global worldwide countries manufacturers iPoint-systems gmbh (iPoint) develops pioneering compliance iPoint’s holistic, circular perspective envisages a continuous, and sustainability solutions to open the door to the Circular digital system lifecycle management process that supports Economy. More specifically, we provide software and consultnot only compliance with the law, but also the sustainability of ing for environmental and social product compliance, and susproducts, value chains, and brands. tainability which enables other companies to collect, process, and utilize product-related compliance and sustainability data Since our founding in 2001, iPoint has been constantly expandfrom and for the entire product life cycle and the whole value ing the iPoint Group and its solutions portfolio to realize its vicreation network. sion of building an integrated digital platform for the Circular Economy and a holistic sustainable operating system. iPoint’s software and consulting services support companies in meeting and staying one step ahead of regulations and rePut simply, our very vision is to create solutions to solve susquirements such as REACH, RoHS, WEEE, ELV, EHS, Conflict tainability issues. As our software platforms and tailored soluMineralsand Modern Slavery-related laws, as well as other tions are premised on legal compliance and sustainability, we trending developments and challenges governing product, achieve a positive impact pursuant to the 10 UN Global Comsupply chain, and enterprise stewardship. pact (UNGC) principles. 5 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction Yet we also strive to uphold these principles with respect to our We should note at this juncture that only iPoint-systems internal day-to-day operations. Our main business comprising gmbh, encompassing our Reutlingen headquarters and Munich software and related services, and not selling any hardware or branch, is covered by this report. The entire iPoint Group, howother goods, means that iPoint does not have traditional supever, consists of four pillars and includes 15 subsidiaries and ply chains. That said, we do procure select goods and services offices worldwide.1 that permit the functioning of a high-tech software company. This report will hone in on both our in-house and external imFurther information: pacts, viewed through the UNGC lense. www.ipoint-systems.com iPoint Group iPoint-systems gmbh iPoint Ltd. Reutlingen, Germany iPoint-systems AB Växjö, Sweden iPoint ifu BiS Circular Tree Manchester, UK Munich, Germany iPoint Korea Suwon, Korea (-systems, Inc., Ltd., Austria, Korea, Aristaflow) (2017) (2017) (2018) iPoint France iPoint Japan Co Ltd  Product & Process  Life Cycle Efficiency  Business Analytics /  Strategic Paris, France Tokyo, Japan Compliance & Improvement Intelligence innovations  Supply Chain Data  Product Sustainability  Sustainability  Business model Exchange  Process+Product Management testing Improvement iPoint Inc. iPoint Software and Ann Arbor, MI, USA Information Technology Los Angeles, CA, USA (Shanghai) Ltd. Shanghai, China ifu Institut für Umweltinformatik Hamburg GmbH CircularTree Each part of the iPoint Group contributes to Hamburg, Germany Melbourne, Australia iPoint BiS GmbH iPoint-Austria GmbH Berlin, Germany our customers’ journey towards Sustainable Business. Stuttgart, Germany Vienna, Austria 6 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh III. Sustainability Facts at a Glance Over the period from August 7, 2017 to August 6, 2018 Internal: External: 75% SDG Invoices in our accounting department are now filed iPoint’s business solutions are aligned with electronically, reducing our paper consumption by 75% SDG Goal 8 and SDG Goal 12 FSC 47,0000 iPoint’s corporate printing needs are met by FSC®and The iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform (iPCMP) is now ISO 12647-2-certified printers used by 47,000 companies around the globe 2 iPoint’s Reutlingen site features two electric vehicle iPoint commissioned or sponsored several independent §§§ charging stations studies investigating the corporate implementation of human rights-related laws (e.g. concerning Conflict ECO iPoint’s headquarters run on sustainable geothermal Minerals and forced labor) energy and are powered by renewable electricity sources 3 iPoint donated to 3 charitable causes 20% Twenty percent (20%) of our employees had a citizenship other than German iPoint started an EPRM-funded project with partners EPRM which utilizes Blockchain technology for Conflict 33% Thirty-three percent (33%) of our upper-level managers were female Minerals traceability from mine to store, to be piloted on TG in the African Great Lakes Region 793 iPoint employees have “raised” 793 plastic lids to contribute towards polio vaccination 3 Every day, iPoint employees consume 3 kg of sustainably produced coffee/espresso 7 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Businesses should work against all forms of Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally corruption, including extortion and bribery proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence Businesses should encourage the development and 10 1 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies in human rights abusesman rights 9 2 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should undertake initiatives to 8 3 association and the effective recognition of the promote greater environmental responsibility right to collective bargaining 7 4 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenge Businesses should uphold the elimination of all 6 5 forms of forced and compulsory labor Businesses should eliminate discrimination Businesses should uphold the effective in respect of employment and occupation abolition of child labor 8 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles On August 7, 2017, iPoint was officially welcomed as a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Upon joining the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative, we have committed ourselves to support, implement, and uphold the UNGC’s Ten Principles2, which are grouped into four categories: human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In the following paragraphs, we describe our main actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. 9 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. External focus Offering our solutions As a software and services provider specialized in digital supA related initiative illustrates the overlap between our compar10 1 ply chain solutions, we allow vital information to flow ative advantage and UNGC’s Principle 1. As a secure and disthrough entire value chains in an automated and contributed digital ledger, Blockchain technology5 has garnered trolled fashion. In many cases, the very information much attention also in the context of Conflict Minerals trace9 2 accompanying the transformation from materiability. As an early mover, iPoint is heading an EPRM6 -funded als to products concerns the subject of human project which aims at creating a Blockchain-based Conflict rights. For instance, iPoint’s Conflict Minerals Minerals traceability system from mine to store, to be piloted solution (for tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold), in the African Great Lakes Region with partners, instituting a 8 3 which is based on the Responsible Minerals 3TG traceability process from mine to store.7 Initiative (RMI)’s Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT), facilitates the flow of information concerning mineral provenance, mode of production, supplier chain of custody, due dil7 4 igence, corrective action, assurance, and company policies.3 47,000 companies worldwide are using our 6 5 platform.4 10 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Sharing our expertise Along these lines, over the reporting period iPoint also contributed substantively to conferences and fora: topics presentation / discussion title more information Blockchain / material traceability / Blockchain – The Universal Remedy to Trace Materials link supply chain transparency and Make Supply Chains Transparent? Blockchain-based traceability: Making raw material link traceable The role of technology and innovation in detecting link social issues / human rights violations Supporting human rights-premised fora We also financially contributed to the following events where human rights was front and center of the agenda: event location more information Business Leaders Forum to Combat Human Trafficking Washington, DC link AIAG Corporate Responsibility Summit 2018 Novi, Michigan link AIAG Conflict Minerals Industry Briefing VII Southfield, Michigan link 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 11 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Advancing the SDGs Engaging in collective action on social responsibility Our very business model and a large portion of our business In our increasingly interconnected global web of production portfolio is predicated on the advancement of internationally and service delivery, there are ever-decreasing degrees of sepaproclaimed human rights. Our support to other companies in ration between individual business on the planet. That is why their quest to become more sustainable may also be analyzed we work hand in hand with industry associations and collecaccording to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our tive action groups that were explicitly established to tackle business solutions align perfectly with Goal 8 (promote suscomplex human rights issues. iPoint is, for example, a member tained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI),17 of the Automoproductive employment and decent work for all) and Goal 12 tive Industry Action Group (AIAG),18 and of IPC,19 to develop (ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns).8 the systems, processes and procedures needed to comply with More specifically, our external impact is aligned with Targets U.S. Conflict Minerals legislation (Dodd-Frank Section 1502). In 8.2, 8.4, 9 10 and 8.7, 11 as well as Targets 12.2, 12 12.4, 13 12.5, 14 2012, iPoint partnered with AIAG to develop the iPoint Conflict 12.6, and 12.A. 15 16 Minerals Platform (iPCMP), a solution now used by 47,000 companies around the globe.20 “I first came into contact with iPoint through a consulting service I performed. I was immediately impressed by the various innovative solutions in the sustainability environment and I couldn’t get iPoint out of my head. A few weeks later I saw a report on Conflict Minerals and mine certification in the Congo. I then realized that iPoint actually contributes to making the world a better place. I wanted to do my 10 1 part, and I am very happy that it worked out.” 9 2 8 3 -Markus B., Knowledge Management 7 4 6 5 12 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Internal focus Upholding employee rights “Whether in the car, at home on the couch, or in front of the Satisfied, healthy, informed, qualified, and committed emcomputer, we now spend the majority of our life sitting. It is a ployees are a basic condition for a sustainable company dewell-known fact that the associated back complaints have been velopment. The employment contracts with each of our 100 appearing in health reports for years, occupying the top places in iPoint-systems gmbh employees based in Reutlingen and Muthe list of illness-related absences. However, I‘ve never experienced nich are premised on German national law, and either uphold a company in my professional career that does something about or supercede requirements in areas such as minimum wage, it like iPoint and for which the ergonomic design of the workplace job security, and paid vacation day standards. For example, all has such a high priority. And that certainly involves a great deal of of our staff has permanent employment contracts, and we ofexpense, starting with the office chairs, which can be individually fer an attractive pension plan. In Germany, where most of our adapted to the anatomy of the individual employee and ending employees are based, our contracts reflect the constitution of with the height-adjustable tables. While others remain seated, Germany (Grundgesetz), which guarantees the rights as outiPoint sets standards.” lined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.21 — Nicole S., Human Resources We pay attention to healthy nutrition as well as employee fitness and health. Workstations are ergonomic, and height-adjustable standing desks are available to everyone on request. The company provides – free of charge – fresh fruit, mineral water in water bottles (not plastic bottles), and coffee to every employee every day on the headquarters office 10 1 9 2 premises. 8 3 7 4 6 5 13 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights We see the health and fitness of iPoint’s employees as both the basic prerequisite for and an indicator of the performance, competitiveness, and long-term success of our company. This is why sports are explicitly promoted at iPoint: since 2014 iPoint has rewarded and promoted participation in certain public sports competitions through its iAmFit campaign. These include, for example, running competitions, long-distance cycling, and fitness tests to obtain the German sports certificate (Deutsches Sportabzeichen).22 To equip its athletic employees, the company worked with sport outfitter Trigema to fashion Germany-made, sustainably-produced running and cycling jerseys.23 “As part of the iAmFit campaign iPoint has promoted employees’ sporting activities for many years under the maxim ‘Healthy employees for a healthy company.’ As a hobby marathon runner, I take part in many running competitions all year round in my iPoint jersey. I am very pleased about this 10 1 support and recognition of my sporting 9 2 achievements.” 8 3 -Daniel H., Development 7 4 6 5 14 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Ensuring occupational health and safety (GDPR). Currently, we are preparing a data protection and inforWith respect to occupational health and safety, we have four mation security audit in accordance with ISO/IEC 27001,25 the specifically trained first responders (exceeding the legal mincertification for a robust information security management imum), and each year the company holds mandatory occupasystem (ISMS), which helps organizations keep information setional safety events at the headquarters. The regular inspeccure (e.g. concerning financial information, intellectual propertion of our offices premises and the work equipment used, as ty, employee details, or third party information). This audit will well as regular consultations, guarantee our employees’ safety certify that all of our processes are systematically implementand risk protection in the workplace. ed and monitored in line with globally accepted standards. As a result, we will be adding assurance for the protection and Driving human rights-based research security for customer data – beyond the GDPR requirements. iPoint’s specific initiatives to support internationally proclaimed human rights notably include supporting independSupporting charity ent studies on the very subject. For example, in 2017 we were iPoint has a long-standing tradition of contributing to charitaa co-sponsor of DI’s Dodd-Frank Section 1502 Conflict Minerals ble causes around Christmas time, and over the years, iPoint benchmarking study, 24 which assessed corporate disclosure has donated to quite a number of charitable causes.26 For and due diligence performance with respect to the so-called Christmas 2017,27 we made a donation to: “Conflict Minerals” originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). In the chapter on Principle 4 we discuss in the organization Behinderten-Förderung-Linsenhofen e.V. more detail the human rights-centered studies that iPoint has which works with the disabled, and specifically for their “Cyeither commissioned or supported. cling for Charity” event in conjunction with Rad-Engel e.V.; JAM Deutschland e.V., which used the donation to provide Ensuring privacy and protection of data clean water and school meals in Angola; and 10 1 9 2 The protection and security of customer data have always Wikipedia Foundation, the only top-ten-website that is run 8 3 played an important role at iPoint – not only since the impleby a non-profit-organization and a global community of volmentation of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation unteers. 7 4 6 5 15 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights A range of sporting events, in which iPoint employees take part wearing their iPoint jerseys, are also sponsored by the company. This also includes charitable sporting events. iPoint employees, for example, were sponsored to take part in the 2018 “Muddy Angel Run,” the first mud-race in Europe exclusively with female participation. A portion of the fees are donated to the cancer organization Brustkrebs Deutschland e.V. In an effort to help end polio in children under the age of five, an iPoint employee recently introduced the company to a campaign – “Lids Against Polio – 500 lids for 1 life without polio” – that recycles the valuable plastic bottle caps and lids, and uses the proceeds to fight this disease.28 On May 7, 2018, the Reutlingen headquarters has joined this plastic bottle lid initiative and has managed to raise 793 lids within the following three months – and counting. 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 16 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Human Rights: Measurement of Outcomes complicit in human rights abuses. iPoint has received zero (0) claims of human rights abuses Selecting local service providers related to our business or operations. In our assessment, the risk of our Germany-based, softwareand service-oriented company itself being complicit in human rights abuses is close to zero. Immediate service providers, 10 1 such as catering services, are carefully vetted to make sure their business practices are legal. That said, we employ continued vigilance and regular communica9 2 tion to ensure that this risk remains close to zero, and the actual incidence at exactly 0%. A related step we would like to take within the 8 3 next reporting period is to issue an official corporate procurement policy with selection criteria that include responsibility and sustainability dimensions. 7 4 6 5 17 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associPrinciple 4: Businesses should uphod the elimination of all ation and the effective recognition of the right to collective forms of forced and compulsory labor. bargaining. Advancing human rights-oriented reporting tools and research German law fully protects the right of employees to freely asGiven the risk to corporations, in particular within certain sociate, join a labor union, and engage in collective bargaining, sectors, of forced labor in their supply chains, and the genuand iPoint fully upholds these rights and freedoms. Furtherine concern many private sector actors have about such reali10 1 more, we plan to develop our Social Charter, which stiputies in their supply chains, we commissioned an independent lates basic workand social-standards, and will include consultant to develop the electronic Labor Rights Template explicit mention of the freedom of association and (eLRT), a free, open-access Excel-based data exchange stand9 2 collective bargaining. ard designed to support companies in their compliance with global human trafficking and modern-day slavery legislation.29 Underpinning this tool, we commissioned two accompanying white papers, one exploring the emerging transnational legal 8 3 framework creating disclosure and/or due diligence requirements for subject companies,30 and the other a supporting guide to the tool. 31We plan on releasing a streamlined version of eLRT – eLRT lite – containing only the instrument’s core set of indicators in the course of 2018. 7 4 We are not only keenly interested in learning how individual 6 5 companies seek to control for human trafficking and mod18 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor ern-day slavery in their extant supply chains, but also whether and indirectly – with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea their individual and collective efforts move the needle on these (DPRK)-owned entities. U.S. sanctions now even cover North issues. To this end, in 2016 iPoint fully funded an independent Korean work-gangs that work in other countries. To inform benchmarking study on the corporate implementation of the companies on these legislative updates, in November 2017 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657) carried iPoint employee Tolga Yaprak hosted a webinar with the U.S. out by Development International e.V. (DI). Assessing the dis32 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) entitled: “North Koclosure compliance and transparency of 1,961 companies subrean Forced Labor in the Global Supply Chain: Why hiding beject to the law, revealed that while many companies had fullhind a policy is not enough.”37 fledged supply chain anti-slavery programs in place, almost half of companies (48%) were not fully compliant. iPoint furthermore supported the first benchmarking study on corporate compliance with the U.K. Modern Slavery Act “We at iPoint are not just a company, but a collection of individuals Section 54, a law also exclusively dedicated to the topic of who deeply believe in our work and that the catalyst for change must forced labor in value chains.33 Having taken a random sample start from within. We are fortunate to be at a company that is an of 17,000 organizations that had a statement pursuant to the advocate for human rights and encourages our work in this space. law, DI’s study assessed the reported anti-slavery measures of That is why our webinars with DHS and AnnieCannons – an NGO 6,501 organizations with a legal compliance, conformance and specializing in providing survivors with computer programming skills – good practice assessment framework.34 are critical to our efforts in raising awareness.” -Tolga Y., Senior Consultant Raising awareness Our concern about forced labor also extends to the 10 1 9 2 case of North Korea, which is sanctioned by the 8 3 U.S.35 and UN.36 U.S. companies/individuals are prohibited from conducting any and all trade – directly 7 4 6 5 19 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Furthermore, we regularly mobilize our social media platforms and other corporate media to raise awareness about the practice of forced and compulsory labor, as well as human trafficking. Typical occasions include, for example, planned or new regulations,38 the publication of new studies, facts, and figures, as well as national or international awareness days.39 “In October 2017, I completed a charity run in Detroit to raise money to support the victims of human trafficking and modernday slavery. This cause is very near and dear to my heart, pushing me out of my comfort zone, to take a stand and run. Through my work at iPoint I’ve had the opportunity to learn more about human trafficking and its vast, global scale. We work with companies to identify human trafficking and modern-day slavery and eradicate it from their global supply chains. It brings me great pride to work for a company that is instrumental in the causes that I believe in and that supports my personal efforts as well.” -Melissa C., Support and Services Manager 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 20 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition Raising awareness of child labor. With 1 in 4 children engaged in child labor in the world’s poorest countries, and roughly half of them engaged in hazardous Procuring responsibly labor, as things stand, there cannot be too much awarenessWhile as a software and services company we do not have traraising on the subject.43 To this end, we also leverage our social ditional supply chains, we are conscious of the fact that even media platforms and other corporate media to raise awareour consumables such as office materials, computers, food, ness. 10 1 etc. have a history and origin. And we work with suppliers to make sure that the history of our consumables is a happy one. For example, at our iPoint headquarters 9 2 in Reutlingen we consume 2 kilograms of coffee and 1 kilogram of espresso per day on average -one could say that it is the “lifeblood” of our staff. Needless to say, it is therefore important 8 3 to us that also our coffee consumption is sustainable. We have selected a coffee supplier which shares our values: Lavazza, also a member of UN Global Compact,40 pursues “sustainability by promoting its principles and by apply7 4 ing them daily through the involvement of all the Group’s stakeholders.”41 Specifically with regard to 6 5 Principle 5, Lavazza obtains UTZ and Rainforest Alliance certification, which inter alia controls for child labor.42 21 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of nierungsgesetz). In general, we at iPoint nurture an inclusive discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. culture, starting with the first day on the job. Each new employee is presented with our Code of Conduct (VerhaltenskoAt iPoint, men and women from various nations and age dex) – defining and condemning all forms of discrimination groups, with different cultural, religious, ethnic and social and sexual harassment – which must be signed. For those who backgrounds, and sexual orientation, work side-by-side. Our strive for more integration, non-German employees are ofworkforce diversity shapes our corporate culture has a posfered German-language courses. 10 1 itive impact on creativity, innovation and performance, as well as employee motivation. With their unique iPoint’s employee composition reflects our commitment to inindividual skills, experience, and viewpoints, and clusion, gender equality, and sexual orientation non-discrim9 2 often working in heterogeneous teams, our emination. As of July 31, 2018, iPoint-systems gmbh (Reutlingen ployees not only achieve better results, but also and Munich locations) had exactly 100 employees (a number expand the potential for new ideas and innovawhich includes trainees and part-time student employees). tion within the company. Twenty percent (20%) Our male-to-female ratio was 67%, and 28% of our employees 8 3 of our employees had a citizenship other than were over the age of 50 years. Three out of nine (33%) of our German over the reporting period, whereby the upper-level managers44 were female. We also had 3% employnon-German employees belonged to 13 differees with disabilities over the reporting period. Equal opporent nationalities. tunity also specifically means that our personnel and salaries are selected on the basis of the applicant’s qualifications and 7 4 We treat each other with respect, appreciation and motivation, not on the basis of ethnic origin, race, gender, or mutual acceptance, are committed to the Universal religion. 6 5 Declaration of Human Rights, and act in accordance with Germany’s Anti-Discrimination Act (Antidiskrimi22 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor 67% Working part-time is a distinct option for our staff, and 13% Company male-to-female ratio of our employees did so over the reporting period. iPoint also actively supports employee reintegration into the workplace 28% (for those who e.g. took parental leave or were ill) with individEmployees over 50 years ualized plans. 3% Employees with disabilities “The flexible, family-friendly working hours at iPoint, the 33% Female upper-level managers possibility of adapting working conditions to my current phase of life and personal requirements, the consideration for holiday planning, and the very good work organization in my team – 13% Part-time employees all these and other measures to support the compatibility of family and work life are very helpful to me as a mother of two school-age children.” 20% Non-German citizenship -Andrea M., Human Resources Labor: Measurement of Outcomes In the reporting period under consideration, iPoint has re10 1 9 2 ceived zero (0) discrimination or labor-related claims. 8 3 7 4 6 5 23 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary apConducting life cycle assessments proach to environmental challenges. Sustainability is corporate value for iPoint. As do all other businesses in the world, iPoint has a responsibility to do its part Monitoring climate change and risks in protecting and sustaining our planet. Having established As a company that depends on electricity, we need to be vigian environmental management system, iPoint strives to fullant and responsible about our effect on the climate. The Fifth fil its responsibility by recording its environmental impact of Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Cliour Reutlingen headquarters (where 59% of our iPoint Group 10 1 mate Change (IPCC) confirms that there is significant huemployees work). The recording of operational environmenman influence on the world’s climate. The acute dantal impacts, such as greenhouse gas emissions from business ger is the long-term warming of the world’s climate. trips or raw material consumption, is conducted according to 9 2 Persistent heat waves, the warming and rising of standardized methods and forms the basis of the company’s the world’s oceans, and extreme weather events environmentally-conscious design. Our environmental manare the probable consequences of this change. agement system is based on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. 8 3 One of the main drivers of climate change is high and increasing anthropogenic greenhouse iPoint also measures its environmental footprint by regularly gas emissions. 45 The main sources of greencarrying out life cycle assessments (LCAs). We did so in accordhouse gas emissions are energy production, ance with ISO 14040 requirements for 2014 and 2015. We also commercial enterprises, transport, agriculture intend to carry out an LCA for 2018. iPoint is thus able to eval7 4 and private households. iPoint is alarmed by these uate measures through an ongoing controlling process. Weak risks and continuously re-assessing where, as a softpoints are revealed and appropriate corrective measures can 6 5 ware provider, the company may improve. be taken where necessary. Our regular life cycle assessments ensure that trends are captured and degrees of target achieve24 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment ment measured. Upon completion of our 2018 LCA, we will several iPoint staff members at the Reutlingen headquarters be able to report our findings and re-visit our environmental – including iPoint’s CEO Joerg Walden – drive hybrid company goals. cars, and iPoint’s Reutlingen site features two electric vehicle charging stations. Reducing CO₂ emissions At our Reutlingen headquarters, iPoint only consumes elecSmall, practical steps also help reduce our CO₂ footprint. iPtricity from renewable sources (Ökostrom), at a significantly oint’s sustainability culture also maximizes the “practice” of “iPoint is a company that higher cost to the company than regular electricity. We gladly webinars and web conferences in order to reduce travel costs. doesn’t just simply produce absorb that cost impact, as it is one concrete step we can take. Home office is also permitted on a case-by-case basis. software, but is also constantly looking for solutions that will Part of the reason we opt to set up country offices is to offset In a bid to support our employees who use public transportaenable future generations to carbon emissions through international travel. The specific lotion to commute to our headquarters, iPoint has leased “bike live on our planet. What I cations of our country offices are chosen in such a manner that boxes” at the Reutlingen Central Station from the city. These particularly appreciate about they have ready access to public transport infrastructure. We small, individually lockable bike garages allow employees to iPoint as an employer is that also encourage carpooling, in order to reduce emissions and to park their two-wheeled steeds in a dry, theftand vandal-proof you are not a mere number. relieve road traffic. place to continue their trip to work or way home. From the very beginning I had the opportunity to get To conduct official business or due to their leadership position, involved beyond my own area certain Reutlingen-based employees currently receive a comof expertise. I can grow with pany car. Our corporate car policy however places restrictions iPoint and take on new tasks.” on the type of vehicle and the permissible emissions in the three predetermined classes, the maximum CO₂-emis-Stefan R., Software Engineer 10 1 9 2 sions being 140 g/km, 125 g/km, and 100 g/km, re8 3 spectively. This policy has in fact resulted in employees downsizing their vehicles. Furthermore, 7 4 6 5 25 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Working in a green headquarters building The newly built company headquarters in Reutlingen, into which we moved December 2014, meets the latest environmental standards. It is characterized by high resource efficiency with regard to building materials, energy sources, and water technology. A number of features make it especially eco-friendly: Large windows allow for much natural light to enter the building, and indoor lighting relies on LED lights which enable a clear reduction in energy consumption; the building furthermore regulates its temperature through a geothermal heat pump – a central heating and cooling system that transfers heat or cold air to or from the ground (while substantially more expensive to install than viable alternatives, iPoint does count on the geothermal pump to pay for itself over the coming decades); the building’s open design reduces the need for ventilation, heating and therefore also reduces electricity consumption; hand dryers were installed in the bathroom to render paper towels obsolete; with a vegetation layer on its roof, from above its building is 10 1 9 2 literally green, which also “consumes” rain; 8 3 plants within the building provide fresh oxygen. 7 4 6 5 26 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to pro100% carbon neutral. Furthermore, the company is scaling up mote greater environmental responsibility. its clean energy consumption to power its data centers and operations each year. In 2017, Microsoft pledged to reduce its Selecting business partners with sustainability criteria operational carbon emissions 75% by 2030, and is reportedly Our commitment to sustainability extends to the products on target to achieve this goal.49 An assessment of its social reand services we procure, and implicates our business partners. sponsibility was inter alia provided by Development InternaCurrent technology partners include: tional’s independent compliance benchmarking study against 10 1 U.S. Conflict Minerals legislation, in which Microsoft scored 1. Oracle 14/14 (100%) on legal compliance, and 16/17 (94%) on OECD Oracle has a robust environmental track record and Due Diligence conformance, for a combined score of 97%.50 9 2 has set specific environmental goals for 2020.46 It has notably improved its score year-over-year 3. CHG-Meridian since 2005, when the company first reported its To meet its hardware needs, iPoint partners with an IT specialist emission data to the CDP. In 2016, Oracle was re47 who supports us in the acquisition of new – and the recycling and 8 3 cognized on CDP’s Climate A List, putting it in the reuse of our used – office computers in the spirit of an ecologically top 9% of the highest-scoring companies. Oracle responsible Circular Economy. The company then professionally rewas also ranked #17 among the top green compafurbished and remarkets the IT equipment, and so extends its usenies in the world and #10 among companies in the ful life. CHG-Meridian, in turn, partners with two non-profit organiUS in the Newsweek Green Rankings 2016. 48 zations recognized by the UN: Close the Gap, which supplies schools 7 4 and training establishments in developing countries with equip2. Microsoft ment that is still in good working order, and WorldLoop, which col6 5 One of the reasons we are proud to work with Microlects defective used equipment in developing countries and has it soft is that since 2012, their global operations have been professionally recycled in order to recover valuable raw materials.51 27 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Engaging in environmental sustainability collective action Collective action – i.e. actions undertaken by an alliance of individuals and/or groups towards a collective purpose – is indispensable when matters are concerned that involve a multitude of stakeholders and competing interests. To foster the cause of the global commons, we engage a number of joint initiatives and trade associations, such as the ExpertForum Global Environmental Compliance,52 the IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit,53 and the VNU Verband für Umweltund Nachhaltigkeitsmanagement e.V.54 We are furthermore a member of the Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation (FSLCI), which has the specific aim of driving sustainable innovation and collaboration.55 Martina Prox of our subsidiary ifu Institute of Environmental IT Hamburg is a member of the Board of Directors and has been elected to serve as president of the board of directors until Summer 2019.56 Raising awareness We regularly mobilize our staff as well as our social media platforms and other corporate media to raise awareness about environmental issues and promote greater environmental responsibility. Typical occasions include, for example, 10 1 9 2 planned or new regulations,57 individual initiatives, 8 3 as well as national or international awareness days.58 7 4 6 5 28 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Informing and educating iPoint often hosts – or participates in – national and international events that are intended to educate or inform interested stakeholders. Our subject matter experts presented the following discussions topics over the reporting period: topics presentation / discussion title more information Blockchain / material traceability / How can Blockchain support materials traceability, link supply chain transparency life cycle management, and supply chain transparency? life cycle assessment (LCA) and live LCA Resource efficiency, product stewardship, and the link legally compliant operation in the processing industry Ressourceneffizienz und Verbesserung der Ökobilanz link durch Live LCA [Resource efficiency and improvement of life cycle assessment through Live LCA] EU RoHS directive EU RoHS directive: challenges deriving from link exemption rules and IEC 63000 (EN 50581) digital circular economy The Way to a Digital Circular Economy link Towards a Digital Circular Economy link In addition to contributing expertise, we also put money where our mouth is. Over the period we sponsored conferences or fora that had implicit or explicit environmental objectives. Examples include: event location more information 10 1 9 2 Life Cycle Management Conference 2017 Luxembourg City, Luxembourg link 8 3 Deutscher Umwelt Kongress (German Environment Congress) Bad Nauheim, Germany link 7 4 Life Cycle Assessment Conference (LCA) XVII Portsmouth, New Hampshire, USA link 6 5 29 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Booking sustainable event venues For regularly hosted public corporate events, such as our AnnuFor our corporate publishing needs (e.g. flyers, brochures, cusal Symposium or our Customer Conference, we choose “green tomer magazine, employee magazine, etc.), we demonstrate locations.” The FILharmonie Culture and Convention Centre environmental responsibility by carefully selecting print Filderstadt has served as venue for our Annual Symposium 59 services. For our printing needs, we work with FSC®and ISO “Conflict Minerals and Sustainable Supply Chain” since 2015. 12647-2-certified printers to achieve ecologically sustainable It is committed to rightandfair (fairpflichtet), 60 the Sustainaprinting results. bility Code of the German-speaking events industry, and has been certified by Green Globe as a sustainable events venue. Choosing sustainable gifts The Stadthalle Reutlingen was the venue of iPoint’s 2018 Cus61 In a bid to lead by example, also our gifts and giveaways for tomer Conference. It is the first and only city event hall in Gertrade fairs, conferences, customer visits, and employees are semany to conduct fully carbon-neutral events, ranks among the lected according to ecologically and socially sustainable standtop Green Globe-certified venues in Germany, and has several ards. The decisive factors here are corresponding certifications other sustainability certifications. or information provided by the vendors well as an assessment whether the products meet our corporate criteria.62 Current Improving our paper policy promotional gifts include reusable, REACH-compliant fabric Digitization is also a hot topic at iPoint, and here, as well, we bags, plantable pencils,63 eco-ballpoint pens and USB flash wish to lead by example. In June 2018, our administration dedrives, coffee from sustainable farms,64 coffee cups made from partment introduced a change in our accounting policy canrecycled coffee grounds,65 and sustainably designed, reusable celling all paper bank statements. Instead, all original invoices water bottles from a Cradle-to-Cradle-certified enterprise.66 are now filed electronically without making a print copy. This step, eliminating the need for (physical) folders to file 10 1 9 2 bank account statements and copies, has since ena8 3 bled us to reduce our paper consumption by 75%, in the end saving many tons of paper. 7 4 6 5 30 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development To cite a recent case of a customer success story, in May 2017, and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. independent research firm Verdantix recognized iPoint’s customer Emerson with an Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) Offering our software and services Innovation Award.68 Emerson – a multinational technology and As one of the world’s leading software and consulting compaengineering, Fortune 500 company headquartered in St. Louis, nies for environment-related product compliance and sustainMissouri – won in the utilities and telecoms category for the ability, developing and diffusing environmentally friendly implementation of a new material compliance management 10 1 technologies is indeed a raison d’être of iPoint and part system. Designed and developed by iPoint, the solution has of our core business portfolio. The company’s digisignificantly improved the company’s EH&S management pertal solutions permit an automated and secure exformance through more efficient material compliance process9 2 change of relevant information across entire vales and data reporting mechanisms concerning product-related ue chains – from product design, manufacturing international laws such as REACH, RoHS, California Proposiand use, to reuse and recycling. This includes tion 65, the EU Batteries Directive, and Conflict Minerals. software that enables manufacturing compa8 3 nies to comply with legal requirements, reguOur 2017 acquisition of ifu Institut für Umweltinformatik Hamlations, and directives addressing hazardous burg GmbH – a company highly specialized in LCA – allows us to substances such as EU RoHS, EU ELV, and EU offer pertinent software and services, and accompany our cusREACH. iPoint’s software solutions in the area tomers on their quest to become circular.69 What started out of environmental compliance was notably recas a B2B cooperation in 2013 to develop design and evaluation 7 4 ognized when the European Commission selected tools for functional, ecologically-optimized, multi-material, iPoint to join the Scale-Up Circular Business project, lightweight automotive components in mass production (re6 5 a formal recognition that we are one of the SMEs ready search project “MultiMaK”), flourished into a full-blown corpoto help other organizations to become more circular. 67 rate merger this year. Our joint “Live LCA” project, which began 31 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment in 2017, also implemented with other industry and research partners, seeks to develop a software solution enabling companies to combine available material and energy consumption data for a real-time calculation of LCA and Material flow cost accounting (MFCA), thereby reducing the costs for EPDs (Environmental Product Declarations) and LCAs by 90%.70 Environment: Measurement of Outcomes During the reporting period, iPoint received zero (0) complaints concerning environment-related violations. We continuously monitor our environmental performance and, where possible, find ways to reduce our environmental footprint. “I like working at iPoint because I can develop products for the future, and, in doing so, improve the future. As a father this is 10 1 extremely important to me.” 9 2 -Sebastian D., Product Manager 8 3 7 4 6 5 32 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all and the Global Development Agenda by signing the letter of its forms, including extortion and bribery. support. In the letter, iPoint affirms its commitment to integrate anti-corruption into our strategies and operations, and Ethical behavior is the cornerstone of a successful business. Antiwork against corruption in all its forms, including extortion corruption clauses are therefore included in iPoint’s new emand bribery. ployee standard contracts which we introduced in March 2018. Also in the area of anti-corruption, iPoint actively supports 10 1 For iPoint, sustainability means achieving long-term research on corporate behavior and disclosure. iPoint’s comgrowth. Economic sustainability is anchored in iPoint’s missioning of an EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive study business processes, solutions, and customer rela– that specifically hones in on the actions companies in Swe9 2 tionships. We strive for continuous, sustainable den, Germany and Austria are taking to counter the unethical improvement of the quality of our business practice of corruption – is another example of the company’s processes and products. To this end, we are vested interest in measuring macro-level trends. currently preparing an audit of our quality man8 3 agement system in accordance with ISO 9001. Organizations that are ISO 9001-certified have Anti-Corruption: Measurement of Outcomes a single and complete set of managed and applied procedures, regularly updated and auditDuring the reporting period, there have been zero (0) infraced. ISO 9001 clauses 4.2.3, 4.2.4 and 8.0 address 71 tions on the grounds of corruption or bribery, either alleged 7 4 honesty in record keeping and records. or verified. During the reporting year, no disciplinary action was re6 5 Participating in anti-corruption joint action, on August quired concerning corruption. 2, 2018, iPoint endorsed the Call to Action: Anti-Corruption 33 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Looking Forward Over the next reporting period, we plan to undertake the following initiatives in line with the UNGC principles. Overarching (all UNGC principles) Materiality analysis iPoint plans to undertake a materiality analysis premised on the specific SDG targets, and establish KPIs how our company its own social and environmental footprint. This analysis will will help contribute to these SDGs and targets. form the basis of our future CSR and sustainability planning. 1 Topping the list are employees, buildings, ICT (servers, comExpertise sharing 10 puters, cloud infrastructure), electricity, travel, etc., to Over the next reporting period, iPoint will continue to contribbe analyzed according to spend. ute subject matter expertise covering one or more UNGC principles at conferences and fora. 9 2 Corporate procurement policy We plan to issue an official corporate procureSponsorship of human rights-related research ment policy with selection criteria that include iPoint furthermore plans to continue commissioning and fund social responsibility, environment-related and independent research that investigates corporate implemen8 3 other sustainability dimensions, also making tation of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)-related sure there are no human rights violations occurlaws. For example, we are supporting a study on the corporate ring among iPoint’s service providers or suppliimplementation of the new EU Non-Financial Reporting Direcers. Purchasing as well as leasing (e.g. notebook tive covering three European countries. 7 4 leasing) are in-scope. Sponsorship of human rights-related conferences and events 6 5 SDG–iPoint alignment analysis In the forthcoming reporting period we will revisit where Also in the upcoming reporting year, iPoint will host and sponsor conferences where human rights are front and center. the company’s impacts align with the SDGs, also in terms of 34 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Looking Forward Human Rights Carbon neutrality plan iPoint is committed to gradually reducing its carbon emissions eLRT lite to the point of carbon neutrality, and has already taken specific Over the course of 2018 we plan on releasing a streamlined versteps in this direction. Upon studying the feasibility of attaining sion of eLRT – eLRT lite – containing only the instrument’s core complete carbon neutrality, we will issue a carbon neutrality plan. set of indicators. KPIs of LCA Labor iPoint intends to make public specific KPIs that emerged based on its 2018 LCA, including energy usage, waste and emissions 1 Social Charter (Scope 1). 10 Our Social Charter, which stipulates basic workand social-standards and will include explicit mention of FSC-certified paper the freedom of association and collective bargainiPoint plans to switch in-house paper consumption to FSC®9 2 ing, will be created during the upcoming reportcertified paper (Umweltpapier). ing period. Anti-corruption Environment 8 3 iPoint’s new employee standard contracts, introduced in March Environmental Management System for iPoint 2018, which include anti-corruption clauses, will be handed out group to all future employees to sign. Employees will be educated As at now, an EMS has been introduced only for on iPoint’s commitment to integrate anti-corruption into our 7 4 the Reutlingen headquarters. iPoint plans to prostrategies and operations, and work against corruption in all gressively scale up the number of sites for which an its forms, including extortion and bribery, as indicated by our 6 5 EMS will be established. signing the letter of support of the Call to Action: Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda on August 2, 2018. 35 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains “forward-looking statements”72 based on current assumptions, plans, estimates and forecasts which include, but are not limited to, statements about iPoint’s expected future vendor due diligence and engagement efforts and development of related processes. Although we believe that the expectations, opinions, and comments reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that cannot be controlled or accurately predicted by us, and we can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. Actual outcomes may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. It cannot be guaranteed nor can any liability otherwise be assumed by iPoint and the companies of the iPoint Group that these forward-looking statements will prove complete, correct or precise, or that expected and forecast results will actually be achieved in the future. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report. 36 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 1 The iPoint Group includes: 1) iPoint: iPoint-systems gmbh, Reutlingen, Germany (headquarters) iPoint-systems gmbh, Munich, Germany iPoint-Austria GmbH, Vienna, Austria iPoint-systems gmbh, Paris, France iPoint-systems AB, Växjö, Sweden iPoint Ltd., Manchester, United Kingdom iPoint Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA (central office USA) iPoint Inc., Los Angeles, California, USA iPoint Japan Co Ltd, Tokyo, Japan iPoint Ltd., Shanghai, China iPoint Korea, Suwon, South Korea 2) ifu Institute for Environmental IT, Hamburg, Germany (https://www.ifu.com/en/) 3) iPoint BiS gmbh, Stuttgart, Germany (https://www.ipoint-bis.com/) 4) CircularTree (https://www.circulartree.com/), located in Berlin, Germany, and Melbourne, Australia 2 UN Global Compact, The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles 3 “The Conflict Minerals Reporting Template is a free, standardized reporting template developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative that facilitates the transfer of information through the supply chain regarding mineral country of origin and smelters and refiners being utilized. The template also facilitates the identification of new smelters and refiners to potentially undergo an audit via the RMI’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Process.” RMI, Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/conflict-minerals-reporting-template/ 4 Based on the RMI’s CMRT, the iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform (iPCMP) allows for cascade and roll-up of the collected data from companies’ supply chain. 5 Blockchain technology is a distributed, shared electronic ledger which can add an additional layer of transparency, traceability, security, and trust in the Conflict Minerals supply chain. Replicated across many nodes in a peer-to-peer network, data recorded on a Blockchain is not only instantly verifiable, but also immutable. While users may access, inspect, or add to the data, it is very difficult to change or delete it, and the original information leaves a permanent trail (“chain”) of transactions. Each transaction is recorded and added to the previous one, resulting in a growing chain of information. The secure, auditable and immutable transaction history of the movement of commodities and products across the supply chain is achieved without the need for a trusted central organization or intermediary. By essentially self-monitoring, blockchain can provide data reliability and eliminate reconciliation. 6 The EPRM (European Partnership for Responsible Minerals) “is a multi-stakeholder partnership established with the goal to create better social and economic conditions for mine workers and local mining communities, by increasing the number of mines that adopt responsible mining practices As of August 3, 2018, the EPRM members from industry, government, and civil society include Apple, Philips, Intel, NXP, and Valcambi Suisse, (“strategic members”), Umicore, TATA Steel, HP Inc. (“regular members”), Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), the Tantalum-Niobium International Study Center (T.I.C.), and Fairphone (“basic members”), Solidaridad, Diakonia, Cordaid, Pact, and IPIS (“civil society actors”), and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, Foreign and Commonwealth Office UK; BMZ – German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (“governments and institutions”). https://europeanpartnership-responsibleminerals.eu/member 37 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 7 CSRwire. iPoint Receives Funding for Blockchain-based Minerals Traceability System. Press release, February 07, 2018, http://www.csrwire. com/press_releases/40755-iPoint-Receives-Funding-for-Blockchain-based-Minerals-Traceability-System 8 UN, Sustainable Development Goals, https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs 9 8.2: “Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors” 10 8.4: “Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead” 11 8.7: “Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms” 12 12.2: “By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources” 13 12.4: “By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment” 14 12.5: “By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse” 15 12.6: “Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle” 16 12.A: “Support developing countries to strengthen their scientific and technological capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption and production” 17 iPoint joined the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) -then known as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) -as one of the first vendor members in 2016. https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-joins-cfsi-as-vendor-member/ RMI offers a range of tools and resources including the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process, the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry data, and a range of guidance documents on responsible minerals sourcing. RMI, http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/ 18 AIAG is an auto industry trade association where members collaborate to develop common global standards for Quality, Supply Chain, and Corporate Responsibility issues. AIAG, https://www.aiag.org/ 19 IPC is a global trade association serving the printed board and electronics assembly industries, and has specific data exchange standards supported by iPoint’s solutions, e.g.: IPC-1752A, which allows companies in the supply chain to share information on materials in products, and IPC-1755, developed in partnership with the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), allows companies in the supply chain to exchange information related to conflict minerals. For more information, see IPC, http://www.ipc.org/ContentPage.aspx?pageid=Materials-Declaration 38 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 20 For more information, visit: https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-systems-launches-web-based-tool-for-conflictminerals-compliance/, and https://www.greenbiz.com/news/2012/09/14/honda-ford-conflict-minerals-reporting-tool 21 With the exception of Article 14. See: United Nations, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/ 22 Umwelt Dialog, iPoint: Gesunde Mitarbeiter für ein gesundes Unternehmen, 30.10.2017, http://www.umweltdialog.de/de/wirtschaft/arbeitsbedingungen/2018/iPoint-Gesunde-Mitarbeiter-fuer-ein-gesundes-Unternehmen.php 23 TRIGEMA, https://www.trigema.de/ 24 Development International e.V., Dodd-Frank Section 1502 – RY2016 Filing Evaluation, July 26, 2017, http://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/ f0f801_9502a3a2a8f143a7b5d863792a01318a.pdf 25 ISO, ISO/IEC 27001:2013(en), https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:27001:ed-2:v1:en 26 Previous beneficiaries of iPoint donations include (excerpt): ARCHE IntensivKinder, the German Bone Marrow Donation Register (Deutsche Knochenmarkspenderdatei), Eldoret Kids Kenia, Hospice Veronika, Lebenshilfe Reutlingen, Make a Wish Foundation (Michigan), March of Dimes (Michigan), the Regional Group of the Registered Mucoviscidosis Association (Regionalgruppe Zollernalb-Tübingen des Mukoviszidose e.V.), the German foundation Give Education a Chance (“Gib Bildung eine Chance”), YouthVille Detroit, Raise Hope for Congo, and AnnieCannons, Inc. 27 iPoint, iPoints Weihnachtsspende 2017, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/de/newsroom/news-detail-de/ipoints-christmas-donation-2017/ 28 Deckel Gegen Polio, 500 LIDS ... FOR 1 LIFE WITHOUT POLIO! http://deckel-gegen-polio.de/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/Deckel_Rotary_Flyer_DIN_A6_eng.pdf 29 eLRT, Welcome to eLRT.org! http://www.elrt.org/ 30 Corporate liabilities for modern-day slavery in supply and service chains: A transnational framework 31 The electronic Labor Rights Template (eLRT): Introducing an anti-slavery, B2B measurement, tracking, and reporting tool for global supply and service chains 32 iPoint, CA-TISCA Report and Scorecards, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/de/loesungen/gesetzgebung-zur-bekaempfung-von-zwangsarbeit-und-menschenhandel/ca-tisca/ 33 Section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act (2015) requires all organizations that operate in the UK, with a worldwide revenue over £36 million per year, to report annually on the steps they are – or are not – taking to prevent modern slavery in their value chains and business. 34 Apart from issuing the report (Corporate Compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act – 2017/18, Apr 18, 2018, https://docs.wixstatic.com/ ugd/f0f801_7cc00bb9d48b42639427f55809bbd955.pdf) the study also produced individual scorecards for each organization assessed, and an interactive bubble chart that allows for an easy comparison of performance. See: Development International, Human trafficking and modern-day slavery, https://www.developmentinternational.org/trafficking-slavery 35 In the U.S., the Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act of 2017 (P.L. 115-44) imposed new sanctions by amending the North 39 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh References Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016. Under the new law, “any significant merchandise mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part by North Korean nationals or citizens is prohibited from entry into the United States unless CBP finds through clear and convincing evidence that the merchandise was not produced with a form of prohibited labor. Where CBP finds such evidence of North Korean labor, CBP will deny entry, which may include seizure of the merchandise, and refer the issue to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) with a request to initiate a criminal investigation for violation of U.S. law.” Furthermore, the law created the presumption that goods made by North Korean citizens or nationals, anywhere in the world, are made with forced labor, and it provided for the imposition of sanctions on foreign persons that employ North Korean labor. In November 2017, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) began enforcing the law. See: CBP, CBP Combats Modern-Day Slavery with the Passage of the Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act, November 7, 2017, https://www.cbp.gov/newsroom/national-media-release/cbp-combats-modern-day-slavery-passage-countering-america-s 36 UN resolutions addressing North Korea include: resolution 825 (1993), resolution 1540 (2004), resolution 1695 (2006), resolution 1718 (2006), resolution 1874 (2009), resolution 1887 (2009), resolution 2087 (2013), resolution 2094 (2013), resolution 2270 (2016), and resolution 2321 (2016), resolution 2371 (2017) and resolution 2375 (2017). 37 iPoint, Webinar: North Korean Forced Labor in the Global Supply Chain, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/webinar-north-korean-forced-labor-in-the-global-supply-chain/ 38 E.g., the No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act signed into U.S. law on January 8, 2018. https://twitter.com/iPointWorld/status/953621151397371904 39 E.g., the World Day against Trafficking in Persons (July 30). https://www.facebook.com/plugins/post.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fpermalink.php%3Fstory_fbid%3D1731505163635008%26id%3D101233979995476&width=500 https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6429682743591858176 https://twitter.com/iPointWorld/status/1023915587834138624 https://www.instagram.com/p/Bl24Pp5DCPG/ 40 Lavazza, Beitritt zu UN Global Compact und Global Goals, https://www.lavazza.de/de/nachhaltigkeit/unser-engagement/global-compact. html 41 Of note is that Lavazza invested 17,7bln € in sustainability (in the three-year period 2014–2016), and in 2016 the Lavazza Foundation undertook 21 projects impacting 60,000 producers. See: Lavazza, Sustainability Report 2016, https://www.lavazza.it/content/dam/lavazza/sostenibilita/bilancio/uk/Lavazza_BilancioSostenibilita2016_ENG.pdf 42 Ibid. Page 84. 43 UNICEF, Child labour, December 2017, https://data.unicef.org/topic/child-protection/child-labour/ 44 Defined as head of department with personnel responsibilities. 45 IPCC, Climate Change 2014 Synthesis Report, 2014, http://goo.gl/XEEXJf 46 Oracle, Our Progress, https://www.oracle.com/corporate/citizenship/sustainability/facilities/index.html 40 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 47 CDP was formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project. 48 Newsweek,TOP GREEN COMPANIES IN THE WORLD 2016, June 2, 2016, https://www.newsweek.com/green-2016/top-green-companiesworld-2016 49 For this and other areas in which Microsoft reports on its environmental performance, visit Microsoft at: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/ environment 50 Development International, Dodd-Frank Section 1502 – RY2016 Filing Evaluation, July 26, 2017, http://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/ f0f801_9502a3a2a8f143a7b5d863792a01318a.pdf 51 CHG-Meridian, TOTAL COMMITMENT, https://www.chg-meridian.com/explore-chg/responsibility/corporate-citizenship.html 52 The ExpertForum Global Environmental Compliance was established by Fraunhofer IPA in 1994 with the objective of providing the electrical and electronic industries a comprehensive overview of current product-related environmental legislation (e.g. WEEE, RoHS, REACh, ErP and conflict minerals). A strong network from the scientific community, industry, associations and legislative bodies emerged. In the regular meetings, participant exchanges focus on the current status of product-related environmental legislation, implementation strategies and best practice approaches. See: Fraunhofer IPA, ExpertForum Global Environmental Compliance, https://www.ipa.fraunhofer.de/de/Kompetenzen/nachhaltige-produktion-und-qualitaet/schadstoffmanagement/expertenforum-global-environmental-compliance.html 53 The IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit is a network concerned with social, ecological and economic responsibility. The network provides up-todate information and promotes the cross-industry exchange of expertise and experience. See: IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit, https://www.reutlingen.ihk.de/netzwerke/netzwerke-fortsetzung/nachhaltigkeit/ 54 The VNU Verband für Umweltund Nachhaltigkeitsmanagement e.V. is an independent community of experts and users of environmental and sustainability management systems. We design management systems through committee action, support their practical implementation in companies, and facilitate networking between members and stakeholders through conferences and regional meetings. See: VNU Verband für Umweltund Nachhaltigkeitsmanagement e.V., https://www.vnu-ev.de/ 55 Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation, https://fslci.org/ 56 Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation, Board of Directors, https://fslci.org/board-of-directors/ 57 E.g., the No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act signed into U.S. law on January 8, 2018. https://twitter.com/iPointWorld/status/953621151397371904 58 E.g., World Bicycle Day https://twitter.com/iPointWorld/status/1003284356964782080, International Plastic Bag Free Day https://twitter. com/iPointWorld/status/1014117961102254081, and Earth Overshoot Day https://twitter.com/iPointWorld/status/1024681174436851712. 59 FILharmonie Filderstadt, https://www.filharmonie-filderstadt.de/ 60 Fairpflichtet, https://www.fairpflichtet.de/en/home/ 61 Stadthalle Reutlingen GmbH, https://stadthalle-reutlingen.de/home.html 41 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 62 These criteria comprise: (1) REACH-compliant, (2) RoHS-compliant, (3) No plastics, (4) A keeper (non-disposable), (5) Biodegradable, (6) Not too big (simple transport), (7) No expiration date, and (8) In line with our brand. 63 Sprout, https://sproutworld.com/ 64 For gifts to customers and partners, we purchase coffee from Kaffee-Fleck, which sources coffee that was sustainably produced and fairly traded (https://www.kaffee-fleck.com/). 65 Kaffeeform, https://www.kaffeeform.com/en/ 66 Dopper, https://dopper.com/usa/ 67 The European Commission, iPoint‐systems, https://ec.europa.eu/environment/ecoap/scalingcircularbusiness/solution/ipoint-systems_en 68 Market Watch, iPoint Customer Emerson Wins EH&S Innovation Award, May 18, 2017, https://www.marketwatch.com/press-release/ipoint-customer-emerson-wins-ehs-innovation-award-2017-05-18 69 iPoint, iPoint takes over industry leader in life cycle assessment and material flow cost accounting, January 25, 2018, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-takes-over-industry-leader-in-life-cycle-assessment-and-material-flow-cost-accounting/ 70 Presseportal, iPoint übernimmt Branchenführer für Ökobilanzierung und Materialflusskostenrechnung -Reutlinger Softwarehaus erweitert Circular Economy-Portfolio um LCAund MFCA-Lösungen, January 25, 2018, https://www.presseportal.de/pm/105532/3849419 71 Under the management review of ISO 9001 clause 5.1 and the internal audit requirements of clause 8.2.2, top management is required to establish an independent audit committee and has responsibility for the outcome of the audit. The standard requires respect for auditor independence and prohibits executive management from improper influence of an auditor. Clause 4.1 assigns responsibility of process controls to top management. They are required to assess whether internal controls are effective, certify compliance to the organization’s quality manual and be accountable for conformance to its quality system. 72 Statements including words such as “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “intend”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “would”, “may”, “strategy”, “potential”, “opportunity,” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. 42 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh Abbreviations AIAG Automotive Industry Action Group IPC Institute of Printed Circuits B2B Business-to-Business IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change CBP Customs and Border Protection (U.S.) ISO International Organization for Standardization CEO Chief Executive Officer ICT Information and communication technology CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template KPI(s) Key Performance Indicators CO₂ Carbon Dioxide LCA(s) Life Cycle Assessments CSR Corporate Social Responsibility LED Light-Emitting Diode DHS Department of Homeland Security (U.S.) MFCA Material Flow Cost Accounting DI Development International e.V. REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (EU) DPRK Democratic People’s Republic of Korea RMI Responsible Minerals Initiative [formerly known as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI)] DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances (EU) EH&S Environment, Health & Safety SDG(s) Sustainable Development Goal(s) eLRT electronic Labor Rights Template TISC Transparency in Supply Chains Act – California (SB 657) ELV End of Life Vehicles Directive (EU) UN United Nations EMS Environmental Management System UNGC UN Global Compact EPD(s) Environmental Product Declaration(s) UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund EPRM European Partnership for Responsible Minerals USB Universal Serial Bus ESG Environmental, Social and Governance FSC Forest Stewardship Council FSLCI Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation GDPR General Data Protection Regulation HSI Homeland Security Investigations ICE Immigration and Customs Enforcement IEC International Electrotechnical Commission iPCMP iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform 43 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh Imprint Sustainability Report & Communication on Progress 2017/18, Feedback from our stakeholders improves further published in August 2018. development of our reporting. We welcome and look forward to your suggestions and ideas. The collection and presentation of the content in the 2017/2018 Sustainability Report are the product of the work of all units of Contact iPoint-systems gmbh and the iPoint Group, including all of its Dr. Katie Boehme subsidiaries in Germany and abroad . Head of Corporate Communications & Sustainability iPoint-systems gmbh The Corporate Communications & Sustainability Department Ludwig-Erhard-Str. 58 of iPoint-systems gmbh is responsible for developing and edit72760 Reutlingen ing the content as well as designing the report: Germany • Dr. Katie Boehme M +49.151.19671894 • Carsten Girke circular@ipoint-systems.com Copy editing team • Christine Beck • Beate Hummel 44 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2017-18 © iPoint-systems gmbh
