Ørsted A world that runs entirely on green energy Sustainability report 2017 2 Ørsted Contents Our contribution to the SDGs The world’s governments have defined the greatest challenges for our societies towards 2030 through the UN Sustainable 2 CEO statement letter Development Goals (SDGs). At Ørsted, we are committed to run our business in a way that contributes to the SDGs. Our sustainability programmes contribute to 12 of the 17 SDGs – below you can read which SDGs and underlying targets. We have also assessed to which degree we contribute to the different SDGs. Read more about how our programmes contribute to the SDGs in the back of the report. 4 Our sustainability strategy 6 A world that runs entirely on green energy SDG Targets 8 One of the largest green energy developers in the world 10 The great electrification of society 12 Reducing carbon emissions faster than science demands Very high 7.2 7.3 13 Renescience enables recycling of household waste 13.3 14 Enabling sustainable growth 16 Taking good care of wildlife High 3.4 3.9 17 A talented and diverse workforce 8.7 8.8 15.2 18 Business integrity 15.5 16.5 20 Early supplier engagement in Taiwan 16.6 21 We want our employees to thrive 22 Our sustainability governance Moderate 5.5 6.4 9.4 11.A 24 Material sustainability themes and human rights 12.5 14.2 26 Programme status Low Our business model How we create a world that runs entirely on green energy Key resources Core activities Value creation Financial capital Develop and Operate and Sell and We create value for our shareholders We finance our investment through cash in the form of competitive total returns flow from operations, debt and divestment construct maintain optimise of partnership interests We address profound societal challenges by developing green, independent and Energy assets economically viable energy systems that We invest in scalable innovative green Wind Develop and build Own 23 offshore Utilise our partnership reduce greenhouse gas emissions technologies and solutions Power offshore wind farms. wind farms of which model and crystalise Five wind farms are we operate 19 value We fulfil our customers’ energy needs under con­struction Natural resources through green, innovative and efficient We rely on natural resources, such as energy solutions biomass, as well as locations with attractive wind speeds and seabed conditions We are committed to a sustainable working life and keep a constant focus on being Human resources Bioenergy & Convert our CHP Own and operate Enter into long-term a great and safe place to work with We rely on a highly skilled workforce to Thermal Power plants from coal or ten plants in Denmark contracts with our heat motivated and satisfied employees operate our business gas to sustainable and one plant in the customers and sell biomass Netherlands power to the market Innovative culture We continuously develop price competitive energy solutions through innovation Stakeholder engagement We depend on constructive relations with Distribution & Modernise our Operate and maintain Manage the Group’s our key stakeholders to ensure supportive Customer Solutions power ­distribution our grid infrastructure overall energy portfolio framework conditions for our business grid in Denmark and provide gas, power and energy solutions for our customers 2 Ørsted Sustainability report 3 CEO statement letter The world is in the middle of a global climate crisis. It is not a We are leading the way distant threat. The planet is already feeling the grave impact of 2017 will be remembered as the year when newly built offshore climate change. And truth be told, we are still not doing enough to wind became cheaper than black energy. It has never been more secure the planet for generations to come. We need to transform clear that it is indeed possible to create a world that runs entirely the global energy systems from black to green energy at a higher on green energy. It is the right time for us to send a clear message pace than the current trajectory. that we want to help create such a world. It will not be easy. We, at Ørsted, can only cover a corner of the total solution, but it is Our vision is a world that runs entirely on green energy. It is deeply important that we are ready to lead the way forward and inspire rooted in what we do, and who we are as a company. We want to others to join. be a company that provides real, tangible solutions to one of the world’s most difficult and urgent problems. Changing the energy systems is not only about fighting climate change. For the countries we operate in, it is also about building inBecoming Ørsted dependent energy systems, harvesting local, sustainable resources, Over the past decade, we have been on a massive journey to like the wind at sea. It reduces reliance on imported fossil fuels and transform from an energy company based on fossil fuels to a drives local growth and job creation. glo­bal leader in renewable energy. In 2017, we completed the divestment of our upstream oil and gas business. In 2023, we will In 2017, the safety of our employees and contractors has continued completely stop the use of coal, the most polluting fossil fuel. to be in focus. Through dedicated efforts from the whole company, we have now gone five years without fatalities, and we have As a consequence, we have changed our name to Ørsted as our improved our safety performance markedly again to achieve our old name no longer reflected the company we have become. Our target for 2017. We will not rest on our laurels, but continue to new name is inspired by one of Denmark’s leading scientists of all make safety and well-being key focus areas in our work. time, Hans Christian Ørsted. In 1820, he discovered electromagnetism, laying the foundation for the way we produce power toWe only have one planet; it is our home, so we should treat it well. day. Curiosity, dedication and interest in nature were some of Hans Future generations depend on our actions today. This is reflected in Christian Ørsted’s many qualities. And these are qualities that this our Sustainability Commitment. We are committed to running our company also stands for. Traits that are needed to succeed with business in a way that supports the United Nations Sustainable the green transformation. Development Goals (SDGs) that express the most pressing global challenges today. As a participant of the UN Global Compact, Our green transformation is well underway. We are one of the lar­ we promote the four principles on human rights, labour rights, the gest green energy developers in the world. We have significantly environment and anti-corruption. In this report, you can read about 2017 will be remembered expanded our offshore wind business and converted power plants our sustainability programmes and how we contribute to the UN from fossil fuels to sustainable biomass. In 2017, we decided that SDGs. as the year when newly built our Danish residential customers should also directly benefit from offshore wind became cheaper our transformation – we have secured 100% green power to these customers at no extra cost. than black energy, as demon­strated by the recent auctions Our transformation has resulted in a dramatic reduction of our for offshore wind in Germany carbon emissions. By 2023, our heat and power generation will essentially be carbon-free. Our carbon emission reduction target and the UK. It’s never been has been approved by leading climate organisations as science more clear that it’s possible This report constitutes Ørsted's compliance with the statutory based and in line with the Paris Agreement on climate change – in fact, we are 27 years ahead of the necessary reduction trajectory Henrik Poulsen to create a world that runs disclosure on corporate social responsibility, see the Danish Financial Statements act §99a. For the gender distribution of management for our sector. CEO, Ørsted entirely on green energy. and compliance with §99b, see our ESG Performance Report 2017. 4 Ørsted Sustainability report 5 Our sustainability strategy Climate change is one of the biggest challenges Our sustainability strategy makes our commitment operational being accountable and transparent, respecting human rights and Our vision in figures for life on Earth. We need to transform the way and tangible. It consists of three priorities: having a solid governance. We want to demonstrate that we ope­ Our vision for a world that runs entirely on green energy reaches we power the world; from black to green energy. rate a responsible business with high integrity. far beyond our own operations. It requires a shift in the way we all A world that runs entirely on green energy produce and consume energy. This challenges the energy systems. At Ørsted, our vision is a world that runs entirely Through our solutions, we help build a world that runs entirely on Our priorities span 20 sustainability programmes, and it is through We do not have all the answers for how we can get to a world of on green energy. green energy. It is our vision and main societal contribution. our programmes that we take concrete action to contribute to the 100% green energy. But we have charted the course for how we, SDGs. as a company, will make our contribution. Enabling sustainable growth We address societal challenges embedded in the continued We have organised this report in accordance with our three priorWe want to achieve our vision, while helping to preserve the envigrowth of our green energy portfolio. We make it clear what we ities. On the following pages, you can learn how we work in pracronmental, social and economic structures that are fundamental need to do to grow sustainably and support progress towards a tice with each priority. At the back of the report, we describe how for society. In our Sustainability Commitment, we commit to ope­ world that runs entirely on green energy. we approach sustainability from a practitioner’s angle. Here, we rating in a way that creates progress towards the UN Sustainable also present the progress we have made on our 20 sustainability Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs express a global agreement Business integrity programmes, including how each of them contribute to the SDGs of society’s greatest challenges towards 2030. We uphold high ethical standards in our business practices by and the more detailed underlying targets, where relevant. A world that runs entirely on green energy Our vision in figures Programmes Green energy generation Deployment of offshore wind Greener power stations Integration of green energy A world that runs entirely Ørsted's Ørsted's current Energy savings on green energy target performance 100% Green energy share ≥95% by 2023 64% Enabling Business sustainable growth integrity 100% Carbon reduction* (g CO2e/kWh) 96% by 2023 67% Programmes Programmes Sourcing of certified sustainable biomass Workplace safety 100% Coal reduction* 100% by 2023 82% Local communities Employee health and well-being Performance and development Responsible business partners Employee satisfaction and motivation Cyber security 100% Certified sustainable biomass 100% by 2020 72% Employee diversity Good business conduct Protecting biodiversity Customer experience Resource management Responsible tax practices 100% Green power for our residential customers 100% from 2017 100% Personal data protection * Compared to 2006 6 Ørsted Sustainability report 7 A world that runs entirely on green energy The future of green energy brightens In less than a decade, Ørsted To make real change, we need to energy has dropped by 60%. As the world’s largest offshore has become an 85% offshore take real action. In Ørsted, we want wind developer, we have led the change together with our suppliers and business partners. wind company and has divested to revolutionise the way we power its oil and gas interests. By people. All our investments are aimed at our green energy portfolio. In 2017, we issued green bonds at a value of DKK 9.4 billion in 2023, they’ll be very close to support of our renewable energy build-out plan – the largest zero carbon. That's a pretty issuance in Denmark yet. In 2017, global carbon dioxide concentrations and average staggering transformation in temperatures again reached record-breaking levels, and we Widespread public backing for green energy a very short space of time. witnessed more frequent tropical storms, harsher droughts In 2017, we measured the global public’s attitude to green and other serious consequences. energy through The Green Energy Barometer. We asked John Sauven more than 26,000 people in 13 countries, and the results Director of Greenpeace UK Today, more than 80% of global energy supply is based on were clear. The survey showed an overwhelming public fossil energy sources, such as coal, oil or natural gas. With support for a shift from black to green: 82% of respondents energy demand expected to double by 2060, our societies believe it is important to create a world fully powered by face four challenges for meeting the demand, while reducing green energy. carbon emissions: we need to significantly increase the share of green energy, improve energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption, electrify our energy use, and ensure that our Sustainability programmes helping to achieve our vision: energy systems remain in balance. Green energy generation At Ørsted, our vision directly addresses the challenge of We increase our share of green energy generation and climate change. We used to be one of the blackest energy reduce our carbon emissions. companies in Europe. Today, we produce 64% green energy, and our target for 2023 takes us beyond 95%. Deployment of offshore wind We deploy offshore wind farms as the world’s largest Green has become cheaper than black developer. Our solutions focus on two technologies for the generation of green energy, namely offshore wind and biomass-fired power Greener power stations stations. We are also taking a more extensive responsibility We convert our coaland gas-fired power stations to for the integration of green energy into the energy systems sustainable biomass. by exploring new business opportunities in energy storage and customer solutions. Integration of green energy We ensure that the grid is capable of balancing variable 2017 was a breakthrough year for offshore wind. For the first energy generation and consumption. time in history, it has become cheaper to build and operate offshore wind farms than new coaland gas-fired power Energy savings stations. In comparison with 2012, the cost of offshore wind We help business and residential customers save energy. 8 Ørsted Sustainability report 9 One of the largest build supply chains, and a workforce that can provide the support Agreement. This share is 11 percentage points higher than in 2016. we need locally. As our total sourced volume of biomass has also gone up from 678,000 tonnes in 2016 to 2.1 million tonnes in 2017, we have signifi­ green energy developers It is our aim to supply approx. 30 million people with power from cantly increased our sourcing of certified sustainable biomass. We have offshore wind by 2025. a target of reaching 100% certified sustainable biomass by 2020. Goodbye to coal in the world We operate seven large combined heat and power plants in Choosing the right biomass Denmark. With the conversion of our gas-fired power station in Skærbæk in 2017, we have converted five of our power stations We believe that sustainably managed forests have a big pofrom coal and gas to sustainable biomass. In 2017, we began the tential in helping to mitigate climate change; however, there conversion of Asnæs Power Station. Together with our heating is an ongoing discussion among scientists and NGOs about customers, we are negotiating the future of our power station in which type of forest-based biomass results in the biggest Since 2006, we have increased the share of green Europe dropped below new conventional coalor gas-fired power Esbjerg, which is our last power station running on coal. carbon savings when replacing coal. To help us use the right energy in our heat and power generation from 13% stations for the first time. In fact, the cost of offshore wind has type of biomass, we fund a research project at Copenhagen dropped by 60% in just five years. This is a game changer that we Coal is the most polluting source of energy, and eradicating it from University, and we hold regular meetings with NGOs and to 64%. We have achieved this by deploying offshore think will help inspire a global transition to green energy. our energy generation is a key priority for us and our stakeholders. other stakeholders to get their input and feedback. wind and converting power stations from coal and We have reduced our use of coal by 82% since 2006 as a result of gas to sustainable biomass. Now, we have set a new Offshore wind has global potential. In Europe alone, the Interthe biomass conversions and closure of coal-fired ca­pacity. In the There is general agreement among most NGOs and scientarget of more than 95% green energy by 2023. national Energy Agency expects offshore wind to be the fastest last year alone, we have reduced our coal consumption by 35% tists that thinning wood and wood waste from forests and growing renewable energy technology towards 2020 with capacias two converted power stations came on line towards the end of sawmills is the preferred type of forest-based biomass, as it ty likely to double in comparison with today. We have a significant 2016. We will be entirely coal-free by the beginning of 2023. results in the biggest carbon savings when replacing coal. To mitigate climate change, we urgently need to move away from pipeline of offshore wind projects in Europe, and beyond 2020 we Wood residues and waste make up most of the biomass we fossil-based energy generation. We are the energy company in also expect a breakthrough for offshore wind in markets outside We replace coal and gas with sustainable biomass, which reduces use. The quality of the wood is so low that it cannot be used Europe that has come the furthest in its transition to green energy, Europe. This includes the US and Taiwan where we are currently carbon emissions significantly. Biomass can be sustainable and for buildings or furniture. On the other hand, mature logs and and we are now one of the largest green energy developers in preparing projects. good – or unsustainable. Moving away from coal and gas, we of other valuable parts of the forest, which bind carbon, should the world. Two main drivers have fuelled this development: our course need to ensure that the biomass we replace it with is, in continue to be used for these purposes. deployment of offshore wind and the conversions of our power One of our current challenges is to also bring down the cost of fact, sustainable. We have set a number of strict sustainability stations from coal and gas to sustainable biomass. offshore wind outside of our traditional markets. We believe that criteria and document sustainability by forestry certifications Most researchers also agree that harvested forests have a a price development like the one in Northern Europe is possible in through the Sustainable Biomass Partnership. bigger uptake of carbon than unharvested forests. The carOffshore wind cheaper than coal and gas new markets over time. We will be able to build on the methodbon is stored in the wooden products like houses, floors and Until now, cost has been a barrier for deploying offshore wind. ologies we have designed over the years and take advantage of In 2017, 72% of the sustainable biomass that we sourced was furniture, while the residues like thinning and waste wood can In 2017, auction and tender prices for offshore wind in Northern technological advances. But it also requires dedicated efforts to certified by a third party in accordance with the Danish Industry replace coal. Cost of newly built power generation We say goodbye to coal in 2023 technologies … and to CO2 Levelised cost of electricity/MWh Coal (million tonnes) CO2 emissions 0 55€ 65€ 68€ 70€ 72€ 113€ 6.2 1.1 0 100% -67% -96% Onshore wind Offshore wind * Solar Gas Coal Nuclear ** 2006 2017 2023 2006 2017 2023 Source: Bloomberg New Finance (2016-prices), Year of FID. Prices reflect North Western European market conditions, which express a global trend. Specific prices may vary across regions. * Offshore: Hornsea 2, UK (cost including transmission) ** Nuclear: Hinkley Point, UK 10 Ørsted Sustainability report 11 The great electrification of society Green energy is now cheaper than black. The energy supply and demand and contribute to a stable power grid. We also want to support our residential customers in taking next big challenge is to make our energy systems In the future, storage solutions may also provide a cost-­effective advantage of lower power and distribution prices. We are in the way to deliver power when consumption is highest as an alterprocess of installing one million smart meters in households in the ready for the great electrification of society. native to expanding grid capacity to meet peak demand. We greater Copenhagen area. In December 2017, our distribution Electrification is necessary to take full advantage currently have two test battery solutions. company Radius introduced hourly based tariffs to incentivise of green energy and decarbonise our societies. the consumption of energy at times when pressure on the grid and This is good for the environment, it makes our At our Burbo Bank offshore wind farm in the UK, we are estabthus prices are lower. This will lay the ground for smart appliances energy use independent, and it saves money. lishing a first-of-its-kind offshore wind power and battery hybrid that run or charge when power prices are lower and enable a still system to stabilise delivery frequency to the UK grid. The battery more efficient use of green energy. system is expected to become operational in the beginning of We want the world to run entirely on green energy because it 2018. For future offshore wind projects, we are looking at installing is abundant, cheaper and clean. Today, more than 80% of the significantly larger batteries, which will help ensure that power world’s energy consumption is black. But changing how our socie­ is available during peak hours. ties consume energy is not something we can do on our own – other sectors must follow suit. It is particularly important in This is inspired by our battery in Nordhavn, a new residential area transport and heat generation, as these sectors rely heavily on in Copenhagen, Denmark. Here, we have installed a battery to combustion of fossil fuels in most countries. Our societies must test how it can contribute to the future energy systems by helping electrify the use of energy to take full advantage of green energy balan­ce peak demand in the power distribution grid. We use sources, such as wind and solar. Today, we are starting to see that locally stored power to meet demand at peak times – like in the shift. In many ways, it will change how we power our lives. cooking hours when numerous lights, cookers and televisions are The electrification of society involves new challenges for the being switched on at the same time. 1 million smart energy systems. The power grid must manage greater demand as well as balance variable energy generation and consumption By improving flexibility, our customers can really take advantage of green energy meters in households in an intelligent way. We do not yet have all the solutions, but as we increase generation of green energy, we want to take more We help both business and residential customers move energy consumption to periods with lower demand and prices. Our cusin Copenhagen extensive responsibility for the future energy systems and a grid tomers benefit from cost savings and carbon footprint reductions. in balance. This is not entirely new – for the past decade, we have And it helps even out consumption, which reduces the pressure on developed our power stations to operate with flexible capacity the power grid. levels to match the increased supply from wind power. With our new initiatives, we focus on balancing the power grid with energy In 2017, we developed the concept ‘Energy as a service’ which we storage solutions as well as promoting more flexible consumption. offer for major business customers. It is a comprehensive solution to the challenges posed by energy planning, procurement and opBatteries for peak shaving timisation. ‘Energy as a service’ is tailored for each customer and In 2017, we established a new business area and began dedicated can include installation of energy generation or storage facilities if efforts within energy storage. Energy storage can help balance this benefits the customer’s business case. Smart meter Hourly based tariffs 12 Ørsted Sustainability report 13 Reducing carbon emissions Renescience enables faster than science demands recycling of household waste The increasing concentration of carbon in the By achieving our 2023 target, we will reach our carbon emission Households around the world produce large treatment and a mechanical sorting of fractions. In fact, most of atmosphere calls for action. We have a target reduction goal 27 years faster than the two-degree temperature amounts of waste, and most of it is deposited in the waste from an average household can be recycled. We are rise scenario established by leading climate scientists and the continuously working to increase the recycling rate we can achieve of reducing carbon emissions by 96% by 2023 landfills or incinerated. Now, waste can be turned International Energy Agency for the energy sector. with Renescience. compared with 2006. With this, we are 27 years into recyclable metals and plastics as well as ahead of the International Energy Agency’s 2°C Amongst a handful of energy companies biogas. For the world economy to become truly circular, we need innovative scenario for carbon emission reductions in the Our target reflects the transformation of our business model to solutions that promote the reuse and recycling of materials instead energy sector. becoming a green energy company. We want to take real climate acof the traditional 'take, make and dispose' model. The purpose of tion and reduce carbon emissions for the sake of future generations. Our Renescience technology offers a solution to one of the world’s Renescience is to do exactly that. Metals and plastics are sold for fastest growing problems – the amount of waste and excessive use recycling, and the generated biogas can be used as a substitute for We have reduced the carbon intensity of our energy generation In Europe, Ørsted is the energy company which has made the most of resources. In Europe alone, inefficient waste resource managenatural gas to generate green power or for transport fuel. by 67% and our total carbon emissions by approx. 78% since progress in its transition from fossil-based to green energy. We are the ment means that we lose 600 million tonnes of materials which 2006. There are three key drivers for this, namely our progress in fifth energy company in the world to have set a carbon reduction could have been either recycled or used to generate energy. And Commercial operation in first half of 2018 offshore wind build-out, closure of coal-fired energy capacity, and target which is in line with the scientific recommendations. waste levels are not going down. Growing and wealthier populaIn 2017, we completed the construction of our Renescience plant the conversions of our power stations to sustainable biomass. In tions consume more and generate increased amounts of waste in Northwich, UK. We are currently gaining our first operational particular, phasing out the use of coal has had a dramatic effect Our offshore wind farms not only help reduce the carbon intensity – in fact, global waste levels are expected to double towards 2030. experiences with the plant and focus on getting the plant ready on our carbon emissions. of our own energy generation. They also displace carbon emissions The problem is not just the amount of waste itself – increasing confor commercial operation in the first half of 2018. from conventional fossil-based energy generation due to their lower sumption also challenges the planet’s ability to provide resources A generation ahead marginal power cost. Since 2006, power generation from our offshore for the products we need. It is essential that we find innovative The plant will treat 120,000 tonnes of unsorted household waste In 2017, the Science Based Targets initiative approved our 2023 wind assets has helped avoid the emission of more than 24 million solutions to avoid pollution and the waste of raw materials. per year. This is equivalent to the annual waste from approximatecarbon emission reduction target. The initiative brings together tonnes of carbon to the atmosphere. This is the same as taking more ly 110,000 UK households. leading climate organisations to support companies in aligning than 12 million cars off the streets for a year. At Ørsted, we have turned what was once a small innovative side their targets with the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement. project into a full-scale waste treatment and recycling plant. Our The Renescience plant will enable recovery of enough metals Our target is to produce heat and power at 20g CO2e/kWh Renescience technology prevents household waste from going to to produce 3,700 cars every year. Biogas produced by the ­ – down from 462g CO2e/kWh in 2006. landfills by turning the waste into biogas and recyclable materials, plant will generate a baseload of 5MWh electricity, enough for such as metals and plastics. The processing is based on enzyme 9,500 households. Ørsted is ahead of the curve With its sciencebased climate target, The Renescience process 600 Ørsted is taking a leading position in 500 the transition to a Recyclable materials Transport biofuel 400 future with less carbon e.g. metals / plastics g CO2e/KWh emissions. 300 Alberto Carrillo Pineda 200 Science Based Targets initiative Household waste Renescience Bioliquid Biogas plant Green power 100 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 The International Energy Agency's 2°C scenario for greenhouse gas reductions Ørsted's green house gas intensity Ørsted's target for 2023 Alternative fuels Green gas 14 Ørsted Sustainability report 15 Enabling sustainable growth Turning challenges into enablers for more green energy In our transition to a green energy Another example is that retaining a talented, motivated and diverse work force is essential when driving business company, we have come to face and societal agendas. Therefore, we have programmes to different societal challenges. stimulate learning, collaboration and equal opportunities for our employees. Protection of biodiversity offshore and impacts on local communities just to mention a few. To ensure that Sustainability programmes to ensure we work consistently with these challenges: we grow sustainably, it is necessary that we address these challenges. Sourcing of certified sustainable biomass We document that the biomass ,we use, is sustainable. In short, we try to turn them into enablers for achieving our vision. Local communities Through dialogue and engagement, we want to minimise impacts on local communities and promote local benefits. Any company that changes course will face new societal challenges that can influence its ability to grow and create Performance and development value. Take for instance car manufacturers that must replace We focus on creating a culture where employees can develop combustion engines with new sustainable solutions, while and unfold their potential. ensuring adequate driving ranges. Employee satisfaction and motivation We want to grow our green energy portfolio in a sustainable We wish to increase our employees’ satisfaction and way. Our aim is to address the societal challenges that can motivation by creating a good and healthy working impact our ability to achieve our vision of a world that runs environment. entirely on green energy. Employee diversity Facing new challenges We want a workforce that is as representative of wider All modes of energy generation have a potential bearing on society as possible, and we focus on creating equal our society and our environment. We identify key challenges opportunities for all. to our business together with our stakeholders. Protecting biodiversity One example is in our wind power business where the Through environmental assessments and continuous challenges include the need to protect birdlife or marine knowledge building, we strive to avoid negative impacts on mammals offshore. We also engage with local communities biodiversity. and establish local supply chains to promote economic growth locally. Having stringent processes for mitigation of Resource management potential adverse impacts is necessary to obtain permits for With initiatives within energy and water efficiency as well as offshore wind farms. waste management, we reduce our own environmental impact. 16 Ørsted Sustainability report 17 Taking good care A talented and of wildlife diverse workforce Climate change is a significant threat to bioØrsted and the RSPB are pleased Innovation is a key factor for the future develop­ diversity. Green energy makes a major contribution ment of our business. To promote innovation, we to be working together to improve to limiting climate change, but at the local level need talented people and a diverse workforce. conflicts may arise between green energy and understanding of the behavior of biodiversity conservation. seabirds around offshore wind farms, We want our company to reflect the diversity of the societies we which have become an important are part of. This means to be diverse across gender, educational Every offshore wind farm site has its own unique natural environpart of the UK’s energy systems. and cultural background, age and preferred working style. By proment with important plants and animals. As the number and scale It is hoped that in the longer term, moting diversity and inclusion, we want to make sure that all have equal opportunities to be seen and heard, recruited and promoted. of our wind farms increase, it is only normal that questions arise as to how they impact the natural environment. Questions such as: this study will help both wind farm We want it to be a state-of-mind philosophy that permeates the Do wind turbine blades pose a risk to seabirds in flight? Or: How do developers and conservationists way we think and act in all teams. marine mammals respond to the noise from installation of wind understand how to best build Diversity and inclusion are also important for us to promote turbine foundations? renewable energy developments innovation, which is a key factor for the future development of our To answer such questions and minimise the potential environmenin harmony with nature. business. To promote innovation, we need talented people and a diverse workforce because as research shows diverse and inclutal impacts from our offshore wind farms, we conduct and support Dr. Lucy Wright, Principal Conservation Scientist at the RSPB sive teams deliver better business performance. Diverse teams a large number of environmental surveys and build knowledge in promote innovation because they can deliver different inputs and collaboration with industry peers and expert stakeholders, such as perspectives on solutions. universities, environmental NGOs and statutory bodies. In collaboration with noise experts, we continue to develop evidence of how underwater noise travels through water during Birds and wind turbines wind turbine installation. This helps us better predict the potential Birds may potentially collide with wind turbines. It is an area impact on mammals. of much discussion, as the evidence related to the scale of the In Ørsted, innovation is the bread has not improved in recent years. To understand why and to help change this, Thomas Thune Andersen, our Chairman of the Board, impact is still evolving. We work with regulatory and governmenDuring construction, we implement a range of measures to mitigate and butter of our work, so to speak. and Hanne Blume, Chief Human Resources Officer, take part in the tal agencies as well as environmental NGOs to try to reduce this the potential impact. For instance, we listen for marine mammals uncertainty. with underwater hydrophones. We also position specialist observers Diversity helps drive the innovation United Nations’ Gender Diversity Roundtable Denmark. onboard our construction vessels to look out for mammals. If any we rely on so heavily to be able to We have set targets for increasing the participation of women As an example, we funded the tracking of bird flights around offshore wind farms carried out by the NGO 'Royal Society for Promammals are identified, the construction will pause. stay competitive in the markets where in management at all levels. We are working to improve perfor­ tection of Birds' (RSPB). Cutting-edge GPS tags were attached to We have also joined forces with two other wind farm developers we're operating. Therefore, it’s so mance, but are not fully on track yet. Amongst the women working at Ørsted, there is a larger leadership potential than what we the back of 20 adult kittiwakes to collect data on their locations to monitor environmental impact in the German North Sea. As much more important that we work currently help unleash. as they travel to forage at sea. The kittiwake is in the gull family part of this joint study, we aim to develop solid scientific concluand is the most numerous of seabirds. In the UK, it is, however, in sions about the impact of offshore activities on the presence of on maintaining an inclusive culture Attending the talent programme has given me a better underdecline and a conservation priority. The GPS tag was simply glued marine mammals. Halfway through the seven-year study, the where there's room for diversity. standing of how I react in challenging situations, and I’ve become to the back of each bird and fell off naturally after a few weeks. results show no indication of mammals permanently avoiding the more emotionally intelligent. The programme provided me with area where wind farms have been installed. Hanne Blume several tools and not at least confidence to continue my develDuring the consenting phase of the Hornsea Project Two in the Chief Human Resources Officer opment as a manager. Susanne Bork Klussmann, Director and UK, there were concerns from NGOs and statutory bodies that the Assessing potential impacts systematically former participant in the Apollo talent programme for managers. kittiwake would potentially collide with wind turbines. Therefore, Winning the rights to develop and construct new wind farms we have decided to raise the wind turbine blades above the kittirequires thorough environmental impact assessments of the enviwakes’ flight paths, which is expected to significantly reduce the ronmental conditions and potential impacts on the environment. Female leaders hold great potential To support women become managers, we want to make sure potential for collisions. Our global team of experts study the wildlife and model potential Today, 30% of our employees are women, whereas 24% of our that enough women take part in our talent programmes. For our impacts on the plant and animal species that live in the area. We managers are women. We need to make an extra effort to improve Columbus programme, which is designed to accelerate the develMarine mammals and noise work with regulators to ensure that we appropriately assess and, the gender balance in our workforce and support women in taking opment of potential future leaders, we have reserved one third of Marine mammals may potentially be disturbed by underwater if necessary, mitigate the potential impacts of our wind farms. on management roles. the seats for women in 2018. For more experienced female mannoise created during the installation of offshore wind turbines. The We continue biodiversity monitoring throughout the construction agers, we have initiated a new 'Female Spotlight Initiative' which risk is that they leave their normal habitats, or their communicaphase and often after the wind farm has been commissioned to We know that the women we employ perform as well as their will support talented women in stepping into senior leadership tion is disturbed. assess potential long-term impacts. male peers. Yet, the gender balance in management positions positions. 18 Ørsted Sustainability report 19 Business integrity Integrity and trust go hand in hand We changed our name in 2017, but s­ponsibility to make sure that our employees and contractors work in a safe environment and return home without injuries. our guiding principles remain – The In recent years, we have complemented our work on safety Ørsted Way. The first guiding principle with a range of initiatives that have the purpose of enabling a sustainable working life, both physically and mentally. is integrity. We uphold high ethical standards in our business practices by Business integrity also reaches beyond our own walls. We being accountable and transparent, collaborate with our suppliers and joint venture partners and help them develop their sustainability practices in accorrespecting human rights and having dance with our code of conduct. a solid governance. Sustainability programmes that contribute to upholding high In Ørsted, integrity is one of our five guiding principles. It is ethical standards in our business practices: part of how we define ourselves as a company. It is also how we approach dialogue with our stakeholders – we want to Workplace safety build trust by listening to their concerns and communicating We provide a safe working environment and make safety an transparently about Ørsted. integrated part of our working culture. Trust is no small matter. Surveys show that the public’s trust in Employee health and well-being institutions is lower than ever. This is true for governments, media We support our employees in maintaining sustainable workand businesses alike. At the same time, the role of businesses ing lives, as this is important for their well-being. in society is changing. People expect companies to take more responsibility for solving some of society’s greatest challenges. Responsible business partners We contribute to sustainable development, while building a The greatest challenge we have set our sights on is climate responsible supply chain. change, and our answer is green energy. To build and maintain the trust of our stakeholders, we have publicly Cyber security comitted ourselves to a set of sustainability principles in our We uphold a high degree of cyber security to minimise the Sustainability Commitment, and we work with a number of threat of cyber attacks. sustainability programmes that focus on integrity. Good business conduct We are guided by national and international frameworks We have zero tolerance towards corruption and provide gui­ in our approach to business integrity; first and foremost the dance about ethical behaviour. UN Global Compact, of which we have been a signatory for 11 years. They also include national laws, such as social Customer experience responsibility reporting in Denmark, or the UK Bribery or We offer services that meet the needs of individual customers. Modern Slavery Acts. We rely on international conventions, principles and guidelines, such as the OECD Guidelines for Responsible tax practices Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles on We comply with tax legislation in the markets where we Business and Human Rights. operate. Integrity in our own operations – and beyond Personal data protection Our programmes include one of the highest priorities in our We have processes in place to handle personal data correctly business, namely safety. As an energy company, it is our re­and in accordance with the law. 20 Ørsted Sustainability report 21 Early supplier We want our employees engagement in Taiwan to thrive As we enter new markets, we are evolving our promote continuous improvement on sustainability performance. In Ørsted, we want to create a culture where we can be caught in a honey trap because our work provides exapproach to responsible sourcing. This includes Our assessment process enables us to understand and address people thrive and enjoy sustainable working lives. citement, recognition and social relationships. At Ørsted, we focus performance issues in our supply chains. on how to prevent that this makes us work too much without the establishing sustainability expectations and We are making our approach an integrated part necessary recovery time. increasing the capabilities of our potential Our approach to working in new markets is an additional compoof our working culture. suppliers through dialogue and training. nent to our business partner programme. We will complement our We focus on providing our employees with tools and advice about established assessment process by developing new approaches to working habits for strengthening concentration and avoiding We want to be a workplace where our employees thrive in their increase the awareness and capabilities of our potential suppliers disturbances. And we talk openly about the importance of a good jobs. And we are persistent when it comes to creating a workplace From the manufacturing of foundations and wind turbines to the through dialogue and training. night’s sleep to recover.­ where we take care of ourselves and each other. Just like integriinstallation of cables, each step of our supply chain presents its ty, it is not something we do for a period of time – it is a way to own opportunities and risks. In the same way, different markets behave and act in everyday life. bring about different challenges. A one-size-fits-all approach to responsible sourcing will not provide a meaningful way to assess and develop supplier capability and performance. Get out of your chair. Sedentary work also strains your body We have a high focus on safety and prevention of physical problems. It is relevant for both our employees with hard physical work and We are developing offshore wind projects in Taiwan where we for those with sedentary work. Many studies show that too much want to establish local, responsible supply chains to contribute Our projects in Taiwan sedentary work decreases concentration and causes pain in neck and to the local economy and build an agile and high-quality supply shoulders. The long-term effects of sedentary work are serious with chain. Compared with Europe, heavy manufacturing and civil higher risks of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Even though we works sectors in Taiwan face higher risks of being associated with are active in our spare time, when we are at work, we need to get out unsustainable business practices, especially in cases involving miof our chairs and move around – several times a day. grant workers. We will work with our suppliers on addressing these challenges to secure the long-term potential of the sector. At Ørsted, we are creating a culture where we can take a break, go for a short walk or in other ways move our bodies during the working In Taiwan, we are engaging our suppliers in our sustainability exday. It is our goal that this becomes just as integrated in our culture as pectations before we engage with them commercially. By starting safety already is today. this conversation early, we can explain our approach to responsible sourcing and learn about some of the challenges we have not To promote physical health, we offer our employees exercise op­ faced in our supply chains before. portunities and advice on good working positions. During the last year, we conducted different initiatives to enhance physical health. In October 2017, we visited three potential suppliers in Taiwan. In our approach, we are: Taiwan As an example, we launched the 'Stretch for Strength' initiative where Stress prevention is important 1,800 colleagues took part – one third of all Ørsted employees. • involving our suppliers in establishing sustainability expectations Work is more complex than it was just ten years ago. In large and defining goals to improve performance Our annual survey shows that our employees are satisfied with the part due to the digital revolution. Information and connec­• encouraging innovation in the construction of new generation health and well-being opportunities they are offered. We can always t­ivity is available around the clock. Combined with constant facilities to minimise waste and promote resource efficiency do more, and future initiatives will focus on how to get physical productivity gains, it can be a challenge to balance and main• exploring new opportunities for collaboration on tackling sector-­ health even more integrated into our culture. tain a healthy working life. wide challenges in the labour market. We must take care of our brains We ask our employees if they experience stress in our em­ Best practice continues to evolve Mental health is equally important. A modern working life is often ployee satisfaction survey. In 2017, 9% of employees respon­We have been running a business partner programme for several without limits, and we can check in everywhere and at all times of ded that they feel stress ‘quite much’ or ‘much’. While this years, which we have strengthened along the way. To promote the day. Routine tasks are mostly outsourced to computers, and number is below the Danish average for stress, we find the responsible business practice in our supply chain, we have a code we are bombarded with information, while needing to concennumber to be too high, and we are dedicated to reducing of conduct and perform risk-based due diligence. We select a trate, be creative and innovative. We invest time and energy in stress. In 2017, we trained more than 600 of our managers number of suppliers each year for our assessment programme to our jobs. Our work becomes a part of who and what we are, and in stress preven­tion. 22 26 Ørsted Sustainability report 23 27 Our sustainability Sustainability organisation governance Board of Directors Provides strategic guidance on sustainability in Ørsted. Audit and Risk Committee A board committee appointed by the Board of Directors. Approves the sustainability targets in our corporate Supervises the integrity of the sustainability reporting, the strategy and supervises their achievement. presentation hereof in the annual financial report and the internal control system for non-financial data. Approves Sustainability Commitment and annual sustainability report. Chair Chair Thomas Thune Andersen, Chairman of the Board Benny Loft, member of the Board Group Executive Management Compliance Committee Accountable for sustainability programmes. Appointed by the Group Executive Management. Responsibility for our sustainability performance 1. Foundation is part of our general decision-making structures. We rely on The Ørsted Way, our Sustainability Approves themes in annual sustainability materiality Monitors our compliance with laws, rules and standards The Board of Directors is the highest authority Commitment and our participation in the UN assessment and portfolio of sustainability programmes. that apply to our business areas, including within that oversees our sustainability work, while the Global Compact for the values that govern our sustainability. Assigns accountability for programmes at executive level. Group Executive Management has accountability work. Chair for our sustainability programmes with specialist Proposes the sustainability programme targets that are Henrik Poulsen, CEO support from appointed committees. 2. Material themes part of our corporate strategy to the Board and monitors We engage stakeholders in continuous dialogue. their achievement. In Ørsted, we consider robust governance to One output of this is an annual assessment of the be an essential part of being a transparent and sustainability themes that our stakeholders and Sustainability Committee accountable company. Our sustainability practices we consider to be material to our business. Appointed by the Group Executive Management. are based on a five-step process that describes how we ensure progress on our sustainability 3. Strategy Oversees that we live up to our Sustainability performance. We address all material sustainability themes Commitment; reviews sustainability strategy and monitors through 20 programmes that sit at the core of our performance of sustainability programmes. sustainability strategy. Chair Chair Henrik Poulsen, CEO Marianne Wiinholt, CFO 4. Performance The 20 programmes are central to our manage­ ment of performance. We specify governance, policies, performance indicators and targets where Business units and Shared Functions Internal Audit relevant for our programmes. Conduct annual sustainability materiality assessment, Verifies the effectiveness of our sustainability programmes establish sustainability programmes and ensure progress by: with particular focus on compliance and validity of data. 5. Reporting and communication Transparency on our performance is important in • developing policies and procedures our continuous dialogue with stakeholders. We • setting targets communicate in writing through our reporting • defining and measuring performance indicators products, our website, and other media, and we • managing and reporting on performance. engage in dialogue directly with stakeholders bilaterally and through roundtables. 24 Ørsted Sustainability report 25 Material sustainability Our commitment We have a responsibility to ensure that our business follows Our Sustainability Commitment sets the framework for our themes and human rights the rule of law and treats people affected by our operations pledge to safeguard and strengthen human rights across our well. That is why we are committed to business practices that global operations and supply chains: respect internationally recognised human rights and help secure a fair transition to a world that runs entirely on green energy. “We commit to safeguarding and strengthening labour and human rights, to promoting safe working conditions, mental As participant in the UN Global Compact, Ørsted is commithealth and well-being and to giving our employees good ted to respecting all human rights described in the Universal learning opportunities in their work. We commit to treating Declaration of Human Rights; the International Covenant on all people with respect, to work against discrimination in all Civil and Political Rights; the International Covenant on Ecoits forms and to be an inclusive organisation which respects nomic, Social, and Cultural Rights; and the ILO Declaration on individual characteristics, such as gender, age, sexual orientaDialogue with stakeholders is fundamental material to our business. We rank the themes according to their Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. tion, nationality as well as religious and political beliefs.” to understanding which sustainability themes importance to stakeholders and to Ørsted. This year, we have placed them in one of the three priorities of our sustainability and human rights areas we need to address to strategy. By bundling similar themes, we can better compare the maintain good sustainability practices and help relative importance of the themes. preserve a safe, just and fair society. On pages 26-27, you can find our material sustainability themes. In 2017, we conducted our second human rights risk screening for our As an energy company, we perform many functions with societal impact. Most importantly, of course, we generate energy for our Human rights risk screening operations as well as a mapping of the human rights risks in our supply To understand our human rights risks, we conducted 15 interviews customers, which we want to do with respect for our surroundwith Ørsted employees who lead work that has a direct link to our chains with the following results: ing environment and the societies we are a part of. But we also rights holder groups – our employees, our customers, our comemploy both blueand white-collar workers and function as a munities, and our business partners. During the interviews, we ascustomer in local and global supply chains. sessed how our business activities could potentially have adverse Rights Human rights Human rights Ørsted Sustainability impacts on the rights holders. The assessment also evaluated our holder focus areas article * policy programme Many aspects of these relationships are determined by internationcapacity to identify potential risk areas and current mitigation al conventions, norms and values that we want to help preserve strategies to address them. Our • Discrimination 23. Right to equal pay for • Policy on mitigation of • Employee diversity because they are fundamental to a safe, just, and fair society that employees • Safe working conditions equal work recruitment risks • Workplace safety safeguards the rule of law and respect for human rights. Other The screening concluded that we manage our most significant • Overtime and stress23. Right to just and favourable • Diversity policy • Employee health and aspects are newer or more complex, and often a consensus has human rights risks well, and that we mainly operate in low-risk related burn out conditions of work • Policy on bullying and well-being not yet formed among our stakeholders. environments. However, new markets represent new focus areas harassment • Senior policy related to human rights. Suppliers continue to be a primary focus • Health and safety of In our Sustainability Commitment, we commit ourselves to engagarea for us. But we can improve our governance by increasing employees ing in dialogue with our stakeholders. This helps us understand how awareness in key business areas on human rights, especially in our societal impacts are viewed outside our operations. We use higher risk markets. these inputs to calibrate our own world view, and we listen to expert Our • Privacy of personal data 12. Right not to be subjected • Privacy policy • Personal data protection opinions to continuously improve our sustainability practices. customers • Privacy during installations to arbitrary interference The screening results show where we have potential adverse and maintenance at with one’s privacy impacts on human rights. We have listed the focus areas on the people’s homes A complementary approach of materiality and human rights next page as well as our policies and sustainability programmes We formalise the insights from our stakeholder dialogue in two through which we seek to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts. concrete projects: a materiality assessment (annual) and a human Communities • Impact of wind farms 25. Right to a standard of living • Local community • Local communities rights risk screening (every other year). As output, we define a on fishing activities 27. Right to freely participate in engagement policy In 2018, we will focus on supporting internal stakeholders in areas • Land acquisitions the cultural life of a community number of material sustainability themes and potential adverse of the business that are key for our human rights performance. • Noise and traffic human rights impacts that we and our stakeholders consider In addition, we will continue to engage our stakeholders on our important to address. We have sustainability programmes for human rights practices in an NGO roundtable. all material themes, and we add human rights components to Our • Health and safety 4. Right to freedom from slavery • Code of Conduct for • Responsible business relevant programmes to continuously strengthen our practices on suppliers • Labour and wage or servitude business partners partners conditions 23. Right to just and favourable human rights. conditions of work 23. Right to equal, just, and fair Identification of material themes remuneration Our annual materiality assessment is based on the dialogue we The UK Modern Slavery Act 23. Right to freedom of association have with investors, regulators and policy makers, civil society, cus24. Right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation tomers, business partners, and employees. We engage in bilateral In 2017, we published our first statement in accordance with of working hours and periodic meetings, arrange roundtables, and meet at conferences. the UK Modern Slavery Act. It sets out the steps we take to holidays with pay prevent acts of modern slavery and human trafficking from Each year, we consolidate the inputs we receive in a materiality occurring in our business and supply chains. You can find it on assessment where we identify sustainability themes that are orsted.com/sustainability * Universal Declaration of Human Rights 26 Ørsted Sustainability report 27 Programme status This overview shows our three strategic sustainability priorities, our sustainability themes, and the corresponding programmes through which we address these themes. We have ranked the themes and programmes in order of materiality within each priority. In the far right column we show the UN Sustainable Development Goals that each programme contributes to and where it is possible the underlying SDG target. On the following pages, we describe how we work with the programmes, which actions we took in 2017, and the ways we contribute to the SDGs. Theme Theme description Programme Indicator Our target Performance SDG Climate change Reduce our carbon emissions and build climate change awareness Green energy generation Green energy share (%) 2023 target: ≥95% 64 13.3 Greenhouse gas intensity of heat and power generation 2023 target: 20 151 (g CO2e/kWh) A world Green energy deployment Deployment of clean energy solutions to help meet growing global demand for affordable clean energy Deployment of offshore wind Installed offshore wind capacity (GW) 2025 ambition: 11-12 3.9 7.2 that runs Greener power stations Coal share in thermal heat and power generation (%) 2023 target: 0 30 7.2 entirely Coal consumption (million tonnes) 2023 target: 0 1.1 on green Integration of green energy Enable more renewable energy in the energy systems through the development of infrastructure, integration of markets and increased demand flexibility Integration of green energy Smart meters in use (number) 2020 target: >1 million 183,000 9.4 energy Energy efficiency Help our customers reduce their energy consumption Energy savings Energy savings realised through our energy – 176 7.3 consultancy services (GWh) Sustainability of biomass Safeguard the sustainability of biomass to ensure carbon emission Sourcing of certified biomass Certified wood pellet and wood chips sourced 2020 target: 100 72 15.2 reductions and protection of biodiversity (%) Community impacts and Manage the effects of our business operations on the local society and Local communities We engage in continuous dialogue with stake­11.A local contents environment and contribute to communities in which we operate through holders and invest in community development Enabling the procurement of goods and services and local workforce development funds and skills-based initiatives. sustainable Talent development Foster professional development of employees, develop next-generation Performance and development Satisfaction with learning and development 2020 target: 80 76 growth leaders, and attract new talent to increase the overall capability and expertise in the company (scale 0-100) Employee satisfaction and Employee satisfaction and motivation 2020 target: 77 76 motivation (scale 0-100) Diversity Support development of a more diverse workforce and provide equal Employee diversity Women in leadership positions (%) 5.5 access to opportunities • Leadership Conference 2020 target: 22 13 • Middle management 2020 target: 30 25 Biodiversity impact Manage impact on wildlife and ecosystems to meet concern for especially Protecting biodiversity Significant environmental incidents – 8 14.2 wind farm impact during construction, operation and decommissioning (number) 15.5 Waste and resource Enable recycling and efficient use of resources to minimise waste Resource management Waste for recycling (%) – 99 6.4 management and resource use 12.5 Safety and well-being Provide a safe working environment and promote employee health and Workplace safety Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) 2020 target: ≤5.7 6.4 8.8 well-being Accidents with abcence per million working hours (LTIF) – 1.6 Employee health and well-being Satisfaction with health initiatives (scale 0-100) 2020 target: 80 77 3.4 Business Supply-chain impact and Reduce social and environmental impact in our value chains and promote Responsible business partners Improvement plans. Distribution of opened actions (%) 3.9 integrity business partner conduct responsible business practices • Sustainability management • Labour and human rights – – 37 35 8.7 8.8 • Environment – 22 • Anti-corruption – 6 Cyber attacks Safeguard our supply of energy by protecting our company from Cyber security We have a comprehensive program to counter cyber unauthorised access to IT systems security challenges. No major IT security incidents in 2017. Business ethics Prevent corruption and fraud by our employees in their relationships Good business conduct Substantiated whistleblower cases – 3 16.5 with authorities and business partners (number) Customer satisfaction Ensure that customers are satisfied with the services we provide Customer experience Customer satisfaction (scale 1-100) • Residential customers (B2C) 2020 target: ≥80 76 • Business customers (B2B) 2020 target: ≥80 77 • Distribution customers 2020 target: ≥80 82 Tax practices Provide transparency on tax payments and implement a responsible Responsible tax practices Global income tax paid in 2017 (DKK) – 2.7bn 16.6 approach to tax Data privacy Handle personal information of customers, business Personal data protection We have mapped all personal data we handle, and will partners and employees responsibly align practices with EU regulation in 2018. 28 Ørsted Sustainability report 29 Green energy Deployment of Greener power Integration of Energy generation offshore wind stations green energy savings A world SDG: #13 → Target: 13.3 SDG: #7 → Target: 7.2 SDG: #7 → Target: 7.2 SDG: #9 → Target: 9.4 SDG: #7 → Target: 7.3 The risks and effects of climate change are To mitigate climate change and its conseCoal is the fossil fuel that emits most carbon In a world that runs entirely on green energy, Globally, there is great potential for improved becoming increasingly prevalent. We take quences, we need to build more green energy dioxide, which negatively impacts the climate. power demand will increase, and generaenergy efficiency that enables businesses and that runs action to increase the share of green energy in capacity. Offshore wind represents a scalable By phasing out coal, we significantly reduce tion and consumption will vary. This poses households to reduce cost and carbon footour generation and reduce carbon emissions. and efficient green energy technology. the carbon emitted from our heat and power challenges to the energy systems. We focus on print. We want to unleash this potential. generation. balancing the power grid with energy storage entirely In 2017, the share of green energy in our gene­ In 2017, we commissioned Burbo Bank solutions as well as promoting more flexible We help customers save energy through our ration of heat and power was 64%. We have ­Extension. We also won the rights to construct In 2017, we consumed 1.1 million tonnes of coal. consumption in three main focus areas: energy consultancy services and through a target to achieve a green energy share above projects in Germany and UK with a total This is 82% less than in 2006. We have a target climate partnerships. Our climate partnerships on green 95% by 2023. capacity of 2GW at the lowest price ever – of phasing out the use of coal completely in 1) We will install large batteries that store focus both on energy savings and on helping among them the world’s largest offshore wind the beginning of 2023. We do this by closing power for short periods of time. Storage the partner change to green energy. By 2017, we have reduced the greenhouse gas farm, Hornsea 2, which will provide clean down coal capacity and converting the resolutions can help maintain a balanced grid. energy intensity of our heat and power generation by power to more than 1.3 million British homes. maining capacity to using sustainable biomass. Storage can also be used when there is a peak This year we have helped realise energy sav67% in comparison with 2006. We have a We expect Hornsea 2 to be operational in 2022 in demand. This reduces the maximum dimenings of 176GWh corresponding to the annual science-based target to bring the intensity where it will be our first offshore wind farm In 2017, we completed the conversion of the sions that are needed of the grid. power consumption of 51,600 households. level down to 20g CO2e/kWh in 2023 to generate power at a lower cost than newly Skærbæk Power Station from gas to wood These are the energy savings achieved by com– a re­duction of 96% compared with 2006. constructed coaland gas-fired power stations. chips. We also made the decision to convert 2) We install smart meters to enable hourly panies using our energy consultancy services, the coal-fired Asnæs Power Station to wood based tariffs and create incentives to use powincluding our climate partnership model. By providing tangible solutions, we help imBy 2017, our total offshore wind capacity chips. We expect to complete the conversion er when it is abundant and cheap and pressure prove the capacity to address climate change. was 3.9GW. We expect to more than double by late 2019. on the grid is low. We also help our residential customers reduce And by positioning our company at the forethis to 8.9GW in 2022. It is our ambition to their energy bill by offering free remote consulfront of climate change mitigation, we help reach a total of 11-12GW by 2025, which Conversions of our power stations in Denmark 3) We offer a new integrated solution to our tancy services and online practical guidance. raise awareness of the urgent need to address equals the annual power consumption of from coal and gas to sustainable biomass is business customers called ‘Energy as a service’. climate change. This way, we contribute to around 30 million people. an efficient way to reduce the carbon emitted We see a rising demand for new services that By helping our customers improve their energy SDG #13.3. from heat and power generation. This increa­ include procurement, generation and use of efficiency, we contribute to SDG #7.3. Since 2007, our generation from offshore wind ses the share of renewable energy in the global energy. Optimised energy consumption will has helped avoid 24 million tonnes of carbon energy mix and contributes to SDG #7.2. benefit the energy bill of our customers and dioxide that would have been emitted from help balance the grid. conventional fossil-based energy generation. Through our offshore wind activities, we By upgrading the grid infrastructure and helpincrease the share of renewable energy in the ing to increase resource efficiency and other global energy mix and contribute to SDG #7.2. environmentally sound industry processes, we contribute to SDG #9.4. At Ørsted, we want to be a Green energy share (%) Installed offshore wind capacity (GW) Coal share in thermal heat and power Smart meters in use Energy savings realised through our company that provides real, generation (%) energy consultancy services (GWh) tangible solutions to climate change – one of the world’s most difficult and urgent problems. In the following programmes, 50 64 95 11-12 46 30 0 176 we describe how we work 2016 2017 2023 target 2025 ambition 2016 2017 2023 target 2017 to create a world that runs entirely on green energy. By 3.9 151 Greenhouse gas intensity from heat constructing offshore wind and power generation (g CO2e/kWh) Coal consumption (million tonnes) farms and converting our 2017 2016 power stations from coal to sustainable biomass, we contribute to the green transformation of society. At the same time, we maintain 224 151 20 3.6 1.7 1.1 0 183,000 122 2016 2017 2023 target 2016 2016 2017 2023 target 2017 2015 a high reliability of supply for our customers, while helping them reduce their energy The performance improvements are both due to increa­ In 2017, we have intensified our energy consulting. We consumption. sed power generation from wind farms and a higher share of biomass based heat and power generation at Installed offshore wind capacity increased due to installed capacity at Burbo Bank Extension and technical The decreased coal share and total consumption is driven by the biomass conversions of Avedøre and By the end of 2017, we have installed 183,000 smart have also changed the way we calculate energy savings to include only the savings attributable to the work the power stations in Skærbæk, Avedøre and Studstrup. capacity changes at Gode Wind 1 and 2. Studstrup power stations in late 2016. meters of a total of 1 million in 2019. of our energy advisors. 30 Ørsted Sustainability report 31 Sourcing of certified Local Performance and Employee satisfaction Employee sustainable biomass communities development and motivation diversity Enabling SDG: #15 → Target: 15.2 SDG: #11 → Target: 11.A — — SDG: #5 → Target: 5.5 We replace coal and gas at our power stations We want to have a positive impact in the We depend on our ability to attract, develop Satisfied and motivated employees thrive and A diverse workforce creates a dynamic workwith sustainable biomass, mainly wood pellets communities where we operate. By engaging and retain talented employees to develop and create a positive and collaborative working ing environment that stimulates innovative sustainable and wood chips. Since not all biomass is communities and using local sources of labour supply more green energy to society. environment that drives positive change and thinking. We focus on diverse recruiting and sustainable, we document the sustainability of and goods when possible, we strengthen the contributes to sustainable growth in society offering all employees equal opportunities for our biomass by means of certification in accorlocal support of our business activities. Ørsted runs three different talent programmes and our business. development. We have a particular focus on growth dance with the Danish Industry Agreement on across career segments and organisational attracting more applications from women. sourcing of sustainable forest-based biomass. Our activities are based on continuous levels from specialists to senior directors. The Studies show that employees who can relate dialogue with local government, community talent programmes prepare selected, talented to their company’s purpose in society and find We have a policy and targets for women in The certification ensures that tree stock will leaders, business organisations and NGOs. This employees to further develop and strengthen their work to be personally fulfilling are genermanagement. The topics of diversity and remain stable or increase, ensuring carbon dialogue enables us to build relations of trust our leadership pipeline by preparing high poally happier, more satisfied, and more likely to inclusion are fixed parts of the agenda for neutrality in connection with the incineration in the communities and prevent or address tentials for critical positions in the future. stay in their jobs. recruitment workshops, and we ask all hiring of biomass. Including transportation and situations that could otherwise generate managers to interview at least one woman production of biomass, we save more than disagreement. We support local communities An analysis of internal career moves for the We measure satisfaction and motivation in our for open positions. We conduct analyses of 90% carbon dioxide compared with coal. by investing in community development funds past three years (2013-2016) shows that annual employee survey. In 2017, we had an career progression and possible bottlenecks for and local skills-based initiatives that provide almost 65% of our employees who have index of 76 out of 100. Our 2020 target is 77. female employees and managers. In 2017, 72% of the biomass we sourced was education and skills support to youths in techattended a talent programme have moved certified sustainable out a total sourced nology and engineering. one or more levels up in the organisation. To increase the proportion of women in manvolume of 2.1 million tonnes. This means that agement, we will focus more on positioning we sourced 1.5 million tonnes certified as In 2017, we developed a best practice We survey our employees’ satisfaction with women for leadership positions. For instance, sustainable biomass – up from 414,000 tonnes catalogue and guidance materials for risk their opportunities for learning and developby reserving seats in our talent programmes in 2016. assessment, local stakeholder identification ment annually. In 2017, we had an index of 76 to women and through a specific initiative and community engagement in alignment out of 100. Our 2020 target is a satisfaction for female managers with senior leadership The certification requirement of the agreewith international standards. This will help us score of 80 out of 100. potential. ment is phased in until 2019. We go beyond the further improve our community engagement industry agreement with our 2020 target that as we continue to move into new markets. In 2018, we will look further into our gender 100% of our sourced forest-based biomass is pay rate and define how we most accurately certified as sustainable. By supporting positive economic, social and report on this. We will also determine whether environmental development in the communiadditional initiatives to promote more equal By ensuring sustainable forest management, ties, we contribute to SDG #11.A. pay are required. we contribute to SDG #15.2. Link: orsted.com/localengagement By promoting equal opportunities for women, Link: orsted.com/biomass we contribute to SDG #5.5. We want to grow our Certified wood pellets and wood How we engage locally Satisfaction with learning and Employee satisfaction and Women in leadership positions (%) green energy portfolio in a chips sourced (%) development (scale 0-100) motivation (scale 0-100) sustainable way. Through the Leadership Conference following programmes, we address societal challenges to enable our contribution to a world that runs entirely on 80 77 green energy. 2020 target 2020 target 13 22 2017 2020 target Jobs Dialogue 76 76 Middle Management 2017 2017 76 76 Economic Collaboration 61 72 100 activity with companies 25 30 2016 2017 2020 target 2016 2016 2017 2020 target We have exceeded the Danish industry agreement that requires sourcing of 60% certified sustainable biomass As a consequence of the reorganised management in 2017. We expect our suppliers to continue increasing In 2017 our employee satisfaction survey showed the ­levels, we have revised our performance and targets. their share of certified biomass and to reach our target same level of satisfaction with learning and developIn 2017, we maintained the high score of 76 on satisfacThe numbers are not directly comparable with last of 75% in 2018 and 100% in 2020. ment as in 2016. tion and motivation among Ørsted's employees. year. 32 Ørsted Sustainability report 33 Protecting Resource Workplace Employee health biodiversity management safety and well-being Business SDG: #14 #15 → Target: 14.2, 15.5 SDG: #6 #12 → Target: 6.4, 12.5 SDG: #8 → Target: 8.8 SDG: #3 → Target: 3.4 Climate change is the single largest threat to We all rely on natural resources, but today our Safety is a top priority in everything we do We want to create a framework for a sustainbiodiversity loss. Green energy makes a major societies use more than what our planet can as part of our daily business. We have a basic able working life that gives our employees integrity contribution to limiting climate change, but offer in the long run. We are committed to miresponsibility to ensure and promote a safe energy both at work and outside of work. Our at a local level, conflicts may arise between nimising consumption and pursuing recycling working environment and culture among our employees’ health and well-being is essential green energy and biodiversity conservation. and reuse of resources. Our main focus is eneremployees and contractors. for us to succeed – but most importantly for gy and water efficiency and waste recycling, our employees’ overall quality of life. We operate our business with respect for for instance through the following initiatives: 2017 was our fifth year in a row without fatal ecosystems and biodiversity. Our specialists accidents. We have exceeded our 2017 LTIF Mental balance and physical well-being conduct environmental impact assessments In 2017, we developed a new climate partnertarget of 1.7 and are very close to achieving increases job satisfaction, motivation, collabbefore construction and to get operating ship with our own energy advisory experts. In our 2020 LTIF target of 1.5, which has been our oration, and resilience of employees to face permits. They assess and document poten2018, we have decided to source only green primary safety target untill now. everyday challenges. Health and well-being tial impacts on animal species, plants, and power to cover our use. are also important to prevent absence due to habitats. We take preventive measures if our We have introduced a new primary safety illness, e.g. caused by pain or stress. We have findings indicate the need. Our main water intake is at our thermal power target, as our LTIF is now at a level where it is implemented and offer multiple health initiastations. None of these are placed in water no longer the best indicator for steering perfortives in the areas of exercise, nutrition, sleep, In addition, we also monitor our operations on stressed areas, and we use seawater for coolmance. The new target is the total recordable and mental balance, e.g. stress prevention. a continuous basis to minimise our impact on ing to protect freshwater resources. injury rate (TRIR), and the TRIR target for 2020 the environment and to prevent incidents that is 5.7. With this, we expect to be able to better Employees generally agree that the health can potentially harm the local environment We recycle as much of our waste as possible, monitor more types of injuries, including medstrategy supports their energy and well-being and biodiversity. All our operational sites and including waste from construction, operation ical treatment cases and restricted workday as this question was rated at index 77 out of associated offices are certified to ISO 14001. and decommissioning of operational sites and cases. 100 in our annual employee survey. The offices that are not associated with operaoffices. tional sites will be certified during 2018. All of our sites and offices operate in accorOur 2020 target is a satisfaction rate of our Our first full-scale waste treatment plant based dance with OHSAS 18001. health and well-being initiatives at index 80 By respecting biodiversity in relation to our offon our Renescience technology will be inauguout of 100. shore and onshore based assets, we contribute rated in the first half of 2018 in Northwich, UK. By focusing on safety initiatives and injury to SDG #14.2 and #15.5. It treats unsorted household waste to recover prevention, we contribute to SDG #8.8. Through our initiatives and promotion of recyclables and produce green energy. mental health and well-being, we contribute Link: orsted.com/QHSEpolicy to SDG #3.4. By protecting freshwater resources, we contribute to SDG #6.4 and through our efforts to recycle and reduce waste, we contribute to SDG #12.5. Significant environmental incidents Waste for recycling (%) Integrity is one of our guiding Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) Satisfaction with health initiatives (number) principles. We want to operate (scale 0-100) 9.7 a responsible business with 6.8 6.4 5.7 high ethical standards by being accountable and transparent, respecting human rights and having a solid governance. 2015 2016 2017 2020 80 2020 target Accidents with absence per million 8 working hours (LTIF) 2017 2.0 1.8 1.6 77 2017 2015 2016 2017 Waste for recycling 99 Fatal accidents Incineration 1 8 Landfill 0 0 0 0 0 0 78 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2016 The main reason for the positive trend in LTIF is an In 2017, we began updating our health initiatives, improvement for own employees in 2017. It is a result of including how they can become an integral part of In 2017, we had eight significant environmental Between 2016 and 2017, there are no significant changcontinued efforts to make safety a responsibility for all, our daily work to a higher extent. We hope this will be incidents. Four of these incidents were spillage of oil es to the split between waste for recycling, incineration build safety considerations into relevant processes and received positively and be reflected in the satisfaction products, and four were air emission leakages. and landfill. an on-going strengthening of the safety culture. score for 2018. 34 Ørsted Sustainability report 35 Responsible business Cyber Good business Customer Responsible tax Personal data partners security conduct experience practices protection SDG: #3 #8 → Target: 3.9, 8.7, 8.8 — SDG: #16 → Target: 16.5 — SDG: #16 → Target: 16.6 — Our more than 22,000 suppliers and joint Cyber-attacks are an increasing threat. Energy By promoting good business conduct, we are Satisfied customers are key when trying to Taxes are a key economic contribution to In a digital world, responsible handling of perventure partners globally are part of our companies in the US and Ukraine have already able to handle or completely avoid situaretain existing customers and attract new society, and a responsible approach to tax is sonal data is becoming more important. Our social and environmental footprint. Applying a experienced hacker attacks on their energy tions that can lead to inappropriate or illegal ones. Moreover, a high level of satisfaction essential to the long-term sustainability of our employees, customers, and business partners risk-based approach, we support our business and IT infrastructure. Any company with a behaviour in our relations with authorities and among our customers is vital to how we, as a business in countries where we operate. We have every right to expect that their personal partners in improving their ethical, social, and digital presence faces the threat of security business partners. We want to maintain an company, are perceived in society. are transparent in our approach to tax, and data is handled with respect and processed in environmental performance. Our aim is to help breaches. We handle them daily as part of our ethical company culture among all employees, we communicate about our tax policy and tax accordance with applicable laws. In May 2018, build sustainable and resilient value chains. normal operations. management and the Board of Directors. We experience a clear preference for green payments in a timely, transparent, and undernew EU regulation concerning data protection, energy among our customers. Therefore, we standable manner. which further underlines the importance of this We expect our business partners to accept our Our cyber security efforts focus on having Our policy on good business conduct manifests have taken the step to guarantee all Danish matter, will come into force. code of conduct, which is based on internaappropriate technical solutions in place and our zero tolerance of corruption, fraud, bribery, residential customers that their energy use is At Ørsted, we aim to always comply with the tional standards for responsible business ensuring that processes and procedures are and other types of improper business conduct. covered by green energy at no extra cost. We letter of tax law as well as the legislators’ inIn 2017, we mapped all personal data we hanconduct. We systematically screen business in place for countering cyber threats. We are To ensure compliance, we have several control buy certificates from our own Danish offshore tention with the law. We continuously monitor dle to align how we approach compliance. We partners based on their sector and countries also training our employees to make sure mechanisms. We have a Compliance Commitwind farms. They serve as a guarantee that changes in legislation in all markets, assess are in the process of implementing adequate of operation. We select a number of business that everyone understands and follows our tee and an independent Internal Audit function the wind farms produce more than enough tax-related risks and train relevant employees data privacy practices which include updates partners for assessment each year. Based IT security policy. that closely monitor the area. Further, employgreen energy needed for our Danish residential on our tax policy. to our IT systems to ensure proper data manon the assessment, we engage the business ees and business partners can report serious customers. agement and IT security. partner in an improvement plan to close gaps We have not experienced any major IT security concerns through our whistleblower hotline at To develop, societies are highly dependent in their performance. incidents during the past year. any time. We have an e-learning programme Further, we continue our efforts to ensure that on taxes. Tax payments contribute both Personal data protection does not address any which consists of compulsory training for all all customers are treated in an open and comdirectly and indirectly to most of the SDGs, of the SDGs. Through our efforts to promote and improve The SDGs do not address cyber security chalemployees and board members. petent manner. We tailor our communication ­in parti­cular target #16.6 on the development working conditions in our value chain, we conlenges. and self-service solutions to the needs of the of effective, accountable and transparent tribute to SDGs #3.9, #8.7 and #8.8. When entering new markets, we carefully conindividual customer. institutions. sider local practices for political engagement. Link: orsted.com/codeofconduct We also ensure due diligence by performing The effects of our efforts are measured via Link: orsted.com/taxpolicy country-risk assessments and checking that an multiple surveys for both residential and busiappropriate compliance set-up is adopted and ness customers. Our 2020 target is a customer monitored by new joint venture partners. satisfaction rate of 80 out of 100 for all our customers. Through our work to ensure good business conduct, we contribute to SDG #16.5. Customer experience does not address any of the SDGs. Link: orsted.com/goodbusinessconductpolicy Improvement plans. Distribution of Indicator to be defined in 2018 Substantiated whistleblower cases Customer satisfaction Global income tax paid in 2017 Indicator to be defined in 2018 opened actions (%) (number) (scale 1-100) Sustainability management Residential customers (B2C) Labour and human rights ≥80 Environment Anti-corruption 76 76 Business customers (B2B) 3 77 ≥80 2017 75 7 6 12 24 22 37 Distribution customers ≥80 82 57 35 3 83 DKK 2.7bn 2016 2017 2016 2016 2017 2020 target 2017 Our 2017 results were largely consistent with 2016, Of the three substantiated cases, two concerned though with fewer opened actions for labour and a violation of employment policy and one case conhuman rights. This was due to a particular emphasis on cerned a conflict of interest. In 2017, we exceeded our 2020 target for the satisfuel suppliers in 2016. Fuel suppliers often have larger faction of our distribution customers. For residential workforces and community footprint, increasing the None of the reported cases were considered business customers and business customers our focus has been likelihood of improvement actions in this category. critical, nor did they impact on our financial results. on continuous improvement of our customer service. See annual financial report 2017. Ørsted Sustainability report 41 Sustainability ratings Our geographic and memberships footprint UN Global Compact New markets Ørsted is participant in the UN Global Compact and member of the Action Platform ‘Pathways to Low-Carbon and Resilient Development’. Through the action platform, we aim to serve as a catalyst for enhancing action to meet the ambitions of the Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). USA Bay State Wind Formosa 1 Ocean Wind Coastal Virginia Offshore Wind Taiwan Rating agencies Elaboration & benchmark Score Memberships Greater Changhua As a Global 100 company, Ørsted No. 70 represents the top 2% in the world on Projects sustainability performance. MSCI Ørsted awarded the highest possible rating. AAA Ørsted’s first publicly available CDP report C in 2017. Aim is to achieve A rating. Ørsted rated as outperformer among 77 utilities and highest among direct peers. Score results in a 5-star rating for Ørsted, 78 the highest possible rating. Timeline 2017 Ørsted in top 3 out of 179 companies in the B utilities sector. Ørsted has satisfied the requirements to Selected January February March April become a constituent of the FTSE4Good for index Index Series. We invest in Taiwan’s first offshore We decide to say the final goodbye We inaugurate the first giant We are awarded the rights to wind project, Formosa 1. to coal by 2023. battery in Copenhagen, Denmark. construct three offshore wind projects in Germany, two of which include our We start constructing our first first zero-subsidy bids. Ørsted selected as a constituent of Ethibel Selected biogas plant in Kalundborg, Denmark. We buy certificates from our own Sustainability Index Excellence Europe. for index offshore wind farms to secure 100% green energy to all Danish residential customers at no extra cost. Symbols In operation Sweden Under construction Project and business development Anholt (400MW) Denmark (MW) Total wind farm capacity Studstrup Kyndby In operation Herning Under construction Horns Rev 1 (160MW) Middelgrunden (20MW) Horns Rev 2 (209MW) Skærbæk Asnæs Svanemøllen Sale of power and/or gas Esbjerg H.C. Ørsted Avedøre 1 & 2 Power distribution in Denmark Nysted (166MW) OWP West (240MW) Borkum Riffgrund West (240MW) Walney Extension (659MW) Westermost Rough (210MW) Walney 1 & 2 (367MW) Barrow (90MW) G  ode Wind 1 (330MW) West of Duddon Sands Hornsea 1 (1,218MW) Gode Wind 2 (263MW) (389MW) Burbo Bank Extension (258MW) Hornsea 2 (1,386MW) Gode Wind 3 (110MW) Burbo Bank (90MW) Hornsea 3 (up to 2,400MW) Borkum Riffgrund 1 (312MW) Lincs (270MW) Borkum Riffgrund 2 (450MW) Renescience Northwich Race Bank (573MW)* Germany Netherlands UK Borssele 1 & 2 (752MW) Gunfleet Sands 1 & 2 (173MW) London Enecogen Array 1 (630MW) May June July August September October November December We enter into an agreement to The Science Based Targets initiative We establish a new strategic We are awarded the contract to We complete the construction We issue green bonds at a value Our distribution company, Radius, introdivest our entire portfolio of upapproves our 2023 carbon emission business unit, Energy Storage build the world’s largest offshore of our first waste treatment and of DKK 9.4 billion in support of our duces hourly based tariffs to incentivise stream oil and gas. reduction target. Solutions. wind farm, Hornsea Project Two recycling plant, Renescience in green growth strategy. the use of energy at times when preswith the lowest cost for offshore Northwich, UK. sure on the grid and thus prices are low. We install our first-of-its-kind wind power ever in the UK. We introduce the Green Energy offshore wind power battery at the We inaugurate the converted powBarometer: a global survey showing We revise our climate partnership with Burbo Bank Offshore Wind Farm in er station in Skærbæk, which is now widespread public support for a shift our energy advisory experts and will the UK. generating heat and power from from black to green energy. from 2018 solely rely on green energy to * In operation from January 2018 sustainable biomass. cover our own power use. Thank you for reading our sustainability report. If you have appetite for more, please visit us at www.orsted.com.
