1/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 2/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, the Global Compact is concerned with demonstrating and building the social legitimacy of business and markets. Marshalls plc became a signatory of the UNGC in January 2009 and a member of the UK Network later the same year. The Global Compact is a purely voluntary initiative with two objectives: 1 To mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the world; 2 To catalyse action in support of broader UN objectives, such as the Sustainable Development Goals. The UNGC is not a regulatory instrument, but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency and disclosure to complement regulation and to provide a space for innovation and collective action. This is the Company’s ninth Communication on Progress and outlines how Marshalls is aligned with the ten principles and how, throughout 2018, the plc intends to develop its activities in support of the framework laid out by the UNGC. 3/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress UNGC Ten Principles Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should support and respect the support a precautionary approach protection of internationally to environmental challenges; proclaimed human rights; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives Principle 2: Make sure that they to promote greater environmental are not complicit in human rights responsibility; and abuses. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion Labour of environmentally friendly Principle 3: Businesses should technologies. uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should Principle 4: The elimination of all work against all forms of forms of forced and compulsory corruption, including extortion labour; and bribery. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Contents Statement of Support for UNGC, Martyn Coffey............................................................................................ 05 Statement, Chris Harrop................................................................................................................................................. 06 Foreword and Focus for 2018..................................................................................................................................... 07 Scope of Operations......................................................................................................................................................... 13 Achievement Indicators................................................................................................................................................. 15 Third Party Assurances.................................................................................................................................................... 16 Marshalls Brand Manifesto............................................................................................................................................ 16 Marshalls the Superbrand............................................................................................................................................. 17 Product Innovation........................................................................................................................................................... 22 Sustainable Development Goals & how Marshalls is contributing..................................................... 27 Modern Slavery Statement; implementation................................................................................................... 29 Human Rights....................................................................................................................................................................... 42 Labour....................................................................................................................................................................................... 47 Environment.......................................................................................................................................................................... 53 Anti-Bribery/Governance.............................................................................................................................................. 61 Business in the Community......................................................................................................................................... 63 Employees.............................................................................................................................................................................. 65 Health & Safety..................................................................................................................................................................... 66 Award Success/Third Party Recognition and Awards................................................................................. 67 5/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement of Support for the UNGC Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO To paraphrase Ms. Lise Kingo, CEO & Executive Director of UNGC*, leading CEOs and investors finally seem to realise that sustainable business depends on a sustainable world, that there is no sharp line between the moral imperative and the business one. I read Ms. Kingo’s recent article with interest and agree with her that the biggest and most sustainable opportunities are most likely to be found outside of the quick wins, but that the well-trodden path of least resistance may prevent the business community from contributing to the creation of the more just and equitable world we all want, and frankly need in order to continue doing business. Being a long-term and committed UNGC signatory helps in very practical ways to guide our approach and day-to-day behaviours to help ensure that as we continue to strive to be a profitable business we remain alert to our responsibilities and open to the opportunities which allow us to make our contributions, however large or small, towards achieving the SDGs(1) Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO Driving Business Growth The SDGs are essentially a human rights-based agenda; from Decent Work to Through Sustainability Gender Equality and Clean Water and Sanitation — all are directly related to human rights, all are interconnected. Human rights plays an increasingly important role in our own business to help guide our decision – from product research and development to procurement & supply chains, human resources and beyond and to help ensure that we do not unwittingly undermine our own efforts to contribute to the SDGs. Human rights for us is not about compliance or risk mitigation but about building strong and fair business strategies which help us achieve our core mission of ‘Creating Better Spaces’ for everyone. Human rights is proving to be a platform for business innovation, galvanising collective action, moral fortitude, meaningful collaboration with new partners and long term sustainability; making sure we’re a company that young people want to work for, investors want to invest in and Governments want to partner with. We remain empowered by our brand values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability. I see day-in-day-out Marshalls’ team working passionately and diligently to uphold the UNGC pillars of human rights, labour, environment & anti-corruption. We are continuing to leverage sustainability to drive competitive advantage for our business but by absolutely doing the right thing. This out 9th UNGC Communication on Progress sits alongside our Annual Report *https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ as the main vehicle for sharing our sustainability progress. Read on and judge news/4375-03-09-2018 for yourself the depth of our actions which I believe clearly demonstrate that (1) UNGC Sustainable Development Goals https://www.unglobalcompact.org/sdgs sustainability remains at the heart of all that we do. 6/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement, Chris Harrop Marshalls’ Group Marketing Director, (Responsible for Sustainability) Although my tenure as Global Compact UK Chair ended over a year ago I have remained a Director of the UK Network and involved in network activities. This Local Network activity is of key importance in advancing corporate sustainability at its grassroots. The practical application of UNGC principles through the detailed work undertaken by various working groups helps companies understand what being a sustainable business means in practice; what the challenges are, what best practice looks like, sharing successes and those things that did not yield what we had hoped, how collaboration can often drive progress, how business can use the principles to drive innovation and at the same time make a contribution towards the sustainable development goals. All of this and more is delivered by Global Compact UK and I thank the secretariat for its engaging programme of activities throughout 2017. The Ten UNGC Principles together with the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights provides Marshalls with its human rights framework allowing us to assess and consider the full range of our impacts, both positive and negative. Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Ms Lise Kingo, CEO and Executive Director of UNGC, advocates four main ways the Director, (Responsible for Sustainability), private sector can help to ensure that human rights is woven throughout business*; Global Compact UK Director, ETI Non(1) break down silos between your core business strategy and your sustainability Executive Director strategy, (2) assess your human rights impact and put that at the centre of your strategy to advance the global goals, (3) use the ten UNGC principles as a checklist for global goal strategizing, and (4) advocate for a global principles-based movement. I agree that strategies and policies when enacted in practices and felt by employees, customers, partners and stakeholder are extremely powerful; when we see the bigger picture through our human rights activity we can remedy and understand missed opportunities; when we use the UNGC principles as a critical framework we are encouraged to think in new and different way; when we communicate a principle-based approach with our entire value chain and our customers we seek to build further good business practices both within our own * https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ organisation and in the wider global community. We understand that the UNGC news/4375-03-09-2018 principles are not a destination but a critical framework to which we return over and over in order to ensure our own sustainability as a business and to be part of a movement focused upon achieving the global sustainable development goals. “Transformative change is needed across the Global Goals. Business can help make a transformative difference in society by driving the expectation of respect and dignity for all people into strategies, operations and value chains. It takes leadership, innovation and collaboration to tackle these issues. It will not happen without the full and committed engagement of business. Success requires the lateral thinking, novel forms of partnerships and hybrid organizations that the private sector can bring. And a principles-based approach is essential for the rebuilding of trust between societies and businesses — the essential ingredient for both to flourish sustainably.” Lise Kingo, CEO & Executive Director, UN Global Compact 7/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Foreword A very warm welcome to all readers of this Marshalls’ ninth with our temporary labour provider here in the UK has also UNGC Communication on Progress Report. We share with you yielded much. This activity has been underscored by us here, at the beginning of our report, some of the highlights of achieving BRE Ethical Labour Standard verification for the the often challenging work that we’ve undertaken in 2017. Our second year running and our shortlisted nomination for the focus has continued to be shaped by the business and human extremely prestigious Thomson Reuters Foundation 2017 Stop rights agenda; the publication of our second Modern Slavery Slavery Awards. Disclosure Statement and its implementation throughout UK business operations and our global supply chains, the Our CEO, Martyn Coffey, continues to champion Marshalls’ publication of our first End Modern Slavery Report which strategic approach to sustainability and made clear in his details the breadth and depth of our activity, the reinvigoration statement of support he and the Board fully acknowledge of our Ethical Trading Initiative 2020 Strategy and our ongoing that sustainable business depends on a sustainable world; work make a contribute towards the Global Goals. that there is no sharp line between the moral imperative and the business one. We are all empowered to harness Marshalls Our growing army of Modern Slavery Ambassadors through brand values and to do the right thing day-in-day-out, and this our UK operations have proved to be an excellent asset as we is extremely powerful. Marshalls’ employees are all aware of the continue to ensure that all of our employees know how to businesses commitment to sustainability and what this means spot the signs of modern slavery and how to report it; they to them in terms of what they do here at work. There is a clear are highly engaged and strategically placed. We continue to and growing sense that everyone, no matter what their job, work on preventative measures with our anti-slavery partner, has an important part of play in our efforts to live and breathe Hope for Justice, in the UK, India and Vietnam as we gear up to the UNGC principles, nowhere more so that in the drive to extend activity to Turkey and Europe more widely. eliminate modern slavery. The introduction of a new IT-based platform specifically with all of our suppliers regarding modern slavery, anti-bribery & corruption and supplier code of conduct has been extremely successful. The pilot education programme that put in place 8/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Regular readers of our COP's will be very familiar with our sustainability INABLE BU USTA model which incorporates our membership of the UNGC and FTSE4GOOD, S S AVAILABLE SPECIFICAT SINE FTSE4GOOD MEMBERSHIP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE L and our continued commitment to Integrated Management Systems. L LIC BS EN ISO 14001 ION 9 SS HA PUB 9 NS GLOBAL CO MA NATIO The three pillars of sustainability; economic, environmental and social EL MP ITED AC RS OD UN T continue to provide the focus for our activity. Underpinned by the UNGC M principles regarding the environment, labour, human rights and antiEnvironmental Water use CO2 and CO2e corruption. Biodiversity Waste to Legal landfill Marshalls remains absolutely focused on being a successful and profitable Social Economic business whilst minimising our impact on the environment, looking after the Ethical sourcing Total shareholder people and communities, striving to be innovative and to respond to market Safety Community return 1 BS E 800 responsibility Customer N S1 challenges and opportunities and to taking the lead in our sector. service index SA ISO E T IV 90 OH SE FT IA IT 01 4G IN OO G TI N DM EMB E RS HIP GLOBA L REP OR Our purpose as a business is to ‘Create Better Spaces’ for all of our customers. We do this ‘The Marshalls Way’ by ensuring that we live our shared values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability. These are the values that our business is built on. The Values Our Business is Built On LEADERSHIP is not just about being a manager. TRUST means that we are open, honest, fair and It means that we should all set the standards that consistent. We must always follow through on our others aspire to, no matter what our role is within promises, respect others’ talents and treat each the business. We should all take responsibility for other fairly whilst always acting with integrity. our actions and try to set a good example every single day. SUSTAINABILITY means that we are committed to doing the right thing for the long-term good of EXCELLENCE means that we must always strive our business, for society and for the environment. to be the best we can be. We must be ambitious This means that we must always do the right thing and demand high performance from ourselves and consider the impact on our business and of our as well as others. We must also be innovative and decisions and actions. constantly seek to improve our performance. It’s essential that we always make good our commitments and have pride and passion in everything that we do. Employees throughout the business continue to be actively involved: Abigail Brown Richard Capper, Tom Poole, Helen Taverner, Mike Plaster, David Morrell, Matthew Gibb, John Davis, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Rory Kendrick, Mineral Products Energy HR Director Group Systems Auditor Commercial Group Head of Group Environment Health, Safety & Business & Human Natural Stone Sourcing Marketing Manager Management Marketing Sustainability & Water Manager Environmental Rights Lead. Director. Engineer Communications Director Manager Chris Frankland, Andrew Stalker, Richard Beale, Claire Blake, Pete Stevens, Steve Swanwick, Sophie Rowe, Nicole Bennett, Chris Griffith, Alice Couldwell, Head of International Head of Procurement Director Head of Domestic Group Carbon & Group Systems PR Executive Product Manager SuDs and CBP NPD Programme Marketing/Export Commercial Product Energy Manager Manager Commercial Paving. Manager. Manager Marketing Management. These employees work alongside those with special we get full and frank feedback on a range of issues closely with Indira Saxena regarding social issues in responsibilities including; Group Procurement especially in relation to our human rights programme India and Sterling Smith of Just Solutions Ltd. Director, Richard Beale, Group Human Resources and our work on modern slavery and transparency in Director, Tom Poole and Business & Human Rights the supply chain. We are especially delighted to confirm that Marshalls Lead, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Group Head of Sustainability, has again retained its Superbrand status for the David Morrell and Natural Stone Director, Rory We’re excited to report that Marshalls is the first eighth year running. This is a testament to the Kendrick. organisation globally to have acheived BRE Global dedication and passion of everyone within the Ethical Labour Sourcing Standard Verification 6002. business and a feat which we are extremely proud. Marshalls’ progress is monitored thoroughly and on an ongoing basis against both internal and Our Human Rights Programme has developed In this our ninth Communication on Progress, we external measures. As a matter of course Marshalls steadily since 2010 and now includes human share with you the efforts that we have made to seeks verification from third party organisations rights impact assessments, Children's Rights & uphold the UNGC principles during 2017 and our which include non-governmental organisations and Business Principles implementation, working enduring commitment to these principles as we independent auditors; The Carbon Trust, BSI, Wild towards becoming signatories of the Women's move forward throughout 2018. Life Trust, ETI, BITC & BRE. We also engage with third Empowerment Principles as well as quarterly human sector organisations as 'critical friends' in order that rights briefings. In addition we continue to work 9/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Focus for 2018 Business and Human Rights – Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement Implementation: UK & Overseas In May 2017 Marshalls published it second Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement as required following the introduction of the UK Government Modern Slavery Act 2015. This Act requires all businesses with a turnover in excess of £36m to provide an annual Statement of Disclosure detailing the steps an organisation has taken during the financial year to help ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any of its supply chains or in any part of its own business operations. Together with our anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice, we have made good progress in terms of our preventative education work with employees, suppliers, and those in and around our overseas supply chains especially in Vietnam and India. During 2018 we aim to continue our work in the UK, Vietnam and India and will also look to extend this to Turkey & Europe more widely. We look forward to publishing our third disclosure statement in 2018 sharing full details regarding our progress against key performance indicators, and to publishing our second ‘End Modern Slavery Report’ mid-year. “The Modern Slavery Act requires all businesses with a turnover of £36 million or more and which provide goods and services in the UK to produce an annual statement explaining what they are doing to tackle modern slavery and human trafficking within their business. This is important work: UK businesses can use their buying power to drive responsible employment practices down through their supply chains, improving working conditions on a global scale. However, corporate response to this requirement has been patchy at best. While some companies are showing leadership, others are producing generic statements with little substantive detail or failing to produce them at all. In 2017, 43 of the FTSE 100 failed to be compliant with the basic requirements of this legislation. It is unacceptable that such a large proportion of the biggest businesses in the UK are turning a blind eye to modern slavery and British law.” Kevin Hyland, Anti-Slavery Commissioner 10 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Modern Slavery KPIs for 2017/18 We’ve develop clear KPIs which sits behind each of our focus areas regarding the eradication of modern slavery. We will report on progress against these KPIs in our next Modern Slavery Modern Statement. Slavery KPI’s for 2017/18 Deliver an internal awareness campaign Modern Slavery Training for all employees throughout UK operations to all involved directly in supply chains and employees regarding modern slavery. procurement. • Ensure that 100% employees are exposed to modern slavery • Ensure that all 350 employees directly involved in supply chain awareness raising; how to spot the signs; how to report it; Marshalls management receive ongoing updates and notifications regarding response to Modern Slavery. business & human rights, and specifically modern slavery. • Ensure that 100% of all inductions for temporary labour include modern slavery awareness. • Increase the number of Modern Slavery Ambassadors within the business by 75% in 2017. Supplier communication and verification programme which confirms that Report on our effectiveness in helping to suppliers have received and understood ensure that slavery and human trafficking Marshalls’ position regarding modern is not taking place in our business or supply slavery and are aware of Marshalls chains including the due diligence process Modern slavery Policy & Disclosure outlined in Marshalls Modern Slavery & Anti Statement. Trafficking Policy & Statement. • Continue to roll-out supplier communication and verification • Number of reported instances of modern slavery within our business platform to ensure that 95% of supplier have confirmed acceptance operations and supply chain by country/supply chain. of Marshalls Supplier Code of Conduct, including Modern Slavery. • Number of pieces of intelligence shared with law enforcement, • Continue to develop supplier education partnerships with 50% Gangmasters Labour Abuse Authority, Hope for Justice. of those identified as high risk through our modern slavery risk • Number of instances of modern slavery identified as a result of mapping activity. intelligence shared with law enforcement, Gangmasters Labour Abuse • Engage in proactive modern slavery education programmes with Authority, Hope for Justice. those suppliers who have raised issues or concerns. • Number of effective partnerships & collaborations with the sole aim of preventing modern slavery in our business operations and supply chains. Further development of the organisations supply chain due diligence, related Develop, in conjunction with our human rights programme, external ethical anti-slavery partner, a process of auditing and modern slavery risk mapping remediation and support for victims of processes in order that instances of modern modern slavery identified within the slavery can be identified, remedial action organisations operations and supply undertaken, and the victims supported and chains. that all of this is transparently reported. • Publish supply chain moderns slavery risk mapping for 50% of the • Have in place a process of remediation and support for 50% of supply chain identified as high risk. supply chain identified as high risk by volume of product. • Action an external ethical auditing and modern slavery risk mapping programme which cover 30% of supply chain identified as high risk. 11 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Anti-Trafficking & Modern Slavery Network Engagement in the UK As an engaged business and a member of the local community we are looking forward during 2018 to remaining fully engaged with the West Yorkshire Anti-Trafficking & Modern Slavery Network. Marshalls was the first business invited to become part of this Network due to our commitment to the prevention of modern slavery. The network currently provides a strategic meeting framework on behalf of the statutory, non-statutory and third sector organisations in West Yorkshire who contribute to tackling human trafficking and modern slavery in all its forms but is exploring how businesses can engage in support of the Independent Anti-Slavery Commissioners strategic plan. Marshalls is also a member of the Greater Manchester Business Network on Modern Slavery, UNGC Modern Slavery Working Group, the ETI Working Group on Modern Slavery and sits on the APPG for Modern Slavery & Sport, including Construction. We remain in contact with the Anti-Slavery Commissioners Office and are working to support his strategy both in the UK and overseas. We are also engaged in work with UK Government on the issues of modern slavery. Ethical Trading Initiative – Marshalls Strategic Plan to 2020 Marshalls’ ETI Strategic Plan 2018 – 2020 sits within the broader context of the organisations’ commitments as a UNGC signatory and within the businesses overall marketing strategy. As such these ETI strategic commitments and the progress made each year will be documented within Marshalls annual Communication of Progress Report which is published annually in April at around the time of the Annual Report. Marshalls will, of course also report back annually on its progress in-line with ETI’s strategic reporting framework requirements. Objectives have been developed to support, strengthen and maximise Marshalls existing business & human rights programme and the commitments made in the organisations Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement. They honour Marshalls’ commitment to ETI Base Code implementation, take inspiration from the ETI’s Human Rights Due Diligence Framework, and will ultimately further embed and integrate ethical trade into business activities and decision making, and seek to improve conditions for workers, their families and communities. 12 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Children’s Rights & Business Principles & International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour During 2018 we will complete our third Children’s Rights & Business Principles Audit which will help us to assess our progress and identify the priorities for the coming two years. We will do this in conjunction with key partners and NGO’s in the locations where we operate. Marshalls also remains a committed member of the International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) Child Labour Platform. The rights of children and the elimination of child labour in the sandstone sector still remains a key driver for us and we are exploring with other IPEC Child Labour Platform members how we can collaborate for greater traction specifically in India. Diversity, UN Women Engagement & Women’s Empowerment Principles Framework We have delivered on our commit to undertake an audit of our business against the Women’s Empowerment Principles. We have benchmarked Marshalls and undertaken a gap analysis and we know how we must proceed. We understand that women have a critical role to play in all of the sustainable development goals, with many targets specifically recognizing women’s equality and empowerment as both the objective, and as part of the solution Goal 5 is known as the standalone gender goal because it is dedicated to achieving these ends. Please enjoy reading on and finding out more about how sustainability is helping to build competitive advantage for our business and allowing us to make our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals. Chris Harrop Group Marketing Director Responsible for Sustainability Marshalls plc 13 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 14 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Scope of Operations UK HQ and Manufacturing BELGIUM Manufacturing TURKEY Sourcing CHINA Quality & Ethical Compliance Office and Sourcing INDIA Sourcing VIETNAMSourcing NORTH AMERICA Office BRAZIL Sourcing EGYPT Sourcing EUROPE Sourcing MIDDLE EASTOffice 15 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Achievement Indicators Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 79% Reviewing Feedback Delivering Best Legal Compliance & Developing Our Approach Practice Throughout this and all other Marshalls Each indicator is broken down in percentage Communications on Progress you will find a self terms, which allows any progress made to assessment indicator which represents what be identified by all readers of this report with Collaborating & Sharing Best Marshalls believes it is achieving in relation to ease. It is also intended to make any year-onPractice each of the principles. Marshalls will strive to year comparisons clear, uncomplicated and improve its achievements year-on-year. informative. Delivering Best Practice Marshalls initially developed its own indicators Marshalls constantly monitors best practice Achieving Good Results for its COP reporting rather than use an existing in its sector, as well as in the field of corporate one, such as the Ethos Indicators and Global responsibility and sustainability reporting. Any Reviewing Feedback & Developing Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology. informative developments and advancements in this area will be introduced into subsequent Piloting New Initiatives COP reports. Legal Compliance 16 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Third Party Assurances Once this report is submitted to the UNGC and published online, it will be volunteered for peerreview by a randomly selected group of corporate members and observers of the UK Network of the UNGC. Any suggested changes will be made and the report will be re-submitted, if required, to the UNGC following the peer review process. Marshalls has sought to extend stakeholder engagement in the COP process by inviting feedback of its COP by inviting employees, customers, suppliers, partners, NGOs, third parties and peers to assess the company’s progress. Marshalls looks forward to receiving comments from its wide range of stakeholders. Please direct any feedback to Elaine Mitchel-Hill elaine.mitchel-hill@marshalls.co.uk 17 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Marshalls The Superbrand Marshalls is proud to have retained its For clarity it is worth stating that brands cannot Superbrand status. Published annually since apply or pay to be considered for Superbrand 1995, the Superbrands Annual documents status. Only following a rigorous and some of the strongest consumer and businessindependent selection process is the accolade to-business brands in Britain today. The book awarded on an annual basis. establishes how Superbrands manage to achieve outstanding success. The 2018 Superbrand book provides insights into Marshalls’ branding strategy and business success. Further information can be found at www.superbrand.uk.com Superbrands UK Annual V19 Marshalls partner with anti-slavery organisation in a number of well-known countries. Hope for Justice. Marshalls is taking huge steps The Ethical Risk Index (ERI) uses a bespoke, Brand History in order to identify and eradicate slavery from independently audited scoring framework 1890 Solomon Marshall starts to q its supply chains, and in recognition of this, and gives a genuine insight into the ethical in Southowram, Halifax, and the company was shortlisted for the 2017 challenges facing stone procurers to allow establishes S. Marshall and S Thompson Reuters Foundation Stop Slavery for more informed decision-making. in West Yorkshire. Award. Additionally, Marshalls was the first organisation to achieve the BRE Global Alongside this, the commercial business 1947 A second production site is Ethical Labour Sourcing Standard Verification also launched a Housebuilder product package manufacturing lintels, steps (BES 6002). that contains a complimentary suite of products posts. In 1948 an engineerin that have all been designed with housebuilders is established. Furthermore, Marshalls launched a range in mind. The package ensures that all products 1964 Marshalls becomes a plc, wi of artificial grass as a new addition to its domestic supplied are cohesive and provide an attractive quoted on the London Stock Marshalls is the UK’s leading manufacturer of hard landscaping products, and has been product range. Three types of grass are available aesthetic on any housing scheme. 1972 New product development s which compliment an already extensive range supplying superior natural stone and innovative concrete products to the construction, home of landscaping products. Furthermore, Marshalls continues to lead introduction of block paving famous ‘Beany Block’ that c the way in thought leadership, and has improvement and landscape markets since the 1890s. Marshalls strives to create products that Finally, 2017 saw Marshalls join the Made in Britain been featured on a number of BBC news drain and kerb. improve landscapes and create better environments to develop happier and healthier communities. movement – a not-for-profit organisation that aims programmes discussing the importance 1988 Brick manufacturer George to unite all British manufacturers and promote of Landscape Protection products in light & Sons is acquired, becomin British manufacturing. Marshalls Group Marketing of recent terror attacks, and how they can Clay Products. Director, Chris Harrop, is also Chairman be attractively integrated into landscapes 2004 Marshalls acquires Woodho of the organisation. without compromising on a design’s expanding its product offeri Market them from the best materials it can source. Over the aesthetic or affecting pedestrian movement to include design-led street f In the public sector and commercial markets, years, Marshalls has continued to develop and Promotion and interaction. lighting and signage. Marshalls focuses on developing products that expand its products and services to both the Across the group of businesses, Marshalls continues help architects, local authorities and contractors commercial and domestic markets. to invest heavily in communications. The 2017 Brand Values 2011 Marshalls announces a Euro to make better spaces, whether it is landscape domestic advertising campaign, Not all driveways/ Marshalls’ shared values of Leadership, venture, Marshalls NV. furniture, natural stone paving, stone cladding In the public sector and commercial market, patios are created equal, was used to promote Excellence, Trust and Sustainability underpin 2012 Marshalls is an official suppli and facades, block paving, water management, Marshalls satisfies the needs of a diverse commercial the business’ landscape products to trade and the company and are important to the London 2012 Olympic Park. or landscape protection products. customer base, which spans local authorities, consumer audiences. continued success of the business. an office is opened in Xiame commercial architects, specifiers, contractors Marshalls’ domestic customers range from and house builders. It offers them unrivalled The commercial business focused on highlighting Marshalls aims to be the supplier of choice 2014 Marshalls is accredited by th homeowners to professional landscapers, technical expertise, manufacturing capability the ethical risk of specifying natural stone products, for every landscape architect, contractor, Wage Foundation. driveway installers and garden designers. and an enviable product range, including superior and ran an integrated campaign for the newly installer and consumer, and for the brand 2017 Marshalls acquires precast c Sales continue to be driven through the natural stone, innovative concrete hard landscaping launched Ethical Risk Index, which aims to highlight to remain synonymous with quality, innovation manufacturer, CPM. Marshalls Register of Accredited Landscapers products, water management solutions, rail products, potential issues when it comes to stone sourcing and superior customer service. and Driveway Installers. landscape protection products, landscape furniture, and natural stone cladding as well as facades. Marshalls has an established and growing presence in the Middle East, Northern Europe, Marshalls’ domestic customers range from North America, and China. DIY enthusiasts, to professional landscapers, Product Marshalls is committed to producing new products that better any existing market offering, and to make (ETI), Marshalls is committed to the implementation of the ETI Base Code, pioneering the ethical sourcing of natural stone paving from India and China, and has remained a signatory of the United Nations driveway installers and garden designers, Global Compact since its acceptance in 2009. and Marshalls specialises in helping them Marshalls was first awarded The Fair Tax Mark to create beautiful, yet practical outdoor in 2015 and has now been accredited with the spaces that families can enjoy for years mark for three consecutive years, and also as a Living to come. Marshalls’ extensive product ranges Wage Employer in recognition of the business’ are designed to inspire, combining quality, commitment to transparent tax processes and elegance and durability in both traditional responsible pay respectively. and cutting-edge designs, with products to suit every taste and style. Recent Developments Following on from a successful charity partnership Achievements with Prostate Cancer in 2016, Marshalls chose Environmental responsibility has been key Mind as its corporate partner charity for 2017. to Marshalls for many years. Indeed, by 2009 Marshalls was committed to fundraising for more than 2,000 of Marshalls’ commercial products this worthy cause throughout 2017 via various had a Carbon Trust Carbon Reduction label. different events, initiatives and challenges. Sustainability remains at the heart of everything Marshalls does, and the company remains at the In 2016 Marshalls published its Modern forefront of sustainable business. As the first company Slavery Statement, furthering its commitment in its sector to belong to the Ethical Trading Initiative to corporate social responsibility and 2017 saw superbrands.uk.com mars 55944_SB18_p070-071_Marshalls.indd 70 15/01/2018 55944_SB18_p070-071_Marshalls.indd 14:33 71 18 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Marshalls uarry in 1904 ons Ltd opened, and fence g division th shares Exchange. ees the and the This case study is reprinted from ombines the Superbrands Annual 2018 Armitage g Marshalls ABOUT SUPERBRANDS use, Superbrands is the definitive benchmark for brands ng urniture, who’ve set the agenda, outwitted the competition and built enviable reputations. Annual 2018 pean The UK’s Superbrands are identified annually through an extensive and robust research process that measures the equity of thousands er to the of brands, in both direct-to-consumer and business-to-business markets. In addition, Only the most highly-regarded achieve the status of Superbrand. n, China. The Superbrands Annual, first published in 1995 and now in its e Living 19th volume, tells the story of many of these successful brands, exploring their history, development and achievements, showcasing oncrete why they are much-loved. These case studies provide valuable insights into the strategies and propositions of the brands that consumers and business professionals trust and admire. The Superbrands organisation identifies and pays tribute to exceptional brands throughout the world. The UK programme is run under license by The Centre for Brand Analysis (TCBA). WHAT IS A SUPERBRAND All voters considered the following definition and criteria when judging the brands: ‘A Superbrand has established the finest reputation in its field. It offers customers significant emotional and/or tangible advantages over its competitors, which customers want and recognise.’ Quality: Does the brand provide quality products and services? Reliability: Can the brand be trusted to deliver consistently? Distinction: Is it well known in its sector and suitably different from its rivals? Over 3,000 brands – representing the major names across 145 categories – were evaluated for Superbrands status in the UK this year. Voters in the 2018 process included 2,500 British consumers, 2,500 UK business professionals – with purchasing or managerial responsibility within their business – 26 senior business-to-business industry leaders, on the independent and voluntary Business Superbrands Council, and 34 leading consumer marketing experts, on the Consumer Superbrands Council. halls.co.uk 15/01/2018 14:34 An insight into some of Britain’s strongest brands 19 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Future Spaces: The Changing Face of the Spaces We Share Marshalls believes in creating better spaces – and as the UK’s leading landscape materials brand, we believe that it’s important to think ahead. Future Spaces is our ambitious attempt to foresee how the commercial, public and domestic spaces we help design, build and share might adapt and evolve over the next ten years. We set out to predict how changing lifestyles, technology and economic conditions might dictate the look, feel, colour, shape, textures and materials used to create those spaces. But once we dug below the surface we found much more. Four unstoppable global megatrends driving 12 emerging themes: pervasive forces that will change the nature of our built environment, both subtly and dramatically. Future Spaces is the result of our own intensive research, including interviews with academics, industry commentators, journalists, architects, landscape designers, materials technologists, engineers, futurologists – as broad a spectrum of opinions, ideas and experience as we could find. Here, we’re delighted to share a brief glimpse of what we might expect as the future rushes towards us at an ever-increasing pace. Our full findings are published in ‘Future Spaces’, a limited edition book that not only reveals how the spaces we share will be designed, but also how they will be owned, governed, managed, occupied, humanised and monetised. If you are intrigued by this short introduction to our Future Spaces project, and you’re keen to find out more, visit marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces. 01 THE BLURRING OF PUBLIC/PRIVATE SPACES www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/public-private 02 MORE PEOPLE IN SMALLER SPACES www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/smaller-spaces 03 20 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress DEMARCATING MULTI-USE SPACES www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/multi-use-spaces 04 THE NEW WAVE OF WATER MANAGEMENT www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/water05 management FUTURE CONCRETE www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/future-concrete 06 THE BLOSSOMING OF BIOPHILIC DESIGN www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/biophillic-design 07 URBAN GREENING www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/urban-greening 08 21 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress THE RISE OF THE SUPER -LANDLORD www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/super-landlords 09 THE GENDER NEUTRALISATION OF SOCIETY www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/gender10 neutralisation PLACE MAKING FOR THE PEOPLE www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/place-makingfor-the-people 11 BUILDING IN RESILIENCE www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/building-inresilience 12 THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/circulareconomy 22 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Product Innovation: Marshalls Counter Terror Solutions The threat of terrorists targeting become he justification for measures That’s a subtle, but vital observation: crowded public places provides urban that threaten the core of urban social that it’s really the people within planners and designers with a new and and political life from the physical our urban landscapes that require complex challenge. The need to create barricading of space to the social protection, not merely the architecture safe spaces offers those responsible for barricading of democratic activity that and the infrastructure. their design and protection a difficult rising levels of security in cities will compromise between maintaining reduce the public use of public space”.* And we placed that at the heart of our the open, liveable nature of the public new approach to creating safer urban realm and the necessity for security And we’d agree: what societal purpose spaces. especially in those cities that have built would a fortified public space serve if it global reputations on their aesthetic made the public feel more fearful and attraction. This dichotomy and our less social? attempt to address the issue thus far As terrorists have re-thought their does raise a fundamental question tactics, we considered it important to about how the inclusion of effective re-think the way in which cities protect security will change the nature of the themselves from the growing threat of urban spaces we share. vehicular attack. In her study ‘Invisible Security: The How can security be more subtly impact of counterterrorism on the integrated in the design of our public * ‘Invisible Security: The impact of counterbuilt environment’ Rachel Briggs writes: spaces? Unobtrusive, unthreatening terrorism on the built environment’ Rachel “It has been argued that ‘security’ has effectively hiding in plain sight. Briggs 2005 “Achieving a positive relationship between counterterrorism and the built environment will rest on our ability to find ways of bringing together those who design spaces with those who secure them and those who use them, to explore new urban forms which can deliver people-centred counter-terrorism.” Rachel Briggs 23 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 24 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Ethical Risk Index The Marshalls Ethical Risk Index (ERI) is the next step on the journey toward full supply chain transparency in the Natural Stone sector. Using a bespoke, independently reviewed scoring framework, customers are given a genuine insight into the multi-dimensional ethical challenges facing stone procurers; with the aim of apprising users of potential issues and with a clear rating system to allow for more informed decision making. OBJECTIVES OF THE ETHICAL RISK INDEX To distill the main frameworks driving ethical sourcing practice into a single bespoke framework, designed and tailored towards the challenges and issues specifically facing the imported stone industry. This includes the requirements of international law, the UN Global Compact principles, the Ethical Trading Initiative base code, and compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. To drive customer and stakeholder awareness of relative levels of ethical risk in stone supply; providing them with a more quantifiable view by scoring supply chains against key measures of ethical risk. To better empower informed customer product selection by more clearly embedding ethical procurement considerations into the design and specification process. To provide a benchmark for measuring improvements in standards going forward. Marshalls lead the industry in ethical sourcing best practice and now invite stakeholders to learn more about the specific issues, risks and opportunities facing procurement in this area. https://www.marshalls.co.uk/commercial/ethical-risk-index-fornatural-stone-products 25 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Intelligent Street Furniture LOCI Intelligent Bollard The Intelligent Bollard is designed to recognise users via a pocket-sized tag loaded with information on their specific needs. When a user approaches, the M-LIVE technology in the bollard provides clear, audible information on their current location and the nearest crossing point or point of interest – transforming the way they move around the city. John Welsman Policy Business Partner, Transport & Travel, Guide Dogs “The technology can do so many different things in terms of providing information for me based on my needs as a blind or partially sighted person. It can give me a subtly different experience of the environment than it might do to someone who’s deaf or for someone for whom English is not their first language.” Steve Tyler Head of Solutions, Strategy and Planning, RNIB “A dream of mine, and I’d say most blind and partially sighted people is that I can travel independently and feel safe wherever I’m travelling. For Marshalls to be taking this seriously is phenomenal to me.” 26 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Natural Elements The natural elements range, inspired by biophilic design, is a modular based street furniture range that aims to introduce natural materials into urban spaces where people can sit and wellbeing is improved. The form and design style of the modular range resembles patterns found in the natural environment and the timber – FSC® certified – is responsibly sourced from well managed sources. The steel elements that help combine the modules are laser cut with a natural cell like pattern to create a striking effect. 27 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Sustainable Development Goals & How Marshalls is Contributing The Sustainable Development Goals build are unique in that they call for action by all countries, poor, rich and middle-income to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. They recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic growth and addresses a range of social needs including education, health, social protection, and job opportunities, while tackling climate change and environmental protection. 28 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress How Marshalls is Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals By being a UNGC signatory Marshalls is already contributing to the implementation SDG7 – Solar Technology in Structures & of the SDGs. The UN Global Compact together with UN partners hosts a number Buildings of global issue platforms many of which Marshalls is involved in; the CEO Water Marshalls solar bus shelter design is an Mandate, the Women’s Empowerment Principles, Children’s Rights & Business example of how solar technology can be Principles and Business for Peace. discretely embedded into the fabric of structures and buildings, representing a convenient and attractive means of Living Wage, Elimination of Child Labour, Elimination and Prevention of reducing carbon footprints in urban SDG1 Modern Slavery. environments. The solar bus shelter is capable of generating more than 2000kW Living Wage, Global Living Wage Alliance Benchmarking Engagement, ETI hours per year, enough electricity to SDG2 Base Code Implementation. power the average London home – so adoption of this exciting technology SDG3 UK Employee Wellbeing Programme, Mind Charity of the Year Support. can make a significant contribution to London’s sustainable future. Children’s Rights & Business Principles Top 10 Priorities Implementation, UN SDG4 Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement, Business in the SDG 8: Focus on the Fair Tax Mark Community Business Class Engagement. The Fair Tax Mark is the label for good UN Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement, Marshalls taxpayers. Wherever you see the Fair Tax SDG5 Mark you can be sure that a company is Women ‘Step it Up’ Network. open and transparent about its tax affairs UN CEO Water Mandate, Priora Product Innovation, New Product Research and seeks to pay the right amount of SDG6 & Development Programme, Marshalls Operations Water Management corporation tax at the right time in the Programme. right place. It sets a new standards in responsible tax practice. Marshalls use of solar power within its own business operations, product SDG7 innovation in embedding solar technology discretely into the fabric of structures and buildings. SDG11 – Focus on Sustainable Cities and Communities Fair Tax Mark, Ethical & Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct, Apprentice SDG8 Training Programme, Living Wage, UN Women Women’s Empowerment Marshalls has developed ‘M-LIVE’ a new Principles Engagement. technology that enables ordinary street furniture products to connect with a New Product Research & Development Programme, New Product personal Bluetooth tag, carried by a SDG9 Innovation such as; Solar Technology Embedded Products, Anti-Terrorist pedestrian. The tag can be programmed Street Furniture, M-Live Technology Embedded Products. by an individual user via an online portal ETI Base Code Implementation, UN Women Women’s Empowerment or app to enable the furniture to respond Principles Engagement, Children’s Rights & Business Principles Top 10 to their needs. This means that bollards SDG10 can let a blind person know when they Priorities Implementation, Fair Tax Mark, Living Wage Accreditation, Ethical & Sustainable Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct. have reached a certain shop, monoliths can speak in a foreign language to guide Future Spaces Research, New Product Development, eg. M-Live, ETI Base tourists or street lighting can get brighter SDG11 Code Implementation. on approach for the elderly. http://www. Ethical & Sustainable Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct, Fairstone, marshalls.co.uk/commercial/streetSDG12 furniture/intelligent Product Carbon Footprint, ETI Base Code Implementation. Product Carbon Footprints, Marshalls Environmental KPIs, New Product Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director, SDG13 Research, Development & Innovation Programme. says, “The introduction of this technology can ultimately revolutionise a person’s Water quality improvement from permeable paving sub bases preventing SDG14 experience of the built environment, river pollution preventing sea pollution, ask Chris G opening up places and spaces which SDG15 FSC Policy, Product Innovation; Bioverse, Grassguard. may have previously been either difficult for disabled people to navigate, or areas Fair Tax, Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy & Training, Modern Slavery Act which have felt unsafe perhaps to women SDG16 or to others in general. We are actively Implementation & Engagement. seeking collaborations and partnership so Fairtax Accreditation, UNICEF Research, IPEC Engagement, UNGC, UN that we can transform towns and cities for SDG17 Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement. the benefit of all.” 29 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress No Place for Modern Slavery Martyn Coffey, CEO, Marshalls plc. We are working hard to make Marshalls business operations and supply chains worldwide as toxic as possible to the organised criminals who seek to exploit vulnerable individuals and corporations. Our message to them is that there is simply From a business perspective human rights no place for modern slavery in Marshalls’ regulation is on an upward trajectory business operations and supply chains. and the issue of slavery will, quite rightly, We are engaged, well informed, well remain firmly in the spotlight. Those connected and unafraid to transparently organisations still not fully engaging report and share what we find. We’re with the issues of modern slavery and committed to knowing all that we can only doing the minimum in terms of risk about where there are risks and to taking mitigation are not only putting human appropriate action. lives at risk but are also missing out on the opportunity to use ethical business and a We are wholly supportive of the Antisustainable approach to drive competitive Slavery Commissioners priority, ‘to engage advantage. with the private sector to promote policies to ensure that supply chains are free The moral perspective is clear: modern from slavery and to encourage effectual slavery is simply wrong. transparency reporting’. We understand that businesses have a role to play, together with law enforcement agencies and others, to drive traffickers into plain sight by using all of the avenues and leverage at our disposal, both upstream and down-stream as well as within our own business operations. Martyn Coffey, CEO, Marshalls plc. 30 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Much More Still To Do Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director, Responsible for Sustainability, Marshalls plc It is a stark and sickening reality that organised criminals around the globe are profiting from the exploitation of human beings and that human traffickers regard people as commodities; items that can be exploited and traded for profit. It is an illicit business that transcends cultural, social, linguistic and geographical boundaries and one that knows no borders and no rules; men, women and children are used as products for sexual or labour-based exploitation. Human trafficking, for labour and for sex, As a leader in our sector it is Marshalls’ job is one of the fastest-growing transnational to be as informed as we can be, to work organised crime markets.* Human to raise awareness within the construction trafficking is also playing a growing role sector, to know what the issues are in our in terrorist and insurgent activities and own supply chains, and where, to make groups.* our business operations and supply chains as unattractive to criminals as possible, Twenty-one million men, women, and support our anti-slavery commissioners, children around the world are currently work in collaboration with law thought to be victims of human enforcement agencies locally, nationally trafficking, which the International Labour and internationally, work creatively with Organization estimates generates US$150.2 anti-slavery partners to prevent modern billion in profits each year. This money not slavery, use everything that we have at our only lines the pockets of the perpetrators disposal as a business and to put the victim but also finances violence, corruption, and at the centre of our response. In short, to other abuses. These crimes undermine do whatever we can with whatever we have. local and national economies, destroy the environment, and jeopardize the health We have made good strides since the and wellbeing of people everywhere. introduction of the Modern Slavery Act, but there is much more still to do. * Transnational Crime and the Developing World Report http://www.gfintegrity.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/Transnational_Crime-final.pdf 31 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Victim-Focused Perspective Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Business & Human Rights Lead, Marshalls plc “It would be easy for many corporations to lose sight of the victims of modern slavery in the drive to ‘mitigate risk’ and to be seen to respond to the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act. Although the task is complexed, especially in overseas supply chains where often the infrastructure to support businesses in driving out modern slavery is weak or does not exist, we are clear that the victims of modern slavery are firmly at the centre of our strategy. This victim-focused perspective is one which is a natural fit for Marshalls; an organisation which puts families, children and their wellbeing at the heart of its business model. I have, without exception, experienced the full support of the business – from top to bottom – in the drive to understand and eradicate modern slavery and human trafficking. It is this engagement from my colleagues which fires my belief that Marshalls has an important contribution to make in leading the sector and together with other like-minded organisation and individuals, finding ways to herd the criminals behind this exploitation into plain sight.” 32 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 33 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Modern Slavery Implementation Timeline Face-to-face meetings with key Launch of Modern Slavery customers to share approaches Internal Awareness Campaign; to modern slavery and discuss rolled out over 2016. future collaboration. May 2016 June 2016 July 2016 August 2016 September 2016 October 2016 Published 1st MSA Statement Development of internal UNGC UK Network Modern Developed pilot education protocols regarding instances of Slavery Working Group. programme together with Connects with local Police & modern slavery in UK business our temporary labour Crime Commissioner and local operations. provider; delivered in law enforcement. January, March & June Modern Slavery internal training 2017. launched online within the GLZ. 34 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 35 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Modern Slavery Implementation Timeline Appointment of Business & Human Rights Intern to assist with modern slavery country profiling. GLAA training at Derby University for Business & Human Rights Lead; Investigating Modern Slavery Development of supply chain risk Development and drafting mapping process. of M-Way; Marshalls Supplier Marshalls becomes first organisation to Code of Conduct & Marshalls be BRE Ethical Labour Standard 6002 M-Way, Employee Code of Employee Code of Conduct. Accredited. Conduct, published internally. November 2016 December 2016 January 2017 February 2017 March 2017 April 2017 May 2017 BRE ELS 6002 audit takes place. Global Partnership with Hope for Justice. India with Hope for Justice and Presentation to the West Yorkshire Antiour independent ethical auditor to Trafficking & Modern Slavery Network – a BHR Lead modern slavery risk Cambodia with Hope for Justice to see its map the supply chain to undertake business’s perspective. mapping and awareness raising in-country operations. On to Vietnam to modern slavery risk mapping. supply chain field trip. undertake a series of local government Published 2nd MSA Statement meetings, third sector organisation meetings Invited to join the West Yorkshire AntiMarshalls co-hosts Indian Modern slavery risk mapping country profiles and to meet with British Embassy staff. Trafficking & Modern Slavery Network Sandstone Stewardship event at published. as its first business member. India Sustainability Conference, Procurement team modern slavery intensive M-Way, Supplier Code of Conduct, published Delhi, India. training delivered by Hope for Justice. Development of Business & Human externally. Rights Yammer Platform. Training & appointment of 1st Modern Slavery Launch of Marshalls independent IT platform; Ambassador. modern slavery training for all suppliers; Training & appointment of 2nd Modern M-Way training for all suppliers; Anti-Bribery & Slavery Ambassador. Corruption training for all suppliers. Modern Slavery Ambassador delivers awareness training to Marshalls Registered Installers. 36 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Partnership With Anti-Slavery Organisation Hope For Justice In January 2017 Marshalls entered into a long-term partnership with Hope for Justice, an anti-trafficking and anti-slavery organisation which exists to bring an end to modern slavery by rescuing victims, restoring lives, and reforming society. Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Director, Responsible for Sustainability, said, “We were delighted to announce our partnership the major focus of which is preventative activity aimed at employee and supplier education but can also offer expert remediation services if required. Whilst at this point in time we are not aware of any instances of modern slavery within our business we understand that modern slavery is rife. This partnership is helping us to deliver on the commitments we have made in our Modern Slavery Disclosure statement.” With backgrounds in criminal investigation and public protection, Hope for Justices’ award-winning expert teams operate out of highly successful Regional Investigative Hubs to provide proactive services to businesses partners. Hope for Justice experienced team are also geared-up to respond where potential victims are identified within business operations or supply chain. 37 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress “Part of our mission at Hope for Justice is to bring an end to modern slavery by reforming society, and engaging with businesses and the corporate sector is a vital element of that. We want to empower businesses to take action to eliminate slavery from their operations and supply chains to prevent infiltration of recruitment by traffickers, and we’re glad to see Marshalls’ absolute commitment to this. We have been working closely with Marshalls at all levels of its business, and its ambition to have the highest levels of integrity towards its workforce has been made clear to us. “I hope our partnership with Marshalls will continue, and indeed will go from strength to strength, as we seek to achieve a business sector and a world free from slavery.” Ben Cooley CEO, Hope for Justice 38 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Marshalls Modern Slavery Ambassadors Our Modern Slavery Ambassadors are purposefully and strategically recruited. They already hold key roles within our organisation, are fully engaged and trained regarding modern slavery and are able to use this knowledge as part of what they do. Left to right: Nigel Oseman, Training Manager, Hope for Justice, Dave Jessop & Karen Preiss, Marshalls Modern Slavery Ambassadors, Gary Booth, Hope for Justice. Dave Jessop, Modern Slavery Ambassador Installer’s Register Dave is responsible for Marshalls Registered Installers; a UK-wide register of Marshalls certified patio and drive way installers. Since his appointment as Modern Slavery Ambassador he has taken swift and direct action to communicate with registered installers. He conducted awareness raising roadshows covering fourteen strategic locations nationwide in January 2017 to 230 businesses and 507 individuals. Dave has also ensured that 2000+ register member businesses have been communicated with and given information on how to spot the signs of moderns slavery, how to report and how to stay safe. Dave says, “Installers are wholly supportive of our mission to do all that we can to prevent modern slavery. They are also motivated to be our eyes-and-ears on the ground from an economic perspective too; if someone can undercut them and take away their work because they’re using slaves this has a direct impact on them. We’re aware through the training and networking with anti-slavery and law enforcement agencies that the laying of patios and driveways is an area of concern. As a result of our activity with register members we’ve received information and intelligence which we’ve been able to pass on the Hope for Justice and the police which have resulted in ongoing investigations.” “I’m passionate about playing my part in preventing modern slavery and delighted that Marshalls commitment and approach is so unequivocal. To enhance my own understanding of the issues I was invited to spend a day with Hope for Justices’ investigations team. Observing the investigation team gathering evidence, undertaking surveillance, engaging with vulnerable individuals and liaising with local law enforcement reinforced my commitment to do what I can to support this through my role within Marshalls.” 39 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Karen Preiss, Modern Slavery Ambassador Procurement Since her appointment as Modern Slavery Ambassador Karen’s focus has been working with her procurement colleagues and Global Supply Chain Director, Richard Beale, to build further upon ethical procurement practices by fully incorporating modern slavery risk and facilitating the training of the department on the signs of slavery and human trafficking and how the business can work to identify areas of risk and take action. Karen has been instrumental in the pilot education programme with temporary labour provider de Poel. “The response from those having had the training has been overwhelmingly positive. Increasing their awareness of the systematic , exploitative and ‘business-like’ nature of the criminals who traffic workers for forced labour was a shock to most. Armed with increased awareness of the signs and the devastating impact of modern slavery participants left with plans to make changes to the way they operate as a direct result of the training.” 40 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Modern Slavery Risk Mapping & Country Profiling We’ve undertaken, and published online, extensive modern slavery risk mapping for all of our existing sourcing countries. This process is also part of our due diligence when we consider new suppliers and sourcing countries. We analyse this modern slavery risk mapping information alongside our internal data; we have developed a comprehensive commodities risk index which included goods for resales, indirect goods & raw materials. This enables us to clearly identify areas of risk and set clear priorities. Slavery Risk Country Comparison 41 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress United Kingdom (11,700 Estimated Living in Slavery) Overall Rating 5 Public Sector Corruption and the 4 Access to Banking Rule of Law 3 2 1 Education, Health, and Standard of Labour Rights 0 Living Government Efforts to Combat Elimination of Child Labour Human Trafficking Gender Inequality India (18,354,700 Estimated Living in Slavery) Overall Rating 5 4 Public Sector Corruption and the Rule of Law Access to Banking 3 2 1 Labour Rights 0 Education, Health, and Standard of Living Government Efforts to Combat Human Elimination of Child Labour Trafficking Gender Inequality Vietnam (139,000 Estimated Living in Slavery) Overall Rating 5 Public Sector Corruption and the Rule of Law 4 Access to Banking 3 2 1 Labour Rights 0 Education, Health, and Standard of Living Government Efforts to Combat Human Trafficking Elimination of Child Labour Gender Inequality 42 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 86% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice “From a business perspective human rights regulation is on an upward trajectory and the issue of modern slavery will, quite rightly remain in the spotlight. Those organisations still not fully engaging with the issues of modern slavery and only doing the minimum in terms of risk mitigation are not only putting human lives at risk but are also missing out on the opportunity to use ethical business and a sustainable approach to drive competitive advantage.” Martyn Coffey, CEO Marshalls. In order to deliver on our mission of ‘creating better landscapes’ we are empowered from a human rights perspective to seek out where we might be unintentionally doing harm and to work hard to put this right, but also to go beyond and to look at how by doing better we can create a net positive impact; so, not just mitigate and remediate, but aim to make a positive contribution. While this aspirational goal is very much work in progress it guides and shapes our approach to modern slavery demanding that we drive for creative and collaborative solutions. Different solutions call for different thinking & different action and this can be uncomfortable and create turbulence; a necessary by-product of change. Our focus for the next twelve months will very much be on looking at our high risk supply chains overseas and working with our anti-slavery partner, procurement and human resources teams, and others, to ensure that where we find slavery we are well placed to offer support and remediation to victims which is above all appropriate for the situation, but which also seeks to be part of any longer term solution. Here in the UK, we aim to increase preventative and educational work in collaboration with the UN, Hope for Justice, law enforcement agencies, local anti-slavery networks, customers, suppliers, employees, Modern Slavery Ambassadors and partners. We will continue to draw on data from within our operations to help drill down further, alongside the country risk mapping that we have undertaken. 43 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Marshalls’ Human Rights Policy Marshalls supports human rights consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In conducting its business activities across the globe Marshalls respects these rights and seeks to uphold, preserve and promote them. Marshalls works diligently in all respects to support and uphold the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The organisation has a dedicated human rights programme including; human rights due diligence procurement process, ongoing human rights impact assessments, country specific human rights monitoring, social auditing, independent supply chain auditing, employee and supplier training programme, internal human rights awareness programme, Children’s Rights and Business Principles auditing, Women’s Empowerment Principles implementation and human rights monitoring and reporting. Marshalls is committed to working to eliminate modern slavery and makes an annual Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Disclosure Statement as required by law. As part of this process our Human Rights Policy is reviewed on an annual basis. Marshalls works to ensure that its presence cultivates fair and sustainable relationships. Marshalls respects and values the dignity, well being and rights of employees, their families and the wider community. The Company actively works and collaborates with employees, elected employee representatives, communities, non-governmental and other appropriate stakeholders to uphold and promote these rights. Where human rights are under threat Marshalls works to uphold local laws, promote international standards and strives to have international standards upheld by the appropriate Governments, Institutions and Agencies. Marshalls embraces opportunities to promote a broader understanding of human rights values working within its sphere of influence. Marshalls actively seeks to collaborate with appropriate organisations to promote respect for human rights in a manner which is consistent with the role of business. 44 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Fairstone Principles Marshalls Fairstone Principles Marshalls had been shining a light on ethical issues, including labour rights, workers health & safety and children’s rights, since 2005. We were the first to bring our India Fairstone product to market in 2009 where we worked hard to drive improvements not only in our supply chain but across the sandstone sector as a whole. Since then we’ve found that the principles upon which Fairstone was founded are sound, more relevant that ever and apply to all of our natural stone supply chains. We’ve therefore developed Marshalls Fairstone Principles which we apply across all of our natural stone supply chains. We know through our comprehensive auditing and risk mapping processes that we face different challenges in different countries. Our country profiling allows us to put emphasis in the right place, engage with our supply chains on a journey of continuous improvement and to engage with our own and other governments to push for greater change when our own leverage just isn’t enough. These Fairstone Principles are part of how we do business and help to ensure that workers, their rights, family and community remain at the heart of our supply chain endeavours. Implementation of Implementation of the ETI Base Code Modern Slavery We work to uphold the Commitments ETI Base Code in all of its forms. We work to deliver on the promises we make within our Modern Slavery Statement. Rigorous Human Rights Children’s Rights & Due Diligence Business Principles We put children and families at We are thorough in our human rights the heart of our brand and our due diligence and make good business business; wherever they are decisions based on this. in the world. 45 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress IPEC Marshalls remains committed to the ILO’s International Program on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) Child Labour Platform to further our work regarding the elimination of child labour in the sandstone sector in Rajasthan, India, and as a result of our commitments to Children’s Rights & Business Principles. IPEC, created in 1992 with the overall goal of the progressive elimination of child labour, is the largest program of its kind globally and the biggest single operational program of the ILO. IPEC’s work to eliminate child labour is an important facet of the ILO’s Decent Work Agenda. Child labour not only prevents children from acquiring the skills and education they need for a better future, it also perpetuates poverty and affects national economies through losses in competitiveness, productivity and potential income. Withdrawing children from child labour, providing them with education and assisting their families with training and employment opportunities contribute directly to creating decent work for adults. Children’s Rights & Business Principles During 2018 we will complete our third Children’s Rights and Business Principles. This will allows us to refresh our top 10 CRBP priorities and to plan our work in this area accordingly. Women’s Empowerment Principles We have delivered on our commit to undertake an audit of our business against the Women’s Empowerment Principles. We have benchmarked Marshalls and undertaken a gap analysis and we know how we must proceed. 46 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights: Targets ACHIEVEMENTS 2017 TARGETS 2018 Continue to work to uphold the ETI Work to deliver the new 2020 ETI base code throughout our operations. strategy tehreby upholding the ETI Basecode throughout our operations Further improve and develop the reporting process for social auditors and any associated corrective action Further improve and develop the plans. reporting process for social auditors and any associated corrective action Further develop our human plans. rights monitoring and evaluation programme in conjunction with our Further develop our human anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice. rights monitoring and evaluation programme in conjunction with our Further development of the human anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice. rights programme. Devlopment of our ethical auditing and Modern Slavery Risk Assessment Further work on the process of processes and procedures embedding human rights within the organisation; working closely with Further work on the process of human resources and procurement embedding human rights within the teams; modern slavery ambassadors organisation; working closely with and delivering the appropriate internal human resources and procurement training regarding human rights & teams; modern slavery ambassadors business, especially in relation to and delivering the appropriate internal modern slavery. training regarding human rights & business, especially in relation to Continue to implement our CRBP top 10 modern slavery. priorities. Complete our CRBP Audit and revise as appropriate our CRBP top ten priorities Finalise our WEPs audit and implement Continue to implement our CRBP top 10 recommendations. priorities. Deliver our second Modern Slavery Act Deliver our third Modern Slavery Act Disclosure Statement and work with Disclosure Statement and continue ‘critical friends’ to develop and work to work with ‘critical friends’ to further on the associated KPI’s. develop our KPIs. 47 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Labour Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 76% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Marshalls’ ETI Strategic Plan 2018 – 2020 now firmly sits within the broader context of the organisations’ commitments as a UNGC signatory and within the businesses overall marketing strategy. As such our new ETI strategic commitments and the progress made each year will be documented here within Marshalls annual UNGC Communication of Progress Report. In addition we will also report back to the ETI via the online strategic reporting platform. Objectives have been developed to support, strengthen and maximise Marshalls existing business & human rights programme and the commitments made in the organisations Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement. They honour Marshalls’ commitment to ETI Base Code implementation, take inspiration from the ETI’s Human Rights Due Diligence Framework, and will ultimately further embed and integrate ethical trade into business activities and decision making, and seek to improve conditions for workers, their families and communities. 48 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress There are four objectives which Marshalls will seek to deliver between 2018 and 2020: 1/ 2/ Develop and embed internal processes Collaborate with suppliers, agents, ILO, and procedures which allow Marshalls to IPEC, anti-slavery partners, the Anti-Slavery effectively assess actual and potential human Commissioners Office, governments and rights risks and the effectiveness of ETI other actors to identify, prevent and mitigate Base Code implementation in its business human rights abuses in Marshalls own operations and global supply chain. business operations and supply chains, and in the wider construction sector. 3/ 4/ Develop and implement a forced labour/ Develop and implement human rights modern slavery identification and monitoring, reviewing and reporting remediation processes in Marshalls UK processes; report transparently on all efforts business operations, and in supply chains in to respects human rights and prevent forced India, Vietnam & Europe. labour/modern slavery and utilise to inform business decision making, due diligence processes and improve conditions for workers. Implementing the ETI BASE CODE ETI Base Code Implementing the ETI Base Code across all of our global supply chain operations is managed and overseen by our Head of The ETI Base Code covers the Sustainability, David Morrell and Natural Stone Director, Rory major areas of human rights risk for workers in global supply chains: Kendrick. Working closely with our in-country social auditors, our independent auditors, Business & Human Rights Lead, Elaine Mitchel-Hill and our Head of Procurement, Richard Beale, the organisation works hard to ensure that customer demands do not impact negatively upon workers. Employment is freely chosen* Freedom of association and the right to collective Working conditions are safe and hygienic bargaining are respected* Child labour shall Living wages are paid Working hours are not be used* not excessive* No discrimination Regular employment No harsh or inhumane is practised* is provided treatment is allowed *Internationally agreed core human rights. All UN member states, whether or not they have ratified the relevant ILO conventions, are obliged to meet these labour standards. See also Annex 3: Sector-specific risks. 6 49 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights Due Diligence Framework Human Rights Due Diligence Framework Human rights due diligence is the action taken by a company to both identify and act upon actual and WORKERS AT GREATEST RISK potential risks for workers in its operations, supply OF HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES chains and the services it uses. Human rights due diligence must include a focus on the most Moving forward Marshalls will use the ETI’s approach to human rights due diligence vulnerable workers, these include: which is based on multi-stakeholder engagement and processes that include: CHILDREN WOMEN MIGRANT • Assessment of actual and potential human rights risks WORKERS INTERNAL AND • Mitigation of risk and remediation for workers impacted by human rights violations CROSS BORDER • Identification of corporate leverage and responsibility, decision-making and actions needed SEASONAL CONTRACT • Monitoring, review, reporting and continuous improvement WORKERS AND SUCH AS AGRICULTURAL AGENCY WORKERS WORKERS ETI’s experience has demonstrated that this is the most effective form of due diligence and the most likely way to bring about lasting change. MARGINALISED DOMESTIC GROUPS WORKERS SUBJECT TO DISCRIMINATORY LAWS AND TREATMENT See also Annex 3: Sector-specific risks. 7 Human Rights Due Diligence Framework Human Rights Due Diligence Framework ETI HUMAN RIGHTS DUE Key steps that companies should take to prevent, manage and mitigate human rights abuses in DILIGENCE FRAMEWORK their own operations and supply chains. • Review country risks • Review HR systems, • Assess scale and scope of • Review supplier capacity • Map supply chains and contracting and corporate responsibility, to manage labour risks services and prioritise recruitment including direct and • Review policies and • Assess workers’ ability indirect labour rights procedures to enable • Identify risks to workers to access rights to impacts workers to access their by sector, nature of work, type of freedom of association • Assess leverage with right to organise and worker, employment and collective bargaining suppliers, agents and bargain collectively relationships and labour market dynamics • Rank risks by severity and degree of 01. 02. contractors • Review sourcing • Identify opportunities for collaborative action • Identify direct and indirect causes and responsibility • Analyse the data, Assess actual Identify strategies and purchasing practices • Review corporate decision-making and impacts identify next actions and process and potential leverage, • Establish benchmarks and rules for monitoring accountability, policies and systems human responsibility improvements or termination with to manage risks rights risks and actions suppliers • Track mitigation and • Analyse evidence, learn • Take immediate steps to • Provide training and remediation actions • Review decisionlessons, prioritise next actions and long-term 04. 03. mitigate human rights abuses capacity building on worker-management making, responsibility and accountability prevention • Communicate internally Monitor, Mitigate • Provide remediation for workers (avoiding further communication and negotiation (especially at senior levels) and with business partners on human review, risk and harm) • Identify and act on • Engage / collaborate with others (eg other • Review information sources and systems rights due diligence • Report publicly on steps report and remediate changes to working practices companies, trades unions, government – ensure evidence is credible, verifiable and taken to respect human rights and prevent improve workers • Enable workers to access their right to freedom of agencies, NGOs, experts, multi-stakeholder relevant modern slavery association and collective initiatives) • Build partnerships and bargaining • Establish / revise collaborative action grievance and remediation systems 50 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Labour: Living Wage Marshalls was awarded the Living Wage Employers Accreditation in 2014. This is only available in the UK. In India, Marshalls works with NGOs and others to calculate a living wage which is paid to those working in its supply chain there. 1/ 2/ 3/ ACCREDITATION INTELLIGENCE INFLUENCE Offers accreditation to employers that pay the Provides advice and support to employers Provides a forum for leading employers and Living Wage, or those committed to an agreed and service providers implementing the service providers to publicly back the Living timetable of implementation, by awarding the Living Wage including best practice guides; Wage. Work with Principal Partners who bring Living Wage Employer Mark. case studies from leading employers; model financial and strategic support to our work. The procurement frameworks and access to Foundations coordinates Living Wage Week Offers a Service Provider Recognition Scheme specialist legal and HR advice. We coordinate each November, a UK wide celebration of the for third party contractors who pay their own the announcement of the new Living Wage Living Wage. staff the Living Wage and always offer a Living rates each November. Wage option when submitting tenders. What is it? • An hourly rate set independently and updated annually • The Living Wage enjoys cross party support, with public backing from the Prime Minister and the Leader of the • The Living Wage is calculated according to the basic Opposition cost of living in the UK • Paying the Living Wage is good for business, good for • The current UK Living Wage is £7.85 an hour the individual and good for society • The current London Living Wage is £9.15 an hour • The Living Wage Employer Mark and Service Provider Recognition Scheme provide an ethical badge for • Employers choose to pay the Living Wage on a responsible pay voluntary basis 51 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Labour: Living Wage What are the benefits? > Good for Business > Good for Families > Good for Society An independent study examining the business The Living Wage affords people the opportunity The Living Wage campaign was launched in benefits of implementing a Living Wage policy in to provide for themselves and their families. 2001 by parents in East London, who were London found that more than 80% of employers frustrated that working two minimum wage believe that the Living Wage had enhanced 75% of employees reported increases in work jobs left no time for family life. the quality of the work of their staff, while quality as a result of receiving the Living Wage. absenteeism had fallen by approximately 25%. The causes of poverty are complex and in order 50% of employees felt that the Living Wage had to improve lives, there should be a package of Two thirds of employers reported a significant made them more willing to implement changes solutions across policy areas. The Living Wage impact on recruitment and retention within in their working practices; enabled them to can be part of the solution. their organisation. 70% of employers felt that require fewer concessions to effect change; and the Living Wage had increased consumer made them more likely to adopt changes more awareness of their organisation’s commitment quickly. to be an ethical employer. Following the adoption of the Living Wage PwC found turnover of contractors fell from 4% to 1%. “ 50% of employees felt that the Living Wage “ 75% of employees reported had made them more willing to implement increases in work quality as a result changes in their working practices” of receiving the Living Wage.” 52 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Labour: Targets ACHIEVENTS 2017 TARGETS 2018 Maintain accreditation to IMS. Maintain accreditation to IMS. Maintain accreditation to BRE ELS 6002. Maintain accreditation to BRE ELS 6002. Maintain information gathering regarding labour laws throughout our supply chain. Maintain a programme of auditing against the ETI Base Code Maintain a programme of auditing against the ETI Base Code Work to further improve the social Work to further improve the social auditor reporting process; and auditor reporting process; and any associated correct action plan any associated correct action plan processes and procedures. processes and procedures. Continue to implement the Work with the procurement and recommendations resulting from the human resources team to further UNICEF research. develop systems and procedures which help to ensure that no modern Work with procurement team to slavery takes place within our communicate Marshalls Supplier Code operations. of Conduct. Maintain Living Wage accreditation. Work with the procurement and human resources team to further develop systems and procedures which help to ensure that no modern Work with ILO IPEC Child Labour slavery takes place within our Platform to contribute further to the operations. eradication of child labour. Maintain Living Wage accreditation. Work to deliver the new 2020 ETI strategy tehreby upholding the ETI Work with ILO IPEC Child Labour Basecode throughout our operations Platform to contribute further to the eradication of child labour. 53 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Environment Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 80% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Due to Marshalls’ status the environmental key performance Marshalls’ environmental targets relate to strategic plans which are indicators will be published alongside the annual report in April. This driven by board executives and implemented by a large internal will be available online in due course. resource. Systems, which represent a significant investment, are in place throughout the business and allow the real time monitoring At the heart of Marshalls’ sustainable business model, shown of energy consumption and how this relates to carbon reduction earlier in this report, is an approach which combines key business measures. issues and KPIs with third party verification, legislation and industry standards including ISO14001 for environmental management. Marshalls’ Environment & Climate Change Policy documents the related key performance indicators. Key environmental targets and drivers for our business are determined by legislative requirement and also the Company’s commitment to sustainability, cost efficiency and shareholder value. Environmental Policy Statement Energy and Climate Change Policy Statement Marshalls understands the potential impacts of our operations, products and services. The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance to protect the environment and prevent pollution from its operation and to minimise the environmental damage The use of energy is vital in the supply and manufacture of our products and represents a that occurs as a result of its activities. We operate to an established environmental management significant proportion of our operating costs. Volatile energy costs for us and in our supply system (“EMS”) to ensure that all our operations meet or exceed the requirements of legislation chain, growing concerns over the security of supply and climate change mean that the and applicable best practice as an integral part of our business strategy. importance of controlling our energy use has never been so high. This policy document is consistent with our sustainability strategy and supports our vision by helping us to operate our Marshalls is committed to monitoring, measuring and reporting of our environmental performance, business, as market leaders, in a sustainable and responsible manner. using appropriate external guidelines wherever practicable. The Group assesses the Sustainability is one of Marshalls’ four key core values, balancing our environmental, social environmental aspects, impacts, risks and opportunities of its activities setting appropriate and economic impacts. In essence, achieving our goal of sustainability involves judging the objectives and targets. long-term merits of our business against this triple bottom line. This policy applies to all Marshalls businesses and requires Marshalls to: Marshalls recognises that sound energy management is vital to the future of our business and it must be fully integrated into our management and operational procedures so that it is an  Determine, understand and implement relevant environmental legislation to satisfy our everyday part of what we all do. Marshalls’ commits to ensuring that appropriate energy legal compliance obligations. management systems, are developed, maintained, and that sufficient resources are made  Develop adaptation and mitigation strategies against internal and external factors which available to achieve the objectives of this policy in a sustainable manner also that they are in could have adverse impacts on the environment or the Group. line with continuous improvement principles. All UK operations are certified under BS EN  Set Group wide targets appropriate to the nature and scale of our activities. 50001. This policy applies to all Marshalls’ businesses and requires Marshalls to:  Maintain and continually improve the EMS across the Group improving awareness and  Track, understand and implement all relevant legislation and other requirements training in relation to environmental protection and performance. related to energy use, consumption and efficiency.  Continually improve environmental performance by monitoring and measuring improvement initiatives particularly in relation to water resources through recycling,  Set group wide KPI’s and targets, appropriate to the nature and scale of our capture and discharge and waste generated and that sent to landfill. operations, for energy efficiency and emission reduction. Ensure all fuels are  To protect and enhance biodiversity and natural habitats both within our landholdings and effectively monitored, measured and analysed to target energy efficiency opportunities. the wider corridor where possible.  Conduct energy reviews to identify opportunities for efficiency improvements and  To recognise the need for sympathetic restoration and after-use of quarry and other implement appropriate action plans. . operational sites and consider the character of the local environment and the concerns of the local community and other stakeholders when planning such matters.  Ensure energy efficiency is designed into capital projects that have a significant impact  To consider the environmental impacts associated with our products throughout their life on energy consumption. cycle by efficient resource use.  Ensure contractors and suppliers that have a significant impact on energy support  Consider, engage and communicate with all interested parties. Marshalls energy performance improvement. Ensure Marshalls’ staff are trained and  Review the Group’s targets and Policy annually against business objectives and aware of their responsibilities in relation to energy efficiency. commitments given to industry initiatives and wider stakeholders.  Develop on-site generation or direct connections to renewable power where financially In conjunction with this policy there is a framework of supporting policies relevant to achieving and operationally viable. Group Sustainability objectives.  Develop adaptation and mitigation strategies for climate change and fossil fuel Signed by: depletion.  Report progress in relation to this policy to internal and external stakeholders. This policy, will be reviewed annually as part of the management review process. Signed by: Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive April 2017 Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive April 2017 54 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Environmental Policy – Key Features Target – To operate within the relevant legal frameworks and comply with appropriate legislation. • The Group has a commitment to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance, preventing pollution and minimising the impact of its operations. • All operations should meet or exceed the requirements of legislation and applicable best practice. Where no legislation exists, best practice will remain an integral part of Marshalls’ business strategy. • The Group is committed to considering the environmental impacts associated with its products throughout their life cycle. • Policy is supported by monitoring and measuring environmental performance using appropriate external guidelines wherever practicable. Operating sites have assessed the environmental aspects of their activities, and objectives and targets aimed at improving the overall environmental impact of those activities have been set. These are reviewed on at least an annual basis. • Marshalls will continue to raise environmental awareness within the Group through the development and training of its employees and will communicate openly and consult with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders on relevant environmental matters. • Marshalls strives to protect and enhance biodiversity and natural habitats within its landholdings where possible. The Group also recognises the need for sympathetic restoration and after-use of quarry and other operational sites. • Marshalls considers the character of the local environment and the concerns of the local community and other stakeholders in relation to its activities. 55 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Environmental Management Target – 95 per cent of Group production to be manufactured at sites operating an integrated management system in accordance with Publicly Available Specification 99:2006 (“PAS 99”) to be maintained to 2020. Marshalls reviewed its Group target in 2013 and revised this “ In 2015 Marshalls engaged Cedrec to 95 per cent. During the year 42 (2014: 43) sites. The target was achieved in the year and the Group aims to maintain Information Systems to provide specialist compliance to this target to 2020, however it recognises legal services to support their assessment that any business churn may in the short term adversely of legal requirements. Cedrec undertook affect its ability to do so. compliance assessments at a selection of During 2015 the Group had 47 operational* sites (2014: 49). Marshalls’ sites on an annual basis, reviewing Of these sites: legal compliance, scale of environmental • 46 (2014: 47) had BS EN ISO 9001:2008 Quality aspects and measures taken by Marshalls Management Systems in place representing 99 per cent of the Group’s manufacturing output. to minimise and reduce their impacts. ng an integrated Marshalls’ sites are well controlled, comply • 44 (2014: 45) had BS EN ISO 14001:2004 for 006 (“PAS 99”) to be environmental Management Systems in place with necessary permit requirements and representing 99 per cent of the Group’s manufacturing have a well-established programme of risk output. management including energy management aged Cedrec Information ialist legal• services 44 (2014: to 46) had BS OHSAS 18001:2007 for Health and (to ISO 50001), carbon footprinting, water Safety Management Systems in place representing 99 nt of legal requirements. IMR 72571 and waste to landfill reduction. For the per cent of the Group’s manufacturing output. pliance assessments at a range of activities undertaken at their ites on anInannual additionbasis, to these, the Group also had PAS 99-compliant sites, Marshalls’ robust environmental nce, scalemanagement of environmental systems in place at its Group Laboratory, MarketingtoSupport Department,FMLandscape House and a management and engagement with legal aken by Marshalls 00004 eir impacts. distribution Marshalls’ site in the Midlands. compliance is delivering a low risk outcome , comply with necessary in terms of environmental and pollution d have a well-established impacts.” EMS 56194 agement including energy Richard Clarke, Senior Environment Health and Safety on001), carbon footprinting, Consultant, Cedrec Information Systems dfill reduction. For the range of t their sites, Marshalls’ robust s. OHS 69609 * Operational is defined as a site in the UK with production IMR 72571 ament and engagement with output during the reporting year. vering s, a low risk outcome in and ental pollution impacts.” FM 00004 EnMS 621049 nvironment Health and Safety ’ rmation Systems y hedas a site in the UK with EMS 56194 ergythe reporting year. ng ing, range of robust OHS 69609 t with me in s.” EnMS 621049 d Safety 56 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Environmental Impact The business is currently redefined its Sustainability Policies and Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”) to align to its 2020 business strategy and to ensure they are relevant and appropriate to its stakeholders. Marshalls is a signatory to the Sustainable Concrete Forum, a collaborative industry initiative, which published a new road map, with time-bound targets to 2020 aimed at reducing the environmental impacts of the industry. The latest performance report is the 8th Report on Progress which will be published in March 2016 and which can be found on the Marshalls website. As a member of the Mineral Products Association British Precast Marshalls voluntarily participated in a Resource Efficiency Action Plan with other industries to identify and create an actionable strategy for improving resource efficiency within the supply chain. The plan identifies the key challenges and actions that the sector and its associated supply chain need to address in order to make improvements in waste, water, carbon (energy usage and emissions), materials (primary raw materials and secondary/recycled materials) and biodiversity. Marshalls does not operate processes that require the legislative monitoring of emissions to air of NOx and SOx and only one site that is permitted for VOCs in relation to the spray painting of street furniture items. 57 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Carbon Target – to reduce our absolute CO2e consumption in line with UK Government 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). Carbon Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy approved Group total emissions. It by the Board during the year confirms the Group’s been no material change commitment to reducing the Energy and Carbon continues to exclude thes impact of its business activities. The current reduction is in line with the 2020 and 2050 targets. Marshalls does not report separately however these The Group complied with its legal obligation in the ‘cradle to grave’ product c Target – to reduce our absolute CO2e consumption Government’s inCarbon line Reduction Commitment Energy certified to PAS2050 by th Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) by submitting its Annual available on the Marshall with UK Government targets (34 per cent by Report 2020and and 80 per surrender of Carbon allowances for the The business energy and cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). period April 2014 to March 2015 within the time limit Mandatory Carbon Repor imposed by the legislation. The Group is certified to the Carbon Trust Standard and is re-certified up to measurement of energy a December 2016 demonstrating ongoing commitment intensity levels and the b to carbon reductions. reducing energy use on b Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy approved by the Board during the year confirms the Group’s Marshalls has a mandatory duty The Group’s approach to commitment to reducing the Energy and Carbon impact of to report its annual Greenhouse Opportunity Scheme (“ES its business activities. The current reduction is in line with define its energy manage Gas Emissions (“GHG”) under the 2020 and 2050 targets. the international standar the Companies Act 2006 The Group complied with its legal obligation in the (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) ISO50001, gaining certific Government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Regulations 2013 and the Large The Group continues to r Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) by submitting its Annual and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts Report and surrender of Carbon allowances for the period Carbon Disclosure Projec and Reports) Regulations 2008. Marshalls uses the April 2014 to March 2015 within the time limit imposed rating for its 2015 report GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting by the legislation. The Group is certified to the Carbon The chart below illustrates the Group’s absolute CO2e carbon management per Trust Standard and is re-certified up to December 2016 Standard emissions in tonnes, edition) and (revisedincluding the latest transport Defrabetween activities, provides an insight for sh demonstrating ongoing commitment to carbon reductions. published 2008 and 2016.CO2e conversion factors to measure Group’s energy, carbon a its GHG emissions. management programm The Group reports its scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for tonnes of CO2e for the ye its UK operation and only CO2 emissions for Marshalls This data includes scope NV, its Belgium business. In previous years, the Group in the Greenhouse Gas Pr Absolute CO2e emission from UK operation has conducted audits of its UK fugitive emissions and however the emission fac of Mandatory Carbon Rep 80 found these to be less than half of one per cent of the 73.3 71.1 68.9 66.8 64.8 70 25.6 62.9 61.2 59.5 21.3 57.9 60 20.5 18.7 16.2 k CO2 e Tonnes 50 14.0 16.8 16.4 14.3 22.1 22.6 40 22.3 21.0 21.4 20.1 22.4 20.8 30 20.2 20 25.4 23.4 23.1 24.3 22.1 19.9 18.5 18.0 10 16.0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Scope 2 Scope 1 transport Scope 1 non transport 2050 Target Energy Audits Carbon continued overleaf 58 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Water Target – reduce use of water from mains and licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of production by 2015. Marshalls understands the future value of harvesting is undertaken at Sittingbourne water and is a signatory to the United Nations further reducing the burden on licensed water Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. The extraction in these areas. The Group does not business has demonstrated a commitment to abstract water in “serious stress” areas. water harvesting and recycling on numerous sites and utilises quarry water where Marshalls has consents in place, issued by appropriate in its operations. the relevant regulatory bodies, to discharge trade effluent. Previous investment in water The Group particularly recognises the impacts harvesting and recycling of its process water and risk to the business in areas of “water helps to reduce the overall discharge volumes stress”. Working to the Government’s 2013 of trade effluent by enabling re-use in its classification, developed by the Environment products. Agency and Natural Resource Wales, two sites within the Group (Sandy ~ Anglian The chart below illustrates the Group’s water Water and Sittingbourne ~ Southern water) performance between 2008 and 2016 are located in areas of “serious stress”. As is practiced across the Group, recycling of water is employed on both of these sites and Main & licensed water used per tonne of production output m3 water used per production tonne 0.067 0.063 0.055 0.052 0.048 0.049 0.046 0.043 0.041 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 59 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress nsport Transport et – to meet the challenge of reducing sions whilst striving to maintain and improve customer service. halls operates its own fleet of Large Goods les (“LGV”) to service the majority of its deliveries stomers. As a consequence diesel fuel usage significant business impact on the Group’s GHG Target – to meet the challenge sions reporting. of reducing emissions whilst striving to maintain and improve upon customer service. roup is a voluntary member of the Freight port Association led Logistic Carbon Reduction me (“LCRS”) which has Marshalls a collective operates fleet of Largeto its owncommitment Goods Vehicles Marshalls undertakes one-on-one driver training for its LGV ce the carbon dioxide emissions by eight (“LGV”) to service the majority of per cent its deliveries to customers. fleet drivers, which has the added advantage of gaining a 15 (compared to 2010 levels). As a consequence Thisfuel diesel initiative usage hasalsoa significant broader understanding of the problems being faced by the onstrates our commitment business impact on tothe Group’s reporting recording, GHG emissions reporting. drivers, allowing management to address the issues. It is educing carbon emissions while sharing best planned to double the resource on this agenda in 2016. Theminded ice with like Group iscompanies. a voluntary member of the Freight Transport Association led Logistic Carbon Reduction Scheme (“LCRS”) The Group uses rail for stock movement to reduce carbon g the lastwhich three years has a collective has investedtoinreduce the carbon the Groupcommitment emissions and will continue to look at different modes of Electrical car charging points at Head Office dioxidefleet and increased of 173 by emissions mechanical eight per centoffload by 2015 (compared transport whenever practicable. This investment was partially to 2010 levels). justifiedalso This initiative the by demonstrates our fficiency that might beto commitment achieved recording, with the latest reporting The Group carbonuses rail The and reducing Groupmovement for stock to reduce includes energy efficient cars on its car choice fficient vehicles, emissions these whilebeing a mix sharing of Euro best V and practice with likecarbon mindedemissions and including hybrid to will continue andlook electric which together with personal at different VI compliant engines; initial results indicate an companies. modes of transport taxation whenever impacts has resulted in a average emission of practicable. ovement in fuel usage of nearly 13 per cent on like 116 carbon dioxide grams per kilometre from its car fleet, During the last three years the Group has The Group invested in a new includesaenergy reductionefficient carsin from 120 onthe itslast car 12 months. An in-house e vehicles. and increased fleet of 173 mechanical offload LGVs. This choice including hybrid and electric which together automated report is available to all company car drivers to halls undertakes investmentone-on-one driver was partially training justified byfor with personal the fuel efficiency that taxation impacts review has resulted their achieved in an (miles per gallon). efficiency mightwhich V fleet drivers, has thewith be achieved added theadvantage vehicles,emission of 116 carbon dioxide grams per latest fuel efficientaverage ining a broader understanding these being of the a mix of Euro problems V and kilometre Euro VI compliant engines;from its car fleet, a reduction from 120 in g faced byinitial the drivers, results allowing indicate an management improvement toin fuel the usagelastof12 months. An in-house automated report ess the issues. nearlyIt 13 is planned per cent toondouble the vehicles. like for like resource is available to all company car drivers to review their is agenda in 2016. achieved efficiency (miles per gallon). eet of LGVs 10 60 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Environment: Targets ACHIEVEMENTS 2017 TARGETS 2018 95 per cent of Group production to 95 per cent of Group production to be manufactured at sites operating be manufactured at sites operating an integrated management system an integrated management system in accordance with Publicly Available in accordance with Publicly Available Specification 99: 2006 (“PAS 99”) to be Specification 99: 2006 (“PAS 99”) to be maintained to 2020. maintained to 2020. Reduce our absolute CO2e Reduce our absolute CO2e consumption in line with UK consumption in line with UK Government targets (34 per cent by Government targets (34 per cent by 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 from a 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). 1990 baseline). Reduce use of water from mains and Reduce use of water from mains and licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of production by 2015. tonne of production by 2015. Implement biodiversity plans at Implement biodiversity plans at selected sites. selected sites. Reduce by 3% the total waste-toReduce by 3% the total waste-tolandfill per production output per landfill per production output per annum on 3 year rolling average. annum on 3 year rolling average. Reduce by 2% per tonne of Reduce by 2% per tonne of production output per annum over a production output per annum over a 3 year cycle to a level where pack and 3 year cycle to a level where pack and product safety is not compromised. product safety is not compromised. Meet the challenge of reducing Meet the challenge of reducing emissions whilst striving to maintain emissions whilst striving to maintain and improve upon customer service. and improve upon customer service. 61 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 74% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force on 1st July 2011. It amends Throughout 2011 there was great and reforms UK criminal law and provides a modern legal framework focus by the UNGC UK Network to combat bribery in the UK and internationally. on Anti-Corruption with a number of events and speakers attending education events open to UK Network members. Marshalls took The Bribery Act creates the following advantage of these opportunities with a range of individuals from offences: within the organisation attending and reporting back. 1# 2# The UNGC tenth principle commits signatories not only to ACTIVE BRIBERY: ACTIVE BRIBERY: actively avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption but promising or giving a Passive bribery: agreeing to develop policies and concrete programmes to address corruption financial or other advantage. to receive or accepting a and related risks. financial or other advantage. Marshalls understands that bribery is not a victimless crime and that it discourages developmentally effective trade and siphons off 3# 4# funds away from projects designed to help the most disadvantaged. ACTIVE BRIBERY: ACTIVE BRIBERY: It tarnishes reputations, drains corporate motivation and distorts competition. Bribery of foreign public The failure of commercial officials. organisations to prevent Marshalls’ procurement bribery by an associated policy can be viewed at: person (corporate offence). www.marshalls.co.uk/ sustainability Read the full policy here: https://www.marshalls.co.uk/documents/policies/antibriberycode.pdf 62 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption: Targets ACHIEVEMENTS 2017 TARGETS 2018 Communicate Marshalls sustainability Communicate Marshalls sustainability strategy which has anti-corruption strategy which has anti-corruption measures woven throughout. measures woven throughout. Publish and communicate our Publish and communicate our Supplier Code of Conduct giving Supplier Code of Conduct giving clear anti-corruption and anti-bribery clear anti-corruption and anti-bribery information using the new IT-based information using the new IT-based platform. platform. Ensure that this guidance is made Ensure that this guidance is made publicly available for all stakeholders. publicly available for all stakeholders. Continue to undertake a series of Continue to undertake a series of face-to-face briefing and workshops face-to-face briefing and workshops with key suppliers. with key suppliers. Continue to communicate Marshalls Continue to communicate Marshalls Anti-Bribery policy internally. Anti-Bribery policy internally. Continue to communicate Marshalls Continue to communicate Marshalls Anti-Bribery policy internally. Anti-Bribery policy internally. Continue to review and develop antiContinue to review and develop antibribery processes and procedures. bribery processes and procedures. 63 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Business in the Community Business in the Community is the Prince of Wales’ Responsible Business Network. Marshalls remains a members and works in support of tackling a wide range of issues that are essential to building a fairer society and a more sustainable future. Proud to be Fair Tax Accredited and Pay Our Fair Share of Tax The Fair Tax Mark is the label for good taxpayers. Wherever you see the Fair also crucial to a healthy, functioning democracy. ‘Fair’ is a subjective term Tax Mark you can be sure that a company is open and transparent about its that is open to a wide range of interpretations. In our opinion when it tax affairs and seeks to pay the right amount of corporation tax at the right comes to corporation tax ‘fair tax’ means that a business seeks to pay the time in the right place. It sets a new standards in responsible tax practice. right amount of tax, but no more, in the right place at the right time and Marshalls’ CEO, Martyn Coffey, said, “In recent years, we’ve seen can be held to account on its tax behaviour by the public based on the multinational corporations that have chosen to use tax havens and information it publishes.” artificial structures to avoid paying millions in tax. The results of this are Coffey, concluded by saying, “Marshalls has been a United Nations Global inflated profits, the destruction of a level playing field which erodes fair Compact signatory since 2009 and as such has made public commitments competition as well as a depleted public purse. But not all businesses regarding human rights, labour environment and anti-corruption. The seek to avoid paying the tax that they owe, and as a responsible business organisation is clear that adhering to the Fair Tax Mark criteria is all partMarshalls is proud to make it known that it pays its fair share of tax.” and-parcel of being a sustainable and responsible business.” According to an estimation of the UK’s tax gap, around £12 billion is lost to the public purse each year via corporate tax avoidance. This is more than the entire Home Office budget and half of the UK’s housing and environment budget. (1) Chris Harrop, Marshalls Group Marketing Director, responsible for sustainability, added, “Recent research has shown that 1 in 4 consumers want to boycott tax dodgers. It’s time to make clear which businesses people can trust and to help them spend their money where it counts.” Fair Tax Mark commented, “We welcome Marshalls engagement and eagerness to speak out about this issue. A fair and transparent tax system is at the heart of any society. A fair tax system is essential to a vibrant mixed economy that works for the benefit of all who live in a country. It is 64 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Long Service Award Marshalls has once again celebrated the commitment and hard work of employees who have been with the company for 25 years, at a presentation which took place yesterday at Oulton Hall, Leeds. The 15 employees have accumulated 375 years of service between them, and were presented with either a watch, gift vouchers or donation to a charity of their choice, as well as a certificate by Chief Executive Martyn Coffey. The employees work at various Marshalls sites across the country, and are part of Marshalls’ long and rich history. The company was founded in the late 1800s by Solomon Marshall who registered S. Marshalls & Sons Ltd in 1904 having seen that a living could be made from the quarrying business after working as a foreman at Pond Quarry, Brighouse. Today Marshalls maintains a strong presence in West Yorkshire, including its head office in Elland, as well as having a number of sites across England, Scotland, and Wales. Marshalls Chief Executive, Martyn Coffey said: “The Long Service Awards is a fantastic event which celebrates the commitment of Marshalls employees, and gives me the opportunity to personally thank those who have contributed so much to Marshalls’ success over the last 25 years. “It’s important to celebrate our colleague’s loyalty, dedication and hard work as we believe our people are truly our biggest asset. A huge thank you to everyone who attended today’s event.” 65 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Employees Equality and diversity The ability to recruit, retain and develop the right people is fundamental to the future success of the business. The Company believes that attracting a suitably diverse range of individuals with the appropriate skills and experience will help us to achieve its goals. As such, the Group has policies that promote equality and diversity and is committed to providing equal opportunities to employees and potential employees irrespective of gender, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, disability or religious beliefs. The Company opposes all forms of discrimination and reinforces this through communication, awareness training and policy. Employees The Company continues to be a “Living Wage Employer”, underscoring its commitment to fairness and integrity towards our employees. Our recruitment policies are geared towards giving full and fair consideration towards creating a more diverse workforce and it is clear that there is much to be done in making the Company more attractive to both younger people and females in what has been historically a highly male dominated sector and workplace. The Company will be considering pro-active ways to encourage the attraction and promotion of these groups as part of our wider diversity and inclusion policy. We also welcome and give full and fair consideration to applications from persons with recognised disabilities, providing equal opportunities for promotion and development and making adjustments to ensure that such individuals are not disadvantaged in the workplace. Employee engagement and development Improving employee engagement throughout the Group continues to be an important priority in order for the business to deliver on its strategy and objectives as well as providing a fulfilling and rewarding place of work for our people. Initiatives to improve this included various charitable events across the Group raising in total over £100,000 for our nominated charity, MIND. The business also used the “Best Companies“ framework to conduct another employee survey across all of the Group during 2017, achieving a response rate of 70 per cent. This will have been the fifth survey of this type as we continue to strive to improve our working environments and capture the valuable feedback from our employees and devise improvement plans as a result. The Company operates Sharesave and share purchase plans to encourage employee participation in the Company’s success. The engagement programme is supported by an annual Group-wide communication “roadshow“ programme of senior management visits travelling around the business with the objective of meeting as many of our employees as possible face to face. This provides the Directors and senior management team with an unparalleled opportunity to explain to our employees how the business is performing, how our strategy is working, and what the priorities and objectives are, as well as providing information of concern to employees generally, taking soundings on employee views and answering questions in an open forum. As a business, we are committed to investing in our employees. The ongoing training and development of our employees to develop our future managers and leaders is of major importance to the business. There is a range of online learning programmes accessible to all employees, and, in addition, to the management training programme for our first line managers, in which over 100 employees have now participated, we have added an additional 3 management development programmes. These programmes are geared towards emerging and middle management and facilitated through the University of Salford, Ashridge Business School and Cranfield School of Management. 66 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Health & Safety The Group is committed to safeguarding the health and safety of every employee and all stakeholders who may be affected by our undertakings. Maintaining the highest standards of health and safety remains a cornerstone of the Group’s culture and we are committed to the continual improvement in health and safety performance. During 2017, there was a 35 per cent reduction in days lost from workplace incidents, which is comfortably ahead of the Group’s headline target. The Group has continued to invest in health and safety awareness training for all managers and supervisory staff and we promote a culture in which all managers visibly demonstrate health and safety leadership. Marshalls is committed to meeting the highest safety standards for all its employees, reinforcing and developing its safety processes, and developing a competent workforce with a view to achieving long-term improvement gains. This remains a key priority for the business. The achievement of annual health and safety improvement targets is directly linked to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management, as explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 63. The headline target for 2017 was to maintain days lost resulting from workplace incidents at a figure no higher than the 2015 actual result. The actual results achieved were: • 46 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from all accidents frequency rate; • 11 per cent reduction in all incident frequency rate; • 20 per cent reduction in lost time incidents (“LTI’s”) frequency rate; and • 12 per cent reduction in incidents reportable to the HSE under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations (“RIDDOR”). The primary target for 2018 will be to achieve an accident rate for the year no higher than the 2015 actual result. The table below shows the KPIs used by the Group to monitor performance, and progress against those KPIs over the last 5 years. 67 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Third Party Recognition & Awards Marshalls First in World to Achieve BRE Ethical Labour Standard 6002 BRE Global (the certification arm of BRE) has today announced at Eco-Build 2017 that Marshalls plc is the first organisation to achieve verification against its newly launched Ethical Labour Sourcing Standard (BES 6002). Chris Harrop, Marshalls Marketing Director, responsible for The ELS standard was developed throughout 2016 with a wide sustainability, says “We are absolutely delighted not only to achieve stakeholder group including clients, manufacturers, NGOs and BRE Global’s Ethical Labour Sourcing (ELS) Standard, but to be the first contractors. The 150 strong stakeholder group helped to shape and to do so. This independent, third-party verification distinguishes our scope the ELS standard to ensure that it would be relevant and drive products and services from those of our ‘competitors’, some of whom positive change within industry. The verification approach will allow make spurious and unsubstantiated claims about the ethics of their organisations to develop their ethical labour sourcing practices in a global supply chains. Our valued customers, suppliers, shareholders, manner which is risk based and relevant to them. The ELS will support employees and partners can continue to be rightly confident about those who wish to demonstrate continual improvement. our ongoing commitment to ethical labour standards and our day-toMarshalls Business & Human Rights Lead, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, added, day actions on the ground in pursuit of this.” “This independent verification regarding ethical labour standards is an Dr Shamir Ghumra, BRE’s Director of Sustainable Products, presented extremely important aspect in terms of delivering against our Modern the ELS verification certificate to Chris Harrop, saying, “I’m delighted Slavery Statement commitments. It’s also a clear demonstration of how to announce that Marshalls is the first organisation to achieve the embedded within our organisation the issues of ethical labour, ethical new BRE Global Ethical Labour Sourcing verification Standard. The supply chain and modern slavery are; it’s part of our day-to-day work requirements of the Modern Slavery Act, underscored by the findings across our business whatever our job title or function. Organisational of the 2016 Global Slavery Index (1) which estimates that 45.8 million commitment to ethical sourcing is crystal clear and knowledge levels people are in some form of slavery in 167 countries, puts the onus of modern slavery are high and growing still further. Early signs that on businesses to demonstrate exactly how they are taking positive businesses can have a positive impact are very encouraging and I look action to eliminate modern slavery within their operations and global forward to reporting on the progress that Marshalls has made in our supply chains; none more so than within the construction sector. ELS second Modern Slavery Statement in a few months’ time. Marshalls will verification provides organisations with a framework to verify their demonstrate how by fully engaging with an emerging business threat systems and processes in relation to the Modern Slavery Act and we can demonstrate best-practice as we drive towards transparent continuously improve their ethical labour sourcing practices. It is a reporting. Increasingly it will be those organisations who continue to credit to Marshalls that the organisation is leading the field in terms of maintain that they remain untouched by the issues of modern slavery ethical labour standards.” and who can offer no third party independent verification who will come under intense pressure to explain how this can possibly be the case in the light of this global issue. ” 68 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Marshalls Shortlisted for 2017 Thomas Reuters Foundation Stop Slavery Award Marshalls plc is delighted to announce it has been shortlisted for the 2017 Stop Slavery Award, to be conferred at the Thomson Reuters Foundation’s annual Trust Conference, held this year on 15 November in London. Monique Villa, Thomas Reuters Foundation CEO, said, “This year, Group Marketing Director, Responsible for Sustainability, Chris Harrop we received many submissions from high-profile organizations concluded, “As a leader in our sector it is our job to be as informed representing 10 industries, ranging from retail to construction, all of as we can be. We are working hard to raise awareness within the whom are taking remarkable steps to limit the risk of slavery in their construction sector and to ensure that we fully understand areas operations and supply chains.” of risk in our own supply chains. Our desire is to make our business Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO, commented, “We are working hard and operations and supply chains as unattractive to criminals as possible, to smart to make sure that Marshalls’ business operations and supply support the anti-slavery commissioner and work in collaboration with chains worldwide are as toxic as possible to the organised criminals law enforcement agencies locally, nationally and internationally. We who seek to exploit vulnerable individuals and corporations. To be are working creatively with our anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice, shortlisted for the 2017 Stop Slavery Awards is extremely gratifying and and using everything that we have at our disposal to put victims at the motivating.” centre of our response. In short, we are committed to doing whatever we can with whatever we have. Marshalls is delighted to be shortlisted Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Business & Human Rights Lead at Marshalls, and to have the good strides that we have made acknowledged.” added, “The process of entering the Awards was rigorous, as you would expect, but also extremely thought provoking and has fed into our programme of work moving forward. To be shortlisted for such a prestigious award is extremely encouraging. It honours the victim-centred approach that we have taken and also the enthusiasm throughout the business to understand and eradicate modern slavery and human trafficking. It is this whole-hearted engagement from my colleagues which fires my belief that Marshalls has an important contribution to make in leading the sector and together with other like-minded organisation and individuals, finding ways to herd the criminals behind this exploitation into plain sight.” RIBA Award for Marshalls Project Group Marketing Director, Responsible for Sustainability, Chris Harrop concluded, “As a leader in our sector it is our job to be as informed as we can be. We are working hard to raise awareness within the construction sector and to ensure that we fully understand areas of risk in our own supply chains. Our desire is to make our business operations and supply chains as unattractive to criminals as possible, to support the anti-slavery commissioner and work in collaboration with law enforcement agencies locally, nationally and internationally. We are working creatively with our anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice, and using everything that we have at our disposal to put victims at the centre of our response. In short, we are committed to doing whatever we can with whatever we have. Marshalls is delighted to be shortlisted and to have the good strides that we have made acknowledged.” 69 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Auditing Ongoing Stakeholder Consultation In the past, Marshalls has worked with generally Marshalls would like to thank all of its stakeholders recognised auditors for its work in India. Whilst working who had input into this ninth UNGC Communication in India however, Marshalls found it really needed to on Progress, namely Marshalls’ employees, customers, work with auditors with specialist knowledge of trade suppliers, partners and NGOs. unions and ILO (International Labour Organisation) standards. The auditing process for Marshalls is not just about hitting the baseline and doing the minimum, it’s about going the extra mile and ensuring the process is as thorough and rigorous as possible. Marshalls’ 2017 COP Feedback Survey supply chain strategy follows the ETI Base Code, which As a valued stakeholder Marshalls would very much is based on the International Labour Organisation’s appreciate your feedback and comments on its 2016 Conventions. In embedding the Base Code in the supply Communication on Progress (COP.) You may be aware chain Marshalls has implemented processes to ensure that Marshalls became a signatory of the UNGC in compliance and improvement. January 2009. Our commitment to the UNGC requires that we submit an annual COP to the UN office in New Marshalls employs full time social auditors in both India York. This and all other COPs can be found in at and China. Working on the ground alongside quarry & factory owners, managers, workers, unions and nonwww.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/publications governmental organisations, the auditor ensures all areas of the ETI Base Code are upheld. Our 2009 COP received a ‘notable’ status from the UNGC, an acknowledgement made to only a small percentage Marshalls works with Just Solutions in order to gain a of signatories. We will make this 2017 COP’s available for consistent approach to auditing its supplier network and UNGC UK Network peer review again this year. We are ensure supply chains remain ethical and best practice particularly keen to gain frank feedback from a range is shared where possible. Led by expert supply chain of our stakeholders as we further engage in a drive for auditing specialist Stirling Smith, an SAI listed consultant corporate sustainability leadership throughout 2016 and who works to develop and extend the SA8000 standard beyond. and the ETI Base Code. The company relies upon the hard core of convinced companies to engage stakeholders and professionals together in an agreed If you wish to take part in our COP feedback programme. survey please email: elaine.mitchel-hill@marshalls.co.uk Audits are carried out at least annually, by a two-person team over two days. A qualified Marshalls assessor goes to India and China five to six times a year to audit informally. If non-compliance is found, an action plan is agreed to ensure rectification takes place and this is followed up by an external audit. Accreditation Marshalls only works with reputable and reliable suppliers in terms of accreditation. 70 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress For more information on Marshalls, visit www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Landscape House, Premier Way, Lowfields Business Park, DMD_38230 Elland HX5 9HT Tel: 01422 312000 www.marshalls.co.uk ©COPYRIGHT MARSHALLS APRIL 2017
