UN Global Compact United Nations – Two UN Plaza New York, NY 10017 – USA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 Period Covered 01.07.2017 – 30.06.2018 Massagno, 01.07.2018 To our stakeholders, Intertrade International Services is glad to confirm its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this yearly report, the progress achieved, and the future ones will be enlightened. Intertrade is also pleased to announce a solid growth in monitoring its results and the relative initiatives, which are a strong ambition toward a constantly more responsible business. I personally commit to the principles aforementioned, and I strive to continue to include them in the business strategy, on a day to day basis and to transform them into fertile soil for our company to thrive. Moreover, our adhesion to the Ten Principles sustains our work in the perspective of a broader and florid collaboration with the United Nations, our main client. Furthermore, we guarantee to share this information with our stakeholders within our primary channels of communication, and by including this COP also on our website. Sincerely yours, Gianfranco Esposito Managing Director Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; Intertrade International Services is loyal to the UN Global Compact’s principles on human rights as expressed in the Code of Ethics. Understanding the responsibility that originates from working with people, Intertrade provides for its employees and all the human capital involved in the business, including partners and suppliers, more than the minimum requirements by the laws of Switzerland. Intertrade secures that every collaborator is given same opportunities, be them the applicant who wants to start a career in this company, the employee who would like to fulfil their personal interests, or the supplier who wants to begin to cooperate. Most importantly, it assures that no abuse or discriminatory behaviour is conducted. A Private Medical Insurance guarantees that in case of illness all the workers are retributed at 80% of their salary. The office facilities are kept clean by a contract with a cleaning company, which maintains the environment hygienic, safe and suitable for work, and all personnel benefits from the availability of a fully equipped room, furnished with all the comfortable appliances for eating and taking breaks during the work hours. Integrity, clearness, honesty, together with respect for the human rights and interests of its employees represent the landmarks of Intertrade. The rights of each individual in their workplace are always upheld and every form of discrimination and abuse banned. To follow this principle wages are equal and fair among the staff. Respect for every human being is assured and the business partners are asked to follow the same vision to collaborate. To ensure that every stakeholder follows the same guidelines, Intertrade organizes training programs and information seminars. Every employee has the freedom to speak and to express their opinions, as long as it is carried out in a respectful condition. The disciplinary measures are in line with the national laws, in fact, employees’ misbehaviour is sanctioned as per office regulations in order to avoid any workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological abuse or threats. The values Intertrade promotes for the human rights cause are: • Honesty • Integrity • Respect • Equality • Teamwork The results of the implemented actions are measurable through various controls: Individual annual meetings with each employee, in order to verify their satisfaction, to understand specific needs, to examine possible events of misconduct, and eventually to discuss business goals. Team meetings to review the business strategy and the long-term goals both in terms of business and in terms of social responsibility. Supplier meetings are also conducted by interviews to improve our daily business and make sure that other companies are also behaving responsibly. Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collect bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; Intertrade offers equal employment and salary opportunities regardless of race, religion, skin colour, nationality, origin, sex and sexual orientation, civil status or age. Individuals needs are important, therefore each employee is encouraged to speak their opinions with the purpose of improving their satisfaction. Working after business hours is hardly ever asked, since the company is aware of the importance of everyone’s personal life outside the workplace: balancing work and family life of each employee is also a significant point. The respect of labour rights and the promotion of a safe working practice, as well as a peaceful environment are central in the business daily operations: every single employee is encouraged to speak up in case they witness any abuse or labour violation through a secure method to report these sorts of incidents. Moreover, all employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. To measure and control that the laws are followed, Intertrade conducts both internal (in the company) and external (to sub-suppliers) audits and reports harassments or discrimination or forced labour to the authorities. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies; Intertrade loves and cherishes and respects the environment. The measures adopted toward an always more ecological way of working include: • Reduction of consumption of electricity (i.e. the lamps provided are low energy consumption and they turn on only in low natural light situations. Moreover, their light can be dimmed to save power.) • Increase the use of new environmental-friendly technologies • Reduction in the quantity of paper used • Increase the use of recycled products The company conducts regular maintenance of the machineries, in order to maintain efficiencies and all its partners are ISO14001 qualified. 99% of the PET and 100% of the aluminium coffee capsules used in the company are recycled. RECYCLED PET 2018 ALUMINUM RECYCLED Recycled Aluminum Coffee Capsules Recycled PET Not Recycled PET Not Recycled Aluminum Coffee Capsules Intertrade has kept its partnership with the Red Cross, which collects all the used toners for recycling. All chemicals used by the cleaning company are environmental friendly. The company also monitors the purchase of papers, which is mostly recycled. Paper Purchase July-2015/June-2018 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Se No M Ju Ja l-1 pvnar 15 15 165 M Se Noay Ju -1 -1 l-1 pv6 16 166 6 M MJa Se ar ay Jun17 -1 -1 l-177 7 No M MJa aypvnar 17 17 18 -1 8 -18 The slight increase of paper purchase is due to a growth of the commercial department staff, which is anyway motivated to save and reuse paper as much as they can (i.e. by printing on both sides of the sheet). The aim is to reduce the resource consumption by promoting staff awareness of the benefits of energy saving. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery; Intertrade and all its members have a zero-tolerance policy on corruption in all its forms, including but not limited to extortion, bribery, trading in influence and abuse of functions. The company carries out its business following national and international laws against corruption and sticking to the main principles stated within the provisions of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Intertrade makes sure that neither its employees nor the clients or the suppliers are involved in corruption practices. The conducts that may lead to possible corruption accusations and spoil the company or personal integrity, are clearly expressed in the ethic code. In each purchase order, whether it is received or made, the anti-corruption policy declaration is stated as a code of conduct to be followed. Any gift received by the employees is reported to the management for further action. Measurement of Outcome The company keeps a yearly report to measure the outcomes regarding the UN Global Compact principles, and a monthly report to register sick leaves, and absenteeism as per local legislation. Recycled material is recorded for internal purposes and useful for statistics provided to all the employees during staff meetings. Should a violation be reported, the company undertakes an investigation. Intertrade outstanding efforts in the direction of the UN Global Compact visions is real and tangible: employees, as well as every other collaborator, are enpowered to strive for the goal of a constant improvement of the present situation, in order to guarantee a better future for the upcoming generations.
