Towards the Realization of a Resource-Recycling Society CSR REPORT 2017 * This report uses forest-certiﬁed paper and eco-friendly soy ink. Contents 1 DOWA’ s CSR Highly eﬃcient recovery of multi-elements Supply of conﬂict mineral-free gold and tin 3 Special Feature: The Advancement of DOWA 9 Top Message Proper treatment and prevention of pollution 11 About the DOWA Group Reduction of waste volume Metal Heat recovery and power generation Resource Recycling at products 15 CSR Policy and Plan 17 CSR Initiatives by Sector the DOWA Group Governance Society 23 Safety 27 Environment 35 Society Manufacturing 45 Editorial Policy and Target Organizations of the Report Market research and analysis Stable recovery 46 Opinion of a Third Party Research and new technology development Raw material analysis and evaluation Landﬁll Rare metals plant Environmental conservation measures Incineration plant Recycling smelter Zinc smelter Sales Stable supply of base metals Sales and Improvement logistics of recovery Securing the stability Laboratory of rare metals Utilization Analytical External partners center Precious metal Joint research and recycling plant technical cooperation Environment consulting Supply chain management Recycled material manufacturing plant Home appliance recycling factory Reuse usage Shredder dust DOWA’s CSR processing plant Automobile Recycling rate recycling plant Recycled improvement Recycled item raw expansion materials Reduction of waste Corporate Philosophy Energy Water Ore Through its business operations on the world stage, Natural Minimizing the environmental Dowa seeks to contribute to the creation of resources burden of resource development Saving energy, circulating water prosperous communities and the emergence of a and minimizing input resource recycling society. DOWA’s Business and SDGs Based on this corporate philosophy, we work on solving various social In 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted at the Sustainable Development Summit issues through our business activities, together with seriously meeting the The responsibility of making. The responsibility of using. held by the United Nations. These SDGs state 17 goals and 169 targets that should be resolved on a global scale by 2030. In order to achieve these SDGs by 2030, every sector, including companies, around the world expectation of all our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, is required to make action. For DOWA, which uses metal resources, goal number 12 of the SDGs, “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns”, is the ﬁeld that is closest to us, and we are working on investors, business partners, local people and employees. the “eﬃcient use of natural resources” as an important social issue. 1 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 2 Strengthening & Expanding Business (2015) Expanded treatment capacity to around 50,000 tons per year for low-concentration PCB waste. Obtained new certiﬁcation in Akita Prefecture and enhanced capacity in Okayama Prefecture. Overseas Advancement Overseas Advancement (2016) First controlled landﬁll completed in Myanmar and operation started. New plant constructed in Guanajuato, Special Feature Mine Development (2014) Technological Development (2014) Mexico and began precious metal Participated in the Los Gatos Mine Achieved world-class features such as longer life plating. Development Project in Mexico. for deep UV-LEDs. Technological Development (2013) Received the “Inoue Harushige Prize” for Overseas Business Expansion (2012) Mine Development (2012) The Advancement of DOWA Precious metals recycling business expanded in Asia and a Participated in the Palmer Zinc and Copper “Development of large diameter gallium nitride material for electronic devices”. precious metals factory began full operation in Singapore. Project in Alaska. Technological Development New Business (2011) Developed original manufacturing technology Received permission for a trace PCB waste treatment that reduced the lead in zinc ingots to less business in Okayama Prefecture. than 1/10 of what it was previously. The DOWA Group is now The ﬁrst continuous heating furnace treatment in Japan for the casings of such things as transformers. Overseas Advancement (2010) Technological Development (2010) deploying in ﬁve business Established a sampling company in the Czech Republic for the recovery of Developed a power module circuit board integrated cooler at the highest Overseas Advancement (2009) ﬁelds, which originates from Acquired MAEH and expanded in Asia. platinum, and expanded collection of raw material cargo. world-class standards. Strengthening & Expanding Business (2016) Heat treatment factory newly established in the New Business Technological Development (2009) the mining and smelting of Hamamatsu-kita plant, and the contract Acquired Meltec, a waste melting Mine Development Succeeded in commercializing deep processing service strengthened. recycling company. Acquired an interest in a copper mine UV-LED chips with the world’s highest metals, such as copper, zinc, Strengthening & Expanding Business operating in Canada. output and began mass production. Overseas Advancement (2015) The new Eco-System Chiba Technological Development (2008) Heat treatment business established in Mexico. gold and silver. incinerator completed, the largest industrial waste New Business (2009) Entered into the business of zinc Developed deep UV-LED chips with the world’s highest output. Overseas Business Expansion Began the manufacturing and sales of aluminum intermediate treatment recycling of steel dust. melting furnaces for automobiles in India. facility in Japan. New Business (2008) New Business (2006) Overseas Expansion (2006) History A biodiesel business started in Okayama Completed a new nitride semiconDOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) Prefecture to recycle waste edible oil. ductor factory in Akita for next established in Chachoengsao, 1884 ‒ the start of DOWA generation devices. Thailand. Strengthening & Expanding Business (2013) Strengthening & Expanding Business (2007) Began full-scale production of Entered the DLC coating business using plasma, Meiji Era A precious metals recovery plant completed in high-quality aluminum nitride and strengthened and expanded the heat Akita prefecture, and a precision cleaning business layer and nitride-based treatment processing business. for semiconductor manufacturing equipments started. HEMT Epiwafers. As trees start their life from a small sapling, the Simultaneously, an automobile recycling plant was completed, thus the environmental recycling business is DOWA Group began as a mine in Akita in 1884. The strengthened. company grew its trunk as a nonferrous metal business based on the technology and experience we Overseas Expansion (2011) DOWA Entered the heat treatment business in India have cultivated through mining and smelting. Various In 2006, DOWA switched to a holding DOWA METALS & a ﬁrst for a Japanese company, and acquired the branches were spread out as we expanded our company system and the company ECO-SYSTEM MINING DOWA management rights of top Indian manufacturer. name is changed to DOWA Holdings. ELECTRONICS business ﬁelds to the manufacturing of high DOWA Overseas Expansion (2010) value-added products from metal production, and METALTECH Established the joint venture Kunshan Dowa Thermo Furnace Co., Ltd. in China. waste treatment and recycling. As time went by, as the trends and needs change, we have sprouted new DOWA Strengthening & Expanding Business (2006) leaves, such as the new businesses for deep ultraviolet Overseas Expansion THERMOTECH Acquired SEM, and expanded plasma nitriding treatment, gas (2002) nitriding treatment and the treatment menu. LEDs and polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) treatment, Established a as well as expansion in overseas development. processing base for ：Overseas Advancement DOWA currently has ﬁve main branches, namely, 2000s copper alloy in China. “Environmental management & recycling”,“Smelting”, “Electronic materials”,“Metal processing”and“Heat treatment”. So that each of these segments can grow signiﬁcantly by providing valuable products and services, such corporate social responsibility (CSR) Expanded the environmental business by utilizing technologies 1970sactivities as governance, environmental consideration and infrastructure that have been developed, such as 1980s Expanded into the “Electronics Segment” to develop semiconductors and devices using rare metals and human resource development are indispensable, making ore mills into soil cleanup facilities, making strip mining and it could be said that they are the roots of the tree. sites into landﬁll sites and utilizing smelting technology for metal 1950sproduced in the smelting business, into the “Metal processing Segment” aimed at the downstream While it might be diﬃcult to see the growth of the recycling. 1960s development of copper alloys and processed goods utilizing copper ingots, and into the “Heat treatment Segment” that specializes in metal surface treatment for the automotive ﬁeld. roots in the soil, not only are we growing upward, but the roots continue to stretch ﬁrmly under the ground In 1945, the company name was changed to Dowa Mining from Fujita Gumi. Following in order to support the branches and leaves. In 1900s the Kosaka mine, the company acquired the Hanaoka Mine (Odate, Akita Prefecture) and addition, like a healthy tree that can withstand severe the Yanahara mine (Kume District, Okayama Prefecture). It grew into a leading mining Acquired Kosaka mine (Kazuno District, Akita storms and drought, we would like our whole group to company in Japan with these three mines as the mainstay. It developed original “pyritic Prefecture) from the Meiji Government. smelting method” smelting technology, and succeeded at extracting and smelting gold, keep growing as a single big tree. 1880s silver and copper from black ore. 3 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 4 Raw Materials Special Feature Creation and The Advancement of DOWA Challenges Zinc concentrate Zinc recycled material (Steel dust) Scrap Used circuit boards, etc. Used exhaust gas catalyst Inheritance Akita Zinc Co., Ltd. Unique technology Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning Co., Ltd. Unique technology Nippon PGM Co., Ltd. Unique technology of the original Hematite method Zinc reﬁning Multi-element Platinum group ROSE process residue recovery technology A resource recycling metals-containing We realized the world’s standpoint Utilizing such things as a system that is capable TSL furnace to enhance residue largest class processing of recovering iron, gold, the ability to handle capacity with the unique ﬁre silver and rare metals recycled materials, it has reﬁning “ROSE process” that with a high yield using realized a high rate of recovery for various kinds can recycle platinum group zinc residue as the raw Zinc containing of valuable metals, metals on a large scale in a material after leaching including gold, silver, zinc that has been residue copper and lead, and short period of time and with considered waste. such rare metals as high eﬃciency. bismuth and indium. Zinc, indium, germanium, cadmium, etc. Gold, silver, copper, lead, bismuth, tin, Platinum, palladium, rhodium, etc. antimony, nickel, selenium, tellurium, etc. Recovered Metals Black ore (complex sulﬁde ore) An important metal resource in Japan, it contains useful metals such as gold, silver, History copper, lead, zinc and other rare metals. 1890 ‒ 1902 ‒ 1907 ‒ Recorded the largest 1952 ‒ Established wet 1990 ‒ 2008 ‒ Full-scale operation of a new type of smelting facility Depletion of ore Developed the pyritic smelting method amount of production in Japan smelting technology Mining ended at the Kosaka mine (Uchinotai) that can handle recycled raw materials Meiji Era Taisho Era Showa Era Heisei Era DOWA and Black Ore From Mining to Recycling The Kosaka mine in Akita, the place where we started, produced ore called“earthy ore”which With the change from the Showa era to the Heisei era against a background of more and diversiﬁed contained a lot of silver. After 1890, the depletion of the ore began, and also the adaptation of the gold waste, and the depletion of resources for various reasons, society started to change to one that was standard made the price of silver plummet. As a result, the mine was in danger of being closed. As a recycling oriented in order to eﬀectively use resources as long as possible. consequence, we switched our mining and smelting target ore to the abundant“black-ore”, found in the Across the four eras from Meiji to Heisei, Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning advanced together with the deeper area than that of the“earthy ore”. development of Japanese industry, and it has greatly transformed itself to meet the changing needs, While black ore is rich in useful metals including gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc and rare metals, it is from ore-based smelting to a“recycling smelter”that again removes metals from used electrical and diﬃcult to separate them because the many impurities the ore contains. Even now, it is said that this electronic products. ore is diﬃcult to smelt. With the underdeveloped technical abilities at that time, only a small part of the Since the quality of the recycled raw material is not uniform, this transformation has not been easy, but ore could be used, and it was thought to be impossible to commercialize it. just like we faced the challenge of black ore smelting amid the danger of the mine closing, we have In 1902, amid calls for the Kosaka mine to be closed, DOWA’ s engineers succeeded in developing a overcome various problems with the power of technology, transforming one smelter into one of the few recycling smelters in the world that has unique and innovative smelting method that was called the“pyritic smelting method”. It is said that the the technology to recover many kinds of metals. success of the pyritic smelting method opened up a way after that for the continued development in From April 2008, with full-scale operation of a new type of smelting facility that can handle recycled raw materials, we have made it possible to Japan of the copper blast furnace smelting method. recover more than 20 kinds of elements, such as precious metals like gold or silver, and rare metals such as selenium, antimony and bismuth, by Due to the development of this technology, the scale of production was gradually expanded with such using raw materials like printed circuit boards from mobile phones and used home appliances, and residue from the DOWA Group’ s zinc smelting things as the construction of a large blast furnace by Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning, establishing it as one process. of the leading copper smelters in Japan. Furthermore, while expanding the smelting business to such In addition to the recovery of diverse metals, it can be said that a major feature of DOWA’ s recycling is things as gold and silver, this greatly contributed to the economic development of Japan, and in 1907 the stabilization of harmful substances. As we cultivated our mining business over many years, we we recorded the country’ s largest amount of production. After that, with further research of smelting established unique processing methods to handle the black ore with its many impurities. By striving to methods and improvements, in 1952 we established a wet smelting technology that included sulfatizing avoid both atmospheric and water pollution, and building technology to reduce the impact on the roasting, leaching and the electrolysis method to eﬃciently extract copper and zinc from black ore, with environment, in addition to recycling, we began new environmental business ﬁeld such as soil the aim of making full use of black ore. remediation and safe treatment/disposal of waste. With the changing times, in 1990 mining at the Kosaka mine (Uchinotai) came to an end, but the smelting technology that started with black ore Currently, the DOWA Group’ s recycling-related companies in Akita Prefecture form a cooperative has been inherited by the current metal recycling of DOWA. environmental complex. Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning in the Kosaka district is the core of this complex, with Eco-Recycle Co., Ltd. in the Hanaoka district of Odate doing household appliance recycling, and recycled raw materials accepted from Akita Zinc that is located in the city of Akita on the coast. At the same time, we are minimizing the impact on the environment by completing within the area detoxiﬁcation treatment and landﬁll. Just as we in the DOWA Group have created new value until now by responding to crisis and change, we would like to continue to respond to the various expectations and requests of society with the power of technology. 5 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 6 Special Feature The Advancement of DOWA DOWA’s technology adding the value of metals Functional material technology Metal processing technology Heat treatment technology From Resource to Metal powder, which is a functional material product of DOWA, is used for high density and large capacity magnetic recording media, At DOWA, we manufacture high-performance copper alloy for connectors and lead frames used in automobiles and electronic By applying heat treatment and surface treatment to metal parts placed in harsh operating environments, such as engines or the Raw Material and Material such as videotapes for broadcasting stations and data storage tapes. DOWA’s metal powder, which is utilized in magnetic material devices, and DOWA’s copper alloys are also used for information and communication equipment such as smartphones. For example, rotating parts of gearboxes so that automobiles and construction machinery can be used for a long time, this increases durability and As a mining and smelting company, for a long time the DOWA technology, has top global market share, and is playing a part in the copper alloys used for the small parts embedded into smartphones contributes to miniaturization and weight reduction. As a leading Group extracted metal resources from ore and provided as“raw advancement of the information society. are required to have bending workability and high strength so they company in the ﬁeld of heat treatment and surface treatment, material”, but gradually we came to process the raw material and The strength of DOWA’s technology in this ﬁeld began with the can be processed into complex shapes. We are developing and DOWA can provide 20 kinds of surface treatment processes, produce“metal material”such as metal strips and rods. We production of iron oxide from iron sulﬁde ore, produced at the manufacturing such things as copper-titanium alloys that have both including carburizing treatment to improve wear resistance of the further evolved to“functional material”by adding new functions company’s Yanahara mine (Okayama Prefecture). From the ferrite of these characteristics. metal surface, gas nitriding treatment to improve fatigue resistance such as electrical properties or magnetism by applying plating magnetic powder of these raw materials, we have accumulated Together with developing high-performance copper alloy through ( “Tough-nite Process” ), thermal diﬀusion (TD) treatment which and processing to metal materials. In addition, we have built various technologies as we advance production of ﬁner metal alloy design and microstructure control according to the application particularly improves wear resistance for metal molds, and the various technologies that adds value by extracting the potential powder. While metal powder is produced from iron hydroxide as it and purpose, the strength of DOWA’s technology in this ﬁeld is Corbett process that improves seize resistance. of metal, such as heat treatment processing that improves is made into iron oxide and then reduced, it is required that the enhancing the process technology such as melting and casting, high Together with providing customers heat treatment and surface hardness, toughness and corrosion resistance. crystals are small and that the individual sizes and shapes are precision rolling, heat treatment, cutting, pressing and metal plating, treatment equipment designed and manufactured by our company, uniform. DOWA’s magnetic material technology clears at a high and producing high functioning and high value-added metal the strength of DOWA’ s technology in this ﬁeld is that by using our level such stringent requirements as crystal control, high puriﬁcation, processed products. In addition to our connector material showing own heat treatment plants we can build treatment technology and thin ﬁlm and surface interface. In addition to metal powder, a high level of material properties such as strength, electrical and know-how in-house. We can provide comprehensive engineering of DOWA’s control technology is utilized to meet a wide range of thermal conductivity, heat resistance and reliability, we have earned both hardware and software from development phase to needs, such as ferrite powder for bonded magnets used for the a high degree of trust for process technology that enhances the maintenance phase. Our technology, in terms of hardware, is magnetic rolls and motors of printers and copying machines, carrier processing accuracy for users. adopted around the world, mainly atmosphere heat treatment powders which play the role of carrying toner inside of copying equipment, and in terms of software, our high-quality heat machines, and with electrical properties (resistance), magnetic treatment and surface treatment, based on our unique properties (magnetizing force) and physical properties (speciﬁc technological knowledge, mainly for carburizing and quenching, weight and particle size distribution). cultivated through development of various processes and equipment, is now provided worldwide. Main initiatives for the future Main initiatives for the future Main initiatives for the future In order to realize a low-carbon society, we are We are working to newly develop copper alloys We will continue to expand our business in expanding sample work of electrode materials and expand sales by enhancing such things regions overseas where the automobile for fuel cells that are expected to see further as conductivity and strength. industry is growing, and have launched new growth in demand. factories in Mexico and India. Heat treatment processed items Electrode materials for fuel cells Copper alloy strip 7 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 8 TOP MESSAGE 2017 Top Message Through our core businesses of providing environmentally oriented products, waste treatment and recycling, we at the DOWA Group will contribute to solving such global social issues as environmental and energy problems. DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. President and Representative Director Masao Yamada The Roots of CSR at DOWA We Will Continue to Address Social our main business this is the goal that we can contribute learned“how to change”through several mistakes after to the most. We are positioning goal number 12, which is moving into areas where the strengths of our company Issues Based on the New International closely related to other goals, as our company’ s entry could not be utilized. By actively changing ourselves and The year of our foundation is recognized as 1884, when Framework point to promote the SDGs. We will continue to focus on seizing opportunities without fearing change in the the Meiji government sold the Kosaka mine to us. At the demonstrating that the eﬀorts of each and every business environment, we believe that we have created a time, mining companies not only provided social capital employee will lead to the realization of a sustainable corporate culture that builds on our strengths without directly connected with their business activities, such as Looking back on the past year, there was big movement society. being tossed about by the changing times. establishing water supply facilities and power plants, and towards resolving common problems in the international In addition, while supporting the new international Last year there were trends that went against developing railroads and roads, but they were also community, with the Paris Agreement, which established framework of the Paris Agreement and the SDGs, we globalization, such as the problem of the U.K. responsible for community development needed by the the international framework for climate change, coming again declare that we will continue to support the UN withdrawing from the European Union, the political residents, including erecting housing, hospitals, into eﬀect, and the goals for achieving a sustainable Global Compact that we signed in 2009 with its 10 situation in Europe and uncertainty created by policies of entertainment facilities such as theaters and mountain world shifting from the Millennium Development Goals principles in the four ﬁelds of human rights, labor, the new U.S. administration. Putting in our mind these shrines that became a foundation for the region. (MDGs) to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It environment and anti-corruption. And, as a matter of events which show that the main stream ﬂow is On the other hand, if mining development and smelting can be said that the role played by companies for these course, we will comply with all laws and regulations, and accelerating at any time, and that we would be left businesses proceed randomly, it always causes issues is very large. will thoroughly ensure compliance while observing social behind as soon as we are in a slack attitude, we will environmental pollution of air and water, and the With regards to climate change measures, we will not ethics. never hesitate to change and we will be working steadily destruction of nature such as deforestation. While we at only limit our CO2 emissions, but we will also fulﬁll our to do each of our measures more swiftly than before. the DOWA Group have built technologies and responsibilities through providing materials and parts to Together with broadly notifying all of the stakeholders management know-how to reduce the impact on the enhance the eﬀects of energy savings, and developing outside of the company about the initiatives of the environment, and have worked on conservation, with destruction processing technology for Freon in Asia. In DOWA Group, this CSR Report aims to become an that alone we would not have been able to continue our 2016, we realized such things as the development of opportunity for each employee to review their own business activities for over 130 years rooted in the metal-ceramic circuit boards with enhanced conductivity Making the Changing Times Our Own activities and to create new value. In order to face community. In any era it is important to have discussions and strength properties that are used for copper alloys Opportunity various social issues, and to continue to make progress with the local people, work to disclose information and and automotive inverters, and the improvement of as a company that contributes to problem solving, we build trust. properties for electrode material used in fuel cells. In would like to hear your candid feedback. It goes without saying that mining contributes to the addition, with the aim of reducing carbon in the Asian The DOWA Group, which originates from the mining development of the region while at the same time region, we are conducting test treatment for the and smelting industry, sometimes has had to make hard working to solve the problems of the local community. destruction of Freon at our waste treatment subsidiary in decisions like closing a mine in response to various We believe that these kinds of things are the starting Thailand, and we are promoting commercialization of changes in the business environment, such as point for our CSR activities. the proper recovery and destruction of Freon. environmental, economic and societal issues. At the same While in recent years CSR has been actively booming, As for the SDGs, with our corporate philosophy of time we have changed our structure to the shape of the instead of being a boom or something new, for us it “building a resource recycling society”deeply connected current ﬁve core businesses that we have grown into. could be said that CSR is management itself both today to goal number 12 of the SDGs,“Ensure Sustainable While on the one hand we have grasped new business and in the past. consumption and production”, we believe that through opportunities as a part of that process, we have also 9 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 10 About the DOWA Group Status of Each Business Segment DOWA has developed ﬁve business segments originated from the mining and smelting of The DOWA Group has developed a global recycling business consisting of ﬁve core business segments. copper, zinc, gold and silver. In the“Smelting business”, in addition to natural resources, we extract useful metals from various recycled materials. The extracted metals go through various processes and are given enhanced functionality in the “Electronic materials business”, the “Metal FY 2016 Financial Highlights processing business”and the“Heat treatment business”, after which they are included in ﬁnal products such as automobiles and electronic devices. The“Environmental management and recycling business”detoxiﬁes waste and separates and recovers metals In the FY 2016 ﬁnancial results, consolidated sales rose 1% year on year to 410.5 billion yen, consolidated operating proﬁt fell 3% from used products. The recovered metal is used again as raw material for smelting. Through the development of such a business to 33.9 billion yen, ordinary proﬁt rose 4% to 36.5 billion yen and consolidated net proﬁt attributable to parent company cycle, in addition to providing high-quality products and services, we are working to resolve social issues such as environmental shareholders rose 20% to 26.1 billion yen. With regards to the business environment for the group, demand for automobile-related conservation and resource problems. Business-wise business overview and the business situation of 2016 are as follows. Sales composition ratio* Operating proﬁt composition ratio* products remained comparatively steady both in Japan and overseas, and demand for electronic components and new (2016) (2016) energy-related products grew mainly in East Asia. As for the market environment, metal prices rose for precious metals and zinc. (100 million yen) DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. Business Results 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Processing in an integrated system from collection and transportation of Waste treatment business general and industrial waste to intermediate treatment and landﬁll 969 66 Sales 4,193 4,439 4,642 4,065 4,105 Provide total support from survey of soil contamination to Operating proﬁt 245 317 390 350 339 Soil remediation business 100 million yen 100 million yen puriﬁcation work and monitoring 20.2% 19.8 % Recurring proﬁt 272 350 420 350 365 Collection of valuable metal from used products such as scrap generated Recycling business production processes in factories, electrical appliances and automobiles Net proﬁt attributable to parent company shareholders 152 233 265 218 261 DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. Each mentioned year represents the ﬁscal period from April 1 to March 31 of the next year. (Proﬁt) (Sales) Precious metals and World's leading recycling and smelting that can collect a 500 4,642 5,000 copper business variety of metals such as gold, silver, and copper 4,193 4,439 4,065 4,105 2,077 100 Rare metals business Recycle of platinum group metals such as platinum from 420 390 100 million yen 100 million yen 400 350 365 4,000 used automobile exhaust gas puriﬁcation catalysts 317 350 350 339 43.3 % 30.0% Akita smelting boasts to be the largest zinc smelter in Japan, having an annual output of 200,000 tons, and deploys 300 272 265 261 3,000 Zinc business 245 233 consistent business development from resource development to metal production and sales of processed items 218 200 2,000 152 DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. 100 1,000 Top manufacturer of high-purity gallium indium semiconductor materials, 0 0 Semiconductor business compound semiconductor wafers, and high luminance and high output LED (100 million yen) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (100 million yen) Electronic materials Manufactures silver powder used in new energy applications, copper powder used 625 100 million yen 65 100 million yen Operating proﬁt Ordinary proﬁt Net proﬁt attributable to parent company shareholders Sales business in electronic components, zinc powder and silver oxide used in batteries etc. 13.0 % 19.6% Functional materials Manufacturer boasting of world's dominant market share of ferrite powder used in business metal powder for archive data-tapes, carrier powder for copiers, printers etc. FY 2016 Status Growth of the global business DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. ● Expansion of the overseas collection network for recycled materials by acquiring a North American collection company. Metal processing Manufacturing copper, brass, and copper alloys used in terminals and connectors ● Continued overseas exploration: Los Gatos Project in Mexico Feasibility Study completed. business ● Expansion of high-strength products for smartphones in East Asia. for automobile and semiconductor, and brass bars and forgings Precious metal plating processing of components such as 754 69 Plating business 100 million yen 100 million yen ● Increase in orders for heat treatment processing in India, Thailand and China. connectors and switches of automobiles 15.7 % 20.8% ● Promotion of the construction plans for landﬁll facilities in Indonesia and Thailand. Manufacturer of metal-ceramic substrates used in power control equipment such as Circuit board business industrial machinery, railway, wind-power generation, and solar power Strengthening the base of the smelting complex ● Operation of the new platinum group metals recycling furnace DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. to increase capacity. Industrial furnace Provides total service from design and erection of furnaces to maintenance, ● Establishment of a new roasting furnace in Japan's largest zinc business leveraging the know-how of heat treatment processing smelter to expand production volume. Heat treatment Surface processing operation to increase the abrasion resistance, fatigue 251 100 million yen 23 100 million yen processing business resistance and heat resistance of a metal in vehicle engine and gearhead Development of the environmental business 5.2 % 7.1% ● Growth of the silver powder demand for renewable energy. ● Increased processing of low concentration PCB waste. *Component ratios exclude adjustments 11 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 12 Corporate proﬁle, oﬃces and group of companies Name ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・DOWA Holdings Co., Ltd. Date of incorporation ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・March 11, 1937 Head Oﬃce ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX, 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0021 JAPAN President and Representative Director ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・Masao Yamada Capital ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・36,437 million yen Number of Employees ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・Approximately 9,100 persons (Consolidated ﬁgure, by end of March 2017) Overseas Domestic ❶❷❸❹ ❺❻❼❽ ❾ ❾ ❶18 13 11 17 12 ❽ ❸❹ ❷ 19 ❺❻❼ DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. AKITA RECYCLE & FINEPACK CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. AKITA ZINC CO., LTD. Hamamatsu plant ❶ GREEN FILL KOSAKA CO., LTD. AKITA ZINC SOLUTIONS CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❷ ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD., AKITA RARE METALS CO., LTD. Hamamatsu-kita plant North Japan Plant AKITA ZINC RECYCLING CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❸ ECO-SYSTEMS KOSAKA CO., LTD. Acids Co., Ltd. Chukyo-Handa plant ❹ AUTO RECYCLE AKITA CO., LTD. ZINC EXCEL CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Co., Ltd. DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. ❺ Environmental Technology R & D Center Shiga plant ❶ DOWA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CO., LTD. (Suzhou, China) 18DOWA ADVANCED MATERIALS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. (China) ❻ ECO-SYSTEM AKITA CO., LTD. DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS OKAYAMA CO., LTD. CEMM CO., LTD. ❷ PT. PRASADHA PAMUNAH LIMBAH INDUSTRI (Indonesia) 19Dowa New Material (Shanghai) CO., LTD. (China) ❼ ECO-SYSTEM HANAOKA CO., LTD. TONETSU KOHSAN CO., LTD. ❸ TECHNOCHEM ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX PTE. LTD. (Singapore) 20DOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) ❽ ECO-RECYCLE CO., LTD. Semiconductor Materials Laboratory ❹ DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. (Singapore) Dowa Precision (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) ❾ DOWA TSUUN CO., LTD. DOWA SEMICONDUCTOR AKITA CO., LTD. 10MELTEC IWAKI CO., LTD. Electronics Materials Laboratory Headquarters and others ❺ WASTE MANAGEMENT SIAM LTD. (Thailand) Singapore branch ❻ BANGPOO ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX LTD. (Thailand) DOWALI PRECISION CO., LTD. (Taiwan) 11MELTEC Ltd. DOWA F-TEC CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNO RESEARCH CO., LTD. ❼ EASTERN SEABOARD ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX CO., LTD. DOWA METALTECH MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. (Mexico) 12ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD., Advanced Fine Materials Laboratory UNEKURA MINING CO., LTD. (Thailand) East Japan Plant DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS OKAYAMA CO., LTD. AKITA ENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❽ GOLDEN DOWA ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR COMPANY 13ECO-SYSTEM JAPAN CO., LTD. DOWA IP CREATION CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. 14GEOTECHNOS CO., LTD. LIMITED (Myanmar) Kanto Techno Center DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. (United States of America) 15E&E Solutions Inc. Headquarter DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. KUNSHAN DOWA THERMO FURNACE CO., LTD. (China) 16ECO-SYSTEM CHIBA CO., LTD. Dowa Group Nagoya Branch DOWA METALS & MINING Co., Ltd. DOWA Thermotech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) 17ECO-SYSTEM SANYO CO., LTD. NEW NIPPON BRASS CO., LTD. DOWA Group Osaka Branch ❾ Vancouver Oﬃce (Canada) HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. (India) 18OKAYAMA KOYU CO., LTD. HOEI SHOJI CO., LTD. Dowa Technology CO., LTD. 10Cariboo Copper Corporation (Canada) PT. DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA (Indonesia) 19ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD., DOWA HIGHTECH CO., LTD. Seibu Techno Center 11NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. (USA) PT. DOWA THERMOTECH FURNACES (Indonesia) West Japan Plant DOWA POWER DEVICE CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNO ENGINEERING CO., LTD. 12Mexico oﬃce DOWA THERMOTECH MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. (Mexico) 20ECO-SYSTEM OKAYAMA CO., LTD. Technology center YOWA ENGINEERING CO., LTD. 13MINERA TIZAPA, S.A. DE C.V. (Mexico) BIODIESEL OKAYAMA CO., LTD. DOWA METAL CO., LTD. DOWA KOHSAN CO., LTD. Nippon PGM Europe s.r.o. (Czech Republic) KOWA SEIKO CO., LTD. DOWA METANIX CO., LTD. Dowa Group Kyushu Branch Headquarters and others DOWA METALS & MINING (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) Act-B Recycling Co., Ltd. TOKUYAMA-DOWA POWER MATERIALS CO.,LTD. 16KEY METAL REFINING, LLC (USA) DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (USA) DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION San Jose Office (USA) DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. 17DOWA METALS & MINING AMERICA INC. (USA) DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. DOWA HOLDINGS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. (China) DOWA HOLDINGS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. Shenzhen branch (China) Metallurgical Laboratory DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. DOWA HD Europe GmbH (Germany) KOSAKA SMELTING & REFINING CO., LTD. Moka plant DOWA HOLDINGS (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) NIPPON PGM CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Ohta plant As of March 31, 2017 13 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 14 CSR Policy and Plan Corporate governance DOWA group is proceeding on basis of the CSR plan targeting year 2020. “Vision for 2020” ■ CSR plan and the concept of goals The S + ESG management based on the CSR policy has Safety DOWA CSR policy Society Putting“Vision for 2020”in 4 priority areas, Cooperate Governance, Safety, Environment and Society as the been established at each DOWA Group company and it has mid-term goal, we have set up the action plan for realizing it as a single-year initiative and goal considering it as contributed to solving global social issues through minimizing a focus measure to be taken to achieve the goal. For details about sector-wise actual results and initiatives in management risk and improving corporate value. Environment FY2016, please see the ﬁeld report from the next page. Mid-term Goal Goal Activity Plan for FY2017 Areas CSR Policy “Vision for 2020” Focus Measures Indicator for 2020 Initiative Goal ●Healthy business management is promoted by ensuring Brieﬁng sessions to senior executives Strengthening of internal control and No. of important 0 Conducting brieﬁng sessions suﬃcient functions, appropriate information disclosure and representatives Number of and transparency in the internal control system governance deﬁciencies to be disclosed for internal control participants: 140 or more ●We will aim to be an open and transparent company. Corporate ●We will endeavor in anti-corruption eﬀorts including ●Business management which does not give rise to fraud Supporting internal control Implementation governance anti-bribery measures taking into consideration the and corruption of any kind is promoted, by individual Strengthening of compliance and risk rate of internal education activities of domestic and 10 companies international agreement. employees carrying out appropriate activities based on management 100％ domestic and overseas ●We will take CSR into consideration in our and brieﬁngs overseas companies the “DOWA Group’s Values and Standards of Conduct” procurement. Supplier survey Transaction Preparation of easy-to-answer questionnaire Review of question items ●CSR is promoted throughout the supply chain by building Governance CSR procurement promotion coverage rate amount base Development towards important suppliers partnerships with business connections Expansion of research scope *Excludes contractors 80％ in industries other than manufacturing ●All employees will take part spontaneously in Frequency rate 0.1 or less Enhancement of cross-sectoral Frequency rate 0.9 or less safety activities to improve the level of health and Raising the company-wide safety level ●The occupational safety risks of the workplace are Severity rate 0.01 or less eﬀorts based on area Severity rate 0.02 or less Safety safety in the workplace, based on our basic managed and minimized appropriately, and a philosophy of “Safety is the top priority.” No. of times education is implemented Total 20 times Continuous implementation and follow-up comfortable and safe working environment is realized Strengthening of safety education in ●We are committed to preventing accidents at conﬁrmation through visit-to Japan Frequency: 7 times subsidiaries outside Japan Safety work and supporting health of our employees. No. of persons educated Total 200 persons education and on-site education. Strengthening of recycle business: Strengthening of collection of Increase from the ●Responsible for the core of the international resources Collection volume of Increase from the Collection volume / Recycling volume / materials for recycling outside preceding ﬁscal year ●We will provide customers with products and recycling network in Asia and the Paciﬁc rim area materials for recycling preceding ﬁscal year Increase in no. of elements etc. Japan services that contribute to building a resource ●Eﬀective reduction of CO2 emissions per unit has been Improving the utilization rate of Promotion of renewal of Total greenhouse gas emission recycling society. Emission amount of 15% reduction as achieved by various energy saving measures and active renewable energy energy-saving equipment at 1% reduction from the CO2 emissions per unit compared to FY1990 Environment ●We will reduce environmental burdens and risks use of renewable energy Strengthening energy saving initiatives large-scale disposal sites preceding ﬁscal year in our business activities. ●The environmental risks of the workplace are managed Minimization of environmental accidents risk Hosting a seminar for ●The management and employees together take No. of environmental properly, and environmental accident-generation risks and strengthening of response capabilities 0 environmental conservation for 3 times part in environmental conservation activities. *Environmental accidents: Incidents whose impact is felt outside accident occurrences are minimized the company, and reported to the competent administration outside partners ●We will promote business activities considering Environment biodiversity. ●Biodiversity conservation activities are promoted in Understanding of biodiversity risks of suppliers Strengthening of disaster prevention measures Suppliers and Formulation of collaboration with the upstream and downstream of the Status conﬁrmation of biodiversity 100％ against abnormal weather and natural disasters at mines survey rate countermeasure plan supply chain consideration in mines mine drainage treatment facility Employment rate of people with disabilities 2.0％ Expansion of a global human resources ̶ Attendance rate of Strengthening and training of employees hired overseas and locally ̶ Promoting diversity education and 100％ Aggressive development of career and employment 20 persons promotion of ●While diverse human resources mutually respect each participation by women Implementation of training for female employees and managers Twice other, employees themselves select the diverse work styles commensurate with their respective life stages and styles, Thorough knowledge within the company Updating and making publicity of ●We will aim to create a workplace where and the company and teams support each other of the various systems handbooks to explain a system diversity and human rights of employees are Promoting work-life balance Annual paid leave 70% Encouragement of annual leave Acquisition rate 60% acquisition rate Society respected, and each person can demonstrate Promotion of measures to reduce Group company working time management maximum capacity with satisfaction and pride. working hours policy, standard formulation and execution Training of both appraisers and persons Implementing training of appraisers and ●A culture of fair evaluation & treatment, and fostering is Employee satisfaction persons being appraised Participants 300 persons being appraised 90％ Society established, and employees experience growth, results Strengthening in-house education of Business planning system and satisfaction. And, an organization in which Conducting system surveys Practitioner 1100 persons human resources employees compete with each other and support each Educational system New employee education Voluntary career development support 70％ other is created by the employees themselves (Until 3 years after joining the company) Students 140 persons for employees and details Development activities for children who will ●We will promote social contributions, reﬂecting ●Social contributions reﬂecting each local community are be responsible for next generation 3 times Promoting social contribution ̶ ̶ unique characteristics of each local community. deployed in and outside Japan Awareness activities aiming at community contribution 3 times 15 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 16 Governance Corporate Governance Governance To continue to be a company that is trusted by the society, the DOWA group has positioned strengthening of corporate governance as a key management issue, and is working on it based on“DOWA Group’ s Values and Standards of Conduct” On-site Visit to Check a Lime Mine CSR Policy “Slaked lime”, which is procured by many of our factories, is an With regards to business continuity in the event of a disaster, in important material used for such environmental conservation addition to emergency measures such as establishing a ● We will aim to be an open and transparent company. measures as water treatment and exhaust gas treatment. communication network and setting up satellite phones, we ● We will endeavor in anti-corruption eﬀorts including anti-bribery measures taking into Limestone, which is the raw material for slaked lime, is one of the found that they are working on a stable and reliable supply by consideration international agreements. few resources that Japan is self-suﬃcient in, and it is possible to promoting partnerships with the mines of other companies ● We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement. procure it from domestic mines. located in remote areas. In November 2016, we visited a lime mine of our business partner Miyagi Lime Industry Co., Ltd. to an on-site check based Priority on the CSR procurement guidelines. Measure Promoting CSR Procurement Conservation of the surrounding environment and securing the safety of workers are important in the operation of the mine. For Q・C・D＋Sustainability this reason, we did the inspection with an emphasis on the As for the characteristics of the DOWA Group’ s CSR procurement, to the existing quality (Q), cost (C) environment and safety, and their management systems for these. and delivery (D), we have added sustainability (S). This“S”means that we make an eﬀort for social responsibility such as considering human rights and environmental conservation. CSR procurement policy http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/csr/csr_procurement.html Collaboration with Business Partners WEB At the DOWA Group, we do a questionnaire through a consideration. At the post inspection meeting, we aim to self-checklist in order to continuously grasp and evaluate agree on the results of the inspection by explaining the results Limestone is mined and produced through the eﬀorts by business partners with regards to CSR activities. and doing question and answer, but in addition to requesting bench-cut mining method at an open-pit mine The self-checklist is a self-assessment by the partners improvements for issues that we have pointed out, we also themselves about how they promote the company’ s CSR and praise appropriate arrangements and outstanding initiatives. their understanding of the actual situation. We send a In these visits, a team made up of people from the By conﬁrming the implementation status of CSR activities that feedback report about the results, and for partners who are environmental safety and procurement departments do the cannot be grasped from the questionnaire results, we believe thought to have made insuﬃcient CSR eﬀorts on certain inspections, but since personnel at our factories that use the that it is important not only from the aspect of risk management, items, we urge them to work more proactively. material in question are also members of the team, we aim to In addition, for partners who are particularly important for strengthen the relationship of trust with the business partner but also to increase the reliability of the supply chain. In The opening meeting our business, or for partners whose self-assessment results and to further spread CSR procurement activities within the addition, there are many things that we can learn through the have not met the standards, we do conﬁrmation visits. Based company. CSR procurement practices, and there are also many new things on the results of the self-checking, we conﬁrm things by doing interviews, checking documents and touring plants. If we see that we can come to realize from the on-site inspections. ■PDCA cycle for CSR procurement instances where the guidelines are not being met, we will It is vital to have the understanding and cooperation of business point out the three stages of improvement, requesting and In the interviews and document conﬁrmation, we checked the partners for the inspections. In order to share the direction that safety plan and the situation for formulating safety policy. We we are aiming for, and to deepen understanding about the ■The six areas of self-checking Improvement of conﬁrmed that appropriate measures were taken at the site with necessity of CSR procurement, we have also begun to explain CSR questionnaire initiatives Legal compliance ●Promotion of ● Performing regards to wastewater treatment, measures to deal with dust and the trends and social issues in the international community, in １ self-checking and fair trade CSR initiatives questionnaires management of dangerous substances. Particularly in the addition to explaining our procurement policies and guidelines at business targeting key partners Optimum quality and ●Follow up business partners measures to deal with ﬂying dust, we learned that in cooperation from the audit of the previous ﬁscal year. 2 reasonable pricing with local companies, they carried out cleaning activities in the While cooperating with our business partners, in future we will １） Human rights and labor Inspection report surrounding area using road cleaning trucks, and were making keep learning together and work with the aim of building a 3 Construction of a Feedback report ●Results of the ●Sending back a stable supply system 2） Safety and health on-site check, report on the eﬀorts rooted in the local community. better supply chain. and requests for improvements questionnaire results 4 Sustainability 3） Environmental to be considered with regards to ●Evaluation conservation CSR initiatives CSR on-site by area inspection 5 Protection of information 4） Society and ●Factory tours ●Interviews community ●Checking details 6 Management system contribution of the questionnaire answers 17 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 18 Governance Following is the status of activities for FY2016 and the plan for FY2017 in the Corporate Governance Progress of Activities 01 ﬁeld of Corporate Governance. In accordance with the DOWA Group’ s Values and Code of Conduct , the DOWA Group is working to realize highly transparent and open management, together with guaranteeing sound corporate management, and increasing the quality and eﬃciency of management. FY2016 Results For details, please refer to the report on our corporate governance. Corporate Governance Focus Measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results Corporate Governance System WEB http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/about_dowa/governance.html Brieﬁng sessions to senior executives and The DOWA Group adopted the executive oﬃcer system to units as subsidiaries. Strengthening of internal Distribution of internal A 160 persons representatives Number of participants: 140 or more soundly and eﬀectively manage the organization, to speed up In addition, by (1) establishing a Board of Auditors, and (2) control and governance control handbook Distribution of translated version A Distribution in English language decision-making and for eﬀective management. It also appointing outside directors, we aim to ensure the soundness Strengthening of compliance Supporting internal control Domestic and overseas adopted the holding company system to separate business of management. activities of domestic and A 11 companies and risk management overseas companies 10 companies General Meeting of Shareholders Supplier CSR audit 6 companies or more A Audit implementation: 9 companies Promotion of CSR procurement － Preparation of CSR audit procedure A Creation of CSR audit procedure Elect, dismiss Elect, dismiss Elect, dismiss FY2017 Initiatives and Goals Board of Directors Board of Auditors 7 Directors 4 Auditors Independent auditors Strengthening of internal Implementation of brieﬁng Brieﬁng sessions to senior executives and representatives (including 2 external Directors) Audit (including 3 external Auditors) control and governance session related to internal control Number of participants: 140 or more Strengthening of compliance Supporting internal control activities Supervision Audit Audit Domestic and overseas 10 companies and risk management of domestic and overseas companies Business Execution General Counsel Preparation of easy-to-answer Review of question items Holding Company DOWA Holdings Co., Ltd. Promotion of CSR procurement questionnaire Development towards important suppliers in industries other than manufacturing President Business Strategy Committee Advice Management Executive Committee DOWA Consultation Desk (external lawyer) Planning, PR, HR, Human Development, Administration and Legal, Accounting and Finance, Environment, Safety, Technology, Information System departments. Notice Business Administration Report Instruction, Supervision Report The Securities Analysts Association of Japan Group of Operating Companies Support Companies Operating Companies * TOPICS “Excellence in Corporate Disclosure” DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Co., Ltd. DOWA METALS & MINING Co., Ltd. DOWA Technology Co., Ltd. Technical support DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Co., Ltd. DOWA METALTECH Co., Ltd. Support DOWA THERMOTECH Co., Ltd. DOWA Management Service Co., Ltd. Clerical support The DOWA Group was selected by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan as a “company that Instruction, Supervision Report continues to maintain a high-level of disclosure” (steel Each subsidiary of operating companies *President of an operating company serves and nonferrous metal department) as part of the concurrently as a non-fulltime executive director of DOWA Holdings. association’s “FY 2016 Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure”. This award has been given annually since 1995 for the purpose of improving the Internal Control Activities disclosure of corporate information. It evaluates the 02 quality, quantity, timing and disclosure stance for To strengthen corporate governance, we encourage each company in the group to share the basic information disclosed by companies, such as ﬁnancial policy and the system of internal control with DOWA Holdings (Holdings Company) and also entrust results. We received this award for having stably each company to conduct their own activities which shall exploit each company’s uniqueness. This maintained a high level of disclosure for several years. ensures eﬀective and eﬃcient internal control based on the holding company system. We will continue to work on improving the quality of our disclosures to deepen understanding about the DOWA Group through the fair, timely and Internal Audit appropriate disclosure of information. The internal audit based on the internal audit rules prescribed auditors and relevant departments. DOWA Group IR information by the DOWA group involves all corporate activities, such as In FY2016, we conducted brieﬁngs at 7 domestic bases, 1 http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/ir/index.html WEB accounting audit, legal audit, safety and environmental audit overseas base, internal audits in 12 companies and overseas etc. Our CSR department and each of the related departments internal audits in 9 companies in Europe, South East Asia and and group companies cooperate with each other and conduct China, as a part of strengthening the internal control. the internal audit, and report its results to the directors, Please refer to our annual report about the basic policy for the internal control system and its operation. http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/ir/library/annual.html WEB 19 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 20 Governance Compliance Participation in International Organizations 03 06 Within the DOWA Group we have positioned“legal compliance”as the foundation for corporate management, and based on the DOWA Group’ s Values and Code of Conduct , we are working on and Consortiums measures to strengthen internal control and education as core areas. In addition, each company in The DOWA group has been participating in the UN Global Compact (UN GC), which is a voluntary the DOWA Group aims to improve the awareness of compliance as they deal with the annual international corporate citizenship advocated by the UN, since 2009. The DOWA group is committed internal audit (legal audit). to respecting and implementing the GC’ s ten principles in four areas of the Global Compact of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption these are geared towards sustainable Risk Management development of society. Even in formulating CSR procurement policies and guidelines, we reﬂect the principles of global 04 The DOWA group addresses risk management to properly control risks that may hinder the compact, such as respect for human rights and elimination of child labor. realization of our business philosophy and achievement of our business plans, and to fulﬁll our social responsibilities, and contribute to the improvement of our sustainable corporate value. Among the risks that beleaguer the group, the board of directors is responsible for the“Business risks”and the Ten Principles of Global Compact CSR department is responsible for the“CSR risks”in cooperation with other departments. production and sales of customers at delivery destinations, human rights Business Continuity Plan (BCP) therefore, through our CSR procurement, we are checking the 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Initiatives formulation of BCP regarding rapid business restoration and 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The DOWA group has prepared a business continuity plan its continuation in the event of a disaster, for the beneﬁt of our main partners. For the business partners who are not yet (BCP) by location and business entity to respond to natural Labor disasters, such as large-scale earthquakes, typhoons, ﬂoods decided, we explain the importance of the initiatives and request strengthening of BCP countermeasures. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. caused by torrential rains etc., and is making eﬀorts to avoid risks so that business activities can continue when there is an 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. emergency. BCP was reviewed on a regular basis and in DOWA Hotline Desk 5 The eﬀective abolition of child labor. FY2016, 15 business subsidiaries reviewed the supposed With an aim of encouraging the early detection of risks 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. targets and countermeasures of BCP. associated with corporate activities and making employees In addition, we strive to maintain and improve the initial ﬁnd the workplace environment safer and more comfortable, Environment response capability by conducting emergency drills once a we have established a DOWA Hotline desk that allows 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. year, establishing initial emergency response headquarters at direct consultation with corporate lawyers. Reporting is done 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. an enterprise level and in business companies and each through intranet, poster, etc. in which the conﬁdentiality of 9 Encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. division of the business unit, conﬁrming safety of employees reporting, etc. is maintained and guaranteed that the and reporting the damage situation between each emergency whistleblower is not subjected to unfair treatment. To build a Corruption Prevention response headquarters. healthier partnership with business partners and collaborating companies, we have opened the window of the DOWA Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Survey of BCP Formulation in Hotline desk outside the company so that it can be availed by Global Compact Network, Japan the employees of business partners and collaborating Supply Chain companies. At the desk, we maintain the conﬁdentiality of WEB http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html The DOWA group mainly deals with B to B business and a consultations and opinions received and respond promptly disruption of the supply chain means a strong impact on the Eﬀorts for Human Rights and Corruption Prevention and appropriately. 05 Relationship with National and 07 Based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, the DOWA Group prohibits child labor, Local Governments and Industries forced labor and unfair discrimination due to nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, gender, age or disability, and works to prevent corruption. The DOWA Group is promoting activities related to public policies such as international Regarding the consideration of human rights within the DOWA Group, we conduct a questionnaire collaboration, participating in councils and forums at government and industrial organizations, annually of our business subsidiaries, including oﬃces overseas, to try and grasp the current solving social issues, establishing and reviewing legal systems. situation. In addition, for business subsidiaries in Japan, we are also working on human rights education for employees by holding seminars about mental health and power harassment in order to Example of Participation deepen understanding about human rights that will lead to good practices in the workplace. DOWA Holdings President and Representative Director, Masao Yamada February 2013~present Member of the Central Environment Council, Ministry of Environment Eﬀorts for Human Rights Through the Supply Chain Chairman of the Waste Recycling Subcommittee, the Environmental In order to promote human rights initiatives with business situation overseas such as child labor and illegal labor. While December 2012~present Safety Committee, Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) partners through the supply chain, not only do we share our in Japan it is hard to feel the immediacy of the human rights CSR policies and guidelines when making visits for CSR problem, we are working to gain understanding about the We are actively participating in international conferences hosted by Government agencies in Japan and other inspections, but we also explain about the human rights background of social issues and its relationship to companies. countries and are contributing to various policies from the industrial standpoint. 21 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 22 Safety Safety Safet y Occupational health and safety is one of the most important themes in helping DOWA’ s Safety Activities The“DOWA safety activities”that began in 2012 have been fully implemented as a company-wide initiative since 2014. It facilities and management, and share them with the whole company. When a severe occupational accident occurs, we has had a certain eﬀect with the current annual number of laterally implement measures to prevent it from happening the DOWA group to promote CSR activities through business and with that accidents decreasing by about half. The DOWA safety again not only with the operating companies, but also thought we are developing various safety activities based on our basic activities are something that everyone participates in from the including safety inspections by the environment and safety philosophy,“Safety is the top priority”. top down to the bottom up, and we are pursuing various department of DOWA Holdings. initiatives to make the 10 themes of the activities more eﬀective. Among these, we are aiming to improve leadership The 10 Safety Activity Themes and raise the level through sharing ideas and examples of CSR Policy activities by establishing places and mechanisms for exchange between the relevant personnel. This includes the“Safety Reports New Health and Risk Safety Campaign District Council”where activity members of each on unsafe employee safety ● All employees will take part in safety activities with their own initiatives to improve incidents assessments patrols education committees district interact, and the“Safe Environment Personnel Council” the level of health and safety in the workplace, based on our basic philosophy of where the safe environment personnel for the operating “Safety is the top priority.” companies interact. Studying Pointing out Workplace ● We will prevent work-related accidents and support the sound health of employees. Risk With regards to incidences of accidents within the group, cases of and calling for Inspection inspection simulation based on thorough introspection and analysis of the accidents, incidents and occupational education checklists tours of accidents safety methods safety work we take multifaceted countermeasures involving people, Priority Aiming to Raise the Level With the Lateral Function of Measure Personnel and District Councils The Vertical and Horizontal Network In order to prevent serious occupational accidents, it is most important to keep nipping minor accidents DOWA DOWA DOWA DOWA DOWA DOWA in the bud. At the DOWA Group we are currently promoting various initiatives throughout the whole ECO-SYSTEM METAL & MINING ELECTRONIC MATERIALS METALTECH THERMOTECH HOLDINGS company to prevent accidents. Kosaka District Safety Campaign Occurrence of Occupational Accidents Odate District District Council When looked at in the long term, the number of accidents at the DOWA Group as a whole is on a downward trend. Compared Regularly held in each district Akita District with the ﬁgures for business establishments of the same scale in the accident statistics of the Ministry of Health, Labor and A system for mutual discussion that Welfare, the accident frequency rate is 1.08 versus 1.15, but with regards to the severity rate that shows the degree of the Kanto District is aimed at communication with accident, it continues to show a high value from last year. This is due to the occurrence of serious occupational accidents. In order those responsible at each company. Chukyo District Sharing examples of activities and to eliminate these, we share the situation through the whole company, and as management sends emergency safety notices to all ideas with speciﬁc discussions the relevant places, we begin eﬀorts towards intrinsic safety. decided by themes and cross patrols. Okayama District Aims to raise the safety activity level Overseas for group companies. *Comparing the ﬁnal FY 2015 accident statistics for 100 to 299 employees (the average number of employees at each DOWA business establishment). operation bases ■ Trend of the Occupational Accident Frequency Rate ■ Trend of the Occupational Accident Severity Rate Safe Environment Personnel Council Average for business establishments of the same scale DOWA Group Average for business establishments of the same scale DOWA Group Sending notiﬁcations from DOWA Holdings, developing Held once a company-wide safety policies and conﬁrming facts, doing (People) (Days) month analysis and providing feedback for accident reports. 2.0 Accident 2.0 Severity frequency rate rate 1.5 1.3 1.5 1.35 1.21 1.21 1.15 1.06 1.0 1.06 1.08 1.0 1 0.98 0.94 0.58 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.09 0.06 0.07 0.05 0.06 0.03 0.0 0.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Represents the frequency of occupational accidents with the number of casualties Frequency Rate caused by occupational accidents per one million working hours. Severity Rate Represents the severity of accidents with the number of work loss days per 1,000 working hours. Risk simulation education Workplace inspection tour of safety work 23 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 24 Safety Following is the status of activities in the area of occupational safety in FY Occupational Safety Initiatives 01 Status of Activities 2016, and the plan for FY 2017. Based on the DOWA group’ s Safety and Health Policy that“All employees shall voluntarily work on initiatives and aim for the improvement of safety and health standards”from the standpoint of the basic policy being,“Safety is the top priority”, we have organized safety and health committees at all FY 2016 Results business sites and are developing various safety activities based on the annual safety and health plan. Safety Priority Measures Tasks Goal Evaluation Main Result Holding Risk Assessment (RA) DOWA Safety Award in Thailand Accident frequency Raise the safety level Strengthen initiatives rate below 0.9 C 1.08 Presentations At a hotel in Bangkok, each oﬃce of the DOWA Group in for the whole company. across district units. Accident severity In June of each year, the DOWA Group holds a risk Thailand participated in the DOWA Safety Award in rate below 0.02 C 0.58 Thailand where outstanding safety initiatives were assessment presentation with the aim of improving eﬀorts at Increase the countries targeted each company by sharing the outstanding initiatives of group announced. There were presentations on a wide range of Strengthen safety education for More than four Four countries subjects including risk assessment, risk prediction training, for educational visits to Japan A companies and forming a network of personnel. subsidiaries overseas. countries & regions. and providing education. At the sixth presentation that was held this year there were safety patrols, unsafe incidents and 5S activities. In some presentations by the six companies in Japan and talks by two cases, the results of educational visits to Japan the previous FY 2017 Initiatives and Goals companies invited from overseas. Each company elaborated year were included in the presentations. DOWA Thermotech what they had done, such as activities associated with Thailand won, giving a presentation about“log-out and Raise the safety level Strengthen initiatives Accident frequency rate below 0.9 tag-out activities”to lock with a key, raise the alarm and improving business, and activities involving stakeholders from for the whole company. across district units. Accident severity rate below 0.02 prevent operation of the shutdown power switch. The details outside of the company. Continue educational visits to of these activities were shared as good examples at safety Strengthen safety education for Japan and providing education, Number of times: Seven times conferences in Japan and China. subsidiaries overseas. and conﬁrming follow-up. Safety Activities Using IT: TOPICS Digitization of the Operation Procedure Manual The operation procedure manual is a document that shows the method for performing each operation in a process safely, reliably and eﬃciently. The operation procedure manual is properly followed as the basis for safety. At Act-B Recycling Co., Ltd., which does recycling of home electric appliances in Kumamoto Prefecture, in order to improve work eﬃciency and the level of safety activities, we digitized the operation procedure manual so that the necessary information can be called up on monitors and Promotion of Health Management tablets that each line has been equipped with. This made the system easy to use from the 02 viewpoint of managing updates and the ability to search. At the DOWA Group, through the health insurance association, we are developing various initiatives In addition, it became possible to input information on unsafe incidents into the digitized for promoting the health management of employees and their families, such as promoting physical operation procedure manual (incidents that are not serious accidents, but are examples that are check-ups and mental health measures, and supporting sports events. one step short of becoming serious, and it would not be unusual if they directly led to serious accidents). Together with making it possible Health Check Up Mental Health Initiatives for employees to share safety information in real time, it aims to be a mechanism to speed The departments and business units are taking initiatives for all At the DOWA Group, we operate a mental health counseling up the sharing of information by automatically employees to have their regular health checkup done every system for the mental health management of employees, and summarizing and listing the unsafe incidents year to raise their awareness towards health, so that they can have established a dedicated telephone number for telephone that have been submitted, and reporting them maintain their physical and mental health. In addition to this, consultations with specialized counselors (clinical via email to the managers in turn. we are also making the most of various subsidy programs such psychologists). We have established a strictly private point of In future, we would like to be able to record as medical checkups, gynecological examinations, inﬂuenza contact outside of the company that anyone can contact with the actions of managers, advance the vaccination, etc. We have also taken various initiatives peace of mind. Moreover, from FY 2013, in order to uniﬁcation and visualization of information and ensure that the operation procedure directed at improving the consultation rate of speciﬁc medical encourage people to be aware of their own stress, and to manual is correctly understood and checkup intended for insured persons of age 40 or more and improve the workplace environment that is the cause of implemented step by step. nonworking dependents by providing information through stress, we have introduced a stress check tool so that people group newsletters, etc. can self-diagnose their mental health, and we are working to Further, provide a subsidy system for sporting events for prevent employees from having mental health problems. employees through sports and exercise so that they continue to maintain and promote a healthy body. 25 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 26 Environment Environment Environment The DOWA Group recognizes the impact of business activities on the environment, positions environmental and social initiatives through its core business, and works for the reduction of the environmental impact on its business as an important issue in management and is working on a group wide initiative. Initiatives to Conserve Unekura Mining Wastewater CSR Policy the Aquatic Environment Treatment Technology ● We will provide customers (customers, regions, etc.) with products and services that At nonferrous metal mines that have been closed, part of the The treatment of mine wastewater at suspended or contribute to building a resource-recycling oriented society. ore remaining in the mine may come in contact with abandoned mines needs to be continued semi-permanently, ● We will reduce environmental burdens and risks in our business activities. groundwater or the oxygen in the air, causing an oxidation and an eﬃcient processing method that is low cost and has reaction to occur, and water that contains acidic water or little environmental impact is required. At Unekura Mining, ● The management and employees will together participate in environmental conservation heavy metals could ﬂow out. In addition, with the mined ore, the company is working to improve the mine wastewater activities. there is the risk of water quality or agricultural land becoming treatment process by introducing various technologies, such ● We will promote business activities considering biodiversity. polluted as wastewater seeps into rivers with harmful heavy as passive treatment that utilizes natural puriﬁcation, metals due to rainwater or groundwater from storage sites processing that uses thermal spring wastewater and the where things with low metal content have been discarded. neutralization method with iron oxidizing bacteria. The treatment of mine wastewater is important and Priority Management of Suspended or Abandoned Mines and indispensible in order to maintain sound water circulation and a sustainable environment for water use. Treatment Facilities Measure Conservation of the Aquatic Environment Without Electricity Storage site Suspended or abandoned mine While the DOWA Group has its roots in the mining and smelting business, we have currently stopped Some mining facilities do not have power transmission business operations at all the nonferrous metals mines that we own in Japan. For such mines, in order lines, and some treatment to protect the environment of the surrounding area, it is necessary to maintain and improve pollution sites do not have electric power facilities. For this prevention even after the operations have stopped, such as disasters happening from cave-ins or reason, we introduced landslides, or preventing environmental pollution due to waste and wastewater. self-oscillating equipment in which lime is input according to the amount of water so Management of Suspended or Abandoned Mines Water that seeps out of Mine water that treatment can be carried the storage site (wastewater) out without using electric As for suspended or abandoned mines, while this refers to Preventing mine pollution is something that happens while power, and eﬃcient neutralization treatment can be done. mines where operations have been suspended or the mining dealing with nature. This maintenance requires specialized The self-oscillating equipment was developed in-house using rights have lapsed, administrators regularly do walk-around skills and knowledge as facilities at the mines can be the principle of“shishi-odoshi”(a bamboo tube that when checks of the mines and disposal facilities. It is necessary to damaged due to impact from the weather, such as rainfall Mine wastewater ﬁlled with water revolves to empty). It contributes to energy continue managing them in order to prevent mine pollution and snowfall, and ﬂuctuations in the amount of treated water treatment site savings and lower costs. and harm to third parties. Unekura Mining Co., Ltd., which and the quality of the water. In addition, during tours of Neutralization was founded in 1956, has two oﬃces located in Odate, Akita inspection, sometimes there are encounters with pit vipers, Prefecture and Misaki, Okayama Prefecture, and manages Japanese serows and bears on forest trails, requiring quick The Recycling of over 20 suspended or abandoned mines from Hokkaido to judgment and reactions. Neutralized Percipitate Shimane, including wastewater treatment. Their business includes a wide range of activities, such as The“neutralized precipitate” management of the mining sites, maintaining and managing that occurs from the treatment storage sites and facilities where slag is piled up, managing Neutralized precipitate of mine wastewater is mainly Neutralized the water quality of mine wastewater and monitoring the Treated water precipitate treatment site composed of gypsum and iron water quality of the surrounding area. The company strives to hydroxide. While it is waste if protect the environment and prevent disasters on a daily left as is, through processing it basis. Particularly for mines where nonferrous metals have is used as a deodorizer. In been mined, even after operations are suspended or stopped, The mine wastewater cannot be discharged into rivers unless addition, by eﬀectively using such treatment is especially important because there is the the pH, heavy metal content and suspended solids content are the iron that is in the mine possibility that the mine wastewater will continue to contain below the standard for drainage water. As the main treatment wastewater, we produce and heavy metals and such. method, we utilize a method of doing alkali neutralization recycle inorganic ﬂocculant with lime, and then releasing into rivers the water from which “polyferric sulfate”(product name: Bioferric). Bioferric is used In the heavy metals have been removed. sewage treatment plants and helps with waste reduction and the Among the water resources used for processing in the entire conservation of the aquatic environment. In order to reduce the burden of such maintenance, currently DOWA Group, the largest amount is“sea water“ that is used the major treatment facilities are remotely monitored, and we as cooling water, but the input amount for“mine wastewater” are aiming to improve the eﬃciency of operations with is the next largest, and we are carrying out processing 24 automatic recording of the monitoring status, and the hours a day 365 days a year. incorporation of a system that automatically reports when there is abnormal turbidity or a power outage. 27 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 28 Environment FY 2016 Material Balance At the DOWA Group, we quantitatively understand the the OUTPUT of CO2 and waste generated from activities. INPUT of the necessary resources and energy at each We advance our business activities with a consideration stage of the life cycle of the business, and the balance of for material balance. Following is the status of activities in the area of the environment in FY 2016, Status of Activities and the plan for FY 2017. INPUT FY 2016 Results Versus previous Versus previous Total energy input 18.6PJ FY Raw material usage1,059thousand tons FY Environment Priority Measures Tasks Goal Evaluation Main Result +7％ +3％ Increase from Fossil fuel consumption 126 thousand KL Raw materials 814 thousand tons Promotion of Strengthen overseas collection Ａ Increase of 6% from resource recycling of recycled materials. the previous FY the previous FY Purchased electric power 1,378 Auxiliary materials 159 thousand tons GWh Promotion of energy-saving Reduce total greenhouse Thermal power generation 3.8 Heat treatment consignment items 84 Environmental equipment renewal at gas emissions by 1% C Increase of 11% from GWh thousand tons impact & risks large-scale emission sites. compared to the previous FY the previous FY Hydropower generation 48.3 GWh Solar power generation 332 MWh Packaging materials 2.4 thousand tons Environmental Mutual inspection tours of More than environmental management Ａ 6 districts conservation activities systems. ﬁve districts Purchased steam ﬂow 427 GJ Versus Formulation and execution of Planning and previous Biodiversity execution C Not Conducted Amount of waste received1,629thousand tons +37％ FY conservation action plans. Versus previous Usage / Disposal Water resources 82Million ㎥ +2 FY ％ Waste 1,505 thousand tons FY 2017 Initiatives and Goals Seawater 68 Million ㎥ Contaminated soil 123 thousand tons End users Promotion of Strengthen overseas collection of Increase from the previous FY Besides seawater 14 Million ㎥ Fluorocarbon throughput 381 tons resource recycling recycled materials. Environmental Promotion of energy-saving equipment Reduce total greenhouse gas emissions impact & risks renewal at large-scale emission sites. by 1% compared to the previous FY Process discharge Environmental conservation activities Organize external environmental conservation seminars. 3 times DOWA Group Manufacturing Strengthen disaster prevention measures at mine wastewater Biodiversity Formulation of a plan & Sales treatment facilities for abnormal weather and natural disasters. Business Activities Manufacturing Business Smelting Electronic Metal Heat materials processing treatment business business business business Clients Contribution to the Environment in Asia Environment & Recycling Business TOPICS The Landﬁll Site in Myanmar Within business areas Waste heat power Versus Versus In Myanmar, where economic liberalization policies are progressing, there has been a rapid increase 82 GWh ＋7％ Waste heat utilization 951 TJ previous generation previous FY FY ＋35％ in companies from overseas entering the country, and it is thought that the manufacturing industry will continue to expand in the future. On the other hand, waste generated by these companies will also increase. While there is a growing need for expanded treatment abilities and proper disposal Research & development Procuring raw materials Logistics within Myanmar, previously there were no landﬁll sites that met international standards.* In industrial parks, factory waste was treated the same as general waste. Utilizing their experience until now, DOWA Eco-System, which has waste treatment businesses in such Southeast Asian countries as Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore, established “Golden DOWA OUTPUT In-house processing Eco-System Myanmar Co., Ltd.” in the Tirawa Special Economic Zone in Myanmar, becoming the recycling county’s ﬁrst controlled landﬁll site. From 2016, it began accepting mainly industrial waste. This is the (CO2 conversion) Versus Chemical substance 2,907 Tons previous ﬁrst instance for a Japanese company to proceed overseas with the establishment of a full-scale Total greenhouse Versus emissions FY previous +5％ gas emissions 1,595 FY commercial landﬁll site. thousand tons 4％ The landﬁll site, which has a capacity of about 90,000 ㎥ , has advanced processing technology that Electric power source 789 thousand tons (CO conversion) is required for chemical waste and oil and natural gas drilling sludge, so that it is possible to safely 2 Versus previous treat and dispose of waste. In response to requests from various industries, it provides Fossil fuel source 336 thousand tons Drainage discharge 94 Million ㎥ FY (CO2 conversion) -10％ comprehensive waste management services, including collection and transportation, and Waste source 471 thousand tons (CO2 conversion) intermediate treatment and recycling according Versus to the properties of the waste. Amount of waste 416 thousand tons previous FY The DOWA Group will raise awareness of the -14％ importance and responsibility of appropriate Versus previous waste treatment in Myanmar, and would like to Product quantity 924 thousand tons FY +47％ Versus contribute to sustainable development that is Recycled amount 726 previous thousand tons FY compatible with environmental conservation. 2％ Versus Thermal recycling 464 thousand tons *The construction standards of the U.S. Environmental Amount of electric previous energy sold 1.7 GWh FY Material recycling 262 thousand tons Protection Agency (EPA). +17％ 29 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 30 Environment The DOWA Group’ s Basic Environmental Policy Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 01 02 The DOWA Group has established the Basic Environmental Policy to position initiatives for At the DOWA Group, while we have been promoting environmental impact reduction through environmental conservation as an important issue in corporate management. In addition to curtailing energy consumption and CO2 emissions by our businesses, we are also actively working to conducting business activities based on environmental conservation as a basic way of thinking, the spread new energy throughout our businesses by utilizing in-house power generation with renewable policy promotes environmental management throughout the entire group. energy. DOWA Group promotes the establishment of a recycle-oriented society and also aims to provide Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions the good global environment to the next generation through business activities. At the DOWA Group, based on the Action Plan to Implement declined, greenhouse gas emissions for the entire group a Low Carbon Society by the Keidanren (Japan Business decreased by about 4%. Changes in the CO2 emissions of the 1 We will provide customers (customers, regions, etc.) with products and services that contribute to Federation) and the Japan Mining Industry Association DOWA Group are largely aﬀected by CO2 emissions resulting building a resource-recycling oriented society. (announced in January 2013), we have set a goal of“a 15% from the incineration of waste received from external sources, reduction in our CO2 emission rate by FY 2020, compared to and it varies depending on the amount and composition of 2 We will reduce the environmental burdens and risks in our business activities. FY 1990”. the waste. Since it is diﬃcult to control the amount and 3 The management and employees will together participate in environmental conservation activities. In FY 2016, the greenhouse gas emissions by the DOWA composition of externally generated waste, we are working Group as a whole were about 1,595 thousand tons of CO2 on preventing global warming by promoting thermal recycling Basic Environmental Policy (131 thousand tons overseas and 1,464 thousand tons in that uses the heat generated during incineration for power http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/csr/csr_policy.html Japan). While there was an increase overseas due to business generation or steam. WEB expansion in India, since emissions at business sites in Japan Environment Management System ■ Electric Power Source ■ Fossil Fuel Source Unit sales Unit sales The Environment and Safety Department and the Planning DOWA group. In addition, we have acquired ISO14001 for CO2 emissions (thousand tons) (100 tons / 100 million yen) CO2 emissions (thousand tons) (100 tons / 100 million yen) Department of each business oﬃce that conducts major domestic production sites and international oﬃces, and 800 4.0 350 3.5 environment conservation activities, together carry out the for proper implementation of the environment management, 700 3.5 300 3.0 environment management activities of DOWA group. DOWA we are taking eﬀorts for development assistance of internal Holdings conducts the adjustments and compilation amongst auditors through the implementation of periodic internal 600 3.0 250 2.5 the business oﬃces and also carries out the environment audits & external audits and auditor training courses. GL* GL* 500 2.5 management and compliance management of the entire ES 200 2.0 ES 400 1.9 2.0 MM MM 1.8 150 1.6 1.7 1.7 EL 1.5 EL 300 1.5 MT MT 100 1.0 DOWA Holdings 200 1.0 TH 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.8 TH HD HD 100 0.5 Unit 50 0.5 Unit consumption consumption 0 0.0 *GL: Overseas bases 0 0.0 *GL: Overseas bases Management Executive Committee 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 President (FY) (FY) Responsible directors Business Strategy Committee Initiatives for Renewable Energy At the DOWA Group, to reduce global carbon emissions, we Environment & Coordination & Operating Companies have introduced renewable energy at our businesses, and we Safety Department Arrangement Safe Environment Personnel Council are working to expand this through our businesses. Hydroelectric Power Generation The Manufacturing of Silver Powder for Solar Panels Cooperation between operating companies At Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning, in 1897 we began operating DOWA Hightech is one of the world’ s largest manufacturers the second hydroelectric power station in Japan (Oyukawa of“silver powder”used in the electrode sections of solar cells Choshi Power Station). After that, we continued to expand (crystal-based silicon solar cells). The silver powder for and improve facilities with the expansion of mining electrodes is required to have such properties as low Each development and our business, and we have six hydroelectric resistance and a high-resolution wiring pattern, and it is operating Planning office Safe Environment Council power stations in Akita Prefecture. In FY 2016, we generated positioned as an important material that greatly aﬀects (safe environment personnel) company 48.3GWh of electricity, and it is an important power source to product performance. By developing and oﬀering silver cover the energy needs of Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning. powder that is optimal for the needs of manufacturers in Japan and overseas, and with a stable supply, it contributes greatly to the improvement of solar cell performance. Solar Power Generation The DOWA Group has introduced solar power generation systems at the Thermo Engineering Ota Plant (Gunma Each Safe environment Acquisition status of Safe Environment Council Prefecture), DOWA Hightech (Saitama Prefecture), subsidiary personnel ISO140001 certiﬁcation Eco-System Sanyo (Okayama Prefecture) and Active Places of business that have acquired: 44 Recycling (Kumamoto Prefecture). In FY 2016, we generated In-house internal auditors: 684 a total of 332 MWh at the four companies, and it is used as part of the electric power that we need for business activities. In addition, from November 2016, DOWA Eco-System began generating electricity at a mega solar power plant in Odate, Akita Prefecture. The amount of power generated is expected to be 1,561 thousand kWh annually, and all of it will be supplied to Tohoku Electric Power. 31 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 32 Environment Conservation of Biodiversity Conservation of the Aquatic Environment 03 04 Based on the Basic Policy of Biodiversity, the DOWA Group is working to minimize the impact that Every year at the DOWA Group, in addition to knowing the amount of water used at production bases our business activities have on biodiversity, and we are promoting the conservation of biodiversity in Japan and overseas, we understand the situation for the water intake sources and where the through social action programs. drainage goes. We are working to reduce the amount of water used by the entire group, and we promote eﬃcient use within our facilities to reduce the amount of water intake. Water Resources Basic Policy of Biodiversity In FY 2016, the water resource input was 82.4 million ㎥, which ■ Amount of Water Resources Used was down 10% from the previous year mainly due to the The DOWA Group recognizes that our business activities get beneﬁts from biodiverse nature, and the reduction of cooling water used in smelting plants. About 83% of conservation of biodiversity is important to keep enjoying these beneﬁts. As a member of society, we the total water resource input was seawater used for cooling Fresh water will voluntarily and continuously work on the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable usage. water in facilities, such as for smelting, and the amount of fresh 17％ water used was 14.1 million ㎥, around the same level as the previous year. In FY 2016, we worked on the conservation of water resources by changing from cooling water to air-cooling for compressors, 82.4 Breakdown of fresh water used The Conservation of Biodiversity Planting Forests in Kosaka, and by starting to use recycled water. million ㎥ in Mining Development Akita Prefecture Sea water The DOWA Group is actively promoting the utilization of In Kosaka, which lost a lot of forest due to the impact of exhaust Drainage Water 83％ Industrial Ground recycled materials, such as electronic equipment waste as raw gas and deforestation by the mining and smelting industry since water water In FY 2016, the amount of drainage water was 94 million ㎥, material for smelting, but we also believe that the role of the Meiji era, forestation progress has been made with the down 10% from the previous year. While this was due to the 31.8％ 14.1 28.6％ natural ore is important with its stable quality. planting of black locust and Japanese cedar trees after WWII. million ㎥ decrease in the amount of cooling water, the amount of drainage For the long-term stable supply of zinc, a main product, in our However, while the black locust trees are highly fertile, they are water is decreasing every year. With regards to drainage water, River water mid-term plan we are promoting mine exploration and a species of tree with a relatively short life span, and they are 38.6％ Other we are striving to control water quality not only by strictly 0.1％ development projects with a goal of over 50% for the zinc ore shifting to a period of decline in the growth cycle. The DOWA complying with wastewater regulations, but also by establishing ratio. But since mining development and operations have a Group started planting trees in 2006. We aim to create a natural strict voluntary standards. great inﬂuence on the natural environment and local and stable forest so that, diﬀerent from an artiﬁcial forest, it does communities, we are implementing it based on a development not require maintenance by human hands. We have worked to plan that has considered the ecosystem and aquatic environment. At mines overseas currently under development, restore the original vegetation of the area by“making a local forest with local trees”. Promotion of Resource Recycling from the exploration stage we are conducting regular and Under the guidance of the Japanese Center for International 05 At the DOWA Group, together with controlling the consumption of natural resources, we aim to appropriate environmental monitoring of the ecosystem and Studies in Ecology, over the past 12 years we have completed contribute to the formation of a sustainable society by promoting the recycling of used resources. water quality. We check to make sure that our initiatives are planting about 25 species and 170,000 trees. The seedlings minimizing the impact on the environment. planted in the ﬁrst year have grown a lot, and now form a small forest. Consideration for Biodiversity INPUT OUTPUT 1 in Procurement Raw Materials Products Supplying paper, a forest resource, is one of the important Mixing many types of tree ecosystem services, and it is also related to climate change species that have taken In FY 2016, the amount of raw materials used was 1,059 In FY 2016, product shipment volume was 924 thousand tons, up and waste. Because the DOWA Group's manufacturing root in the area and thousand tons, up about 3% from the previous year. about 46% from the previous year. This is mainly due to the business is mainly in the area of nonferrous metals, we do not planting with high density inclusion of sulfuric acid production in the smelting business (three trees per 1㎡). use biological resources for our main raw materials, excluding from this ﬁscal year. water, but we use paper at all our business sites both in Japan and overseas, and our whole group purchases a lot of paper every year. For this reason, we use paper that is a mixture of Waste Received Discharged Waste used paper and forest certiﬁed wood pulp for copy paper and pamphlets, and we are working to use sustainable biological 2 In FY 2016, the amount of waste received was 1,629 thousand In FY 2016, the volume of waste treatment was 416 thousand resources. When we put out a tender for centralized tons, up about 15% from the previous year. This was due to an tons, down about 3% from the previous year. purchasing of paper, we conﬁrm that the paper supplier is a increase in the amount of polluted soil received. Because the principle of company that“procures paper responsibly”based on our competition works, we CSR procurement policy. ﬁrmly leave it to nature We also ask that suppliers disclose their environmental Recycling to weed things out. activities, such as nature conservation or reducing INPUT Raw materials Processing OUTPUT In FY 2016, the amount of material recycled was 262 thousand environmental impact, and we check the status of their eﬀorts 1,059thousand tons Products tons, up about 16% from the previous year. Within this, the through questionnaires and CSR inspections. amount that the DOWA Group recycled in-house was 163 Waste heat utilization Waste heat power 924thousand tons Waste received generation thousand tons, and recycling outside of the company was 100 Points to be Checked for 3 1,629thousand tons Recycling thousand tons. In addition, for thermal recycling, which was “Responsible Paper Procurement” down about 11% from the previous year, 93 thousand tons was Thermal recycling Material recycling done by the DOWA Group in-house, and 371 thousand tons was • Establish procurement policies for wood feedstock. Eventually, the number of Inside the company 93thousand tons done outside the company. trees will be about 1/4 of Outside the company 371thousand tons Inside the company 163thousand tons • Build and operate a management system to conﬁrm when planted, but it will be Outside the company 100thousand tons the legitimacy of the wood feedstock. a stable and dynamic Outside the company 274thousand tons Waste • Provide information on the suppliers of raw material forest that prevents pulp. Inside the company 142thousand tons disaster and preserves the environment. 33 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 34 Society Society Society The DOWA Group aims to be a company trusted by all stakeholders for sustainable development and is taking initiatives to enhance the relationship with the society through its CSR activities. Diversity Management Program Female Staﬀ Meeting CSR Policy In order to form a strong organization that responds swiftly to DOWA Management Service Co., Ltd. is a nationwide changes in the external environment, we believe that it is organization that provides administrative support for the ● We will respect the diversity and human rights of employees and aim at creating a necessary to create an environment that enables diverse DOWA Group. About half of its employees are women. In FY workplace that will allow all to show their maximum capacity with challenge and pride. personnel to demonstrate their full potential regardless of 2013, with the aim of creating a workplace where women can gender or nationality. For this reason, from FY 2016 we work more eﬀectively, about 15 female employees who were ● We will promote social contribution considering unique characteristic of each local started a“Diversity Management Program”where people can responsible for materials gathered to start a“female staﬀ community together with local people. learn management methods that are an important factor in meeting”. supporting diverse personnel and ways of working. In the ﬁrst year, the training focused on the management of Priority female employees who are seeing changes in how they work Measure Promotion of Diversity as they are required to balance both work and family, such as child and nursing care. In order for employees with various lifestyles and diverse values to work together, it is important In order to constantly create new value, the DOWA Group believes that it is important to actively to share values and to grow while acknowledging diﬀerences. incorporate and utilize diverse personnel and values regardless of such things as nationality or age. In future we plan to develop the program by expanding the We promote the diversiﬁcation of employee characteristics, and are developing various programs in content from various diverse viewpoints. order to create an organization that accepts and utilizes diﬀerences. Global Challenge Program With the rapid globalization of business, it is an urgent task Four-Month Course in Japan to train personnel capable of carrying out the business of the DOWA Group in various environments. The purpose of the ● Self understanding as business people. Initially, it started with the theme of sharing, improving and Global Challenge Program is to increase the number of ● Acquiring the necessary skills for an assignment overseas. solving work issues, but from FY 2014, utilizing a skill map, it personnel who can work not only in Japan but also anywhere Learning English determined leaders from within the group for each initiative in the world. Members from each operating company who Understanding diﬀerent cultures, etc. item, such as getting knowledge about materials and have been with the company from four to 10 years are selected for participation. ● Studying with the theme of practical training overseas. improving price bargaining abilities. They then conducted practical education so that each person could get the ability Starting from 2015, 15 employees have taken the course. suitable for their level. In future, the aim is to conduct In the training, the aim is for them to get a wide range of Three-Month Course Overseas activities that produce results, such as actions that lead to abilities, such as language skills and cross-cultural understanding, based on improving their problem solving ● Together with local staﬀ, working to solve A Training Program In Japan actual cost reductions. for Staﬀ Visiting From Overseas skills as business people through a four-month course in Japan and a three-month course overseas. problems at the training site. In FY 2016, in cooperation with the local staﬀ at oﬃces in the This is a training program that targets staﬀ working in U.S., India, Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia, they worked overseas oﬃces to visit Japan, and it allows them take courses to solve problems while learning about“understanding”and about safety and the maintenance of facilities. It is held at the “communicating”as future business leaders. Safety Training Center and the Technical Training Center in Iwata, Shizuoka Prefecture. In FY 2016, 30 staﬀ members from China, Thailand and FY 2016 Training Sites Overseas BPEC(Waste treatment) Indonesia visited Japan. Over a week they received practical education. This included safety education through risk simulation such as simulation of electric shock and being trapped, and education about autonomous and planned HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. (Heat treatment) maintenance from specialist lecturers. The education also (Heat treatment) TEC included the safety and health policy of the DOWA Group, (Waste treatment) the system when an accident or disaster occurs and risk management. NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. For the staﬀ members who visit Japan, the training program (Platinum recycling) also makes them“safety evangelists”after they return to their PPLi(Waste treatment) oﬃces in each country, and we believe that it will lead to the strengthening of safety education at subsidiaries overseas. 35 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 36 Society Following is the status of activities in the social ﬁeld in FY 2016, and the plan Status of Activities for FY 2017. FY 2016 Results Social Priority Measures Tasks Goal Evaluation Main Result A Industry-Academy Expansion of global talent. Same as left Implementation of the Global Challenge Program. Strengthen training for local staﬀ hired overseas. Same as left A Implementation of training in Japan for local staﬀ hired overseas. Communication with Promotion of diversity Active utilization of mid-career hires. 2.0% While we did not reach the hiring goal (15 people), we did have Shareholders and Investors Collaboration Initiative B unexpected hiring of people with disabilities and global hiring. Conduct training for female employees Implementation of the (newly established) Diversity In the DOWA Group, we recognize the explanation of The DOWA group is actively pursuing collaborative research and managers. Once each B Management Program. Establishment and promotion of a new system to corporate and management information to shareholders, in collaboration with universities and research institutions for Thorough familiarity within the company B Same as left support work-life balance. the purpose of developing new products and new Promotion of of various systems. investors and other stakeholders as one of the important work-life balance Encouragement of annual leave. 60% A 63% of annual leave taken. technologies. In FY 2016, we conducted joint research with Promotion of measures to manage and issues in corporate governance, and we are striving to Establishment of a special committee for managing reduce working hours. Same as left B working hours and the issuing of a report. disclose timely and appropriate information. more than 10 universities and research institutes. Implementation of training for evaluators and those evaluated. Training for 170 evaluators and 186 of those who get evaluations. Human resource Number of training IR information participants for Implementation of the institutional survey. Technical Exchange Meetings development, Implementation of the institutional survey. Feedback for the evaluator training. evaluation and evaluators & A Expansion of selective educational opportunities. We hold brieﬁng sessions by the management when We have concluded a comprehensive agreement with Akita Expanded education for those targeted those evaluated treatment for in-house education. (Thinking ability special training program and announcing the quarterly ﬁnancial results. We also provide University, Tohoku University, Gunma University, Okayama 600 people development program for front-line supervisors). opportunities to explain management information directly to University and Kumamoto University to promote collaborative Formulation of a training system for stratiﬁed education. New establishment of career training for young people. (Follow IV training) domestic and overseas investors. We also publish our reports research and to hold meetings to report results. Inviting Promotion of In-house familiarity with advanced cases. Information sharing Providing information by the monthly posting of B and annual reports in Japanese, English and Chinese as researchers from universities who are in line with the theme, we social contributions Support for oﬃce initiatives. via the portal site CSR-related news on the portal site. management policy and management status reporting tool of hold technical exchange meetings to discuss technical issues and FY 2017 Initiatives and Goals the DOWA group and are striving to disclose appropriate and technical research. In FY 2016, the eighth year of doing this, we Expansion of global talent. ― highly transparent information. held technical exchange meetings at oﬃces in four districts ‒ Strengthen training for local staﬀ hired overseas. ― Okayama, Akita, Nagano and Saitama. Promotion of diversity Dissemination of IR information through website Active utilization of mid-career hires. 20 people At the one held in the Okayama district in July, over 40 people Conduct training for female employees and managers. 2 times IR information is sent on our website to help the shareholders participated, including researchers from Tohoku University and Thorough familiarity within the company of various systems. Updating and promoting the handbook to explain the system. and investors understand the business situation and business engineers from DOWA research laboratories and oﬃces. Promotion of Encouragement of annual leave. 60% of annual leave taken. strategy of the DOWA group. In addition to ﬁnancial Collaborative initiatives were promoted with discussions and work-life balance Establishment and implementation of policies and standards for Promotion of measures to manage and reduce working hours. the management of working hours for all group companies. reporting, securities reports, etc., other materials such as mutual presentations about development and research. We annual reports and shareholder correspondence are also would like to broaden activities to include researchers outside of Human resource Implementation of training for evaluators and those evaluated. 300 participants development, evaluation Implementation of the institutional survey. 1,100 to take the survey posted. Going forward, we shall strive to disclose information the company. and treatment New employee education (until three years after joining the company). 140 enrollees in a comprehensible and timely manner. Training activities for children who will be the next generation. 3 times Promotion of http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/ir/index.html Awareness-raising activities with the purpose of social contributions 3 times WEB contributing to the community. General Meeting of Shareholders Every June, we hold an ordinary general meeting of shareholders at the Hotel Chinzan-so in Tokyo. After the general meeting of shareholders, we hold a social gathering Awarding Scholarships at aimed at promoting communication with shareholders. There TOPICS Hightemp Furnaces in India we set up a forum for dialogue with executives and a product exhibition section for each business. In addition, we set up a separate presentation room at the venue where the executives At Hightemp Furnaces Ltd., which runs a heat treatment business at six plants in four regions in can explain the topics of the DOWA Group. In FY 2016, we India, we award lump sum scholarships to the children of employees who have achieved held a presentation on the resource development initiatives of excellent grades at public junior high and high schools. In FY 2016, 24 junior high school and 12 DOWA Metals & Mining, and introduced mine development high school students were selected for the scholarships. In August, a “CSR Activity” awards ceremony was held at the headquarters in projects overseas. Bangalore. In India, movement is accelerating to emphasize CSR activities such as employee education and medical care, but Hightemp has been working on CSR activities for employees, their families and the local community for many years. Based on CSR policy, the CSR team systematically promotes projects in a wide range of ﬁelds such as the environment, sanitation, community development and education. 37 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 38 Society Together with Our Customers and Business Partners Together With the Regional Society 01 02 The DOWA group strives to build long-term relationships of trust with business partners to improve With initiatives in the social ﬁeld, the DOWA Group is working on regional contributions as a priority customer satisfaction through the provision of better products and services. We are also promoting measure. In each of our domestic and overseas bases, we are actively developing community-based CSR CSR eﬀorts by supply chain, including environmental conservation and improvement of the working activities such as factory tours, accepting interns, hosting sports events and communicating with local environment. communities in order to progress and develop together with the region. WEB Supply Chain Management Response to Conﬂict Minerals Nurturing the Next Generation Disaster Recovery Support The DOWA Group promotes CSR throughout the whole The DOWA Group, which deals with non-ferrous metals as its Elementary School Visits Responding to the Kumamoto Earthquake supply chain by distributing to business partners the“DOWA main product, recognizes as an important CSR challenge the Group CSR Procurement Guidelines”that pulls together our Eco-System Chiba, which does waste treatment in Sodegaura, DOWA responsibility of companies associated with conﬂict minerals. CSR procurement policies and code of conduct, and by seeking Chiba Prefecture, visits elementary schools in the city to talk Eco-System is a We are working to ensure transparency of the supply chain in understanding about our company’ s approach to CSR. These about the environment. In FY 2016, they visited ﬁfth and six member of Japan our procurement activities, and to practice responsible mineral guidelines are translated into English, Chinese and Thai and graders at two elementary schools in the city with the theme of Disaster procurement. In FY 2016, in accordance with our conﬂict distributed to DOWA oﬃces overseas. “Let’ s get rid of illegal dumping and aim for a clean society by Treatment mineral management policy, we continued to survey business In FY 2016, in order to conﬁrm the status of CSR eﬀorts, we obeying the rules”. They conducted classes that incorporated Systems that is partners and respond to customer inquiries. Furthermore, to distributed a self-check questionnaire to about 80 major quizzes and games in order to teach in a fun manner about the part of the promote responsible mineral procurement, we have taken up a business partners, and collected 93% of them. We sent a problem of illegal dumping, and the responsibility of those who disaster waste program for certifying smelters that do not handle conﬂict feedback report to business partners who responded, and dispose of things. With a card game to understand the treatment minerals (the CFS certiﬁcation system). Two of our companies, reported our evaluation of the current situation. In addition, mechanism of illegal dumping, they positively shared opinions support network Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning (gold and tin) and Eco-System we conducted CSR inspections for nine important suppliers to about how to reduce illegal dumping. of the Ministry of Recycling (gold), have acquired CFS certiﬁcation, and we are conﬁrm the actual CSR status, and checked their compatibility These school visits are now in their sixth year, and they started as the Environment. It provided local support after the Kumamoto striving to fulﬁll our procurement responsibility as a material with our CSR procurement guidelines. We pointed out several a catalyst for children, who will lead the next generation, to learn earthquake in April 2016. Utilizing its experience and expertise, manufacturer. things about“health and safety”, such as the wearing of about the environment. Every year the employees of Eco-System the DOWA Group, which also helped with earthquake waste protective equipment and the inspection of ﬁreﬁghting The DOWA Group Conﬂict Mineral Management Policy Chiba serve as instructors, holding quizzes and presentations treatment after the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami, http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/csr/procurement_policies.html about how to dispatched personnel to the association of waste equipment, and about the“environment”, such as waste WEB management, but overall we conﬁrmed that the results were dispose of treatment-related companies from inside and outside of generally good. garbage. They Kumamoto Prefecture. We provided support for the Regarding the importance of CSR in the supply chain, we will will continue construction and work to further improve CSR while strengthening the these school visits operation of a partnership with suppliers by getting their understanding. in the future as an secondary opportunity to temporary storage site for Quality Control make the children the massive feel close to the At the DOWA Group, we position“quality”as an important “problem of amounts of management standard for manufacturing. Major manufacturing waste”. waste material plants have obtained international standard ISO 9001 and debris from certiﬁcation for our quality control systems. We strive to Akita Prefecture The DOWA Cup Junior Cross-Country the earthquake. improve the quality of products and services by continuously Ski Tournament at Lake Towada At Act-B operating these quality control systems based on PDCA. Recycling Co., In addition, as an initiative to strengthen quality control, we The DOWA Cup that is held at Lake Towada in Akita Prefecture Ltd., where we carry out recycling of home appliances in put eﬀort into conﬁrming the quality of procured items. In is a historic junior cross-country ski tournament that celebrated its Minamata, Kumamoto Prefecture, in response to a request for cooperation with suppliers, we aim to ensure the quality of 27th anniversary in FY 2016. Every year, many children participate support from the Ministry of the Environment and Kumamoto procured items from the aspect of quality and technology by from elementary and junior high schools in the three Tohoku Prefecture, we sorted, transported and disposed of home implementing supplier surveys and inspections at appropriate region prefectures, and past participants have gone on to compete appliances impacted by the quake, especially in areas where intervals. at international competitions, such as the Olympics. It is certiﬁed there was considerable damage. For 34 days from April to May, as an oﬃcial event of the Ski Association of Akita. including the Golden Week holiday period, we dispatched 10 About 130 staﬀ, including DOWA Group employees and people personnel each day to the site, with a total of 200 employees Response to Comments and Opinions from neighborhood councils and local ski clubs, cooperate on taking part in the support. At the disaster waste collection cleaning the site, developing the course, setting up the venue and facility, we sorted and organized depending on whether it was We strive to supply products that are satisfactory to the the ﬁnal tidying up, which can take over a month. For over a possible for the home appliance to be recycled. In the end, we customers by improving the product promptly and quarter of a were able to recycle 12,404 televisions, refrigerators, washing appropriately in response to the opinion and inquiries of the century, this machines and air conditioners. customer. tournament has Improving the information sharing and management system, been an conducting evaluation by classifying and analyzing the indispensible information gathered at each business site have been leading event for the to reform, improvement and development of products and DOWA Group to services. deepen ties with the local community. 39 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 40 Society Together with Employees 03 The DOWA group sets forth Standards of Conduct that human resources are the basis of business activities and employees should be evaluated with their ability to conduct their jobs regardless of education, age and gender. We have taken various initiatives with the following goals so that employees can exercise their full potential. Go back to the origin of organizational function to create a competitive team. Make company a place where employees want to work, with their own initiatives. Personnel Training and Utilization Just and Fair Evaluation and Treatment Employment Status DOWA group takes eﬀorts to continuously conduct training In DOWA group, just and fair evaluation and treatment are at every workplace from the aspect of personnel training, practiced based on the following policy according to the idea The DOWA Group promotes the appropriate allocation of before. Of the regular employees in Japan, there were 3,787 aiming at“continuing to be a valued personnel team that of“valuation by the ability to take the work forward”which personnel according to our business plans, and we are men (92% of the total) and 321 women (8%). With works hard for global business”and is expanding its is present in the code of conduct. Initiatives are being taken working to employ diverse talent with the necessary skills for globalization in recent years, the proportion of employees at personnel training and activity policy through promoting the with focus on circumstances that are utilized for training. business development. oﬃces overseas is increasing, and the number of employees At the end of FY 2016 (March 31st, 2017), the number of overseas in FY 2016 was about 33% of the total. strengthening plan for young employees as On The Job employees in Japan was 6,072, up 194 people from the year Training (OJT), expanding practical training opportunities, ■ The appraisers and persons being promoting experience of diﬀerent professional duties appraised must have thorough (planned change), planning voluntary staﬀ assignment etc. understanding of structure and standards of Employment status in Japan company system and they must continue to Main Achievements of FY 2016 put in eﬀorts for utilizing this knowledge for FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY Classiﬁcation In addition to stratiﬁed education and specialized training, appraising and training. Male Female Male Female Male Female the DOWA group as a whole conducts extensive training ■ Sharing of organizational goals and Directors 130 0 121 1 128 1 about technology, environment and safety at every oﬃce. In improving of business execution ability has Regular employees Managers 735 12 799 9 758 9 FY 2016, in addition to enhancing selective educational been planned while showing the ability and in Japan opportunities for nurturing the next generation of leaders at conduct required for improving personal Ordinary Employees 2,786 306 2,828 302 2,901 311 every level, we focused on eﬀorts to establish a culture that ranking. Non-regular Dispatched employees 479 529 633 cultivates human resources. employees 924 314 802 318 1,050 281 Training for appraisers and persons being appraised is in Japan Part-time Plan for FY 2017 positioned as a group-wide initiative, and by creating ongoing Total 5,686 5,709 6,072 Every year we review training with the aim of achieving educational opportunities, we strive for fair evaluation, education that is more strategic and essential in order to treatment and training. From FY 2015, we have been Region ‒ wise Number of employees Region nurture talent capable of adapting to the rapidly changing conducting brieﬁng sessions for appraisers and trainings for North America times and environment. In FY 2017, we are planning to persons being appraised at business establishments FY FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Classiﬁcation Europe Central & South America introduce measures to strengthen on-the-job training (OJT) throughout the country, and we continue to consider training Japan 5,686 5,878 6,072 for new and young people in an eﬀort to establish a culture for new managers as priority. n) that cultivates human resources. In addition, we plan to 2,903 2,897 2,899 apa System survey is implemented every year to evaluate the Asia (Other than Japan) nJ develop existing educational measures to expand their area of status of system and operations. The extracted tasks are Asia (Other t Europe 16 22 23 Number of inﬂuence so that as much as possible we can be a human newly added as explanatory items in the brieﬁng session for ha employees North America 92 96 96 per region is resource group that responds to changes in the external appraisers and evaluator training of the following year and 9,091 persons environment, such as the acceleration of diversity or global 3 1 1 we are working on a promotion of employee's understanding Central & South America Jap expansion. towards system and on appropriate operation. an Total 8,700 8,894 9,091 Stratiﬁed Training & Selective Education Career Matching System Number of Total training time Target groups Training details participants (Hours / FY 2016) (People / FY 2016) *Training time only A system that has been introduced with the aim of developing Management staﬀ (continuing) Top management training 57 462 and supporting career of employees and ﬂuidizing human Next-term management Business leader development training resources, wherein the subject person conducts a PR (results staﬀ(continuing) 16 1,440 Administrative staﬀ Management training & achieved till now and desire to materialize these results) for 67 2,275 (continuing) training to develop one’s staﬀ his career and a change is made if both agree in the interview Mid-level employees (continuing) Global Challenge Program 9 4,185 with the oﬃcial of the interested company. The subject Problem solving & thinking ability Mid-level employees (new) special training program 16 320 person can directly express his desire to change to the Mid-level employees Leadership training 48 1,139 recruiting department without going through his superiors and (continuing) his own department. Employees in various industries are Production site Development program for supervisors (new) 20 1,650 starting a career in a new department every year by using this front-line supervisors New employee training, system. Up to 3 years after OJT and follow up training joining the company (skill improvement and self-establishment 222 14,605 (continuing) within the organization) 41 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 42 Society Promoting Diversity educational program for managers who have female Work-Life Balance Promotion of Measures to Reduce Working Hours subordinates. The company and employees are united in Amid global expansion or expansion of business areas in the The DOWA group endeavors to improve the workplace for At oﬃces in Japan, we have reached a labor-management working to raise awareness so it is possible for each member group, employees with multifaceted personality showing their employees. Our work-life balance program aims at helping all agreement about overtime work in accordance with the laws of a diverse workforce to maximize their abilities. In FY 2017, ability is closely linked to the growth of the company. employees to exercise their abilities to the fullest extent and regulations, and have notiﬁed the governing we plan to revise the system and expand measures for according to their lifestyle both at work and at home. We administrative authorities. From FY 2014, we have revised the changing awareness. Expansion of Global Human Resources Pool implemented a more ﬂexible working system like ﬂexible work management system, and made obligatory the working hours and leave of absence system for raising submission of an improvement plan to managers when DOWA Group is progressing from recruiting stage to planning Utilization of Veteran Employees children and caretaking of family members. working hours have exceeded a certain amount. We have based on the concept of working globally without depending We have revised the re-employment system from FY 2013 implemented labor management education targeting new upon nationality as a part of promoting diversity. While and we are setting up an environment where employees who Supporting Diverse Ways of Working managers who are the main constituents for the management recruiting new graduates, Japanese overseas students have reached their retirement age and who wish to work in of working hours. In addition, in FY 2016 we set up an graduating from universities abroad or foreign students that The DOWA Group has introduced a ﬂextime system without the DOWA group even after retirement can work with more advisory committee on labor and management to make graduated in Japan are recruited. Training is given for making core time so that ﬂexible working hours are possible. In motivation according to their role in the reformed system. recommendations about policies and standards for the them familiar with the concept and policy of this company addition to a leave system where one can get leave for Further, a seminar is held for employees who have reached management of working hours. Based on these policies and with consideration of human rights at the time of recruitment volunteer activities, or special incentive leave for working a retirement age with the goal of providing information on life standards, in 2017 we intend to further focus on reducing that is happening rapidly with expansion of employment of certain number of years, we have put in place support plan after retirement and in FY 2016 it was attended by more working hours for all group companies. personnel from various countries and regions. measures beyond those stipulated by the law, such as paid than 70 employees. Training is conducted prior to appointment even for leave for caring for sick children (up to ﬁve days), a voluntary employees that are newly appointed in foreign oﬃces and leave of absence program for childbirth and childcare, and a In-house Questionnaire diversity reception training such as understanding diﬀerent Employment for Physically Challenged partial subsidy system for childcare expenses. The DOWA Group conducts a questionnaire on work-life culture is also conducted. Starting in FY 2015, we are balance for new employees every year. In FY 2016, there was In FY 2016, we were unable to achieve the employment rate launching a global challenge program including on-site System Use Status high interest in a ﬂexible working time system, with more than across the group for the physically challenged. training at overseas oﬃces for the purpose of expanding 90% wanting to utilize ﬂextime and 75% wanting to use short An easy-to-work environment cannot be materialized at our No. of system users is rising every year and persons taking talented personnel who can be active globally. In future too, working hours. Overall, there was also high interest in the reﬁning and metallic processing sites for the physically childcare leave in FY 2016 were 28 women. There were 24 we plan to expand our global human resources pool. system for work-life balance, and regardless of gender, the challenged, therefore, rather than aiming at a uniform men and 24 women who availed nursing leave for children. survey found an eagerness to balance work and family. increase at all business sites, we shall take initiatives to As the situation of availing of the annual salaried leave, an Education of Overseas Staﬀ promote a high-quality working environment in employment average 63% of 20 average granted days were taken. We are Among the initiatives for work-life balance at the DOWA Group,“ﬂextime without core time”and“the initiative to The DOWA group promotes education of the entire group oﬃces and further workplace experience so that we can work working towards improving availing ratio through promoting improve the rate of taking paid vacations”were both valued. including employees in oﬃces overseas. In FY 2016, staﬀ on increasing the employment in parallel with the utilization planned annual holidays and asking for feedback on availing We will keep working on work-life balance initiatives while hired in China, Thailand and Indonesia came to Japan for of the recruitment company that specializes in hiring situation throughout the year according to the working referring to the results of this questionnaire. training about such things as safety, compliance and physically challenged personnel. situation in each of the oﬃces. equipment maintenance. The training was held at our headquarters, major business oﬃces and training centers. In addition to this, the ﬁve operating companies have invited No. of recruited people with disabilities (Persons) No. of average granted days (days) No. of average availed days (days) locally hired staﬀ to Japan for certain periods of technical Employment rate (%) Availing ratio (%) training. (Persons) （％） (days) （％） 70 69 2.0 25 75 Promoting Participation by Women 1.8％ 1.8 20 20 20 60 20 70 While the number of women hired for regular positions is 60 57 1.6 10% to 20% of all those hired, which is not many, the ratio of 15 13 65 1.4％ 1.4％ 12 12 women employees is increasing in the long term due to 1.4 63.0 50 10 60 60.5 changes in the business and workplace environments. 59.0 1.2 It could be said that the foundation for women to actively 5 55 participate is in place as evaluations for recruitment; 40 1.0 50 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 0 promotion and advancement are made according to abilities FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 and without distinction for gender. In FY 2016, in order to make this foundation stronger, we implemented an 43 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 44 Editorial Policy This is the sixth year that I am responsible for giving the third-party opinion of the DOWA Group’ s CSR Report. With the theme of the special feature in this year’ s report being“The （１）Scope of the Report （２） Publishing of the Website Version Advancement of DOWA”, it was deeply interesting to see the roots of the DOWA Group, ■Target Organizations In this report, we are editing and reporting on the main points in order to make the Opinion of a overall picture of the DOWA Group’s CSR activities easy to understand. Detailed and to be told about the transition of the business from the time of its founding. The top In principle, it covers the entire group including DOWA Holdings Co., Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries (in Japan and overseas). However, some initiatives are information and data are posted on our website (scheduled to be published in page gives an overall picture of resource recycling, and you can conﬁrm the role of the Third Party associated with DOWA Holdings and major group companies. December 2017). For information with the following mark, please refer to our DOWA Group as a key player to create a recycling-oriented society. ■Target Areas of the Report website. This report was prepared based on the four areas of the DOWA Group’s CSR Later in the report,“CSR Policy and Planning”is published in a large tabular format across WEB policy ‒ “Corporate Governance”, “Safety”, “ Environment”, and “Society”. We report on each policy, the status of progress for important issues and initiatives If errors are found after publication of the CSR Report (print version), they will be DOWA CSR Report 2017 two pages so that it is easy to understand, and you can see all the initiatives of the DOWA reported on our website. of the target organizations. Group. Within the table, there are the details for the FY 2017 goals, which are speciﬁc （３）Basic Information ■Target Audience compared to the year before, and you can see that they are planning for improvement. ■Publication Date ■Next Scheduled Publication Date The target audience is all stakeholders involved with the corporate activities of the However, as milestones towards the 2020 target, there are items where you do not know December 2017 November 2018 DOWA Group, including customers, shareholders & investors, business partners, how single-year goals will lead to the achievement of the 2020 target, so there is room for local communities, researchers, employees, rating & evaluation agencies, ■Department that Prepared the Report Environment & Safety Department, DOWA Holdings improvement with regards to setting the level and details of the single-year goals. In the government agencies and NGOs & NPOs. ■Target Period ■Website URL Environment section, as always the listing of the material balance is excellent. You can get We mainly report the activities of FY 2016 (April 2016 to March 2017), but in http://www.dowa.co.jp(Japanese) the overall picture of the change in the input and output of resources and energy from the order to convey more accurate information, we also report about some of our previous year. http://www.dowa.co.jp/index_e.html(English) previous initiatives or most recent activities. ■Inquiries ■Reference Guidelines The UN Global Compact CSR Department, DOWA Holdings ■Toward Further Improvement ISO 26000 22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX., 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, As I have pointed out in the last few years with regards to human rights, I believe that the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) by Japan’s Ministry of the Japan 101-0021 time might have come that, along with the company stating its thinking, it should Environment TEL：03-6847-1104 FAX：03-6847-1277 implement speciﬁc initiatives for consideration of human rights within the business process. E-mail address:info_dowa@dowa.co.jp In addition, while it did report on-site inspections and interviews in Thailand two years Target Organizations of the Report ago, and in India last year, in this year’ s report there was no such mention of human rights. For institutional investors who put emphasis on ESG (Environment, Society and Company Location Company Location Governance), I believe that with regards to initiatives for“human rights and the ES Eco-System Akita Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture MT DOWA Power Device Co., Ltd. Nagano Prefecture community”and“occupational safety”that includes the supply chain for companies that ES handle resources, there is a lot of interest from the viewpoint of understanding risk, and it is Eco-System Chiba Co., Ltd. Chiba Prefecture TH DOWA Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Ohta plant Gunma Prefecture necessary to disclose the details of initiatives. For example, in Myanmar where business is ES Eco-System Sanyo Co., Ltd. Okayama Prefecture TH DOWA Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Mooka plant Tochigi Prefecture being expanded, it has been pointed out as a country of concern with regards to human ES Meltec Ltd. Tochigi Prefecture TH DOWA Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu plant Shizuoka Prefecture rights by ESG evaluation agencies and international NGOS, so at the same time that ES Eco-System Japan Co., Ltd. Tokyo and others TH DOWA Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu-Kita plant Shizuoka Prefecture s human rights stance comes into question. business is advancing, the company’ ES Domestic Eco-System Hanaoka Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture TH DOWA Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Chukyo Handa plant Aichi Prefecture Recognition is increasing that the promotion of diversity leads to corporate value over the ES Green Fill Kosaka Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture TH DOWA Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Toyota plant Aichi Prefecture medium to long term. By 2020, the government has set the goal for about 30% of managers ES E-Square Inc. Geotechnos Co., Ltd. Tokyo TH DOWA Thermoengineering Co., Ltd.Shiga plant Shiga Prefecture to be women, and each company is systemically working on this. Looking at the actual ES E&E Solutions Inc. Tokyo TH CEMM Co., Ltd. Aichi Prefecture numbers, the ratio of women has declined slightly, but by saying that they are putting eﬀort ES Eco-System., East Japan Plant Saitama Prefecture HD DOWA Techno Engineering Co., Ltd. Okayama Prefecture President into hiring women for regular positions, I expect to see results in the future. While the Hiro Motoki ES characteristics of the industry might make things diﬃcult, they have not reached the 2% Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd., West Japan Plant Okayama Prefecture HD Unekura Mining Co., Ltd. Hokubu Oﬃce Akita Prefecture target that the government has set for hiring people with disabilities, and they should ES Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd., North Japan Plant Akita Prefecture HD Unekura Mining Co., Ltd. Seibu Oﬃce Okayama Prefecture explain what kind of actions they are taking. ES Eco-System Kosaka Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture HD DOWA Holdings Co., Ltd. Tokyo Headquarters Tokyo ES Eco-System Okayama Co., Ltd. Okayama Prefecture ES PT.Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri Indonesia It is also regrettable that the explanation on“the relationship between business and social ES Eco-recycling Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture ES Bangpoo Environmental Complex Ltd. Thailand issues”that was included in the report until last year, has now been deleted. I think it was E-Square is a consulting company an important page that properly told readers what kind of a recognition of issues that ES Domestic Act-B Recycling Co., Ltd. Kumamoto Prefecture ES Eastern Seaboard Environmental Complex Co.,Ltd. Thailand aiming to realize a sustainable management had as they developed business. The information about the CSR initiatives of ES Auto Recycle Akita Co., Ltd Akita Prefecture ES Technochem Environmental Complex Pte.Ltd. Singapore society through support of corporate the subsidiaries overseas has also disappeared, and it can’ t be denied that it has become ES DOWA TSUUN Co., Ltd. Iwate Prefecture ES DOWA Environmental Management Co., Ltd. China diﬃcult to see the initiatives of each oﬃce globally. sustainability and CSR management. MM Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture ES DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. Singapore Since April 2001, as manager of MM Nippon PGM Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture MM NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. America E-Square Consulting Business, he has ■Expectations for Future Initiatives MM Akita Zinc Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture MM （Thailand）Co.,Ltd. DOWA METALS & MINING Thailand Japan’ s Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) explains the importance of ESG from been lending support to various the viewpoint of long-term investment. In October 2017, it revised its investment principles MM Overseas Akita Rare Metals Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture MT DOWA Advanced Materials(shanghai) Co., Ltd. China ﬁelds such as CSR, strategies related to include the viewpoint of ESG for all asset management, including stock investment. For MM Akita Zinc Solutions Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture MT DOWA Metaltech(Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand to environment and CSV, companies, the relationship with investors expecting a long-term improvement in corporate MM Akita Zinc Recycling Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture TH DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. America value is important. It is essential for companies to put more eﬀort into ESG information communication, internal penetration EL DOWA Semiconductor Akita Co., Ltd. Akita Prefecture TH Kunshan DOWA Thermo Furnace Co., Ltd. China disclosure and to communicate it themselves. etc. and focusing on large EL DOWA Electronics Materials Okayama Co., Ltd. Okayama Prefecture TH DOWA Thermotech(Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand In the part“Communication with Shareholders and Investors”, the theme is only related to enterprises covering a wide range of IR activities from the past, but in addition to these activities, they also need to touch upon EL DOWA IP Creation Co., Ltd. Okayama Prefecture TH PT.DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA Indonesia industries. He has conducted future eﬀorts to promote engagement with institutional investors. And as the base for this EL DOWA F-Tec Co., Ltd. Okayama Prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Bangalore Plant India numerous lecture activities related engagement, active disclosure of ESG information is required. MT DOWA Metal Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Nelamangara Plant India Precisely because the DOWA Group can provide services through the value chain with to CSR, ESG and environment. MT DOWA Metanix Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Gurgaon Plant India regards to the increasingly serious problem of resources, I am conﬁdent that by properly MT Chiba Prefecture India communicating that ESG is integrated into the business, it will lead to a future improvement Hoei Shoji Co., Ltd. TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Chennai Plant of corporate value over the medium to long term. MT New-Nippon Brass Co., Ltd. Chiba Prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Pune Plant India MT DOWA Hightech Co., Ltd. Saitama Prefecture ES DOWA Eco System MM DOWA Metal Mine EL DOWA Electronics MT DOWA Metaltech TH DOWA Thermotech HD DOWA Holdings 45 DOWA CSR REPORT 2017 46
