COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2018 contents p.3 STAT E M E NT O F ALE X B O N G RA I N PRE S I D E NT O F SAV E N CI A F ROM AG E & DA I RY p.4 T HE 1 0 PRI NC I P LE S O F TH E U N I TE D N ATI ON S GLO BAL COM PAC T p.5 APPLI C AT I O N O F TH E P R I N CI P L E S O F TH E G LO BA L COM PAC T W I T HI N SAVE NC I A F ROM AG E & DA I RY Human Rights p.6 Labour p.12 Environment p.14 Anti-Corruption p.17 p.18 VE RI F I C AT I O NS AN D CO N COR DA N CE CONTACT For any further information about this communication, please contact: Fabienne Boroni – Director of Corporate Communication – fabienne.boroni@lalliance.com Please send us your comments and suggestions. They will enable us to improve our next communication. s statement by the President Social and environmental responsibility is at the heart of the Group’s major concerns. Every year since 2003, we renew our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Committed to sustainable progress throughout the value chain, we work daily with all our stakeholders, to offer quality, healthy and responsible products, while reducing the carbon footprint of our activities. Day by day, alongside our employees, we are committed to building an approach of constant improvement to continually improve our practices and create the conditions for sustainable growth. In accordance with the provisions of the French law of December 2016 (the so-called “Sapin II law”) about transparency, fighting corruption and modernization of the economy, we established a Surveillance Program to identify and prevent breaches of human rights and fundamental liberties. In the countries and regions in which we are present, we foster on close relationships with the local community, by participating in economic and social development and by promoting the professional fulfilment of employees. Strongly committed to our vocation “Leading the way to better food”, we come together to sustainably develop high-quality food. By this new Communication focusing on Progress, we invite you to learn more about the actions of the Group and its subsidiaries, fully devoted to our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Alex Bongrain President -3COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 the 10 principes of the United Nations Global Compact H UM AN R I GHTS EN VI RO N M EN T PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection Businesses should support a precautionary approach to of internationally proclaimed human rights. environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 8 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental abuses. responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. L AB OU R PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective A N TI CO R RU P TI O N bargaining. PRINCIPLE 10 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory including extortion and bribery. labour. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. -4COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 a application of the principles of the United Nations Global Compact -5COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 Human Rights TERMS OF PRI NC IPL E S OF TH E A P P L I C AT I O N A ND GLOBA L COM PAC T P RO G RE S S I N 20 1 7 VALUE S AND 1. Businesses should support G OAL S OF T HE G ROUP and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Our Group is made up of companies of a human scale, rights. united by a humanist, family and entrepreneurial culture. OUR VALUES 2 . Make sure that they are not T olerance: accepting and understanding others. complicit in human rights abuses. C ourage: exercising one’s responsibilities fully and recognising one’s errors. H onesty: respecting the truth and not masking it. L oyalty: being true to the Group which, in turn, CON T R I B U TI N G TO TH E supports its members. U N I T E D NATI O N S’ S U STA I N ABL E DE V E LOPM E N T GOA L S Leading the way to better food, securing quality and respecting nature, developing and promoting our employees, investing to ensure profitable growth and permanence of the Group, contributing to the common good: our Group has always thrived to respect and apply these values deploying its responsible and sustainable strategy. This commitment, shared by all our employees, aims at favouring balanced performance combining economic and social development while respecting people and the environment. Similarly, the satisfaction of our customers and attentive listening to the stakeholders are the major themes of our excellence-oriented management approach. ETHICAL CHARTER The Ethical Charter “The Group and its Culture” is given to each employee joining the Group. It states the principles and the rules of conduct that apply within all Group companies. This Charter underlines the ten fundamental principles of the Global Compact and states that each employee has a duty to alert whenever the employee believes that a violation of the Group’s ethics has been committed. -6COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 GOV E RN A N C E O F TH E COM PANY Our progress The Board of Directors decides on the objectives and chooses the Strategy of the Group, in keeping with According to the 2017 its culture and its values. The Board is assisted by two Great Place to Work survey, specialised committees. 76% of the staff of SAVENCIA Ressources T  he Audit and Risks Committee, which carries out Laitières declared that it is its task in the fields of external statutory audit, internal “a great place to work”. control and the Group’s half-yearly and annual financial statements and financial announcements. T  he Committee for Management, Remunerations Certain subsidiaries have signed additional profitand Social and Environmental Responsibility: with sharing agreements designed to promote greater regard to the various aspects of the policies for Social commitment by employees to their companies’ and Environmental Responsibility and Sustainable performance or to the achievement of goals of quality, Development defined by the Group, it advises the productivity or safety at work etc. Board. Similarly, agreements the prevention of particularly painful working conditions have also been reached GROU P ’S M E M B E R S by certain subsidiaries. They may, for example, provide for special pre-retirement working arrangements for SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has developed a employees subject to harsh working conditions. responsible Human Resources policy respecting the International Human Rights Conventions. It is anchored TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT in its humanistic culture designed to ensure the The recognition of the personal and collective Group’s growth and sustainability with the support of contributions of our workforce enables us to celebrate its employees and to develop their talents by providing their individual and collective commitment, thus each and every-one the opportunity to grow and favoring their skills and their employability. achieve his/her full potential within the Group. To that end, the Group seeks constantly to offer its M  ore than 50% of the permanent workforce has employees a professional environment propitious to been with us for more than ten years. SAVENCIA their wellbeing. Fromage & Dairy encourages internal mobility both within and between its subsidiaries and at all levels. Trust and respect, associated with the importance of Every year, each subsidiary conducts a careers treating everyone with dignity, are essential bases for review, making it possible to prepare the possible relations between employees. Similarly, Tolerance, career development of their staff and facilitate internal illustrated by accepting and understanding others, is itineraries between subsidiaries, jobs and countries. one of the four founding values of the Group, along with Courage, Honesty and Loyalty. The training offered by the Group draws on recognized internal and external expertise. To accompany changing Since 2009, the “Great Place to trends in working practices, new skills are developed. Work” employee surveys have SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy supports its employees in been performed periodically at following those trends by strengthening their expertise all subsidiaries. They measure the and commitment, respecting the Group’s values. social climate by allowing all staff members to say what they think T  raining for all has also been put in place. In 2017, anonymously and express their 222 189 hours of practical training were undertaken. expectations. Employees are informed of the results, Some specific programs, of: which are used by each subsidiary to identify areas training for new managers; for progress and implement action plans. It allows “Management Excellence” seminars for managers; subsidiaries to fine-tune their human resource practices support for Group policies in the areas of safety, risk and results. prevention etc.; personal skills training such as in the techniques of communication, project management or negotiation; -7COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 functional seminars such as in Marketing Excellence , T he Group’s approach requires commitment and Sales Excellence , HR Excellence or our SAVENCIA exemplary behaviour by all, in all the applicable Academy which offers industrial managers courses working environments, whether industrial, logistical focusing on cheese and dairy knowhow with the or administrative. The approach also relies on the emphasis on manufacturing, quality and research. specific methods and tools available to employees, to help in their progress. S AVENCIA Fromage & Dairy encourages training and the recognition of experience sanctioned by T he World Health and Safety Week mobilizes diplomas such as France’s Certificats de Qualification each year the Group’s employees on a specific Professionnelle. theme. In 2017, the 5th World Health and Safety Week highlighted musculoskeletal problems and healthy T he Group has also decided to promote the living by organizing workshops around muscle transmission of skills by conferring on Great Masters stimulation. A safety challenge was also organised to and Experts the mission of passing on and preserving design a pedagogic video. the dairy know-how specific to the Group. T he Charter for Health & Safety at Work prevails all as a genuine Group culture. It states that wellbeing, protection of physical integrity and the health of the Our progress people working in the Group must be everybody’s concern. To prevent safety risks for temporary Over 5 years, the number employees, specific training is organized to raise of training sessions has increased by their awareness of health and safety issues. Similarly, this year the Group put in place since 2016 48%, from 3,971 in an indicator including safety in the workplace of 2013 to 5,875 in 2017. temporary workers: the TFi (rate of frequency of accidents in the workplace, including temporary workers): 11.3 in 2017. The Group commits to all its workforce in all countries, and sets up internal mobility, support or regrading A Worldwide Safety Framework including the systems so as to “never leave an employee confront a essential best practices to be implemented, reminds problem of employment alone”. all production units of the 10 golden rules of safety and circulates prevention messages. It has been HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK deployed and its enforcement is audited by our Health and safety at work are major priorities of our in-house teams. The Group’s monthly monitoring, Group. For this, we are orchestrating a worldwide including the Flash info Accident Groupe, helps raise mobilization and training program in order to awareness at subsidiaries. improve health and safety at work on a sustainable basis. E ach entity defines its specific rules and formalizes In 2017, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has pursued the an action plan with defined and controlled objectives. actions engaged in Health and Safety at Work with its To optimize the benefits, an accident monitoring awareness-raising “Safety is OUR business!” program, and analysis tool and regular reporting contribute to with a zero accident objective. progress for these actions. B ehavioral Safety Inspections rally top management, line managers and operatives with Our progress the goal of identifying and eliminating situations conducive to risk, and enable employees to share In 2017, 36 subsidiaries, their thoughts on safety as a means of providing a close to half, showed better understanding of exposure to risk. 0 accident. Safety prevention plans are also developed for the benefit of suppliers and subcontractors working on our sites. -8COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 In France, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy provides S AVENCIA Fromage & Dairy facilitates the assistance and psychological help. Managers have also establishment of young producers through been made more aware of the forms psycho-social allocation of volumes, financial support, fixing of risks can take. their margin for 3 years and continuing training. In 2017, within a particularly difficult context for milk producers, the Group maintained its 2016 offer of M I L K PRO D U C E R S support for young producers in the form a specific bonus which was taken up by all those concerned. SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy collects over 4 billion liters Young farmers represent about 15% of all milk of cow, goat and ewe milk, from 12,000 producers all producers. over the world. It is essential for our Group to promote this partnership which develops long-term relations A fter having helped cow milk producers group with our producers, in a context of shared progress. themselves within Producer Organizations, we have renewed with goat and ewe milk producers. In 2017, In France, which represents three quarters of our global 100% of the ewe’s milk producers delivering to the milk collection, the Savencia Ressources Laitières Group have grouped themselves into two Producer teams are the preferred contacts for the Producers’ Organizations with contractual relationships enabling Organisations (POs) and the Cooperatives that supply us to work together for the long term. them with milk. The 15 POs represent 2,700 producers We also collect more than 125 million liters of goat of the dairy areas close to our dairies and cheese plants. milk from our producers and in the framework of a partnership with the Terra Lacta cooperative. SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy also help young goat farmers via the installation support pack developed Our progress with Terra Lacta. 95% of our milk collection W e are also working in partnership with dairy cooperatives, some of which are directly associated takes place within 70 km of our dairies and cheese plants in with optimizing value of milk: France. In France, Agrial is a shareholder of our subsidiary Compagnie Laitière Européenne. Union Bressor is a partner in the production of Bleu de Bresse, S AVENCIA Fromage & Dairy is strongly involved and the Terra Lacta cooperative is a shareholder in in assuring the permanence of the sector. Dairy Fromageries Lescure. Resources Coordinators are in daily contact with In Argentina, the cooperative AUT is a shareholder the producers in order to evolve the milk production in our subsidiary Milkaut, one of the leaders in the practices. Milk producers also carry nomadic country’s dairy processing. devices to input all the information that is then available on the dedicated milk producers’ website www.terroirs-de-lait.com. SUPPL IE R S A t the heart of our relations with the producers, the We have always given preference to sustainable Group endeavours to also offer advice, assistance cooperation with our suppliers and have put everything and training in order to improve breeding practices in place for a dynamic partnership towards mutual and milk quality, and thus ensure the sustainable progress. performance of the farms. W e evaluate our suppliers according to several T he Group is dynamically involved in the criteria: product quality, quality of the partnership, modernization of farms and their management. and competitiveness, including the ability to offer Always looking to link the improvement of economic more economical or more sustainable solutions. performance with the reduction in the environmental To enable suppliers to present their new products and impact, 1,200 French farms have committed to processes, we organize Innovation Forums. These our approach of Sustainable Milk Production. meetings emphasize a collaborative approach and Other countries, such as Germany, Spain, Poland the importance of developing innovative solutions. and Slovakia, are mobilizing for sustainable farming practices combining naturalness and profitability -9COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 A ll incoming managers and buyers are trained in the consumers consultation through consumer panels Group’s responsible procurement policy. which evaluate all aspects of product quality on an ongoing basis; A Procurement Code of Conduct governs our natural and nutritionally balanced recipes; buyers’ commitments in their relationship with full and accurate information about each product. suppliers. It applies to four main areas: ethics and integrity, communication and collaboration, M ilk contains nutritional benefits essential at every performance and progress, and responsible and stage of life: protecting the immune system and sustainable procurement. regulating functions such as growth for the young, intake of calcium for all, combating osteoporosis for S imilarly, a Charter for Responsible Purchasing sets the elderly. the Group policy pertaining to responsible purchases. Widely distributed to suppliers, who are invited to O ur Ingredients division endeavours to improve confirm their adherence, it is also systematically our knowledge of these mechanisms by optimising communicated in all requests for tender. the exclusive extraction processes and highly  Buyers are required to identify the appropriate effective formulations in order to enhance the active companies of the sector and the social enterprises able ingredients of the milk for nutrition and health. to offer the products and services they are seeking. I n response to the issue of respect for the cold I n France, the Group is a signatory of the “Charte chain, we produce and market dairy desserts in Relations Fournisseur Responsable de la Médiation aseptic packaging: they benefit from long shelf life des Entreprises et du Conseil National des Achats”. at ambient temperature technology. These products It promotes responsible purchasing and long-term make it possible to supply consumers in Africa, the partnerships between large and small companies of Middle East and Asia through circuits that do not the same industry, and to support the competitiveness require a cold chain. and financial equilibrium of large and small SME suppliers. NUTRITION SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy is committed to continuous T he social and environmental performance of improvement and attaches great importance to our main suppliers is assessed by EcoVadis using a optimizing the nutritional quality of the products it consistent methodology. Areas for progress identified offers its customers and promoting a balanced diet to are shared with the vendors concerned. consumers. I n order to answer the nutritional priorities of each CON SUMER S consumer, we also offer low-fat, reduced-salt, lactosefree and calcium-and vitamin-enriched products PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY or milk-free for babies allergic to cow milk proteins. In all the countries where we are present, we offer In 2017, Brazil has improved its totemic Polenguinho consumers products that fit them, signed by wellcheese, in order to offer a version with reduced levels known brands which most often belong to the heritage of salt, fat and calories. of those countries. Each product is designed, manufactured and marketed W e also offer organic products, as the Modilac Bio, with a flawless quality requirement upon which is built and additives-free products. In 2017, Elle & Vire has the unwavering trust of the consumers. launched its light cream, which contains no additives. W e work from common references and use tools that S ince 2016, the Group has been working on use of the have proved themselves: Nudge methodology with the concept of behavioral a quality policy founded on the principles of economics and that consists in encouraging ISO 9001 and a food safety policy applying individuals, without forcing them, to adopt habits ISO 22000 and, depending on the markets, BRC or that are beneficial for themselves, their communities IFS Food certifications; and/or the planet. high quality of raw materials with, for France, the  In 2017, an initial Nudge project, involving the adhesion of all our producers to the Good Farming Caprice des Dieux brand and its En Cas de Caprice Practices Charter; product, won the Nudging for Good Award for local establishments enabling in-depth knowledge Health and Sustainability, with an innovative product of local usages and tastes; format and packaging combination. The concept 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 – the product is in cylindrical form and easy to slice with its strips visualizing 15 g portions – helps the consumer simultaneously improve control over his or her consumption and reap the product’s natural nutritional benefits. I n an approach combining nutritional balance and gustative pleasure, we offer sound and natural products integrating nutritional criteria. We help and encourage the consumer to adopt responsible consumption habits by the provision of clear and transparent information on our products’ nutritional composition as well as serving-size information for our major brands. C I T I ZE N S H I P, S O LI DA R I T Y SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy attaches great importance to its subsidiaries and workers encouraging initiatives which promote solidarity, health, education, training and social insertion. T he French subsidiaries of the Group have participated for 7 years already in “l’Arrondi sur salaire”. The principle consists of volunteer workers offering from a few cents up to 3 euros of their net salary each month. The Group undertakes to match this gift and redistribute the total sum in the form of microcredits via four associations: Adie, PlaNet Finance, Planet Urgence and Vaincre Noma. In Germany, a similar programme called Restcent-Aktion finances solidarity initiatives in the health and food sectors. “ Bien Nourrir l’Homme”: it’s the name of the Group’s Endowment Fund, which supports volunteer workers in socially responsible initiatives in France and all over the world. In 2017, the Endowment Fund has decided to support the YARA association to drill a well in Niger and install a pump, thereby enabling the pupils of a boarding school in Zinder to access water throughout the year and to create a vegetable garden. T he establishment of the “Socially Inclusive Vacation” has also enabled four French workers to undertake missions to provide a real contribution to the local populations in Madagascar, Ecuador and Cameroon while sharing their culture and enthusiasm. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 Labour TERMS OF PRI NC IPL E S OF TH E A P P L I C AT I O N A ND GLOBA L COM PAC T P RO G RE S S I N 20 1 7 Communication and discussions between the different 3. Businesses should uphold the staff representatives take place with listening and freedom of association and the mutual respect. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Concerning the fundamental topic of the abolition of child labour and the elimination of all forms of discrimination in the workplace, all Group entities 4. The elimination of all forms of apply the conventions of the International Labour forced and compulsory labour. Organization (ILO) relative to the fundamental rights and principles in the workplace. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. E NSURE NOND ISCRIM INAT ION AND E QUAL OPP ORT UNIT Y AT 6. The elimination of discrimination WORK in respect of employment and Concerning access to employment, pay, skills occupation development, professional mobility and personal development, the Group endeavours to support each person and equal treatment for all. Wishing to CON T R I B U TI N G TO TH E train managers in diversity, the Group gives particular U N I T E D NATI O N S’ S U STA I N ABL E attention to equal opportunity and non-discrimination. DE V E LOPM E N T GOA L S The Group’s Ethical Charter restates that respect for persons, and equal opportunity, are pillars of our corporate culture. T he Group takes heart in conducting an active policy concerning the integration of young people, the maintenance of seniors in work, and the professional insertion of disabled persons. This firm desire is illustrated by specific training, mentoring, and dedicated positions and missions. I n France, appropriate measures complement and reinforce past initiatives in favor of nondiscrimination on the basis of age: mentoring, lifelong training, improved working conditions and prevention of job stress or duress in particular for personnel nearing retirement. The measures supporting the integration of young employees have been continued: mentors, induction courses such as the Graduate Program, etc. 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 A  look at age shows that the over-55s represent 17% of the permanent workforce of the Group. The youngest, those under 24, 3,5%. Seniors, in the second part of their career, thus have a genuine role in transferring skills, which also makes it possible to emphasize their knowledge and talents. W  ith 39% of the total workforce and almost 39,8% of the management, women are well represented within the Group. The Group takes pride, through a good conduct guide sent to recruitment firms, in offering mixed lists of candidates in order to guarantee professional equality between men and women within the social development of the Group. I n 2017, for the 9th consecutive year, France received the “Top Employer France” award, rewarding the quality of its managerial practices and human resources management tools at people’s service. Germany, Belgium, Spain and Poland also received once again the “Top Employer” award. The “Top Employer Europe” award was also awarded for the 5th consecutive time at the Group. MOBI L I Z ATI O N I N FAVO R O F T HE DI SABL E D SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy facilitates the access to and continuing employment of disabled people via appropriate recruitment, support and training processes, individualized welcome and integration and adaptation of premises, workstations and working hours. C  ertain subsidiaries have signed agreements to help their staff obtain Recognition of Handicapped Worker Status. T he Handicap Week provides the opportunity for events and workshops designed to raise employees’ awareness and perception of handicaps, fight stereotypes and promote the recruitment and maintained employment of handicapped persons. C  ollaboration is also developed with sheltered workshops and similar entities. In France, a site has implemented a new system of selective sorting and recycling of its office waste in partnership with a company which employs handicapped persons or facing difficulties of professional insertion. 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 Environment TERMS OF PRI NC IPL E S OF TH E A P P L I C AT I O N A ND GLOBA L COM PAC T P RO G RE S S I N 20 1 7 Environmental protection forms an integral part of 7. Businesses should support the Group’s industrial policy. We are committed to a precautionary approach to lasting improvement all along the value chain from environmental challenges. raw materials management to delivery of the finished product. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. E NCOURAG E E NVIRONM E NTAL M ANAG E M E NT 9. Encourage the development and All the Group’s subsidiaries are required to respect diffusion of environmentally friendly the same commitments and each production unit is technologies. committed to an approach of progress in which the stakeholders participate. CON T R I B U TI N G TO TH E  pstream, the Group’s approach is based on promoting U U N I T E D NATI O N S’ S U STA I N ABL E reasoned farming practices designed to reduce farms’ DE V E LOPM E N T GOA L S carbon footprints and other environmental impacts, and optimizing milk collection. A  manager or technical department is responsible for the operational deployment of environmental protection measures at every site.  The operational units implement appropriate prevention and protection policies thanks to an evaluation system of the safety of industrial sites and their respect for the rules. A  t the head office, the Group’s industrial department supports subsidiaries in the operational implementation of environmental protection measures, supervises their improvement plans, promotes sharing of best practices and monitors changes in their environmental indicators. It also helps them obtain their ISO 14001 certification, by checking the improvement program put in place and their results. A  monitoring and expertise department has the mission of identifying and transmitting on innovations and best internal and external practices in environmental protection and life cycle management within the subsidiaries. 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 S U STAI N A B LE U S E O F processes, adjustment of cleaning frequencies and R E SOU RCE S rinsing times, and the use of filtered whey water for washing. In 2017, our Spanish Arias subsidiary has thus The Group’s commitment to limiting its environmenreduced its Vegalencia plant’s water consumption by tal impact involves every level of management and all 15% since 2016. processes with potential impacts. T he plants are also assessed according to their energy T he Group engages in continuous review of efficiency. In 2017, the Group’s energy consumption manufacturing processes in order to maximize amounted to 7,945 GJ, a fall of 0.9% compared with milk transformation and enhance byproducts 2016. The performance reflects the effectiveness of value. The standardization of processes and operating best energy practices deployed at sites. A steering methods, the generalization of high performance committee engages in periodic monitoring in order equipment, as well as loss reduction plans, all help to accelerate the momentum of progress in three reduce consumptions. main areas: energy production and transformation, energy distribution and energy consumption. A  ll employees are actively engaged and trained in environmental protection, and each site I n order to reduce energy consumption, some of our undertakes to control its consumption, with targets production facilities use renewable energies. Thus, updated each year. In 2017 several sites engaged in five sites are equipped with wood boilers. Local supply environmental protection training and information of is preferred and in France, the wood consumed is employees including. sourced from renewable forests managed by the “Office National des Forêts”. The biomass boilers W  e deploy all available resources to reduce the replace fossil energy and have increased to 3.9% impact of our activities: the proportion of renewable energy used for steam we measure the value of every drop of milk and try production. to reduce loss and waste; In India, a site now covers 5% of its daily electricity 74,9% of non-dangerous industrial waste is recycled consumption by means of the installation of by category. In 2017, its tonnage fell by 4.6% like-forphotovoltaic panels on its roof. like; we save energy and reduce emissions; T  he processing and recycling of our manufacturing we optimize transports; facilities effluents are naturally in line with the we save water, we reduce and process waste; Group’s CSR process. Methanization is a natural we favor eco-designed packaging. biological process of micro-organic degradation of Thus, Fromageries Perreault transformed the Fol Épi matter and is a solution for the recycling of organic pack in order to reduce the use of plastic. With a matter into energy production, in place in several of quite adequate replacement material entirely suitable our subsidiaries. Fro’ thus recycles 100% of its organic for contact with food, the Fol Épi pack reduced in waste using its milk producers’ methanization plants. thickness by 20%. The waste is recycled both as energy and digestates spread in the fields, to improve fertilization. T he implementation and monitoring of action plans are carried out by specialized cross functional committees (for water, energy, raw materials etc.) which help to identify and disseminate sites’ best Our progress practices. At our Vegalencia site in Spain, T he Group launched an industrial performance 100% of organic waste is improvement program based on fighting waste recycled as energy. with the objective of reducing raw materials and packaging losses, overconsumption of energy, water and cleaning products, unnecessary travel, etc. W  ater consumption in 2017 was 15.8 16 million cubic meters. Numerous measures are deployed onsite in order to control consumption: installation of closed circuits for cooling water, optimization of cleaning 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 COMBAT IN G C LI M ATE C H A NG E PROMOT E A HE ALT HY AND SUSTAINABL E FO OD MOD E L The Group prides itself on improving the carbon footprint of its activity. All stages of the value chain are In the framework of its vocation of “Leading the way improved in order to reduce the environmental impact. to better food” and with all its stakeholders, the Group is firmly committed to developing eco-responsibility, T he Group’s contribution to combating climate improved nutrition, food safety and the fight against change this is organized through the establishment food waste. of a “sustainable dairy production” commitment, and an analysis conducted by independent experts I n 2017, Savencia Fromage & Dairy contributed according to 10 indicators, including in particular to the “États Généraux de l’Alimentation” via carbon footprint, animal wellbeing, sustainable two workshops. The first was entitled “Adapting management of resources, herd food autonomy, etc. agricultural production to market needs and processors’ requirements”. The second was devoted I n France, at yearend 2017 and for the 1,200 farms to the “Ecological and solidary transition of French diagnosed within Savencia Fromage & Dairy, the agriculture via the promotion of sustainable food”. average net carbon footprint amounted to 0.82 kg of  Directly involved with the various players in CO2 per liter of milk compared with a national average the industry, the Group has committed to the of 0.91 kg. development, the implementation and the achievement of the industry plan by subscribing to all the five year commitments proposed in the “France Terre de Lait” plan. Our progress I n order to limit food waste, other actions have About been developed in several subsidiaries, such as development of appropriate sizes or donations. 164,000 tons of In the framework of the election of France’s Favorite carbon equivalent saved in France from 2010 to Marketplace, St Môret distributes anti-waste recipes 2017. designed to give new freshness to fruit and vegetables past their best. St Môret also works alongside an association which collects unsold produce on the markets. T ransport, with the fleets of milk collection trucks, is also concerned by the environmental responsibility and energy saving approach. Our drivers are trained in eco-driving and our fleets are equipped with tractors meeting Europe’s EEV (Enhanced Environmentally friendly Vehicule) standard, one of the world’s strictest with regard to the emission of pollutants. I n France, transport subsidiaries subscribe to the “CO2, Carriers Commit” charter. We optimize our milk collection rounds and use tankers adapted to each zone’s dairy density. The optimization of delivery rounds by using energy-efficient trucks and a dedicated system which has produced, like-for-like, a 6.5% saving in kilometers covered in 2017 compared to 2016. T he Group ensures that new equipment emits lower levels of greenhouse gases, in particular in the case of boilers and cooling equipment within a renewal program. 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 Anti-corruption F rance’s law on the Duty of Care has created a legally enforceable requirement for the Group to identify PRI NC IPL E S OF TH E and prevent breaches of human rights, fundamental GLOBA L COM PAC T liberties, health and safety and environmental damage with regard not just to its own activities but to the activities of the companies it controls. The Group’s resulting risk-mapping has enabled 10. Businesses should work against the preparation of a Surveillance Program whose all forms of corruption, including measures will be monitored and assessed for extortion and bribery. effectiveness, by means of specific indicators, the whole of which will be supervised by the Group’s Compliance Director appointed in 2017. F raud prevention is an important subject which T ER M S OF mobilizes all Management Committees around the Group. With the aim of helping the subsidiaries APPLI C ATIO N A N D reinforce the anti-fraud systems put in place, a guide PRO GRE S S IN 2 0 1 7 to good prevention practice has been published. O  n their part, the entities of the Group undertake The fight against all forms of fraud and corruption is a to: priority of the business culture of the Group. Its ethical obey the international provisions against terrorism charter and its internal control system help with the and money laundering and to combat fraud and prevention and detection of all forms of corruption. corruption; The most vulnerable countries are the subject of very behave in compliance with the principles of fair careful attention on these essential points. competition, respecting all applicable laws; promote their products and services honestly and Honesty and loyalty are two of the 4 published loyally. values of the Group. Trust and mutual interest are at the very foundation of the relationships that the Group wishes to build with its partners. For this, suppliers are selected particularly on these principles through open and competitive calls for tenders. A Procurement Code of Conduct makes it possible to display the rules that buyers apply with the suppliers in the four major areas: ethics and integrity, communication and collaboration, performance and progress, and lastly responsible and sustainable procurement. In accordance with the provisions of the French law of December 2016 (the so-called “Sapin II law”) on the subject of transparency, fighting corruption and modernization of the economy, the Group is required to map its exposure to external solicitation for the purposes of corruption in terms notably of the geographic zones in which it operates. 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 verifications and concordance With an ever more assertive wish to work as close as possible to the universal principles on Human Rights, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has chosen indicators capable of reporting transparently and clearly for the non-financial performance of the CSR actions of the Group. The CSR reporting meets the requirements of the implementing decree of Article 225 of the French “Grenelle II” Law of 10 July 2010 (Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105-1 and R. 225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code). This approach is now fully integrated into the operational processes of the subsidiaries, themselves revised on a voluntary basis by the Statutory Auditors since 2002. Since 2013, the whole range of the Group’s social, environmental and societal indicators has been subject to review by one of the Group’s Statutory Auditors designated as an independent third party as defined in the framework of the Grenelle II law. The 2017 Annual Activity and Sustainable Development Report of SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy presents the way in which the Group and all its subsidiaries put in place and promote the ten universal principles relative to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. It includes in particular a cross-reference table with the social, environmental and corporate information required in France and that required under the Global Reporting Initiative (p71-72). 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SAVENCIA FROMAGE & DAIRY SEPTEMBER 2018 SAVENCIA SA L’Alliance 42 rue Rieussec 78220 Viroflay France Tél. : +33 (0)1 34 58 63 00
