BUILDING A NEW FUTURE TOGETHER RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2017 CONTENTS A B O U T T H E R E Z I D O R H O T E L G R O U P 3 L E T T E R F R O M T H E P R E S I D E N T & C E O 5 R E S P O N S I B L E B U S I N E S S H I G H L I G H T S 7 E V E R Y M O M E N T M AT T E R S 5 Y E A R P L A N 8 M A T E R I A L I T Y A N D S T A K E H O L D E R S 9 O R G A N I Z A T I O N A N D G O V E R N A N C E 11 T H I N K P E O P L E 1 8 T H I N K C O M M U N I T Y 3 6 T H I N K P L A N E T 4 2 APPENDICES E C O L A B E L L E D H O T E L S U N S U S T A I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T G O A L S U N G L O B A L C O M P A C T C O M P L I A N C E G R I S T A N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S T A B L E M O D E R N S L AV E R Y S T A T E M E N T AUDITOR’S REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 1 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES OF THIS REPORT The 2017 Rezidor Hotel Group Responsible Financial data presented in our Responsible Business Report describes the most Business Report is derived from audited material corporate responsibility and annual accounts. For all external reporting, sustainability aspects of our operations, currencies have been converted to euros not the full range of our actions and data. (€). Our financial reporting accounting Unless otherwise stated, the information in principles and currency conversion rates this report refers to the calendar year 2017. are stated in Rezidor’s 2017 Annual Report. The Rezidor Hotel Group applies the Unless indicated, achievements mentioned precautionary principle. The Responsible in this report cover all hotels which are Business Report also fulfills the statutory managed, leased, or franchised by The sustainability reporting requirements in the Rezidor Hotel Group. This includes 369 Swedish Annual Accounts Act (based on properties which were in operation on 31 the EU Directive 2014/95). It is prepared in December 2017. For new hotels that were line with the GRI G4 Disclosure Guideline, in opened in 2017, or hotels that discontinued accordance – Core option. operations during the year, data is only reported for the months they were in This is Rezidor’s 12th annual Responsible operation. Rezidor has limited the reporting Business Report. boundaries to areas in which the company has full control over data collection and information quality. Downstream impacts are generally excluded as we do not currently have reliable tools to measure their effect. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2 AT A G L A N C E ABOUT THE REZIDOR HOTEL GROUP Rezidor Hotel Group AB The Rezidor Hotel Group features a portfolio of 472 hotels with more than (publ) (REZT), publicly 104,000 rooms in operation or under listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, development in 78 countries across EMEA. The Rezidor Hotel Group and Sweden, is one of the its brands have 45,500 team members largest hotel companies across EMEA. Rezidor has an industryleading Responsible Business Program in Europe, the Middle East and is named one the World’s Most & Africa. Ethical Companies by the US think-tank Ethisphere since 2010. Rezidor is a member of The Radisson Hotel Group, 11th largest hotel group in the world. Rezidor is headquartered in Brussels, Through a master franchise agreement with Belgium. Radisson Hospitality, Inc. USA – Rezidor operates and develops Radisson Collection, For more information, visit; Radisson Blu, Radisson, Radisson RED, and www.rezidor.com Park Inn by Radisson, across EMEA; along www.radissonhotelgroup.com with the Radisson Rewards loyalty program for frequent hotel guests. Since 2016, Rezidor also owns 49% of prizeotel. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 3 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 4 LETTER FROM THE CEO THINK PEOPLE THINK COMMUNITY THINK PLANET As a leader of Responsible Business in the hospitality As an endorser of the UN CEO Water Mandate, Rezidor industry, we are committed to work in a responsible Hotel Group remains focused on water stewardship and on and sustainable way. Our drive to be a responsible contributing to water scarce communities. With the support hotel company is only possible through the combined of our partner Just a Drop, Rezidor has helped to provide energy of our 45,500 hoteliers in 78 countries, and safe drinking water for life to more than 17,500 children. our guests and partners around the world. Safety and Security is paramount in our hotels. We At Rezidor Hotel Group, we are committed to caring continued the further development of our Safety and for our people, our communities and the planet. Security program and strengthened our partnership with We believe this is essential to a running a thriving Safehotels Alliance. 199 Hotels across Europe, Middle East business and our responsibility as global citizens. and Africa have been certified by Safehotels, emphasizing the importance of Safety and Security in our hotels. We continue to work on the 3 pillars of our Responsible Business program: In response to the UN Sustainable Development • Think People – Caring about people Goals and the UK Modern Slavery Act, we continue to in our hotels and value chain promote human rights, business ethics, and diversity • T hink Community – Meaningful contributions in all our hotels. This commitment also applies to to communities around the world our business network and supply chain. This year we • Think Planet – A better planet for all. Reducing successfully focused on hiring processes and recruitment our carbon footprint, energy, water and waste partners in the Middle East and by performed a structured risk assessment of our supply chain. In 2017 we have had a fantastically responsible year with impressive engagement from our global team. We During our Responsible Business Action Month held won two major Responsible Business awards, one by every September and actions throughout the year, our UNWTO and one by IMEX, and were named a World’s teams have passionately engaged with their communities Most Ethical Company for the eight-consecutive year. and raised €1 million in cash and in-kind donations. In 2017 we continued our Think Planet journey and are In addition to Rezidor group’s company-wide initiatives, now using 8% less energy than in 2016. In support of our we believe the travel and hospitality industry and commitment to green meetings, Rezidor has launched other partners together can be a force for good. Carbon Free Meetings at Radisson Blu hotels in EMEA. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 5 2017 marked an important year for the tourism industry. Together with other leading hotels groups in the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), Rezidor launched the first ever industry-wide global commitment to sustainability. Together we announced four 2030 goals on carbon, water, youth employment, and human rights. By committing to the ITP industry goals, we are stepping up our efforts to become even more sustainable as a company and as an industry. The Rezidor Hotel Group also participates in significant collaborative initiatives to help build a better future for all, including The UN Global Compact and the UN CEO Water Mandate. We continue to move our company forward and have defined global 2022 targets in Think People, Think Community and Think Planet, as part of our overall company strategic plan. We are conscious that our Responsible Business targets and actions need to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which are mobilizing businesses, industries and countries around the world. Thank you for your interest in Rezidor and our Responsible Business program. We welcome your feedback at responsiblebusiness@radissonhotels.com Yours sincerely FEDERICO J. GONZÁLEZ PRESIDENT & CEO, REZIDOR HOTEL GROUP CHAIRMAN OF THE GLOBAL STEERING COMMITTEE RADISSON HOTEL GROUP RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 6 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS 2017 2017 has been an exciting and memorable year for Rezidor’s Responsible Business program. Our main achievements include: • 199 Hotels certified by Safehotels Alliance • 32,000+ volunteer hours were • Energy savings have reached • Balanced leadership continues to build donated by Rezidor employees 8% per m2 since 2016 momentum towards gender equality • €1.0 million donated to charity • Water consumption has been and development of our female talent • The towel reuse program at Radisson Blu reduced by 3% since 2016 • 1st Female General Manager appointed helped to provide safe drinking water • The proportion of eco-labeled hotels in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for life to more than 17,500 children in the group has increased to 80% • Rezidor Hotel Group is recognized • Over 50 Radisson Blu hotels are • The carbon offsetting program as one of the World’s Most Ethical participating in the Soap for Hope™ has compensated 46,777 tons Companies by the Ethisphere Institute program in cooperation with of carbon since 2012 for the eighth year in a row our global supplier Diversey RB performance indicators 2017 2016 2015 Energy per m2 (kWh)* 245 266 261 Energy per occupied room (kWh)* 86 90 86 Water per guest-night (liters)* 340 349 350 Carbon footprint per guest-night (kilograms CO2e) 21.4 21.4 22.1 Safehotels Alliance certification 199 160 65 Eco-labelled hotels 294 282 272 Guest recognition index 7.68 n/a n/a *Rezidor-managed and leased hotels. 2015-2016 restated figures In 2017 significant data quality issues of hotels for emerging markets, notably Africa and Russia, have been corrected for their 2015 and 2016 Think Planet data. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 7 E V E R Y M O M E N T M AT T E R S 5-YEAR PLAN At Rezidor, we are committed to caring for our people, our communities and the planet. In 2017, we have created the company 5-year strategic plan. As one of 25 key initiatives, Responsible Business will continue to play a strong role as a clear business asset. For 2018-2022, we have defined the following Responsible Business focus areas and targets for our hotels around the world. These targets align carefully and contribute to the hotel industry ITP 2030 goals and to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. • World Most Ethical • Focus on providing • 10% Footprint company including Food. Shelter. Future reduction of carbon, the lead on fighting • Every hotel to sponsor at energy and water modern slavery least 1 child for livelihood • Be ahead of the game • Balanced leadership and education, with a through innovations • Safety and Security: All focus on girls’ rights and a sustained focus flagship hotels in key • 1,400 Opportunity on water stewardship locations to have an youth trained per year • Continue to bring independent safety and WASH (Water, Sanitation security certification and Hygiene) in local communities RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 8 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Rezidor’s commitments to its stakeholders Striving to be a successful and sustainable business Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy requires a dedicated appreciation of the environment in which we operate. We have defined the most We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favor of environmental, material topics for our organization in accordance with Employees ethical, and social issues in their work and private the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 process. lives. We inform and make it easy for our guests to Rezidor believes that we have a clear responsibility Customers participate in Responsible Business activities at our to take serious action on the various material hotels. topics which face our company and to continue to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We work together with property owners to find Property innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, Owners environmental, and social objectives. Our most significant impacts are important, both for our long-term success as a company, and We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate, and transparent information on for our stakeholders as they affect the decisions Shareholders Responsible Business performance, related risks, that stakeholders make in relation to Rezidor. We and opportunities. recognize that we have an impact on a wide range We strive to purchase products that have a of stakeholders, both directly and indirectly. reduced environmental impact during their Suppliers lifecycle, from suppliers who demonstrate We operate to high standards of performance and environmental and social responsibility. advocate socially and environmentally sustainable We require our managers to abide by local and business practices. we achieve this by making Responsible international legislation, especially regarding labor Authorities Business the way we do business and by continuously laws, health and safety, human rights, and the evaluating where we stand and how we can do better. environment. We take an active role in the international Rezidor Hotel Group has identified eight Responsible Community responsible business community and contribute to Business stakeholder groups. We maintain clear the local communities where we operate. commitments to each group. The basis for identifying We do our utmost to continuously improve our and selecting our key Responsible Business stakeholders performance in the areas of energy and water use, relates primarily to the extent we influence or impact Environment chemical and resource consumption, and waste them: economically, socially or environmentally. generation. Our goal is to reduce our impact on the environment and minimize our carbon footprint. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 9 Global Context UN Sustainable Development Goals 2017 marked the international year of Sustainable Tourism In 2016, the UN Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 came for Development and the 2nd year of implementation into force. The 17 global goals will mobilize countries, organizations, of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. As a and businesses to end all forms of poverty, fight inequality, and responsible leader in the industry, we are conscious tackle climate change, while ensuring that no one is left behind. that our Responsible Business targets and actions As a responsible leader in the industry, we are conscious that need to contribute to these important global goals. our Responsible Business targets and actions need to contribute to these important global goals. Materiality assessment Rezidor Hotel Group has analyzed our Responsible Business commitment The Rezidor Hotel Group has to manage the impact of against the Sustainable Development Goals. You can find a table showing social, ethical and environmental issues in an ever-evolving how we contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals on page 63. world. For its materiality assessment, Rezidor based itself on the following internal and external sources: • The World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) recognizes that security, • A company-specific online evaluation in 2015 with demographics, resource scarcity, waste management, and business ethics internal and external stakeholders such as General are all issues that will particularly influence the nature in which our industry Managers, hotel owners, and corporate clients. The will continue to operate in future. Rezidor used this in support of the survey evaluated Responsible Business issues that matter materiality matrix. today and in the future and had 280 respondents. • Continuous interaction with various stakeholder groups through our daily • The International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Industry operations and dedicated exchanges, for example our culture assessment. Stakeholder Dialogue. ITP is a global platform which In 2017 data were gathered from 1,300 online respondents and interviewees, brings together the leading hotel chains, including representing all geographic areas in EMEA. and were very diverse in terms of Rezidor Hotel Group. ITP performed the analysis and positions (operations & corporate), seniority, nationality, ethnicity, age, etc. mapping of relevant ethical, social, and environmental • Our company’s Destination 2022 vision and long-term strategy, informed issues through a stakeholder questionnaire and inour Responsible Business Strategy and targets in particular. Next to being depth interviews. From this, a materiality matrix a key strategic initiative, Responsible Business influenced other essential was developed which hotel chains used as the elements of the plan such as Strategic Souring or Meetings & Events. basis to identify their company’s materiality. • External contextual information and research such as the World Economic Forum Yearly Global Risks Report. Materiality Assessment Internal sources External sources Radisson Hotel Group five-year strategy UN Sustainable Development Goals Responsible Business strategy Industry stakeholder survey (ITP) Culture assessment Industry stakeholder dialogue (ITP) Stakeholder meetings World Economic Forum reports Hotel owner meetings UNWTO reports WTTC reports Material aspects for The Rezidor Hotel Group Carbon Safety and Security Community Energy Human Rights Development Water stewardship Employment and Community Waste management Employability engagement Responsible Supply Business Ethics Chain RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 10 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Rezidor’s Responsible Business policy is embedded at all Reporting and compliance levels of the organization. We combine both a top-down Monthly environmental statistics for managed and leased and bottom-up approach to ensure maximum engagement hotels are collected in the Think Planet section of our in operations and the greatest impact for the group. financial reporting and consolidation system. All hotels report their full Responsible Business performance in the yearly RB Status Report which contains 130 The Board of Directors is periodically Board of checkpoints on Think People, Think Community informed about the Responsible Directors Business progress, as needed. and Think Planet. 88% Of our hotels submitted an answer to the Status Report. The Rezidor Hotel Group Responsible Business reports to checks the environmental compliance of all hotels. CEO and the Chief Resources Officer of The Executive Rezidor Hotel Group. The Executive Head Committee Committee is frequently updated on Two hotels reported compliance issues. An inspection at Office strategies, plans and progress. Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel, Lagos V.I. showed that the effluent in the sewage treatment plant was not being Sets the Responsible Business Responsible strategy and follow-up, and ensures treated to locally accepted levels. The hotel investigated Business cross-departmental cooperation. The the possibility of installing a new sewage treatment plant. Department team works very closely with the Area Support Office teams. Park Inn by Radisson Meriton Conference & Spa Hotel Tallinn received a fine of approx. €10,000 due to A team of 23 Regional Responsible Regional excess water pollution in September 2017. The hotel is Business Coordinators sets regional Responsible Regions Business targets in line with group strategy. evaluating to install an on-site sewage filtration system. They also follow-up on progress made Coordinators by hotels. Each hotel has a Responsible Business Coordinator and Responsible Business team. The Responsible Business Responsible Coordinator and their team jointly Hotels Business define the Responsible Business action Coordinators plans in line with both regional and group priorities. All employees have access to the Responsible Business training. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 11 12 MEMBERSHIPS UN Global Compact UN CEO Water Mandate UN Women Empowerment Principles The Rezidor Hotel Group has been a UN The Rezidor Hotel Group was the first In 2014, Rezidor Hotel Group signed Global Compact signatory since 2009. The hospitality company to endorse the UN the UN Women’s Empowerment UN Global Compact supports companies CEO Water Mandate in 2014. The UN CEO Principles. Designed for business, the to do business responsibly by aligning Water Mandate is a UN Global Compact principles offer guidance on how to their strategies and operations with initiative which mobilizes business empower women in the workplace, Ten Principles on human rights, labor, leaders on water, sanitation, and the marketplace, and community. They are the environment, and anti-corruption. UN Sustainable Development Goals. the result of a collaboration between Signatories take strategic actions to the UN Entity for Gender Equality and advance broader societal goals, such as the Mandate partners are working together the Empowerment of Women (UN UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an with the United Nations, civil society Women) and the UN Global Compact. emphasis on collaboration and innovation. organizations, governments, and other stakeholders. Through the UN CEO Water The Compact is the world’s largest Mandate, organizations work on six voluntary corporate sustainability areas of water stewardship including: initiative. Over 10,000 business and other • direct operations stakeholders from 161 countries take part. • supply chain • collective action • public policy • community engagement • transparency RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 13 International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Overseas Security Advisory Sustainable Brands International (SBI) The International Tourism Partnership Council (OSAC) The Rezidor Hotel Group became a silver (ITP) brings together the world’s leading Rezidor is one of the founding members member of Sustainable Brands International international hotel companies to provide of the Hotel Security Working Group (SBI) in 2016. SBI is the leading global a voice for environmental and social (HSWG) at the US State Department community of forward-thinking businesses responsibility in the industry. Former Overseas Security Advisory Council, which combine sustainability and brand President and CEO of The Rezidor Hotel OSAC. In 2016, Rezidor became Chair of strategy. SBI is the ideal platform for Group, Wolfgang M. Neumann, has been the HSWG. The Working Group exchanges sustainable companies to discuss how they chairman of ITP since June 2015. information on potential threats, conducts can meet demand for more sustainable joint training sessions annually, and products, services, and business models. Rezidor continues to play a leading enables members to monitor emerging role in ITP, in particular the in Youth Inge Huijbrechts, Vice President for threats. The exchange of information Career Initiative, the Hotel Carbon Responsible Business, sits on the is vital to help us understand evolving Measurement Initiative, Hotel Water Sustainable Brands Advisory Board. threats, and Rezidor continues to be one Measurement Initiative and ITP’s human of the leading members of the HSWG. rights and human trafficking work. GLOBAL AND INDUSTRY GOALS Embracing science-based targets and Carbon encouraging the wider industry to join in reducing emissions at scale. Supporting ITP goals for 2030 In 2017 The Rezidor Hotel Group, together with other leading global hotel brands, reached consensus for a sustainable industry. Under the guidance of the Embedding water stewardship programs to International Tourism Partnership (ITP), four goals for 2030 were announced. The reduce the number of people affected by water Water scarcity, improving water-use efficiency, and goals support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and focus on carbon, water, contributing to improved hygiene and sanitation youth employment, and human rights. This long-term commitment is a call to action for communities around the globe. from across the industry. Collectively impacting one million young people The announcement in September marked the International Year of Sustainable Youth through employability programs by 2030, Tourism for Development, which called on the industry to coordinate to tackle issues Employment thereby doubling the industry’s current impact on and share best practices. ITP is an official ‘Friend’ of the initiative. Our Responsible tackling youth unemployment. Business strategy and actions support this industry-wide commitment. The ITP goals are a carefully constructed and practically achievable response to four Raising awareness of human rights risks, Human embedding human rights into corporate of the core sustainability issues impacting responsible hospitality providers globally. Rights governance, and addressing risks arising in the At a glance, they include: labor supply chain and during hotel construction. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 14 AWA R D S A N D R E C O G N I T I O N REZIDOR IS ONE ECOVADIS OF WORLD’S SILVER MOST ETHICAL SUSTAINABLE COMPANIES SUPPLIER In 2017, The Rezidor Hotel Group was again recognized During 2017, The Rezidor Hotel Group was reassessed as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the by EcoVadis as a sustainable supplier and received the Ethisphere Institute. The group has been recognized since EcoVadis Silver recognition for our sustainable practices. 2010 and is one of only three in the lodging and hospitality EcoVadis aims to improve the environmental and social industry, underscoring the company’s commitment to practices of companies by leveraging the influence of leading ethical business standards and practices. global supply chains. The Silver award places the group amongst the top 30% performers evaluated by EcoVadis. This award, our eighth in succession, reaffirms Rezidor’s commitment to responsible business. It also confirms our RADISSON BLU industry-leading business ethics policy and practices, our corporate citizenship principles, our corporate governance, WINS IMEX-GMIC and our desire to serve a strong corporate purpose. SUSTAINABILITY The designation recognizes companies that promote ethical business standards and practices internally, exceed legal compliance minimums, and shape future industry standards by introducing best practices today. Rezidor is one of 124 leaders from various industries within the ranking. AWARD Radisson Blu is proud to have won the 2017 IMEX-GMIC Sustainability Award. The Award celebrates inspiring brands that drive sustainability through innovation, collaboration, and idea sharing. Radisson Blu involves hotels and guests to be water-mindful through initiatives such as the towel replacement program in support of Just a Drop and soap recycling intitiative Soap for Hope™ in collaboration with its supplier Diversey. These initiatives aim to provide clean drinking water, sanitation and hygiene to people around the world. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 15 ADDING COLOR WORLDWIDE TO LIVES WINS HOSPITALITY UNWTO AWARD AWARD In January 2017, Rezidor received the United Nations World Maram Kokandi’s appointment as first female General Tourism Organization (UNWTO) award for innovation in Manager in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was recognized Enterprises with Adding Color to Lives. The project brings during the World Hospitality Awards when she together youth in difficult life situations and allows them to picked up the Best Hotelier award for her pioneering express themselves through urban murals. It has a lasting achievement. Maram’s achievement is seen as a game impact on the youth and brightens their communities. changer for women in the hospitality industry, and a milestone for social growth in Saudi Arabia. SOAP FOR HOPE™ GREEN HOTELIER SHORTLISTED FOR HIGHLY COMMENDED UNILEVER GLOBAL FOR RADISSON BLU DEVELOPMENT AWARD KIGALI Soap for Hope™ encourages our hotels to clean The Radisson Blu Kigali has received a highly commended and recycle used soap to create fresh bars for award during the 2017 Green Hotelier awards for its efforts distribution in local communities with limited access to reduce waste, water usage, and energy consumption. to hygiene and sanitation. In 2017, the project in partnership with our supplier Diversey was shortlisted Between December 2016 and February 2017, the hotel for the Unilever Global Development Award. cut waste by 42% through initiatives such as recycling and eliminating plastic cups and packaging. Rainwater and recycled grey water are used for irrigation and toilet flushing, while movement sensors and other initiatives have significantly reduced energy use. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 16 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 17 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS THINK PEOPLE 199 H OT E L S H AV E GAINED THE 2ND M O D E R N S L AV E RY S TAT E M E N T I S S U E D 8TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR AS ONE OF SAFEHOTELS WORLD’S MOST ALLIANCE E T H I C A L C O M PA N I E S C E R T I F I C AT E 1.1 MILLION HOURS OF CLASSROOM 1ST FEMALE GENERAL MANAGER IN THE A N D O N -T H E KINGDOM OF JOB TRAINING SAUDI ARABIA RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 18 THINK PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights These migrant workers are among the vulnerable groups in our The Rezidor Hotel Group abides by the UN’s Global Compact labor force due to factors related to their immigration status. principles and follows them in our policies and procedures wherever possible. We’ve committed to the International Tourism At Rezidor Hotel Group, we do not accept forced labor in our Partnership 2030 hotel industry goals to raise awareness of operations or supply chain. Our responsible recruitment framework human rights risks, embed human rights into our corporate helps to ensure we take an active approach to preventing governance, and address risks arising in the labor supply chain. the use of forced labor in every part of our business. Key human rights and employment principles are reflected in Combat modern slavery toolkit two policies, which complement our Code of Business Ethics To raise awareness on the issue, Rezidor developed a toolkit to combat and clarify the principles we live and work by in our hotels. modern slavery. The toolkit has been rolled out to all hotels and helps hotel management and HR teams in their efforts to combat modern slavery. These policies are: Our efforts to combat modern slavery focus in particular on protecting • Human rights policy: covers Rezidor’s engagement on issues such as outsourced labor, which comprises 18.9% of the employees in our hotels. ethical business conduct, the protection of children’s rights, combating human trafficking, and protection of the rights of employees. The toolkit provides guidance on how to combat modern slavery and • Employment Principles: covers Rezidor’s promises to our details how hotel management teams should engage with employees, employees. These include non-discrimination, freedom of how to approach recruitment agencies, and what due diligence they association, and the development of in-house talent. should conduct. It includes back-of-house material which increases the awareness of modern slavery amongst all employees. There are Both policies are publicly available, communicated on internal also support tools for the general managers and human resource channels, and made available to all hotels and employees. teams at the hotels. The toolkit is available in 16 languages. The toolkit was launched end of 2016 and has been rolled out in Eliminating modern slavery 2017 across all of Rezidor’s properties in Europe, the Middle East, The Rezidor Hotel Group follows high standards and advocates socially and Africa. 54% Of the hotels are actively using the toolkit. and environmentally sustainable business practices. Our aim is to combat and eliminate any form of modern slavery, and to operate our hotels Self-assessment questionnaire free of child exploitation or forced, bonded, or compulsory labor. We Rezidor engaged specialized Human Rights consultant Verité to create a apply this practice to both our operations and in our supply chain. hotel self-assessment tool. This self-assessment questionnaire is designed to identify potential gaps and human rights vulnerabilities in business Fighting modern slavery with responsible recruitment processes of hotel properties. It also identifies vulnerabilities of thirdSlavery is not just a historic issue, or one that only exists in certain party intermediaries that provide services related to the recruitment, countries. It is still happening today, and it occurs globally. In some selection, hiring, transportation, training, and management of foreign regions, hotel operations rely on the talent of migrant workers workers that could indicate a risk of forced labor or human trafficking. who are hired as employees, or contracted through agencies. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 19 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 20 THINK PEOPLE SAFETY AND SECURITY TRIC=S One world, one strategy, one formula Safehotels Alliance AB certifies In 2007, Rezidor Hotel Group developed more than 200 Rezidor hotels and introduced a formula known as Rezidor built further success upon TRIC=S to localize our approach to another innovative step we took back safety and security. TRIC=S stands for: in 2016 when we became the first major Threat assessment + international hotel group to sign an Risk evaluation and mitigation + agreement with Safehotels Alliance AB. Incident response capability + Safehotels certifies hotels against their Crisis management, communication own, independent ‘Global Hotel Security and continuity = Standard’ and gives guests, buyers, Safe, secure and sellable hotels. and travel managers reassurance that certified hotels have been independently The development of TRIC=S started in audited. This process both simplifies and 1997 when we announced that the role improves duty of care due diligence and is of corporate safety and security was increasingly being endorsed and embraced Since 2009, the OSAC working group shifting from a reactive and centralized by clients. By the end of 2017 over 200 has held annual joint training workshops, command-and-control model to a hotels had gained their certification. facilitated by experts from the State more proactive, decentralized and Department, local governments and HSWG dynamic role. The change enabled As part of our agreement Safehotels also members. In 2017 the event was hosted at safety and security to play a vital part evaluates Rezidor’s existing self-assessment Radisson Blu St. Julian’s Resort in Malta in supporting our growing number of hotel security program, which is available and attracted close to 100 participants. hotels in many different locations. to all hotels in the group. Over the years, these training sessions have provided high-level development TRIC=S has been widely recognized Collaboration is our key contribution workshops for over 500 hotel security as good practice for corporate safety to make everyone safer managers. Sessions have already been held and security management. In 2017, we Rezidor is a founding member and was the in Shanghai (China), Mumbai and New Delhi were invited to contribute to the ASIS 2017 Chair of the US State Department’s (India), Amman (Jordan), Doha (Qatar), International European and Middle East Overseas Security Advisory Council Bangkok (Thailand), Istanbul (Turkey), annual conferences as well as to the (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Group Dubai (UAE) and Jakarta (Indonesia). Global Counter Terrorism Forum initiative (HSWG). Since 2007, we have worked on soft target protection and the UK together with our counterparts to share Rezidor also has leadership roles at local Security Expo. We are also supporting information and good practices. This OSAC country councils in Brazzaville HOTREC, the umbrella association for benefits both the hotel industry and (Congo) and Brussels (Belgium). hotel, restaurant and café associations in everyone who depends on us to provide Europe in connection with the EU Action safe and secure shelter around the world. Plan on Protection of Public Spaces that was published in October 2016. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 21 Cyber security training Like many industries hotels and hospitality is becoming increasingly dependent on mobile, net-based applications and transactions. There have been numerous highly publicized incidents of hacking and data loss around the world. Cyber security has been given deserved attention from our IT and Operations experts who also follow the TRIC=S formula to determine the threat, mitigate the risks and prepare for possible incidents or disruption. This includes requiring all employees with access to our networks to undergo online training in the secure use of equipment as well as storage and sharing of information. Throughout 2017, a focused, high level task force has also been in place to prepare Rezidor for the incoming reform of the General Data Protection Regulation that comes into effect in the EU in May 2018. Crisis Communications and Issue Preparedness To prepare the global network for any type of crisis response, Rezidor’s Corporate Communications, PR & Reputation Management team developed a bespoke guide that can be accessed securely by any employee who needs help to handle a significant issue. It provides step-by-step guidance to make sure that our General Managers handle incidents sensitively at a local level and that our Business Leadership Team and Executive Committee have access to strategic resources when an executive response is required. Additional trainings, quarterly webinars, immersion sessions, train the trainers and executive committee/area leader’s crisis simulations are carried out regularly. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 22 THINK PEOPLE EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYABILITY In 2017, we counted 149 nationalities amongst our employees. Women YCI conducts a threeto six-month education program which empowers comprise 44.0% of our employees while 56.0% are men. Of the total disadvantaged young people and trains them for their future professional workforce, 18.9% is outsourced labor, mainly in housekeeping and and social life. It helps students between 18 and 21 who have dropped out banqueting departments. 37% Of employees are covered by collective of school, lack the financial means to complete their education, or are at bargaining agreements. risk of exploitation. Success rates are impressive: 85% of the program’s graduates get a job at Rezidor hotels or another company, or continue Empowering employees and social dialogue their education. We are currently running successful YCI programs in five In line with the European Union Directive on Works Councils (94/45/EC), countries (Romania, Ethiopia, Lebanon, Senegal, and Zambia). Rezidor has established a European Works Council. The Council includes representatives of our central management and employees. Annual The Rezidor Hotel Group was part of a re-evaluation of the YCI model in meetings are held, including in 2017. Topics such as the Group’s finances, 2017. The re-evaluation has helped to optimize YCI’s success and wider business development, performance, ethics and human rights, responsible implementation in the hospitality industry. business, and other important issues are discussed with employee representatives. Tackling youth unemployment Employees by age Reducing youth unemployment is a global responsibility. Although the Below 24 14.0% worldwide travel and tourism industry supports one in 10 jobs, there are Between 25 30 26.6% more than 71 million young people unemployed. As responsible hoteliers, Rezidor understands that we have a key role to play in addressing this Between 31 40 31.1% issue and creating job opportunities for underprivileged youth. Rezidor has Between 41 50 17.0% trained over 6,400 trainees during the year. Between 51 60 8.9% 18.7% Of our hotels currently work with a training or apprentice program Between 61 65 1.8% for youth-at-risk. Above 65 0.6% Discovering talent of underprivileged youth The Youth Career Initiative (YCI) is a global project to enhance the employability of underprivileged young people which has been developed by the hotel industry for the hotel industry. YCI is a valuable program which allows hotels to make a real difference in the lives of its graduates and their families. Employees by gender Female 44.0% Male 56.0% RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 23 THINK PEOPLE PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT Culture, Talent & Organization Our culture has always differentiated itself • We deliver memorable moments every since it was established, by focusing first day, everywhere, every time and foremost on customer service and bringing a Yes I Can! ethos to everything • We enjoy serving with our Yes I Can! spirit we do. • We grow talent, talent grows us This year, coinciding with the five-year plan launch, we are committed to evolving • We are many minds, with one mindset into a new organizational culture to help deliver our vision of becoming a company • We value open and direct interactions of choice for guests, owners and talent. to build trust Building on a strong culture made up of our unique workforce, we will strive to ensure • We believe anything is possible our guests are 100% satisfied. • We have fun in all that we do. To understand where we are and how we will transform for the future, we conducted Our people and culture are the at the several workshops, more than 50 interviews, core of our success and future. Placing 1,300 surveys and several face-to-face the right people, with the right skills, at meetings with global leadership teams and the right time is a fundamental to an agile executives. This process gave us essential workforce that can evolve and adapt to insight and data from all our team members our ever-changing needs. Additionally, around the world in all kinds of roles. This creating active employee engagement unified approach and a holistic, integrated is the differentiator of the highest rated thinking helped us recognized our common workforces in the world. beliefs – seven powerful statements to inspire and empower us to deliver on our signature, Every Moment Matters. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 24 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT As The Rezidor Hotel Group looks forward together as a Employee of the year General Manager global team, we know the value of our people and culture, Manuel Lopes, General of the year and they are at the core of our success and future. Cashier, Radisson Blu Richard Mayne, General Hotel & Residence Manager, Radisson Blu We have developed a 5-year Human Resources plan Maputo, Mozambique Hotel, Edinburgh, Scotland that aims to deliver the right people, with the right skills, at the right time to the business – fundamental to an agile workforce that can evolve and adapt to our everchanging needs. “I was thrilled to have “The award means a received such a prestigious great deal to me and I We have started to develop global models across that award, a real honor to be am honored to have been align the business needs with a strong strategic approach. recognized by experts recognized by my peers The approach leverages technology, data and simplified in our field as well as by and senior leaders. Without processes in the areas of Culture, Talent Management, my peers. This wouldn’t a doubt, I could not have Talent Acquisition, Learning & Development and Rewards. be possible without the achieved this award without awesome team I work with, a great team working so a hand of gratitude to with me and supporting my colleagues. Keeping me. The award is also in mind that the price recognition of the great of success is hard work, job they do every day.” dedication to the job, and determination. Whether we win or lose, we have given it our best!” RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 25 Diversity & Inclusion Award Young leader of the year The Middle East & Turkey Caroline Gibson, Human team represented by Basel Resources Manager, Talal, General Manager, Radisson Blu Hotel, Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh, Dublin Airport, Ireland Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. “The Award is a display of “To be awarded Young a great team achievement. Leader of the Year 2017 in Women in Leadership in the fastest growing European KSA is a new territory for Hotel Group is more than I all for many reasons. Yet, could ever put into words. harmony, creativity, and There is no question I love confidence were the secret what I do and I believe in recipe of the team’s success what I do; but you really in inspiring the Women don’t give it a whole lot in Leadership in KSA. of thought when you are This is a great award and working in a busy dynamic an excellent recognition. environment. You go to work Without a doubt, the true every day with your “to do” reward is seeing the smiles list and you get a feeling of of our female colleagues. satisfaction when you tick off When they feel empowered, the pending items. However, motivated and they are this award has given me a known for their talent, the new purpose and vision. sky is the limit, even in KSA. It makes me feel that I am really making a difference. To now be recognized in this way by my peers is a huge honor to say the least.“ RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 26 LEARNING JOURNEY ON, – AND OFFLINE As hosts to the world, people are the Business School Responsible Business training core of our business. We offer a range The Business School is the learning Since 2008, Rezidor’s successful Living of tools to help each employee realize platform for employees within the and Leading Responsible Business their full potential and always focus company. The School was created in 1996 classroom-based courses have been on putting our guest center stage: because of a need to structure training part of the Business School curriculum • Learning landscape and development, ensure consistency, and mandatory for all employees. • The Business School streamline costs and continue to foster The strengths of the training are its • ‘Learning Link’ our online company culture. Furthermore, by interactivity and intense Q&A moments, learning platform bringing together individuals from with annual refresher sessions in different hotels, it’s a great platform for each hotel. The Living and Leading Learning landscape networking and to identify future talent. Responsible Business course shows best Rezidor’s Learning landscape offers practices on the job and at home. over 50 online and classroom-based The Business School is constantly aligned courses. Through all platforms and with the vision, brand values and goals During the training, we focus on the three learning cycles, we offered more than of the company. Courses are changed, pillars of Responsible Business and include 1.1 million hours of classroom and onupdated, removed or added depending on topics such as human rights and Code the-job training during 2017. This is the business needs. All courses on offer of Business Ethics. A special module on approximately 24 hours per employee. have an impact on the business objectives child protection is also included. Leading of guest, employee and owner satisfaction. Responsible Business focuses on how Lead on the job It helps the company to positively influence management teams can drive Responsible On job training is a company format for revenue, quality and value and offers Business action plans in their hotels. In 2017, developing team members on the job. a thought-provoking, stimulating and 70% of our employees received training The real beauty of the on job training enjoyable time for all who take part. or retraining in Responsible Business. is the focus on skills and behavior in delivering the true guest experience. International Business Schools take Combat modern slavery toolkit The format combines this in such a way place 4 times a year with Area Business The combat modern slavery toolkit is that everyone is trained according to the Schools throughout the year in different available to all hotels and helps hotel brand standard to ensure we deliver a locations. On average we train 1,500 management teams in their efforts to professional, friendly and personal guest employees annually. The programs are combat modern slavery. It provides experience. The team member either learns facilitated either by internal master guidance on how to combat modern a new skill or refines a current skill by trainers or by external consultants slavery and details how hotel management building confidence and competence thus who are specialists in their subject. teams should engage with employees, how ensuring quality and instant results. But to approach recruitment agencies, and what is more it helps to create memorable Learning Link what due diligence they should conduct. moments for our guest by raising our Learning Link is Rezidor’s very own The toolkit was rolled out in 2017. awareness of the guest expectations. Learning Management System. It provides exceptional features and benefits to 54% Of the hotels are actively In 2017, 14 new lead on job trainers Rezidor employees. It is a comprehensive using the toolkit. were certified at the Business school “one stop” training and education platform. in Amsterdam, and we held a series of webinars to introduce current Lead Trainers to the new program. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 27 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 28 THINK PEOPLE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION A beautiful mosaic Empowering women In return, we are helping women in At Rezidor, part of striving for excellence is Rezidor is committed to Balanced senior positions to lead by example and celebrating the diversity of our people. That Leadership focusing on encouraging become positive role models for the includes respecting that each and every more women to take on leadership roles future. They are uniquely positioned one of us is unique. We believe in creating within the company. Supported by our to help us develop a culture where our a working environment where the things CEO, Board and Business Leadership principles and processes ensure that that make us different are always valued. Team, the initiative is driven by various more employees choose Rezidor. actions both within and outside the These principles are communicated company. To involve more women in High-octane female leadership workshops very clearly in our Code of Business leadership roles, Rezidor wants to: Our Balanced Leadership initiative is Ethics, our Human Rights policy • Challenge existing thinking and increase developing female talent. During 2017 and our Employment Principles. the representation of women in senior more than 100 women completed new Operating in over 78 countries, Rezidor positions across the entire company courses launched in 2015, aimed at recognizes that our uniqueness comes • Break down the barriers that prevent developing female talent in the company. from both visible differences, such women across Rezidor from speaking The STEPS Program is aimed at women at as age and gender, and less visible openly about their careers and encourage Head of Department/Manager level, while differences, such as beliefs and sexuality. them to consider flexible approaches DEVELOP YOUR BRAND is a workshop for We know that if we encourage everyone towards their working conditions senior female talent in the organization. in the company to feel involved and • Harness the individual strengths respected, the richness of their ideas and of our female leaders and actively perspectives will create long-term value. encourage their collective participation at every level of our business We are many minds, with one mindset and • Develop and retain our female with a global team from 149 nationalities. leaders through sustainable and lasting changes which focus on long-term career planning for all. WE BELIEVE IN CREATING A WORKING ENVIRONMENT WHERE THE THINGS THAT MAKE US DIFFERENT ARE ALWAYS VALUED AND CELEBRATED. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 29 Debra Sivertsen Kerry’s big career STEPS General Manager of When Kerry Curtis, B2C the Radisson Blu Hotel Marketing Manager, UK Waterfront, Cape Town, & Ireland, was accepted comments on Develop your into STEPS leadership Brand. “Every Individual program for women, she needs to develop a brand hoped to gain insight on for themselves. Whatever her personal strengths and your expertise, you need weaknesses that impact her to take steps to influence professional development. people and make them What she found was a think of you when they dynamic program that think of your field. The recharged her batteries, workshop taught me built her confidence, that your personal brand and gave her a renewed is what differentiates enthusiasm for her career. you from others!” RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 30 REFUGEE RUPAN GAINS A CAREER AT THE RADISSON BLU KARLSRUHE After working for nine months as a dishwasher at the Radisson Blu Karlsruhe, refugee Rupan received an order to leave Germany within seven days. Believing that his life was in danger if he returned to his home country, Rupan went into hiding for a number of weeks. When the stress of his situation caused him to become ill, Rupan came to the hotel’s General Manager, Hagen Müller, for assistance. “Together Rupan’s family and the hotel challenged the deportation order,” explained Hagen Müller. “I’m pleased to say that we won the case! Rupan officially became our new apprentice cook in October 2017 and will stay with us for the next three years as he completes his apprenticeship. We still cannot believe it, but we are all super proud and happy.” YCI SUCCESS FOR CHEF DALITSO Dalitso has gone from being an orphan with few life chances to a chef in a top hotel thanks to Youth Career Initiative (YCI). As well as gaining economic independence, it has given Dalitso the opportunity to support his family and enhance their chances in life. Initially Dalitso left school to find a job and help his grandmother support her six orphaned grandchildren. Supported by SOS Children’s Villages, Dalitso was introduced to YCI which identified a training program at the Radisson Blu Lusaka, Zambia. His dedication and enthusiasm throughout the training and mentoring process convinced managers to offer him a job once the program was completed, giving him a future he could never have envisaged before. “I gained so much from the program,” said Dalitso. “The skills I learned at the hotel have helped me start to build a career, but also become financially independent so I can support myself and my family.” RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 31 TRAINEES AT RADISSON BLU HOTEL, LUCERNE ATTEND TO BELGIAN KING Belgium’s King Philippe visited the city of Lucerne in Switzerland to learn more about the country’s dual educational system. It’s a topic of interest as Belgium also uses two languages – French and Dutch. During his stay, the Belgian king paid a visit to the Radisson Blu Hotel on Lake Lucerne where 20 trainees cooked for him and served a meal. The trainees came from Radisson Blu hotels in Basel, Lucerne, and Zürich. As part of the visit, King Philippe also received information about the Rezidor learning and development approach. FIRST FEMALE GENERAL MANAGER IN SAUDI ARABIA In early 2017, Maram Kokandi was appointed as the General Manager of the Park Inn by Radisson Jeddah Madinah Road in Saudi Arabia. While women are regularly promoted to General Manager within The Rezidor Hotel Group, Maram’s appointment marked the first time ever a woman has held the position in the hotel industry in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Since 2014, Rezidor Hotels have increased its number of female employees the Kingdom from six to 102 in 2017, including 21 women in leadership positions. Maram Kokandi’s appointment as General Manager was recognized during the World Hospitality Awards when she picked up the Best Hotelier award for her pioneering achievement. Speaking after the win was announced, Maram noted: “The award itself is a great privilege and I feel honored at the recognition from such a prestigious global awards organization. Beyond personal pride, I hope the award acts an inspiration to other women in Saudi Arabia and encourages more women to join the hospitality industry. The award is great recognition to our teams in the region for the progress that has been made so far in terms of gender equality and I hope that the award motivates everyone to continue the great progress of our Balanced Leadership program in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and across the company.” RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 32 THINK PEOPLE BUSINESS ETHICS World-class ethical business for eighth consecutive year In 2017, Rezidor was listed as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the eighth year in succession. This prestigious honor is awarded by the Ethisphere Institute, a US think-tank dedicated to business ethics. For the past five years, we have been the only company headquartered in Belgium, to be recognized in the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. The World’s Most Ethical Companies designation recognizes companies which align principle with action and work tirelessly to make trust an integral part of their corporate DNA. In doing so they shape future industry standards by introducing tomorrow’s best practices today. This eighth consecutive honor underscores Rezidor’s commitment to leading ethical business standards and practices, ensuring long-term value to key stakeholders including customers, employees, suppliers, regulators, and investors. The World’s Most Ethical Company assessment is based on the Ethisphere Institute’s Ethics Quotient™ (EQ) framework. The EQ framework has been developed through years of research and is vetted and refined by the experts on Ethisphere’s Methodology Advisory Panel. The EQ offers a quantitative way to assess a company’s performance in an objective, consistent, and standardized way. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 33 COMPLIANCE Ethics training the countries where we operate hotels. Rezidor’s Code of Business Ethics applies However, a number of our hotels have Code of Business Ethics to every person who works for us and every received subsidies or tax relief for their The Rezidor Hotel Group’s Code of Business one of our companies. It is distributed to Think Planet environmental investments. Ethics governs how we do business. It all employees in the employee handbook. These subsidies totaled €151,000 in 2017. enables us to take positions on key issues The Code of Business Ethics is available in Subsidies or tax relief for environmental of business ethics with a single voice. summary and detailed form on rezidor.com investments were granted in Belgium, The code includes ten principles which and is included in our internal procedures Germany, Switzerland and Turkey. guide us whenever a business decision manual. All employees are trained in the needs to be made. The principles are: Code of Business Ethics, its implications Anti-bribery compliance and reporting processes. The training Compliance with the UK Bribery Act and occurs in the classroom-based Living 1. WE RESPECT THE LAW Responsible Business course which is the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) is promoted by: 2. WE SHOW RESPECT mandatory for all employees. • Making anti-bribery part of our Code of FOR ALL PERSONS Ethics website and hotline Business Ethics IN ALL SITUATIONS • Training employees A key pillar of ethics at The Rezidor • Inserting a reference to the legislation Hotel Group is www.rezidorethics.com, 3. WE THINK ETHICALLY in all partner contracts a website run by an independent third• Confirming compliance by all 4. WE ACT FAIRLY party organization Ethics Point. Employees employees in management positions can use this site to find information on 5. WE DO NOT our Code of Business Ethics and report once every year. DISCRIMINATE concerns anonymously. Any employee with Anti-bribery training AGAINST ANYONE concerns or questions about the Code is Our anti-bribery e-learning training encouraged to raise these directly with FOR ANY REASON their supervisor or person of trust in the provides participants with the opportunity to understand our company’s policies and 6. WE ARE HONEST AND hotel or regional organization. If this is procedures so they know how to correctly TRANSPARENT not possible, the employee can report the respond to any bribery related issues. The matter of concern on www.rezidorethics.com. training is in line with the UK Bribery Act 7. WE ARE LOYAL TO Investigations are conducted in a timely and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act OUR EMPLOYER and sensitive manner. The site and hotline (FCPA). The aim of the course is to educate are available in 11 languages. 8. WE DO NOT EXPLOIT THE individuals about anti-bribery regulations and the consequences if they are not COMPANY’S RESOURCES Anti-corruption applied correctly. At the end of the training, Rezidor does not make any contributions 9. WE THINK OF SAFETY or give other support (direct or indirect) to participants know how to react when confronted with bribery, know to recognize AT ALL TIMES political parties or individual politicians. it and which action are considered as 10. WE TAKE CARE Financial assistance bribery. OF THE EARTH The Rezidor Hotel Group receives no For 2017, no data is available on the number direct or significant financial subsidies of employees who took the anti bribery from governmental organizations in training. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 34 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 35 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS THINK COMMUNITY €1.0 M I L L I O N D O N AT E D TO CHARITY 266 HOTELS PA R T I C I PAT E D I N 17,500 CHILDREN WITH SAFE DRINKING EARTH HOUR WAT E R F O R L I F E 750 ACTIVITIES DURING RESPONSIBLE 50 HOTELS IN THE SOAP FOR HOPE™ PROGRAM BUSINESS ACTION MONTH RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 36 THINK COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT As a global hospitality company, Rezidor Just a Drop partnership tries to make the relationship between Rezidor partners with the international our business and the communities where water charity Just a Drop to help bring we operate beneficial to both. There are safe drinking water to water-stressed important social needs in many of the communities in India, Kenya, and Peru. communities in which we do business. We Radisson Blu Hotels and Resorts collect aim to have a positive impact on those donations through their towel reuse communities by creating shared value. We program. Every 250 times a guest do this through Think Community which chooses to use their towel for a second generates meaningful donations and night, Radisson Blu donates funds to volunteer time. In 2017, Rezidor gave over Just a Drop to provide a child with safe €1.0 million in cash and in-kind donations drinking water for life. Since the start of to international and local charities. the program in 2015, Radisson Blu hotels Kenya water and hygiene program and resorts have helped provide safe In December 2017, Just a Drop reported on drinking water for life to 17,500 people. progress of the Makueni water and food security program in Kenya. Supported by Radisson Blu, Just a Drop helps communities to improve the program has brought safe drinking water to their health, nutrition and provide food almost 4,000 people and conducted extensive security, and stimulates the community to water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) training. rise out of poverty. Women and children are positively impacted as they no longer Highlights included the construction of a have to walk long distances to collect sand dam and shallow well with hand pump, water. Funds donated by Radisson Blu building of a rock catchment area which can hotels have funded the construction store 380,000 liters of water in tanks, and of a sand dam, a shallow groundwater handwashing facilities and rainwater storage abstraction well, a rock water-catchment tanks at two schools. A training program was Donations during 2017 area, and two school water tanks. also carried out with the Ndethye Ngutethye Donations to Just a Drop €130,000 self-help group. Topics included how to grow drought resistant crops, using crops sustainably, In kind incl Box Appeal €300,000 tree planting, and soil conservation. Cash donations €570,000 The efforts of Just a Drop are transforming lives TOTAL €1,000,000 as Beatrice, a member of Ndethye Ngutethye, noted: “Our area has had water problems forever. Because of the sand dam and shallow well, our animals have water to drink every day.” RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 37 Sustainable development in Malawi For its carbon offsetting projects, Rezidor is working with First Climate to rehabilitate boreholes and ensure clean water is available to water stressed communities. As well as health benefits, deforestation is reduced because less firewood is needed to boil the water. Communities also earn money by maintaining the boreholes. Read more about the partnership on page 47. Malawi is among the world’s least developed countries with an economy heavily based on agriculture. In Dowa and Kasungu Districts, around half of rural communities live without safe water. This situation is exacerbated by the fact that around one-third of existing boreholes no longer function. A lack of safe drinking water, along with poor sanitation and hygiene, keeps the world’s poorest people in poverty. Women and girls are often the most affected as they spend hours each day carrying and boiling contaminated water. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 38 Adding Color to Lives For each mural, the young people and hotel Adding Color to Lives is an initiative team share suggestions for the content. from Park Inn by Radisson which sees In Riga, all of the suggestions revolved hotel employees get involved in their around traditional Latvian symbols, stories, community by working with local and identity. The process of creating the disadvantaged youth. Led by artist and mural acted as a huge energy boost for social educator Joel Bergner, the young the whole team, giving the youth the people and hotel teams come together strength to face the problems in their lives. to tell their stories through public art.In 2017, Adding Color to Lives continued Bucharest saw the Adding Color to Lives in Europe, creating murals in Riga, team create a circus mural on the wall of a St Petersburg, Bucharest, and Stuttgart. local police station. By involving the police, Adding Color to Lives is underlining the The 26-meter-long Stuttgart mural tells the importance of community support for the story of the long journey of life, symbolized projects. The circus theme reflects on the through a winding road. While the road activities of the local disadvantaged youth. isn’t always easy it makes us who we are. The youth organization is teaching the It was designed and painted by the local youngsters circus skills as a way of growing youth organization and hotel team. their confidence. The mural is a dynamic, colorful addition to the community In St Petersburg, 20 local youth from the which will inspire future generations. Tranzit social orphanage and Zvesdochka youth club came together to create a mural which features local mythology, symbols, and stories. There’s even an astro-cat and an octopus swimming through space! RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 39 Action Month Box Appeal Earth Hour Every September, Rezidor runs Responsible As part of Responsible Business Action On 25 March 2017, more than 260 Business Action Month (RBAM) which Month (RBAM) each September, Rezidor hotels across EMEA turned off reaches out to local communities and Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson non-essential lighting to raise awareness supports those in need. 2017 Marked hotels in the Middle East organize the of the need for action on climate the 14th annual RBAM. More than Box Appeal. In 2017, the initiative saw change. Earth Hour is a global World 750 activities were held, and 16,200 11,286 boxes of essential items being Wildlife Fund (WWF) campaign. volunteer hours counted. Cash donations distributed to workers across the region. totaled €180,000 while the value of As well as turning off lights, many in-kind donations topped €263,000. In the United Arab Emirates, residents hotels arranged special events. These came forward to fill boxes with a included a candlelit procession with the During RBAM, each of our brands roll shopping list of everyday items. They Rezidor hotels in Riga and a masterclass out programs which create meaningful were distributed to underprivileged in cooking without electricity at the actions for their communities and support construction workers and street Radisson Blu Hotel, Kyiv, Ukraine. Rezidor’s charity partners such as Just laborers by our enthusiastic hoteliers. a Drop and the Youth Career Initiative. Major support for the Box Appeal came from Dubai Municipality and other partners and sponsors. For 10 years in a row, Box Appeal has also received support from different schools and universities across the region. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 40 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 41 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS THINK PLANET 18% OF HOTEL ENERGY I S R E N E WA B L E 46,777 TONS OF CO2 OFFSET 100% R E N E WA B L E ENERGY IN 40 HOTELS 10% WAT E R R E D U C T I O N TA R G E T 8% E N E R G Y S AV E D SINCE 2016 211 E-CAR CHARGING S TAT I O N S RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 42 THINK PLANET ENERGY Think Planet principles KWH PER M2 Our sustainability actions support preservation of natural resources 270 while contributing to the bottom line and enhancing our ability to deliver 266 Memorable Moments to our customers. 260 261 • We issue clear targets to minimize 250 our environmental footprint in terms of energy, water use 245 and waste, and measure our 240 progress toward these goals. • We’ve committed to the 230 International Tourism Partnership 2015 2016 2017 2030 hotel industry goals to reduce our carbon footprint and KWH PER OCCUPIED ROOM practice water stewardship. 90 90 As a front runner in sustainability, Rezidor adopted the hotel industry’s 86 86 first environmental policy in 1989. 80 Since 2012 we have been working on clearly defined Think Planet targets. 70 2015 2016 2017 Think Planet covers the environmental actions of the business including energy efficiency, carbon footprint reduction, water conservation, waste management and sustainable procurement. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 43 Energy efficiency Due to the nature of the business, hotels 3. Green buildings: renovation and construction are intense energy-users. The energy We want to operate buildings with the is mainly used for climate control, food lowest possible energy and carbon service, creating a comfortable living footprint. At Rezidor, this is done by environment and recreational facilities. implementing Think Planet efficiency principles in our standards, and in Our goal is to provide our guests with the close cooperation with property best service and experience wherever they owners, builders, and architects. are in the world. At the same time, we aim 4. Think to continuously reduce our use of energy to Planet tools minimize our impact on the earth. We use easy-to-implement energy saving tools which provide a quick Think Planet was launched by Rezidor as a return on investment. For example, campaign focused on reducing energy. To motion and daylight sensors. guide our actions and initiatives, we developed five actions to support the energy saving aspects of Think Planet: 5. Think Planet habits The involvement of all employees Think Planet investments is essential to realize our Think Planet 1. We believe that investments are a key step to success in saving targets. We implement continuous and creative communication to ensure that energy. As well as investing in proven employees develop good energy-use energy saving measures, such as efficient habits such as switching off appliances boilers and HVAC systems, we are also and lights when not required. implementing innovative technologies including wireless guestroom controls. 2017 Energy saving results During 2017, Rezidor’s energy intensity LED lighting retrofit reduced further to 86 kWh per occupied 2. LED lights use 95% less energy than conventional bulbs and room. Energy per square meter was at 245 kWh. This represents an 8% reduction have a lifespan that is 25% longer. versus last year. These gains have been This makes it an ideal technology to achieved by optimizing the lighting, reduce energy consumption. A groupwide heating and cooling systems, focusing initiative to retrofit LED lights in all on energy efficiency in daily operations, our hotels has been carried out. and investing in new technologies. 59% Of all lights in our hotels are LEDs. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 44 Think Planet employee engagement Harnessing the power of nature at the Think Planet winner 2017 – Marseille with Lumi Radisson Blu Resort Gran Canaria The Radisson Blu Marseille has won the Lumi the Firefly is Rezidor’s global latest Think Planet award after reducing Think Planet mascot and lights the The resort has implemented a range of energy consumption by 31% over five vital energy-saving spark in our measures to reduce its impact on the years. The award recognizes the property employees. A firefly is the ideal Think fragile local environment. The hotel is that has made the biggest difference Planet mascot as these tiny insects can equipped with a solar-thermal energy in terms of energy and water savings. generate light with 100% efficiency. system, which harnesses the power of the All employees at the hotel received as sun. The system produces around 250 special Think Planet bicycle in recognition To develop the energy saving habits of kWh of energy – enough to meet 70% of of their amazing achievement. our employees, the Think Planet employee the hotel’s hot water needs – and reduces engagement program includes: heating oil use by 30,000 liters annually. Examples of smart energy habits implemented in Marseille, and at other • Lumi training videos: a selection A grey water recovery system reuses water hotels in the group, include: turning off of Think Planet videos which from showers, bathtubs, sinks, and the rain unnecessary lighting, replacing light educate our employees in the best that falls on a rare rainy day. This water is bulbs with LEDs, and regulating heating practices for energy reduction, water treated and meets 60% of the hotel’s needs and air conditioning temperatures. The reduction, and waste control. for garden irrigation. In 2016 the system Radisson Blu Marseille also installed a fully • Lumi tips: ideas from Lumi which reduced the hotel’s water use by 7,200m3 induction-powered kitchen and invested inspire employees to save energy or almost 3 olympic swimming pools. in new and efficient tunnel washers. or water, or reduce waste. • Lumi performance board: Further water savings have been achieved communicates each hotel’s Think by pumping water directly from the sea – Planet performance to help our just 100 meters away – for use in the hotel’s employees understand the target largest saltwater swimming pool. Pressure and track their performance reducers have been placed in washbasins with accuracy and credibility. and showers throughout the hotel, and every year the hotel provides training to employees on good water saving practices. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 45 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 46 THINK PLANET CARBON FOOTPRINT AND RENEWABLES Rezidor’s scope-1 and -2 greenhouse gas emissions Renewable energy primarily result from energy consumption. Since 2006, Rezidor hotels actively strive to reduce their carbon Rezidor has calculated our carbon dioxide and equivalent footprint by reducing energy consumption on one hand (CO2e) emissions. The group’s carbon footprint per guestand by increasingly using renewable energy sources on the night in 2017 amounted to 21.4 kg of CO2e, 15% lower than other hand. Since 2017, in 2011. Our total scope-1 and scope-2 carbon footprint our hotels in France run on 100% renewable energy, joining amounts to 407,532 tons of CO2e. hotels in the Nordics who have been running fully on renewables for several years. Carbon free meetings Building on the success of a previous program, which offset On average 18% of the energy used in the group is from over 42,000 tons in 5 years, Radisson Blu launched carbon renewable sources. free meetings in 2017 for all meetings and events in our Radisson Blu hotels in EMEA and the USA. Hotel Carbon Footprint Measurements In 2012, the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI) First Climate was launched by the international Travel Partnership (ITP) The carbon offset happens in collaboration with our and World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), together with partner First Climate, one of the largest carbon offsetting all major hospitality companies. organizations in the world. All First Climate offset projects are Gold Standard qualified. Rezidor was an active member of the HCMI working group creating the tool and has rolled out the methodology to all The actual offsetting projects relate to managed and leased hotels. HCMI is also the basis for our Radisson Blu’s initiative to bring safe Carbon reduction target. drinking water to communities around the world. We chose carbon offsetting projects specifically related to UN SDG 6 – bringing clean water and sanitation to communities around the world. The carbon offsetting for EMEA meetings, for example, goes towards borehole restauration in Malawi. Wellfunctioning boreholes give people access to safe drinking water and avoid charcoal being used to boil water, see page 38. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 47 Radisson Blu Basel focuses France 100% renewable on renewable energy To celebrate the 10th World Day for The Radisson Blu Basel is very proud of Responsible Tourism, Rezidor announced its cooperation with local energy provider that all 11 of its Radisson Blu and Park IWB Strom. Unlike some energy providers, Inn by Radisson hotels in France have IWB Strom focuses on generating energy switched to using 100% renewable energy from 100% renewable sources. In 2017, as part of the Think Planet initiative. the Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel met its entire electricity needs from renewable The hotels are the first in France to achieve and local sources including hydroelectric, the objectives of RE100, an international wind, solar, and biomass energy. and collaborative initiative led by the Climate Group NGO. The initiative is Hot water supply from solar based on a partnership with the French At the Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka we energy supplier EDF. Renewable energy understand that we have an obligation to must be developed to effectively fight reduce our carbon footprint significantly. against global warming. EDF has injected The hotel has converted its entire hot electricity from renewable sources into water supply from electric to solar power. our network, meaning that 100% of our Not only is solar an environmentally energy comes from renewable sources. friendly energy source, it also reduces our dependence on non-renewable To date, 29 other Rezidor properties in energy. The project is estimated Europe, Africa, and the Middle East have to have reduced the hotel’s entire already switched to 100% renewable energy consumption by up to 35%. energy. The addition of the group’s 11 French properties brings that total to 40. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 48 THINK PLANET WATER STEWARDSHIP Water stewardship Because of this, we pay close attention to in a consistent manner across the hotel Water is a limited resource which poses one reducing the use of water in our operations. industry. Known as the Hotel Water of the most vital sustainable development Between 2007 and 2016, Rezidor reduced Measurement Initiative (HWMI), the challenges of our time. Managing our use water consumption intensity per guestmethodology enables any hotel to of water is therefore good for the planet, night by 29%. By the end of 2017, we measure and report on the water footprint good for people, and good for business. reduced our per guest consumption by a of a hotel stay, meeting, or event. further 3% to 340 liters per guest-night. Water stewardship aims to find ways HWMI is free and easy to use, and will to use water that are socially equitable, Water initiatives help us achieve a shared baseline for environmentally sustainable, and As part of Think Planet, the water our hotels around the world. It allows economically beneficial. It’s a philosophy Initiative has been specifically Rezidor to measure our water use in the that can be adopted by businesses, designed to help our hotels further same way as other hotel companies and suppliers, communities, and others. reduce their water consumption. will generate common awareness about water usage in tourism and travel. CEO Water Mandate The action plan and toolkit we have To address the challenge of managing developed includes tools and solutions for Through funding provided by Rezidor, global water resources, the United Nations guest rooms, kitchens, pools, landscaping, the HWMI tool is available online through established the CEO Water Mandate and technical plants. We install waterthe website of the Green Key eco-label. in 2007. This unique public private saving technologies in areas where water initiative helps companies develop, consumption is high, and engage our implement, and disclose their water guests through initiatives such as our sustainability policies and practices. towel re-use program, or by providing LITERS PER GUEST-NIGHT information on the reduced water footprint The Rezidor Hotel Group signed the of our Super Breakfast at Radisson Blu. 350 CEO Water Mandate in 2014, becoming 350 349 340 the first hospitality company to do so. The Think Planet water toolkit also includes 340 Since Rezidor signed the mandate, we training movies, to train housekeeping, 335 have centered our actions on the six laundry, and kitchen employees. 330 water stewardship commitments. Collective action – HWMI 325 Consumption in water stressed areas ITP members, including The Rezidor 320 Around 29% of Rezidor’s water Hotel Group, have convened a working 2015 2016 2017 consumption occurs in watergroup to develop a methodology which stressed areas (mainly in the Middle measures and reports water consumption East and Sub-Saharan Africa). RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 49 391,640 M3 WATER OR 1,570 OLYMPIC SWIMMING POOLS COLLECTED FOR REUSE Cape Town hotels adopt major Practical measures have included water initiatives during drought removing the large flush button from Due to a severe drought that has lasted toilets, removing bath plugs, and since 2015, the city of Cape Town is facing installing timers and aerators in showers a major water shortage. The six Rezidor to limit water consumption. To reduce hotels in the region have implemented the amount of laundry, guests are a series of initiatives to cut water usage encouraged to reuse their towels as part and re-use as much water as possible. of the ongoing Just a Drop initiative and linen is only changed every three Education is a critical part of Rezidor’s days or on request. Housekeeping is approach. Guests are informed of the collecting the water from the last rinse water crisis in the city when they arrive, a in washing machines and using it for the message that is backed up with signage remaining plants and to clean floors. in hotel lifts and rooms as a constant reminder. In some hotels, employees have Since then, the collective actions of all switched to wearing custom-designed Cape Town business, residents and guests t-shirts illustrating a dripping tap and the have had effect, and have succeeded to message to help Cape Town save water. push ‘Day Zero’ further out into 2018. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 50 THINK PLANET WASTE REDUCTION Waste is generated by many activities Plastic caps in our hotels including food preparation, Many Rezidor hotels are participating in consumption of prepackaged items, guest campaigns to recycle plastic bottle caps waste, and cleaning. Rezidor pro-actively from water bottles, olive oil cans, and soft seeks ways to reduce the residual waste drinks. As well as preventing the plastic which goes to landfill or incineration. from entering the ocean or landfill, these campaigns are also helping to change Refuse the straw the lives of people with special needs. Did you know that an estimated 6 billion straws are used every day in the world? For example, all Radisson Blu and That’s a lot of plastic which often ends Park Inn by Radisson Hotels in Turkey up in the ocean, or in landfill where it can are participating in a cap recycling take up to 200 years to break down. scheme which benefits the Spinal Cord Paralytics Association of Turkey. The As an industry initiative, Rezidor is campaign helps people with orthopedic encouraging guests and hotels to disabilities move on their own, shop, refuse plastic straws. There are many travel, and discover the world. And eco-friendly alternatives including it’s all down to saved plastic caps. straws made from glass, stainless steel, starch, straw, and bamboo. So, before you accept that straw in your drink, check whether it is made from renewable resources, or biodegradable and 100% compostable. 46 WITH HOTELS 89% HOTELS WITH 223 HAVE WASTE SORTING HOTELS BIO DIGESTER TO PRODUCE BIO FUEL DEDICATED WASTE SORTING AREA FACILITIES ON THE HOUSEKEEPING TROLLEYS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 51 Soap for Hope™ expands in The Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund has Zambia and Germany started collecting bath amenities for More than 50 Rezidor hotels across the local charity ‘Gast Haus’. At Gast the Middle East and Africa are now Haus homeless people can receive a participating in the Soap for Hope™ free meal or have a medical check-up. initiative. Developed by our partner But they can also use the facilities to Diversey, Soap for Hope™ takes leftover take care of their personal hygiene. soap from our hotels and recycles it into new and sanitized bars of soap. The hotel has established an ongoing Around 1.7tons of soap – enough to cooperation with Gast Haus and produce 13,000 bars – are provided several boxes full of bath amenities to local communities annually. have already been delivered. Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka became In 2017, Soap for Hope™ was the latest to join the Soap for Hope™ shortlisted for the BITC Unilever initiative. To get the program going, Global Development Award. a trainer from Diversey trained the team on the recycling process. Having learnt the process, the team travelled to N’gombe Health Centre to demonstrate the technique and pass on the soap to victims and survivors of gender-based violence. Together, the Radisson Blu, Lusaka, team and Diversey trained the survivors to recycle wasted soap and provide a market for resale. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 52 THINK PLANET FOOD AND DRINK Fighting Food Waste Go naturally vegetarian or vegan Nespresso recycling Roughly one-third of the food produced Wonderful flavors and healthy Radisson Blu hotels utilize more than in the world for human consumption options await at our Amano Verde 2.5 million Nespresso capsules and pads each year – approximately 1.3 billion restaurant in the Radisson Blu annually. tons – is lost or wasted. As consumers Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf. A new recycling scheme in close and employees in the hotel industry, we Eating healthily has never been collaboration with Nespresso is seeing are already working to change this. so chic! The fine-dining Amano the company collect used capsules and Verde restaurant is dedicated to In 2014, The Rezidor Hotel Group started pads directly from hotels. The program vegan, vegetarian, and lactoseworking with Unilever to introduce is already established in 71 hotels using free cuisine. The restaurant serves food waste reduction training for our Nespresso, with the goal of recycling flavorful meat free meals and Food & Drink teams in conjunction with all used capsules and pads by 2020. there are light or hearty options a waste monitoring program. Today, to suit your appetite. Chef Dennis Both the aluminum and used coffee 49% of our hotels accurately measure Riesen, who is a vegan, ensures grounds can be recycled. In the case food wastage during preparation, that his creations use the freshest of the aluminum, it can be melted and from the plate, or through spoilage. regional and gluten-free ingredients reused to make new aluminum products We have also taken other actions from controlled cultivation. over and over again. Recycling saves up such as reworking and up-styling our Amano Verde sets the standard to 95% of the energy needed to produce breakfast buffet in Radisson Blu hotels. for upscale vegetarian dining. aluminum from raw materials, and avoids This initiative has reduced waste by emissions associated with mining, refining, between 27% and 60% depending and smelting. As one of the most widely on the hotel, and cut our water and recycled materials today, secondary carbon footprints by more than 20%. aluminum has a high market value and is used for everything from automobile parts, computer components and building Organic waste turned into valuable fertilizer in France materials to cookware and cans. Our hotels in France now installed special equipment Meanwhile, the coffee grounds in used dehydrating their organic waste to prepare it for Nespresso capsules also provide recycling further processing into fertilizer or biogas. This or reuse opportunities. In some countries, reduces the carbon footprint of the bio-waste coffee grounds are separated from the collection and treatment by 75%. An estimated 156 aluminum of the capsules and used for tons of waste will be turned into fertilizer each year. compost fertilizer or heating briquettes. In other recycling schemes in Europe, coffee grounds can be used to produce biogas to power the recycling process itself. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 53 THINK PLANET ECOLABELS External confirmation of our To qualify for a Green Key eco-label, hotels’ environmental performance a property must comply with the is essential to Rezidor. following requirements for example: • Reduce energy and water consumption Eco-labels provide an independent • Have eco-friendly lighting in at third-party onsite audit of each hotel’s least 75% of the property practices and actions to protect the • Treat all waste water environment. Our target is to have • Separate waste and recycle a 100% of our hotels eco-labelled. maximum amount of waste. At the end of 2017, a total of 294 Our hotels are also certified by other Rezidor hotels (or 80%) across leading national sustainability labels. In the EMEA have received eco-labels. UK, Rezidor hotels are certified by Green Tourism, in Ireland by the Green Hospitality Green Key is our biggest partner. More Award, and in Africa, eleven Rezidor hotels than 220 Rezidor hotels have received an have received the Green Leaf eco-label. eco-label from Green Key International or from their National Operators. Green See full list of eco-labelled Key is one of the largest hospitality hotels in appendix 1. certifiers in the world and enjoys a global reputation. The certification has been granted to over 2,700 hotels and accommodation venues in 56 countries. Hotels with the Green Key ecolabel comply with around 100 sustainability criteria covering energy management, waste control, water usage, and social responsibility. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 54 THE RADISSON BLU RESORT ŚWINOUJŚCIE IS THE FIRST FIVE-STAR HOTEL IN POLAND DESIGNED TO MEET LEED SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 55 THINK PLANET ECO BUILDINGS Green buildings in emerging Rezidor uses the EDGE tool for an markets with EDGE initial analysis in all pipeline and major In June 2016, Rezidor signed a unique renovation projects in countries where it is cooperation agreement with the applicable. We actively promote the EDGE International Finance Corporation certification of Rezidor hotels with our (IFC), a member of the World Bank, to own stakeholders and business partners. promote green buildings in emerging markets. The Rezidor Hotel Group is LEED in Świnoujście the first international hotel company Rezidor has opened the first and which has committed to use IFC’s EDGE only upscale resort in Świnoujście, eco-modelling tool and certification. Poland. The brand-new Radisson Blu Resort, Świnoujście is built to be LEED EDGE encourages the construction of certified (Leadership in Energy and resource efficient buildings by proving Environmental Design). LEED is a green the business case for green buildings building program which recognizes in emerging markets. It uses powerful best-in-class building strategies for new and free eco-modelling software which constructions. The Radisson Blu Resort, makes the business case for energy Świnoujście is the first five-star hotel and water saving measures and for in Poland designed and built to meet energy efficient building materials these strict sustainability standards. based on the local country context. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 56 THINK PLANET CONTRIBUTING TO SUSTAINABLE CITIES Tesla destination charging network on the roof. With the help of a beekeeper, the hives were As part of our Think Planet initiative and our established quickly. And there’s a lot for them to do – just desire to provide unrivalled value for our guests a few meters away is a huge botanical garden where at each customer touch point, we have joined they will find more than enough flowers to feast on. Tesla’s destination charging network. The hotel is happy to play its part in preventing Now, whenever guests are recharging their batteries bees from becoming extinct. Guests, employees, through a stay at one of our properties or a meal in and the hotel’s kitchen are all looking forward our restaurants, they can also charge their electric car to getting a taste of their labor. for free. The collaboration with Tesla gives guests an easy charging solution and helps to ensure they will The Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund bees aren’t the only get to their next destination quickly and cleanly. It’s a ones working for Rezidor. In total, 33 hotels have beehives win for our guests and a win for the environment. on their roofs or grounds. So, there’s no need to worry anymore about where to SportsArt powering the planet charge your electric car! Whether you’re staying with We have introduced SportsArt ECO-POWR™ energy us in the snowy mountains of Trysil or relaxing on the generating fitness equipment in selected hotels. sand at Biarritz, we’re helping you recharge! You can Guests have state of the art fitness equipment at already find 211 electric car charging posts in our hotels. their disposal and do their bit for the environment at the same time, by producing electricity as they work Topping off a full renovation in Oslo with a green roof out. The connection to technology is seamless ad The beautiful and stylish renovation of the Radisson Blu the energy is used to charge phones, mobile devices Scandinavia hotel in Oslo was crowned with a green or goes directly back to the grid. Another great way roof of over 1600 m2. The sedum roof absorbs 50% of to deliver Memorable Moments to our guests! the precipitation and creates good shelter and food for insects, which also increases the bird population. In Radisson Blu hotels in the Oslo region went one step addition, the air is cleaned from city dust and pollution. further with the ECO-POWR™ #Wattsforwater campaign. As part of the campaign, SportsArt created an interactive Buzzing for biodiversity installation in each Oslo hotel which invited guests The number of team members at the Radisson Blu Hotel, to generate energy by cycling. For every 100 watts Dortmund accelerated spectacularly when the hotel’s produced, Radisson Blu donated to Just a Drop to regular employees were joined by a number of bee colonies help provide a child with safe drinking water for life. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 57 0 0/0 0 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 58 THINK PLANET RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN Rezidor works with sustainable suppliers Supplier Code of Conduct Risk management in procurement to provide integrated projects and The products, services, and activities To enable Rezidor to understand and solutions for our hotels. We are also of our suppliers may impact Rezidor’s control the business risk of the supply committed to combating modern slavery reputation and affect our level of chain, we use tools to increase supplier in the supply chain, and are encouraging trust with other stakeholders. Rezidor visibility. Rezidor has redeveloped a our partners and the broader business prefers to work with suppliers who responsible business supplier questionnaire, community to take a stand against demonstrate their environmental, aligning it with the updated Supplier human trafficking and for human rights. social, and ethical responsibility. Our Code of Conduct. It also includes a Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the rating tool to identify supplier risks. minimum standards that suppliers to Rezidor are expected to achieve. Rezidor was part of the ITP Supply Chain The Supplier Code of Conduct includes working group. The group conducted a obligations for suppliers and the broader business community to take a stand high-level risk mapping exercise to identify against human trafficking and modern which products and services in a hotel slavery. The Supplier Code of Conduct are highest risk in terms of social and supplements the Code of Business Ethics environmental impacts. Together with and is signed by all suppliers at Group the results of the Responsible Supplier and Area levels. The signed Code then questionnaires, Rezidor has created a becomes part of the supplier agreement. risk map of its top 50 suppliers. Criteria in the supplier questionnaire include Advanced Rezidor Supplier Risk Rating environmental sustainability, human rights, health and safety, community B A action, business ethics and sustainable innovation in research and development. Supplier Risk Supplier with low risk product or service Supplier with high risk product or service and with active of risk management with active involvement risk management Results of the risk mapping exercise need management practices to be considered for corrective actions. They will be used for supplier assessment, C D = Priority focus for corrective action evaluation, and will be a discussion point (supplier questionnaire) during yearly meetings with the suppliers. Supplier with low risk product or service Supplier with high risk product or service with poor risk management with poor or non-existing risk management Risk rating Poor Low High (risk rating tool) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 59 Key suppliers EcoVadis silver award Suppliers such as Sysco Guest Supply, EcoVadis has awarded The Rezidor International Hotel Supply, Brita, Nespresso Hotel Group a Silver supplier rating for and Diversey provide the latest sustainable our sustainable practices. EcoVadis products to The Rezidor Hotel Group. At evaluates more than 30,000 companies the same time, they focus on sustainable annually on their environmental, human Supplier type production methods rights, and ethical performance. It aims % of total number suppliers and operations. to improve the environmental and social Mature markets 68% practices of companies by leveraging Responsible Food & Drink supply chain the influence of global supply chains. Emerging markets 32% In our Food and Drink operations, where a large part of our carbon footprint The EcoVadis rating covers four areas: originates, we work with responsible fair business ethics, the environment, suppliers and apply sustainable sustainable procurement, and labor purchasing practices. Across Rezidor, practices and human rights. The overall 32% of our hotels serve Fairtrade EcoVadis score reflects the quality products and 46% serve organic food. of the company’s corporate social Spend breakdown by supplier type responsibility management system. % of total spend With 90% of the world’s fish stocks fully or Local suppliers 32% over exploited by fishing, plus the added The Silver award places pressures of climate change and pollution, The Rezidor Hotel Group Regional suppliers 63% we can’t afford to make the wrong choices. amongst the top 30% of Corporate suppliers 5% To help us source our seafood sustainably, EcoVadis performers. the procurement team works closely with suppliers to ensure they do not supply our hotels with any threatened species on the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) or World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Red List. Supplier type breakdown % of total suppliers Our hotels also use sustainable seafood Local suppliers 81% tools to guide their choices. Approximately 57% of all fish and seafood purchased Regional suppliers 18% by the Group is certified sustainable. Corporate suppliers 1% Rezidor has signed group-wide agreement with leading water supplier BRITA to provide water filtration stations in our hotels. The stations filter regular tap water, cutting the generation of waste from single-use water bottles to zero. As the water is already available, hotels no longer need to rely on water transports – reducing out impact on the environment even further. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 60 294 ECO-LABELLED HOTELS AUSTRIA FINLAND • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport MALTA • Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Fürst Leopold Hotel, Dessau • Radisson Blu Resort Malta, St. Julian’s • Park Inn by Radisson Linz • Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands • Radisson Blu Style Hotel, Vienna • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bremen • Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo MOLDOVA BAHRAIN • Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki GREECE • Radisson Blu Hotel Chisinau, Moldova • The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence • Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku • Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Athens & Spa, Manama • Radisson Blu Aleksanteri Hotel, Helsinki MOROCCO • Radisson Blu Grand Hotel Tammer, Tampere HUNGARY • Radisson Blu Hotel, Marrakech Carré Eden BELGIUM • Park Inn by Radisson Sarvar Resort & Spa • Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Airport FRANCE • Park Inn by Radisson Budapest MOZAMBIQUE • Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport • Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest • Radisson Blu Hotel, Maputo • Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp • Park Inn by Radisson Lille Grand Stade • Park Inn by Radisson Antwerp • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon ICELAND NETHERLANDS • Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Midi • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice • Radisson Blu Saga Hotel, Reykjavik • Park Inn by Radisson, Amsterdam Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Leuven • Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris • Radisson Blu 1919 Hotel, Reykjavik Schiphol • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels • Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz • Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam • Radisson Blu Balmoral Hotel, Spa • Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne IRELAND • Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Spa • Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland® • Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Airport Schiphol • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt Resort Paris • Radisson Blu St. Helen's Hotel, Dublin • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Noordwijk-aan-Zee • Radisson RED Hotel, Brussels • Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 • Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick • Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port • Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny NORWAY CHINA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone • Park Inn by Radisson Stavanger • Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing • Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo • Park Inn by Radisson Oslo • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Ajaccio Bay • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork • Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Airport CROATIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nantes • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Trysil Mountain Resort • Radisson Blu Resort, Split • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø GEORGIA • Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Fornebu, Oslo CZECH REPUBLIC • Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tblisi ITALY • Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø • Park Inn by Radisson Ostrava • Radisson Blu Hotel, Batumi • Radisson Blu Hotel, Milan • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Bergen • Park Inn Hotel Prague • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo • Radisson Blu Alcron Hotel, Prague GERMANY KAZAKHSTAN • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger • Park Inn by Radisson Cologne City-West • Radisson Hotel, Astana • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo DENMARK • Park Inn by Radisson Munich • Park Inn by Radisson Astana • Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand • Park Inn by Radisson Copenhagen Airport Frankfurter Ring • Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen • Park Inn by Radisson Weimar KENYA • Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, • Park Inn by Radisson Nürnberg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nairobi Upper Hill • Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Gardemoen Copenhagen • Park Inn by Radisson Papenburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Ålesund • Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Odense • Park Inn by Radisson Berlin City West KUWAIT • Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus • Park Inn by Radisson Dresden • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kuwait • Radisson Blu Resort, Trysil • Radisson Blu Limfjord Hotel, Aalborg • Park Inn by Radisson Frankfurt Airport • Symphony Style Hotel Kuwait • Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport • Radisson Blu Papirfabrikken Hotel, Silkeborg • Park Inn by Radisson Stuttgart • Radisson Blu Hotel, Alna-Oslo • Park Inn by Radisson Lübeck LATVIA EGYPT • Park Inn by Radisson Göttingen • Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga OMAN • Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir • Park Inn by Radisson Neumarkt • Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga • Park Inn by Radisson Muscat • Radisson Blu Hotel, Alexandria • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg • Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residence Duqm • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cairo Heliopolis • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Düsseldorf • Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga • Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat • Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, • Radisson Blu Hotel, Sohar ESTONIA Wiesbaden LEBANON • Hormuz Grand, Quorvus Collection • Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn • Radisson Blu Senator Hotel, Lübeck • Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut • Park Inn by Radisson Meriton Conference • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus POLAND & Spa Hotel Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover LITHUANIA • Park Inn by Radisson Krakow • Radisson Blu Sky Hotel, Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne • Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas • Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin • Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe • Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius • Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw • Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin • Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda • Radisson Blu Centrum Hotel, Warsaw ETHIOPIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock • Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius • Radisson Blu Resort, Świnoujście • Radisson Blu Hotel, Addis Ababa • Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, • Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow Düsseldorf LUXEMBOURG • Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk • Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt • Park Inn by Radisson Luxembourg City • Radisson Blu Sobieski Hotel, Warsaw • Radisson Blu Park Hotel & Conference Centre, Dresden Radebeul 61 ROMANIA SLOVAKIA • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residences, • Park Inn by Radisson Danube, Bratislava Hotel • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Asia Bucharest • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Pera • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bucharest SOUTH AFRICA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Tuzla • Park Inn by Radisson Sandton • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Sisli RUSSIA • Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Foreshore • Radisson Blu Hotel Kayseri • Park Inn by Radisson Ekaterinburg • Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Newlands • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Ataköy • Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. • Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town • Radisson Blu Residence, Istanbul Batışehir Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg • Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiyskaya, St. • Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth UKRAINE Petersburg • Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel, Sandton • Park Inn by Radisson Troyitska Kyiv • Park Inn by Radisson Poliarnie Zory, Murmansk Johannesburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev • Park Inn by Radisson Sheremetyevo Airport, • Radisson Blu Resort, Bukovel Moscow SPAIN • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kyiv Podil • Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado • Park Inn by Radisson Veliky Novgorod • Radisson Blu Resort, Gran Canaria UNITED ARAB EMIRATES • Park Inn by Radisson Novokuznetsk • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Gran Canaria Mogan • Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island • Park Inn by Radisson Astrakhan • Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah • Park Inn by Radisson Rosa Khutor SWEDEN • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City • Park Inn by Radisson Yaroslavl • Park Inn by Radisson Uppsala • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek • Park Inn by Radisson Sochi City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Solna • Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina • Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovo Airport St. • Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Hammarby • Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Petersburg Sjöstad • Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah • Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg • Park Inn by Radisson Malmö • Radisson Royal Hotel, Moscow • Park Inn by Radisson Lund UNITED KINGDOM • Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Conference Centre • Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad • Radisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm London Heathrow • Radisson Blu Resort & Congress Centre, Sochi • Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmö • Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rosa Khutor • Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson Nottingham • Radisson Blu Paradise Resort & Spa, Sochi • Radisson Blu Metropol Hotel, Helsingborg • Park Inn by Radisson Northampton • Radisson Blu Hotel, Chelyabinsk • Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda • Park Inn by Radisson Telford • Radisson Resort, Zavidovo • Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson Bedford • Radisson Blu Sheremetyevo Airport Hotel, • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg • Park Inn by Radisson Harlow Moscow • Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson York • Park Inn by Radisson Nizhny Tagil • Radisson Blu Hotel, Uppsala • Park Inn by Radisson Cardiff City Centre • Radisson Blu Riverside Hotel, Gothenburg • Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough SAUDI ARABIA • Park Inn by Radisson Belfast • Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar SWITZERLAND • Park Inn by Radisson Manchester City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel, Dammam • Park Inn by Radisson Lully • Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea • Park Inn by Radisson Makkah Al Naseem • Park Inn by Radisson Zurich Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Aberdeen • Radisson Blu Hotel, Buraidah • Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel • Park Inn by Radisson Glasgow City Centre • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dhahran • Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen • Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London • Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne • Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu • Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds • Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah • Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow • Radisson Blu Hotel and Residence, TUNISIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh Jeddah Al Salamah • Radisson Blu Palace Resort & Thalasso, Djerba • Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool • Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah • Radisson Blu Ulysse Resort & Thalasso, Djerba • Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport, • Radisson Blu Residence Dhahran • Radisson Blu Resorts & Thalasso, Hammamet Stansted • Radisson Blu Resort Jizan • Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Jeddah TURKEY • Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham • Park Inn by Radisson Ankara Cankaya • Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey SENEGAL • Park Inn by Radisson Istanbul Ataturk Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dakar Sea Plaza • Park Inn by Radisson Istanbul Asia Kavacik • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cardiff • Park Inn by Radisson Izmir • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol SERBIA • Radisson Blu Conference & Airport Hotel, • Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport • Radisson Blu Old Mill Hotel, Belgrade, Serbia Istanbul • G&V Royal Mile Hotel Edinburgh • Radisson Blu Hotel, Ankara • Radisson Blu Hotel, Diyarbakir ZAMBIA • Radisson Blu Bosphorus Hotel, Istanbul • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka 62 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS As a responsible leader in the industry, The Rezidor Hotel Group is conscious that our Responsible Business targets and actions need to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. No poverty Affordable and clean energy Climate action End poverty in all its forms everywhere Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable Take urgent action to combat climate change and modern energy for all and its impacts THINK PLANET PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS THINK PLANET ENERGY CARBON FOOTPRINT AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT RENEWABLES Zero hunger Decent work and economic growth Life below water End hunger, achieve food security and Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas improved nutrition, and promote sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and marine resources for sustainable development agriculture and decent work for all THINK PLANET FOOD AND DRINK RESPONSIBLE FOOD RESPONSIBLE FOOD AND EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYABILITY AND DRINK SUPPLY CHAIN DRINK SUPPLY CHAIN PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT AND TALENT MANAGEMENT Good health and well-being Industry, innovation Life on land Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages and infrastructure Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss SOAP FOR HOPE™ ECO BUILDINGS SUSTAINABLE CITIES THINK PLANET CARBON FREE MEETINGS Quality education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning Reduced inequalities Reduce inequality within and among countriesll opportunities for all THINK COMMUNITY Peace, justice and strong LEARNING JOURNEY ON AND OFFLINE LEARNING AND TALENT-SPOTTING ACTION MONTH institutions EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES AND SOCIAL Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for TACKLING YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT sustainable development, provide access to DIALOGUE justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Gender equality Sustainable cities and communities BUSINESS ETHICS Achieve gender equality and empower Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, ANTI-BRIBERY all women and girls resilient and sustainable ELIMINATING MODERN SLAVERY SAFETY & SECURITY SAFETY AND SECURITY DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION TRIC=S FORMULA EMPOWERING WOMEN Partnerships for the goals Strengthen the means of implementation Clean water and sanitation Responsible consumption and and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all production Ensure sustainable consumption and production MEMBERSHIPS INCLUDING ITP, UN patterns THINK PLANET WATER STEWARDSHIP GLOBAL COMPACT AND UN CEO WATER RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT MANDATE ECO-LABELLING SOAP FOR HOPE™ 63 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT REZIDOR SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1: • Living & Leading Responsible Business Training • Supplier Code of Conduct and Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed • Employee Handbook agreements human rights. • Human Rights Policy Principle 2: • Code of Business Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • www.rezidorethics.com • Human Rights Policy • Policy against the Facilitation of Prostitution • Combating modern slavery toolkit LABOR Principle 3: • Human Resources Guidelines • Supplier Code of Conduct Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition • Employee Handbook • Employment Principles of the right to collective bargaining. • European Workers Councils Principle 4: • Code of Business Ethics • Human Rights Policy Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Combating modern slavery toolkit labor. • Employment Principles Principle 5: • Code of Business Ethics • Employment Principles Businesses should support • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Human Rights Policy the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: • Human Resources Guidelines • Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect • Employee Handbook Activities to employment and occupation. • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Social Networking Policy • Policy on Recruitment and Selection • Supplier Code of Conduct • Transfer Policy • Employment Principles • Human Rights Policy ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: • Responsible Business & Environment Policy • Environmental reporting and targets Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Rezidor Technical Standards Principle 8: • Responsible Business & Environment Policy • Living & Leading Responsible Business Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • Rezidor Technical Standards training responsibility. • Think Planet tools • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 9: • Rezidor Technical Standards • Carbon-free Meetings Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion • Think Planet tools • Eco-labelled hotels of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: • Global Information Security Policy • Anti-Fraud Policy Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and • Code of Business Ethics • Internal Audit bribery. • Anti-bribery training • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements 64 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES TABLE G4 Disclosure Location Of Disclosures Page Comment / Reasons Assurance G4 Disclosure Location Of Disclosures Page Comment / Reasons Assurance Number For Omision Number For Omision STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-1 Letter from the CEO 5 no G4-24 Materiality and stakeholders 9 no G4-2 Highlights 2017 7 no G4-25 Materiality and stakeholders 9 no 5-year plan 8 G4-26 Materiality and stakeholders 9 no ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Organization & governance 11 G4-3 About Rezidor Hotel Group 3 no G4-27 Materiality and stakeholders 9 no Organization & governance 11 G4-4 About Rezidor Hotel Group 3 no REPORT PROFILE G4-5 About Rezidor Hotel Group 3 no G4-28 Scope and boundaries of this report 2 no G4-6 About Rezidor Hotel Group 3 no G4-29 March 2017 – no G4-7 About Rezidor Hotel Group 3 no G4-30 Scope and boundaries of this report 2 no G4-8 About Rezidor Hotel Group 3 no G4-31 Contacts 70 no G4-9 Annual report – no G4-32-a Scope and boundaries of this report 2 no G4-10 Employment & employability 23 no G4-32-b Content 1 no G4-11 Employment & employability 23 no G4-32-c not applicable – no external assurance no G4-12 Responsible supply chain 59 no G4-33 Scope and boundaries of this report – no external assurance no G4-13 Annual report – no GOVERNANCE G4-14 Scope and boundaries of this report 2 no G4-34 Organization and governance 11 no G4-15 Memberships 13 no ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-16 Memberships 13 no G4-56 People development & talent 24 no IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES management Business ethics 33 Scope and boundaries of this report 2 G4-57 not applicable – no G4-17 Annual report – no G4-58 not applicable – no G4-18 Scope and boundaries of this report 2 no Materiality and stakeholders 9 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-19 Materiality and stakeholders 9 no CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-20 Scope and boundaries of this report 2 no ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Materiality and stakeholders 9 G4-EC1 Annual report – no G4-21 Materiality and stakeholders 9 no Highlights 7 G4-22 Organization and governance 11 no G4-EC2 5-year plan 8 no G4-23 Scope and boundaries of this report 2 no Think Planet energy 43 G4-EC4 Financial assistance 34 no MARKET PRESENCE G4-EC7 Think People 18 no Community engagement 36 G4-EC8 Think People 18 no Community engagement 36 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-EC9 Responsible supply chain 59 no 65 G4 Disclosure Location Of Disclosures Page Comment / Reasons Assurance G4 Disclosure Location Of Disclosures Page Comment / Reasons Assurance Number For Omision Number For Omision CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES MATERIALS G4-LA14 Responsible supply chain – no G4-EN1 Waste reduction 51 no LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS ENERGY G4-LA16 n/a 19 data not available no G4-EN3 Highlights 2017 7 no CATEGORY: SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS Think Planet energy 43 INVESTMENT G4-EN5 Highlights 2017 7 no 43 G4-HR2 Human Rights 19 no Highlights 2017 7 Training tools 27 G4-EN6 Think Planet energy 43 no NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-EN7 Highlights 2017 7 no G4-HR3 n/a – data not available no Think Planet energy 43 WATER CHILD LABOR Highlights 2017 7 G4-HR5 Modern slavery statement 67 no G4-EN8 Water stewardship 49 no FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-EN9 Highlights 2017 7 no Human rights 19 Water stewardship 49 G4-HR6 Modern slavery statement 67 no G4-EN10 Water stewardship 49 no SECURITY PRACTICES G4-EN11 Water stewardship 49 no G4-HR9 Modern slavery statement 67 no BIODIVERSITY SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-EN12 Contributing to sustainable cities 57 no G4-HR10 Responsible supply chain 59 no G4-EN13 Contributing to sustainable cities 57 no HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS EMISSIONS G4-HR12 n/a – data not available no G4-EN15 Carbon footprint and renewables 47 no CATEGORY: SOCIAL SOCIETY G4-EN16 Carbon footprint and renewables 47 no LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-EN18 Carbon footprint and renewables 47 no G4-SO1 Community engagement 36 no 5-year plan 8 G4-EN19 ITP industry goals 14 no G4-SO3 Modern slavery statement 67 no Carbon footprint and renewables 47 ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-EN27 Think Planet 42 no G4-SO4 Business ethics 33 no G4-EN29 Organization and governance 11 no G4-SO5 Business ethics 33 no SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT PUBLIC POLICY G4-EN32 Responsible supply chain 23 no G4-SO6 Business ethics 33 no G4-EN34 Organization and governance 27 no COMPLIANCE CATEGORY: SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-SO8 Organization and governance 11 no EMPLOYMENT G4-SO9 Responsible supply chain 59 no G4-LA1 Employment & employability 27 no CATEGORY: SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY TRAINING AND EDUCATION CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA9 Learning tools 23 no G4-PR1 Safety and security 21 no G4-LA10 Learning tools 29 no PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-PR5 RB performance indicators 7 no G4-LA12 Employment & employability 59 no Diversity & inclusion G4-PR9 Organization and governance 11 no 66 MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT ABOUT THE REZIDOR HOTEL GROUP of performance and advocate socially GUIDING DOCUMENTS: The Rezidor Hotel Group (Rezidor) is one of and environmentally sustainable business PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES the most dynamic hotel companies in the world practices. Our aim is to combat and eliminate and is a member of the Radisson Hotel Group. any form of modern slavery and operate Code of Business Ethics Rezidor leases, manages and franchises hotels free of slavery; exploitation of children; and The Company’s internal Code of Business Ethics across Europe, the Middle East & Africa. Rezidor forced, bonded and compulsory labor. contains rules and guidelines, and serves as is a company committed to maintaining a a reminder of its policies and commitment high standard of business ethics, honesty and Therefore, Rezidor strives to achieve that: to do what is right and ethical for all Rezidor integrity. The following provides an overview • E  very employee has a worker contract employees. The Code applies to every person of our commitment to human rights and to • N  o employee is forced to work who works for us and every one of our preventing modern slavery and human trafficking. • N  o employee is forced to hand over companies. It is distributed to all employees. government issued identification, Additionally, all employees are trained in GOVERNANCE AND RECOGNITION passports, work permits or bank cards the Code of Business Ethics, its implications Rezidor acknowledges and respects the • N  o employee is required to pay any and reporting processes. The training is principles contained in the United Nations worker fees to receive work mandatory for all employees and includes a Declaration of Human Rights, which are • N  o excessive deductions are made reference to the Rezidor ethics platform. consistent with Rezidor’s core values and from employees’ wages commitment to be a force for good. Rezidor Supplier Code of Conduct endeavors to conduct its business operations in These expectations include the practices of labor The Supplier Code of Conduct includes a manner that seeks to promote and enhance agencies and for outsourced labor suppliers. obligations for suppliers and the broader human rights within its sphere of influence. This business community to take a stand against commitment is aligned with and supported by OUR BUSINESS AND SUPPLY CHAIN human trafficking and modern slavery. The its Code of Business Ethics and the principles Supplier Code of Conduct supplements the of the United Nations Global Compact, to Team involvement in ‘Combatting Code of Business Ethics and these principles are which the group is a signatory since 2009. Modern Slavery’ initiative the foundation for the minimum standards that Various teams across the organization suppliers to Rezidor are expected to achieve. It Since 2010, Rezidor has been recognized as and geographies are involved in Rezidor’s must be adhered to by all suppliers on corporate one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by anti-slavery and anti-trafficking initiatives. and regional levels which becomes part of the the Ethisphere Institute, an independent thinkThe strategy and follow up is coordinated suppliers’ commitment. In 2017 the updated tank and center of research promoting best by the corporate Responsible Business and extended Supplier Code of Conduct, with practices in corporate ethics and governance. department. The corporate Responsible specific clauses to prevent modern slavery, Business team works closely together with was communicated to all our suppliers. Our aim is to bring a positive benefit to the the Procurement team and Human Resources, communities in which we operate through both centrally and in our geographical areas. Although the local hotel suppliers are high quality services, economic growth and required to follow the Rezidor Supplier Code employment, environmental protection and Structure of Supply Chain of Conduct, we do not actively register community involvement. Our commitment to Rezidor’s supply chain has three types signed Code of Conducts at hotel level. ethical excellence is our heartbeat, and we are of supplier categories: local, regional and recognized as a trusted global leader when corporate suppliers. Both corporate and regional Human Rights it comes to being a responsible business. suppliers are managed by our corporate Rezidor has grouped key human rights and procurement team, via centralized and regional employment principles into two key documents. COMMITMENT TO COMBAT MODERN SLAVERY procurement agreements. These cover an The Human Rights Policy covers the group’s Rezidor is committed to combatting modern international variety of products and services engagement on issues such as ethical business slavery, educating employees and encouraging including operational supplies & equipment, conduct, protection of children’s’ rights, its partners and the broader business furniture, fixtures & equipment, food, drinks, combating human trafficking and protection community to take a stand against human amenities, linen and cleaning supplies. Local of the rights of employees. The Employment trafficking. We operate to high standards suppliers are managed at hotel level. Principles covers the group’s promises to its employees such as non-discrimination, freedom 67 of association and development of talent from recruitment framework for our hotels. The and request the same from their supply chain, within. Both policies are made available to all Group developed a combatting modern slavery including third-party labor agencies. The Supplier our hotels and employees and complement toolkit in support of its responsible recruitment Code of Conduct outlines the minimum standards the Code of Business Ethics and clarify the practices. The toolkit provides guidance on that suppliers to Rezidor are expected to achieve. principles we live and work by in our hotels. how to combat modern slavery and details on how to engage with employees, how to In addition, we expect our suppliers to Responsible Business increase awareness of modern slavery amongst comply with the laws and regulations as Rezidor’s ambitious and award-winning employees, how to approach a recruitment well as its supplier agreements applicable Responsible Business program dates to 2001. agency, and what due diligence to conduct. to operations in the countries and The Responsible Business policy covers jurisdictions where they conduct business, compliance with all applicable legislation It supports the hotel management teams or deliver goods and/or services. regarding labor, health and safety, human in their efforts to combat modern slavery, rights and the environment, covers operating especially with outsourced labor. The toolkit Risk Mapping in procurement system free of slavery, exploitation of people, forced, has been rolled out to all geographic areas For Rezidor to understand and control bonded and compulsory labor and strives to in Europe, Middle East & Africa and all our the business risk of the supply chain, it is follow best practices in each of these areas. HR managers have been trained in it. 54% using tools to increase supplier visibility. Of the hotels are actively using the toolkit OPERATIONAL DUE DILIGENCE 1. Working group Self-assessment questionnaire Rezidor was part of the International Tourism Audits Rezidor engaged specialized Human Partnership (ITP) supply chain working group to Every hotel undergoes an internal audit every Rights consultant Verité to create a hotel develop a risk rating tool to get a more complete second year. Elements of the audit include self-assessment tool. This self-assessment overview of our supplier risk profile. The rating controlling background checks for all positions questionnaire (SAQ) is designed to identify is performed weighting various criteria of spend, that are handling cash as a part of their role or potential gaps and vulnerabilities in business volume, risk, impact, likelihood of success. in other sensitive positions. The background processes of hotel properties and thirdcheck must be done by an external company. party intermediaries that provide services 2. Supplier questionnaire related to the recruitment, selection, hiring, The group updated its responsible business Other elements include supplier contract transportation, training, and management supplier questionnaire, aligning it with approval, work permits for employees of of foreign workers that could indicate a risk the updated Supplier Code of Conduct. It outsourced companies, reference checks of of forced labor or human trafficking. includes a rating tool to identify the level other partners of the supplier and background of risk management of a supplier. checks on outsourced employees in Accounting As part of the process, the SAQ was tested & Finance, Human Resources, Security, IT, in 3 of our hotels in the Middle East. 3. Risk mapping analysis Front Office and Food & Drinks. An outsourced In 2017 as part of our group supplier due company cannot sub-contract any activities This SAQ is intended to gather information on diligence, a risk mapping analysis has been delivered to the hotel without written risks of forced labor and human trafficking that completed to facilitate a breakdown of approval from Rezidor. In 2017, 61% of all our hotels may be facing, and ultimately to help supplier performance. Rezidor has done managed and leased hotels were audited. hotels and its third-party intermediaries detect, the risk mapping of its top 50 suppliers. remediate and mitigate risks of labor abuse. Responsible Recruitment Results of the risk mapping exercise allows 6.2% Of employees are recruited indirectly SUPPLIER DUE DILIGENCE a dialogue on responsible supply chain through a recruitment agent and 20.7% of the management between Rezidor and its suppliers. hotel employees are outsourced. We aim to The products, services and activities of our It needs to be considered for corrective apply responsible recruitment practices when suppliers may impact Rezidor’s reputation, actions, are used for supplier assessment, recruiting outsourced employees. To mitigate affecting our level of trust with other evaluation, and will be a discussion point the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking, stakeholders. It is imperative that the Rezidor’s for yearly meetings. In the coming year the Rezidor started with the creation of a responsible suppliers follow the Supplier Code of Conduct mapping tool is anticipated to be integrated in the corporate procurement IT system. 68 TRAINING of human rights, embed human rights into are requested to notify their employees, and any corporate governance, and work collectively in sub-contractors working for Rezidor, that they We endeavor to educate and facilitate our the industry to address risks arising in the labor may report serious or sensitive concerns or a employees to make a conscious decision in supply chain and during hotel construction. possible breach of the Supplier Code of Conduct. favor of environmental, ethical and social issues every day in their private and work lives. We Rezidor ethics platform FURTHER STEPS train our employees to recognise the risks of A cornerstone in the Code of Business Ethics The risks of modern slavery and human modern slavery and human trafficking in our implementation is www.rezidorethics.com, a trafficking in our operations and in the operations. Employees are explained the benefits website run by an independent third-party supply chain need our constant attention. of strong measures to tackle slavery and human organization. Employees can use this site Because of the growth of our operations, we trafficking, as well as the consequences of failing to find information on our Code of Business need to continuously monitor and manage to combat slavery and human trafficking. Ethics and report concerns anonymously. Any our supply chain risk. We will continue to employee with concerns or questions about combat modern slavery and human trafficking Combatting modern slavery training the Code is encouraged to raise these directly to minimize and manage the risks and A training document specifically designed with their supervisor or person of trust in the develop better ways to increase visibility for regional and hotel HR teams is used to hotel or regional organization. If this is not in our operations and our supply chain. increase awareness on the topic of modern possible, the employee can report the issue slavery. This training is part of the combatting online. The site and hotline are available in In the coming year, we anticipate: modern slavery toolkit and includes elements of eleven languages for all employees, outsourced • Continuing the development of tools responsible recruitment and use of the toolkit. employees and agency workers. From the available to our hotels on the responsible 74 reports received in 2017, none involved recruitment framework and to conduct risk Child protection and anti-trafficking allegations concerning modern slavery. evaluations of outsourced labor suppliers Protecting victims of human trafficking is • Continuing to encourage the hotel teams important. We take a public stand and work to Violations of our supplier code of conduct use of Combatting Modern Slavery toolkit prevent human trafficking and the exploitation Suppliers are expected to comply with the • Ongoing supplier engagement and of women and children. We ensure all employees standards of the Supplier Code of Conduct continuing to fully implement supplier are trained in a special Child Protection module. and with all applicable laws and regulations. evaluation of all corporate suppliers and all This module is part of our mandatory, classroomIn cases where modern slavery, human high risk and high volume regional suppliers based, Living Responsible Business training. The trafficking, exploitation of children, or from a Responsible Business, Human Rights module includes various case-based scenarios, forced and compulsory labor is discovered and preventing Modern Slavery perspective training employees to identify and report in the supply chain, it needs to be reported • Continuing the risk mapping analysis to suspicious behaviour and encourages discussion to the Rezidor without delay on a specific include all corporate suppliers and all high amongst participants on what actions to take. email address. Rezidor encourages any risk and high volume regional suppliers stakeholder with concerns about the Supplier • Continuing the cooperation with other AWARENESS RAISING PROGRAMS Code of Conduct and its implementation industry partners via the ITP network to discuss this directly with the supplier. to identify and share best practices Best practice in the industry • Including and updating modern slavery Rezidor believes that the hospitality industry If Rezidor receives such a report, we will ask elements in existing manuals, contracts, can be a force for good and make a positive the supplier to comment and, if necessary, we standards of operation and audits contribution to tackle modern slavery and may request an improvement plan to correct human trafficking. The Group is a member of the issue. If the supplier does not act or respond SIGNED BY BOARD the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), to the report or concern and is not willing to This annual statement of the full year which provides a voice for environmental work on correcting the issue, Rezidor may take 2017 was approved by the Board and social responsibility in the industry. various measures, including the exclusion of such of The Rezidor Hotel Group. supplier as a Rezidor Supplier and/or a report to In 2017 ITP and its members announced their local authorities. However, best practice suggests collective 2030 targets to impact critical issues. trying to work with the agency to improve their One of the 2030 targets is to raise awareness practice rather than dropping them. Suppliers Federico J. Gonzalez President & CEO 69 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report Group To Rezidor Hotel Group AB (publ), corporate www.linkedin.com/company/radisson-hotel-group/ identity number 556674-0964 Employees Responsibilities of the Board of Directors www.instagram.com/radissonmoments/ The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report, and that it has been prepared in Guests and other External Stakeholders accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. www.instagram.com/radissonhotels/ Group Responsibilities of the auditor www.twitter.com/radissongroup My examination of the statutory sustainability report has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s Guests and other External Stakeholders auditing standard RevR 12 Auditor’s report on the www.twitter.com/radissonhotels statutory sustainability report. This means that my examination of the statutory sustainability report Guests and other External Stakeholders is different and substantially less in scope than an www.facebook.com/radissonhotels audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing Group standards in Sweden. I believe that the examination www.youtube.com/radissonhotelgroup has provided me with sufficient basis for my opinion. Conclusion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, March 20, 2018 RENU HANEGREEFS-SNEHI PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Vice President Corporate Communications, PR & Reputation Management renu.snehi@radissonhotels.com Signed by INGE HUIJBRECHTS Eric Salander, Authorized Public Vice President, Responsible Business Accountant, auditor in charge inge.huijbrechts@radissonhotels.com Erik Bergh, Authorized Public Accountant 70 rezidor.com
