Consolidated Management Report During 2017 we further reinforced our position as the leading entertainment and communications provider in Portugal, leveraging our unique combination of assets in telecoms, audiovisuals and cinema exhibition, and capturing incremental growth opportunities and value where available. Miguel Almeida CEO Message from the Chief Executive Officer It is a great pleasure for me to be presenting another year of solid results that reflect consistent execution of the strategy we defined at the time of our merger. Competing in a very dynamic, technologically sophisticated and heavily invested market, we have managed to exceed our original goals on practically all operational and financial counts and well ahead of schedule. In particular our market share of total revenues has grown to over 31%, an increase of more than 5% from when we first started out. It is important to remember that whilst we were driving our young company to unprecedented levels of growth, we were simultaneously facing the challenges of bringing together two very different organizations with different legacies of systems, processes and cultures. Given the slowdown in commercial activity last year, as was to be expected given the high levels of service penetration already integrated operation, with best in class customer service and efficiency levels. Core to our strategy is continued investment in the critical business enablers to secure long term competitiveness. We initiated some very important technological projects last year in both our mobile and fixed networks. In mobile, we launched a complete overhaul of our radio 4 network architecture to increase capacity and efficiency. In fixed, we are upgrading our HFC network to Docsis 3.1 to provide 1Gbps speeds to the entire footprint by 1Q18 and extending our FttH coverage to reach 70% of our footprint by 2022, to support ever increasing consumer demands for bandwidth and to preempt the need to relieve capacity from the mobile network in future. We also took the first steps in implementing a companywide transformation programme, establishing as our core priorities excellence in customer experience and increased business efficiency. We have identified digitalization and automation as key enablers and elected a dedicated team from within the organization to coordinate numerous work streams that address wide ranging areas of the business such as customer service, distribution channels and technical support, to name but a few. This is a long term project that we believe will start delivering material impacts on customer service levels and cost efficiency by implementing structural changes in the way we do business and ultimately interact with our customers. During 2017 we further reinforced our position as the leading entertainment and communications provider in Portugal, leveraging our unique combination of assets in telecoms, audiovisuals and cinema exhibition, and capturing incremental growth opportunities and value where available. We continued to grow RGUs in core services driving increased market shares across all segments. Our Revenues increased by over 3% supported by our commercial performance. Continued cost efficiency and increased operating leverage enabled us to grow EBITDA by more than 4%, well above the growth in revenues and offsetting the continued burden of higher premium sports content costs on a like for like basis. This year we also delivered a very material increase in FCF to 133 million euros, up from just 54 million last year, evidence of our operating strength and financial discipline. As we have guided in the past, our FCF momentum and conservative capital structure present a very solid base for continued and sustainable growth in shareholder remuneration. Reflection of our confidence in operating prospects and our ability to generate earnings in the long run is the significant increase in proposed dividend to 30 eurocents per share. Also, in terms of our sustainability strategy, we have taken important steps over the past year. Given it is considered a strategic priority, the guidelines on which it is based, and which are part of our DNA, have been shared and applied throughout the whole organization. This year we report for the first time our sustainability performance, in line with the guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative – GRI Standards. We are fully aware of the importance of acting responsibly to ensure our long term competitiveness, including the role of our sector to contribute to a sustainable future for society. We remain committed to the ten Principles of Global Compact and to contributing to the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. The transformational projects we have underway are setting the foundations for an organization that is better equipped to address the challenges of our sector and the demands of an ever more sophisticated consumer. I am certain we have the best team and assets to succeed and will continue to deserve the trust placed in us by our customers, employees, shareholders and remaining business partners and stakeholders. Miguel Almeida 5 main index 6 08 Management Report Non-Financial Statements 80 142 Consolidated Financial Statements Individual Financial Statements 240 312 Corporate Governance Report 7 Management Report 8 index 10 1.The leading entertainment & communication provider in Portugal 20 2.Consolidating our growth strategy 33 3.Creating the conditions for sustainable success 46 4. A rapidly changing sector and consumer habits 54 5. Performance in 2017 9 1 The leading entertainment & communication provider in Portugal 10 Business Portfolio Telecoms We are part We have the best We are partners of daily life products and for business services for our transformation customers We offer next generation We offer convergent multiWe offer integrated B2B “asfixed and mobile solutions, device solutions, combining a-service” solutions for each internet, voice and data the cutting edge UMA sector and for companies of for all market segments user interface, with high all sizes, complemented with Residential, Personal, broadband speeds, the ICT and cloud services. Business and Wholesale. We largest Wi-Fi network in are the leading Pay TV and the country and 4G mobile next generation broadband services. provider in Portugal. Audiovisuals and Cinemas #1 in content #1 in cinema Leaders in distribution exhibition technology We acquire and manage Through NOS Lusomundo 40% of our cinemas have 3D film and series rights Cinemas we are leaders REAL D digital projection. We from some of the largest in Portugal in cinema and opened the first IMAX cinema studios worldwide and from alternative content exhibition. in Portugal in 2013 and, in independent producers and We were the first cinema 2016, we were the first distribute audiovisual chain in Europe, and one of to launch 4DX technology. content and a number of the first in the world, to be In 2017, we inaugurated own produced channels in fully digital. two fully laser equipped Portugal and in Portuguese complexes. speaking African countries. 11 Recognized and preferred by our customers and the sector Most trusted brand Operator of Choice 3rd Leaders in year in a row technology In the independent survey Mobile Telecommunications, NOS TV voted best online “Brands of Confidence”, Quadruple Play (4P) and app as Product of the Year by “Telecomunications and Cinemas as voted by Portuguese Consumers Multimedia Operators” Portuguese consumers category. 12 A track record of innovation 2011 Launch of Iris The 1st interface in the world with automatic recording 2013 Opening of the 1st IMAX cinema theatre in Portugal 2015 Launch of N Play, an inhouse OTT like subscription based content library Focus on 4K Content Launch of the Quatro Digital offer 2016 Launch of the NOS TV App allowing TV to be watched on all devices Premiere of 4DX technology in cinemas Launch of UMA TV, a new generation of TV, with a whole new customer interface and cutting edge features 2017 Launch of YouTube on UMA TV Launch of NOS Indie, a differentiated offer based on the internet NOS and Lagoa Town Council sign a protocol as part of the Smart Cities scheme. Launch of the 1st intelligent electricity meter using NB-IoT technology 13 Management Team A seasoned management team with many years of executive experience in the Portuguese telecom market*. Miguel José Pedro Ana Paula Almeida Pereira da Costa Marques CEO Vice-President Executive Board CFO Member . Business Development . Finance and . Business . Regulation and Legal Administration Transformation . Corporate . Corporate Finance . Human Resources Communication and . Planning and Control . Brand and Sustainability . Audit and Risk Communication Management . Customer Care . Investor Relations . Processes . Purchasing . Logistics and Terminal Management . Market & Customer Intelligence . Asset Management and General Services 20 years experience 18 years experience 20 years experience in the telecoms market in the telecoms market in the telecoms market 14 * Principal operating responsibilities Jorge Luís Manuel Graça Nascimento Ramalho Eanes Executive Board Executive Board Executive Board Member Member Member . Engineering, Network . Consumer Segment . Corporate Segment and and Infrastructure . Content Wholesale Development . CRM . Product Development . Advertising, . Service Platforms Audiovisuals and . Operations and Cinemas Supervision . Information Systems . Data Centres 14 years experience 15 years experience 15 years experience in the telecoms market in the telecoms market in the telecoms market 15 Key milestones in 2017 2017 NOS and the Lagoa Town Council sign a protocol within the scope of Smart Cities Lagoa to be the first Smart City NOS TV App voted in the Algarve “Product of the Year” 2017 The Portuguese chose NOS’ online TV app which easily and intuitively enables multi-device access to TV NOS is the most voted brand content by the Portuguese Year after year NOS stands out in the main studies and awards based on consumer confidence and NOS provides Wi-Fi satisfaction, in the telecoms and in the Carris trams entertainment areas Carris teams up with NOS to implement a free Wi-Fi solution aboard its trams There are already 1 million NOS Wi-Fi hotspots in Portugal 9 years after launch, the NOS Wi-Fi service has reached the historic NOS launches official NOS Alive milestone of 1 million hotspots, TV channel and app improving its strengthening its position as multiplatform experience the largest Wi-Fi network in A renewed app with new features, NOS Portugal Alive content in 4K for NOS subscribers and continuous broadcast on the official channel from 3 to 11 July are all part of the novelties of this year’s edition of NOS Alive NOS offers 7GB of mobile broadband forever Customers who sign up for the NOS 4 or NOS 5 convergent bundles benefit from an increased data allowance up to 7 GB per SIM card 16 Portugal presents the first NB-IoT smart meter NOS, EDP Distribuição, Huawei, JANZ CE and u-blox develop the first operational pilot with smart electric power meters with NBAPCC Portugal IoT communication technology Best Awards 2017 NOS’ customer service wins all Telecoms NOS launches YouTube category awards on the TV screen NOS launches the YouTube app for TV offering this platform’s experience in full screen and NOS and Vodafone reach HTML5 an agreement to reach another 2.6 million families and businesses NOS opens 11 new with latest generation fibre cinema screens This agreement enables By the end of 2017, NOS both operators to provide manages 32 multiplexes their commercial offers and 226 screens over the shared network, from the beginning of 2018 NOS selected to be the partner of European Aviation Network in Portugal NOS will provide infrastructure NOS launches Tourism for the terrestrial network of Information Portal European Aviation Network (EAN) A pioneering platform which in Portugal gathers statistical information of tourism activity in Portugal NOS Play strengthens exclusive content with FOX+ and Nick Jr. content NOS Play’s ambition is to keep on growing and gaining recognition as a reference platform in entertainment 2018 17 NOS in numbers 2017 1,617 1,333 1,758 thousand thousand thousand Pay TV Broadband Fixed Voice customers customers customers 4,673 721 9,412 thousand thousand thousand Mobile Convergent RGUs customers customers 4,084 91 9.5 thousand percent million Homes passed 4G network coverage Cinema National territory tickets sold 18 Consolidated Revenues €1,6 Billion EBITDA € 581Million Net Income €124 Million FCF €133 Million 19 2 Consolidating our Growth Strategy After the merger between ZON and Optimus in 2013 we presented the outlines of our five year business plan with a central ambition to achieve a market share of telecom retail revenues of 30%. The pillars of our strategy were to increase our presence in the residential and standalone personal market leveraging the convergent opportunity, to grow in the enterprise segment becoming a relevant alternative to the incumbent and to invest in the necessary business enablers to facilitate achievement of our business goals. By the end of 2016, we had already reached, and in fact exceeded, our long term revenue target with growth driven by the strength of our convergence strategy, our upcoming as a credible and reliable alternative in the enterprise market anchored by our leadership in product and service innovation, network coverage and our focus on core business enablers. 20 Convergence Also driven by the wave of convergent takeup, we have achieved very strong growth in driving growth convergent mobile RGUs with our total share of subscribers growing to 25%, significantly narrowing the gap to the second player in Pay TV provides the platform for upselling the market. Although less representative additional fixed and mobile services and in in numbers, on a stand-alone mobile basis a highly competitive and invested market, the youth segment has been a strategic bet we differentiate our value proposition as the for us given the relevance of this category ultimate entertainment provider in Portugal, as trend setters in the fast developing and leveraging our strength in telecoms, cinema technologically sophisticated entertainment exhibition and audiovisual distribution. The landscape of today and as the decision success of our convergent offers is still the makers of tomorrow. We have achieved key driver of growth, with almost half of our unprecedented growth in this arena through customers subscribing to fixed and mobile highly targeted and relevant offers tailored for convergent bundles by the end of 2017. the under 25’s through our flagship tariff plans under the innovative and irreverent “WTF” NOS Convergent Customers brand. Fixed Access Penetration (Thousands, %) 721 Mobile Market Shares 680 47.4% 591 45.8% 41.9% 28% 32% 385 29.2% 46% 47% 2014 2015 2016 2017 18% 25% Subscription by types of bundle 9M17 2014 9M17 NOS Meo Vodafone Nowo Others (Total market) 2P NOS Mobile Subscribers 14% (Thousands) +28.3% 4P & 5P 4,673 45% 3,643 3P 41% 2014 2017 Source: NOS, ANACOM Source: NOS, ANACOM 21 Luís Nascimento Executive Board Member In a highly competitive and sophisticated consumer market, we differentiate our value proposition as the ultimate entertainment provider in Portugal. We leverage our strengths in telecoms, cinema exhibition and audiovisual distribution to provide the best and most innovative content and viewing experience in the market, taking us closer to the day to day lives of customers. Differentiating between linear and non-linear formats in the main content categories. Mobile connectivity through exciting and digital ease of use are quintessential to customer interactions and mobile screens are content and the most viewed devices at almost all times of the day. Consumers demand simple and user customer experience friendly apps that make their lives easier and more entertaining. Entertainment is at the heart of our value Conscious of these rapidly changing trends we proposition and helps take us closer to the day were the first operator in Portugal to develop to day lives of customers. Our combination of and launch interactive TV services with our telco, audiovisuals and cinema assets makes IRIS user interface. Since then, we have us unique. With the overwhelming shift in repeatedly been the first to market with new viewing habits, having the best content is no features and value propositions, successfully longer just about broadcasting TV channels. anticipating and driving changes in viewing We have to adapt the way we deliver content habits and culminating in the launch of UMA, and entertainment to our customers, voted best TV interface in Portugal in 2017 by whenever and wherever they want to receive consumers. it, over a device agnostic interface. With the best content line up, and most Perhaps surprisingly time spent watching innovative features and apps, UMA is by traditional TV content has actually remained far the most advanced 4K TV experience in stable at close to 350 minutes a day, despite the market today. Exponential growth in 4K growth in multiple devices and formats. enabled TV sets and the continued shift in However, this time is now shared increasingly consumer viewing to non-linear formats, Daily Usage by Screen 51 (%) 17 25 30 9 24 9 16 18 8 19 10 14 33 12 48 48 43 44 40 8 37 31 5 26 16 18 In bed when I Early Late During Early Late Early During Late In bed before I wake up morning morning lunch afternoon afternoon evening dinner evening go to sleep Mobile Tablet PC/Laptop Radio TV Newspaper/Magazine Source: Connected Life 2016 24 sets UMA apart as the best platform to Star Wars movies, documentaries, interviews, provide a complete, on demand, on the edited scenes and backstage images, we also move and personalized 4K entertainment offered a number of exclusive benefits for experience. UMA integrates a common layer NOS cinema card holders at our IMAX, 4DX for content discovery with personalized and 3D theatres plus a 40% discount for Star recommendations and layouts that make Wars movies rented over the NOS videoclub, navigating through an infinite sea of content therefore leveraging our broader cinema and sources much easier and enjoyable. and audiovisuals asset base. The initiative was a huge success further reinforcing our Linear vs Non-Linear TV Viewership leadership position in entertainment. 2.9% 3.3% 9.5% 11.0% 15.3% 16.7% Also on the content front, we significantly improved NOS Play, our premium SVOD service, led by a major brand repositioning and better design, content organization, 97.1% 96.7% 90.5% 89.0% 84.7% 83.3% clearer iconography and targeted, content based campaigns. We aggregated a number of additional streaming catalogues inside NOS Play, namely the FOX+ and BBC catalogues, facilitating navigation and providing a single access point for customers to find what Sports Domestic News Domestic Entertainment Children Series Movies they want to see, further differentiating the content experience we offer our customers. Linear Non-Linear Source: CRM Audiometria (Average Jan 2016 Sept 2017) Content choice driven by consumer trends Our content decisions are driven by the consumer choices of today and what we believe will be differential in the future. Children’s content, sports, news, domestic entertainment and movies and series make up for more than 40% share of global audience. With these territories in mind, in 2017 we NOS Play features a diversified, high quality added exciting new and exclusive channels offering with more than 2,000 movies, 80 series and content formats such as Nick Jr. and and 3,500 cartoons available on the home TV, a number of temporary pop-up channels tablet, smartphone or PC, over the NOS Play dedicated to specific themes. An example App (available for iOS and Android). of our innovative content formats targeting The number of times content was accessed over the movie territory was the launch of the Star NOS Play in 2017 exceeded 3.2 million with more Wars pop-up channel, before the premiere than 10 million viewing hours and the number of of “The Last Jedi”, the most recent film in the unique users growing by more than 140%. saga, and was broadcast for a six week period. In addition to 24 hours broadcasting of earlier 25 At the forefront of Going Mobile Customer Experience As can be seen from the exponential growth in mobile data traffic of the past few years, Exclusive to NOS, in October we announced mobile devices are playing a key role in the launch of YouTube inside UMA, again content viewing habits. setting the pace of what is most innovative and ground breaking in TV experience. We Mobile Data Traffic (TB) +2.1x were the first operator in Portugal to offer the YouTube native app in HTML 5 for TV. NOS customers are now able to watch their 179,643 favourite YouTube videos on their TV screens, benefitting from all their favourite features and 129,620 in Ultra HD 4K quality. Exclusive to NOS, the YouTube TV app can also sync smartphones 86,415 with the TV, to be used as a remote control and to manage navigation in the app. Customers can log on their YouTube account 2015 2016 2017 on TV, accessing each user profile’s favourite Source: DW (2015/2017) content and playlists. Social networking, search engines and online videos are the top three activities. On the OTT front, our NOS TV multi-device At NOS, we have made data mobility and platform, recorded significant growth during content access a central element of our 2017 with the number of unique users growing value proposition across both convergent by more than 75 thousand and with 50% using and stand alone consumer offers. For our the online service at least 6 days a month. customers who sign up for 4P or 5P bundles In February, consumers voted us the best we provide an extra data allowance to use at OTT platform in Portugal in an independent will and our convergent bundles now include consumer ballot, consolidating our stance as a 3GB per month per SIM card, which can be leading innovator in the market. actively shared between family members, representing a significant increase in data NOS TV replicates the most advanced and allowance and usage flexibility and with no consumer relevant functions of the UMA impact on monthly fee. For our high end ecossystem outside the set top box. With over convergent offers, mobile data allowances 120 channels, 111 of which with the restart have grown to 10 GB and our online NOS and automatic recording features, NOS TV TV platform is available to all customers can be synced to recognize each user profile, wherever they be and whatever the device. In optimizing content recommendations and the stand alone mobile market we have also browsing experience through automatic and reinforced our share with highly innovative intelligent interactions. NOS TV embodies our value propositions under our flagship brand role as a fully convergent operator, meeting for the youth market, “WTF”, that offers three the demands of our customers on the go, simple tariff structures for the under 25’s. The with the same quality of experience on every tariffs include unlimited navigation over the device. most popular communication and content streaming apps with very high allowances for traditional voice and text messaging. During 26 2017, the higher value “T” and “F” plans Our strategy for the Corporate market is built incorporated an additional 5GB data allowance around three pillars: protection of existing for YouTube and Spotify, successfully revenues and accounts whilst expanding the encouraging take-up of higher value tariff base and penetration of IT and data services; plans. investment in technological assets, to enable best in class delivery of telco and IT solution services; innovation to tap alternative sources of growth. A real alternative To capture the IT opportunity, we position ourselves as a partner for transformation for Portuguese for the companies we address, providing reliable and responsive telecom solutions businesses and complementing them with value added services, which go beyond the realm of We have become a relevant challenger in the traditional telecommunications. We cater Corporate market with some of the largest for the changing needs of our customers, accounts in Portugal migrating all or part of helping them simplify their own processes, their telecom, data and IT spend to us. In maintaining maximum trust and security particular we have been extremely successful in the services provided. Businesses are in increasing our presence in the demanding constantly seeking to optimize their efficiency financial services sector with many of the and productivity, and have very high leading banking groups using NOS as their expectations as to the quality of the services main telecom provider. they buy and to real-time troubleshooting and problem resolution. In a world where During 2017 we increased both the number of technology is in constant development, major accounts in our portfolio and extended digitalization is mandatory to support the way the term of existing contracts, reflecting businesses interact with their stakeholders, the satisfaction and trust of our clients in and is a facilitator of internal efficiency for all the quality and reliability of the services we stakeholders. provide. The project between NOS and the Lagoa town council aims to turn this city and municipality into the first Smart City in the Algarve. The cooperation between businesses and municipalities is increasingly important to develop new platforms and processes which promote the quality of life of their citizens and their relationship with town councils. These are evident in the technological experiences which promote mobility, security and high energy efficiency of municipalities and their citizens. 27 Manuel Ramalho Eanes Executive Board Member We have become a relevant challenger in the business market with some of the largest accounts in Portugal migrating all or part of their telecom, data and IT spend to us. We position ourselves as a partner for transformation for the companies we address, providing reliable and responsive telecom solutions and complementing them with value added services, which go beyond the realm of traditional telecommunications. Our results on this front have been very (500 racks) to almost 4 thousand square encouraging, with growth in IT services over metres in total and invested in next generation the past year of more than 10% year on year, cloud management platforms to facilitate representing an additional 1.5pp of business provisioning and self-service solutions. customer revenues. We won relevant IT contracts in large corporate accounts, many of Investment in own assets is essential to be which operating in the financial sector. able to provide companies with more and better IT based solutions with an “as a service” 670m2 model in fields ranging from collaborative Norte Shopping services, advanced communications, video Campanhã services, security, and digitalization of core functions such as call centre and new cloud based services, to name just a few. Our new 2,030m2 +570m2 “Contact Centre as a service (aaS)”, launched in Imopolis Riba d’Ave July, extends our Corporate product portfolio SIBS HDI2 with a professional omni channel solution Ed. América for treating inbound contacts and outbound campaigns. It is offered in a cloud “as a service” model, over NOS infrastructure, easily adapted to the needs of each company and by resizing +415m2 the number of operators and support line Imopolis 2 queues. In a market in continuous technological upheaval it is crucial to stay ahead of the Conscious of the need to invest more in the game tapping into new trends and developing technological assets required to support, innovative approaches to the market. We in particular, the large corporate market, launched a number of successful commercial during 2017 we launched a number of pilots and trials in close partnership with our investment projects to upgrade existing enterprise customers in areas ranging from platforms and solutions, one of the most smart cities to smart meter monitoring over important being the deployment of 2 new narrowband IoT. data centres, one in the North of Portugal in Riba D’Ave and the other in central Lisbon. We increased available capacity by approximately 1 thousand square metres 30 The upgrade underway in our mobile which collates statistical information around infrastructure will be a critical enabler to tourism activity in Portugal. With the support further exploit potential monetization of of Turismo de Portugal, the project enables the IoT opportunity. In partnership with five access to relevant information about the companies, we launched the first operational presence of foreign tourists in Portugal and pilot project in the world, developing smart helps forecast demand for Portugal as a tourist meters for electric power metering using NBdestination. IoT communication technology in Parque das Nações, Lisbon. The first Smart Meter NB-IoT To help keep up with the fast changing world is a project within the European Commission’s of technology, in 2017 we launched the Horizon 2020 Programme, UPGRID, and we “Hardware Design and Development Lab” installed the network infrastructure, over bringing together start-ups and innovators Huawei technology. We are the first operator in primarily to support hardware design and Portugal to live test 4.5G-IoT technology over production for IoT applications. The creation its network infrastructure. this lab in Marinha Grande, with a view to build new connected device solutions, In 2017 we entered into a partnership with enables us to address demand from our the European Aviation Network (EAN) to customers for differentiating solutions for supply the infrastructure for their terrestrial their businesses. The Academy, the national network in Portugal, providing in flight wireless Startups ecosystem and entrepreneurs will connectivity for passengers on a number be challenged to develop new equipment of European airlines. Our infrastructure in connected to the internet that is able to bring Portugal and our vast experience in wireless benefits in operations, services and in the network technology will provide passengers relationship of the main national companies access to EAN’s high speed internet network with their customers. These technological for airlines crossing Portuguese air space. challenges will be wide reaching and sector based, but they will also be applied to specific Segmented targeting with data analytics is use cases and needs. also proving an interesting source of new revenues through sale of aggregate irreversibly In the SME segment we have focused anonymized carrier information for corporates, our activity on stabilizing revenues and to help them map consumer trends and implementing a transformation of the business habits. On this front, we launched a Tourism model to address the needs of each sub Information Portal, a pioneering platform 31 segment more efficiently and with best in class service levels. Core to the transformation process is a simplification of the range of products and services we provide whilst following a more segmented commercial approach. We are building the basic tools for the future with a strong focus on market relevant innovation and development, to help businesses optimize their communication and IT functions and a review of our customer experience and internal processes has identified clear opportunities for virtualization, driving better service levels and efficiency. Driven by this greater degree of segmentation and customer insight, we have been implementing a strategy of adding more services, namely in data and IT, to enhance our value proposition and defend competitiveness with minimal price adjustments. Clearer segmentation is also allowing us to simplify our commercial offers and optimize sales channels resorting to more sophisticated business intelligence and analytics. We are achieving more stable revenue trends on a per customer basis than in previous years, albeit still in a very competitive market. Product and service standardization is higher in the very small companies segment, and sales are typically channeled through third party agents. The greater the scale and sophistication of the account needs, the greater the level of direct sales effort and personalization of the offer. In addition to core fixed and mobile communication services, our clients are buying more and more IT and data related services in this segment such as “Wi-Fi Pro”, security solutions, firewall, back-up and data storage systems. As an example, the NOS Web Pro solution, contributes to business digitalization helping them to create their company websites, online stores within Facebook and domain registrations, providing the tools for a dynamic and integrated online presence. 32 3 Creating the Conditions for Sustainable Success 33 Best in class Network evolution. The project entails the complete swap of our 2G, 3G and 4G radio equipment in and Quality of Service the South of Portugal and an upgrade of our 3G and 4G equipment in the North of the country, whilst at the same time increasing capacity During 2017 we initiated major investments in in both 2G and 4G. With the introduction of both our mobile and fixed networks. We are LTE2100 we will tap the superior capabilities executing a complete transformation of our of 4G devices when compared with 3G, existing mobile radio network architecture to and exploit the opportunity to refarm our increase capacity and efficiency. In fixed we 2100 Mhz spectrum. 256 QAM, 4T4R and are both upgrading our HFC network to Docsis carrier aggregation are key features of the 3.1 to provide 1Gbps speeds to the entire transformation underway, increasing capacity footprint by 1Q18 and extending our FttH and enabling a more efficient allocation of coverage to 70% of our footprint to support spectrum independent of bandwidth. The ever increasing consumer demands for project also involves extension of coverage bandwidth and to preempt the need to relieve with investment in an additional 249 sites. By capacity from the mobile network in future. the end of 2018, we will have a fully 4.5G ready network in place, already able to deliver IoT and prepared for the evolution to mobile 1Gbps. Paving the way for 5G Consumption of mobile data has grown From Gigabit to exponentially over recent years led by the explosion in use of mobile apps, video and Futureproof music streaming, a trend that is set to continue Today we reach 4 million households with our with the advent of more and more applications fixed NGN network, 100% of which will be fully in the field of virtual reality, augmented reality, Gigabit enabled by the end of 1Q18. real time IoT and metering, to name just a few. Our strategy for fixed is based on a two In such a rapidly evolving consumer pronged approach of upgrading our HFC environment, we must ensure that our network to Docsis 3.1, and extension of our technological choices of today guarantee the FttH footprint through both greenfield rollout long-term sustainability of our networks and and a dark fibre network swap with Vodafone platforms. We must be capable of delivering as agreed in September 2017. Further splitting network performance and service levels that of our HFC cells to take fibre deeper into the support the multitude of data demanding network will be supportive of increased traffic applications being used by our customers and and capacity demands on the mobile network. their continued accelerated growth. With these investments, by the end of 2018, The investment we are doing in our mobile we will have extended our NGN Gigabit network is designed primarily to increase coverage to 4.4 million households, an capacity, network flexibility and efficiency, and additional 400 thousand FttH households. Our to deliver the best possible quality of service. agreement with Vodafone entails the exchange We are rearranging our network to a single of approximately 2.6 million FttH households RAN architecture replacing almost all existing over the next 5 years, with NOS contributing radio equipment with the most modern approximately 1.2 million FttH households technology to support a smooth 5G oriented and Vodafone approximately 1.4 million. 34 And by 2022, we will have evolved from a fully Gigabit enabled network to a futureproof network with fibre direct to over 3.1 million homes, 70% of our total footprint. In parallel, we are in the process of evolving our core network to all IP as a means of extending IP capillarity, which is particularly relevant for the enterprise market, to reduce latency and increase capacity by replacing a lot of microwaves with optic fiber, and to optimize network flexibility, management and costs. This transformation is becoming even more relevant with the progressive expansion of cloud based architectures, network virtualization and digitalization of key functions. 35 Jorge Graça Executive Board Member In a rapidly evolving consumer environment, we must ensure that our technological choices of today guarantee the long-term sustainability of our networks and platforms. We launched major investment projects in our mobile and fixed networks during 2017 to ensure delivery of the network performance and service levels that support the multitude of data demanding applications being used by our customers and their continued accelerated growth. Digital acceleration Walking into a NOS store today, digital is everywhere you look: large TV screens exhibiting the latest offers and campaigns at We have identified digitalization and the entrance, appealing “convergent” corners automation of business processes and that allow visitors to test our products and customer experiences as a key driver of services and that can be updated remotely, customer satisfaction and organizational through synchronized equipment (TVs, efficiency. Having established a companytablets, remote controls) for a personalized wide project during 2017 to identify one-to-one or one-to-many demonstration by opportunities for digitalization and defined the assistant. The visit itself has improved with the implementation roadmap, we have the implementation of a digital queue system already achieved some significant quick wins that allows for personalized registration in important touchpoints of the customer and customer management, and the shop interface. assistant to conduct the customer through a tailor made demonstration of products and Relevant examples of key projects where the services. Since the introduction of the new move to digital is already making its mark are layout, levels of customer satisfaction, traffic the digitalization of the own store experience, flow management and process efficiency live roll-out of our digital service app, and have improved dramatically, as measured by the deployment of tablet devices for our detailed customer analytics that we are able to installation field team, almost eliminating the collect through the new digital platforms and need for paper based processes. processes in place. We started to develop the new NOS concept store soon after the merger, looking at best Digital signatures and documents are now practice in retail both in Portugal and abroad, being used almost 70% of the time and tracking the latest trends in the telco and 40% of overall store processes have been non-telco space and listening closely to what digitalized, eliminating 90% of the paperwork our customers wanted. Personalization of of the past. Another relevant example of the the customer experience was a key learning benefits of moving over to digital processes point, to be able to meet expectations of all was the implementation of digital work customer groups from the more conservative orders. We have significantly simplified older generations to the younger, more processes and eliminated administrative technologically demanding, millennials. burden, by equipping field force technicians We knew this would only be possible with with tablets and using a dedicated app to customer centric process digitalization. Our simplify information on products and services aim is to deliver the best possible experience and to reduce the number of signatures in our retail outlets encouraging customers and validations required thereby improving to come back and visit us again and to customer experience. The app allows field recommend us to others. A new service force technicians to execute technical trials model and sales tools have completely and convey relevant information back to eliminated physical barriers between the company in real time, forms can be assistants and customers, providing side-byfilled in digitally and sent by email with no side support and transparent explanations need for paper copies. All work processes helping to develop a friendlier and more are combined to create more streamlined personalized relationship. and efficient installation and maintenance procedures, delivering a much better and more focused customer experience. 38 Customer Experience Helping customers to help themselves We elected self-care channels as a priority and as a Service one of the main achievements in 2017 was the launch of a new customer App that has greatly reduced the complexity of the service Customer experience is a key driver of service relationship and led to a 40% increase in the levels and customer satisfaction and we are proportion of self-care channel usage when dedicating a lot of effort across the board compared with call-centre interactions. To to reviewing and improving all touchpoints stimulate take up and familiarity with these with our customers. The need for more user channels, we introduced a number of new friendly, personalized and efficient processes features, amongst which the NOS Digital has already led to implementation of a number Cinema card and mobile data allowance of projects that generically cover four main subscriptions, which led to a material increase axes: increased customer autonomy; getting in the number of customers that have installed closer to our customers through innovative and used the digital self-care app. channels; increased monitoring of customer experience levels; focus on service to sales as a channel. 39 Getting closer to Service to sales channels our customers Conscious that contact moments constitute During 2017 we launched a number of new an important opportunity to increase the level channels to improve experience levels. Our of trust and involvement of our customers, NOS customer forum has been a major we have developed more personalized and success with the number of sessions growing targeted processes to leverage call centre fivefold from January through to December. interactions. A measure of the importance Customers are able to talk amongst of these channels is that, during 2017, they themselves and share how to get the most increased their sales in the business and out of the NOS value proposition. We stand-alone mobile segments by 55%, developed new approaches over Facebook building on the strong results already Messenger for the WTF and NOS brands, achieved in the residential segment the year turning these channels into live digital testing before. grounds for new ways of interacting with our A Brand for the future customers. Also in response to requests from a subsegment of higher profile customers, we started to accept emails as a valid channel The NOS brand is four years old, the youngest for sending digital forms relating to a number telco brand in Portugal, in a highly competitive of service issues. We have already seen very and invested market where telecom encouraging growth in the level of first time operators are typically amongst the biggest resolution and customer experience metrics advertisers. After a very successful brand and are now assessing opportunities to launch, we are moving from simply raising extend the channel’s scope. awareness to championing brand preference with our strategic positioning as the leading entertainment company in Portugal. Listening to our customers Our ability to obtain more and better feedback With tectonic shifts in consumer trends from our customers increased significantly underway, telecom services are having to with new digital channels and processes and compete in an expanded market which by extending our survey base to all customer includes both national and international new interactions. During 2017, we observed over media and entertainment platforms such as 900 thousand customer service interactions subscription OTT players, aggregators, and through our feedback programme, and content producers with their own streaming received over 10 thousand replies per month services. Within the context of the battle about usage experience on digital channels, for consumer attention and loyalty we providing us a wealth of input to improve differentiate our value proposition at NOS as customer experience levels. the clear leader in entertainment, leveraging the most advanced technological platforms and providing best in class customer experience supported by an attractive price proposition. To reinforce association with our core brand attributes we have made strategic bets on core arenas, namely music, football and movies. 40 Along these lines, our long-standing bet on music has generated unprecedented levels of awareness through brand activation at large festivals, the most relevant of which, NOS Alive, was voted Consumer Choice for the fifth year in a row. The eleventh edition of this festival in 2017 hit a record 165 thousand visitors, and, combined with the launch of the NOS Alive App and a dedicated NOS Alive Channel, placed NOS as leader in brand awareness in the music territory. Consumers considered NOS Alive to be the best music festival to go to in 2017, further validating the strategic and prestigious nature of our sponsorship.1 We are also name sponsor of the Portuguese football league, “Liga NOS”, having renewed the agreement for another 3 seasons in 2017. Our partnership with the league has been very successful to date and sits well with our brand activation strategy. More than just raising awareness, our marketing initiatives have driven positive customer interactions, such as the outstanding results achieved on our Facebook channel celebrating the 2017 champion of the Portuguese football League, “Liga NOS”. 358 thousand likes 45 thousand shares 3 million page views 11thousand comments 1 Source: GFK. Brands and Music. May/Aug 2017) 41 Ana Paula Marques Executive Board Member We are focused on providing a best-in-class customer experience and reinforcing NOS’ enterprise agility and efficiency. This strategic imperative is being supported by the digitalization and automation of business processes and by the simplification and optimization of core operations. In 2017 we established a company-wide programme that outlines key transformation opportunities and a roadmap that supports it. By the end of 2017, NOS’ communication initiatives led the brand to a peak in advertising Developing talent recall in the Portuguese total market, second only to the largest retailer, and the first in the Having completed the review of human telecom sector.2 The “Secret of Christmas” resource basic policies and structures campaign at the end of the year generated after the merger, today we are focused on more than 590 thousand calls to Father consolidating our people management Christmas’ mobile number and prompted system. We implemented measures and new very enthusiastic and emotional commentary practices that have successfully improved in our customer forums and social media metrics in terms of attracting talent and platforms, strengthening our preference as retaining our best performers, crucial to the a love brand, the best indicator for sustained long term development and competitiveness customer choice in the long run. of our business. A reinforced performance based culture is driving increased recognition reflected in career progression and remuneration, employee training at all levels of the organization and tailored to meet our specific business requirements and employee evaluation processes. We are committed to developing people and fostering talent. We invest in models that encourage performance, confidence, a balance between work and personal life and improve our operational and financial metrics. 42% 58% 68.6% Lisbon 24.8% Oporto 2.6% Madeira 1.7% Azores 2.3% Others 40 Average age 37,933 (27% Millennials) Hours of training 2 Source: Marktest Publivaga 2017 (week 49, 5-11 December) Q. What brands have you recently seen advertising? 44 NOS Campus NOS Alfa We believe that training and professional We have placed particular emphasis on development of each of our employees our trainee programme, NOS Alfa, as a are crucial factors to achieve our growth means of bringing innovative talent into ambitions. NOS Campus, our corporate the organization. Already into its third year, university, embodies these values as a NOS Alfa has made its mark as a national means to share and promote knowledge reference for graduates joining the work and encourage development. We rely on the market. We seek to recruit not only talent but support of the most reputed Portuguese and diversity in the candidate selection process. international partners, universities, business Representative of our strong organizational schools and consulting companies, as well culture, it is a dynamic, one year trainee as on the support and experience of internal course entirely focused on innovation and coaches. Training is centred on key areas bringing together young professionals of knowledge: management, leadership, from wide ranging academic backgrounds technical, technology and fundamentals, in engineering, information technology, with programmes, courses, seminars and economics, and marketing, amongst others. conferences. To make the experience as immersive and challenging as possible, NOS managers from all divisions actively involve our trainees in day-to-day business life, providing continuous support and mentoring. These kinds of targeted programmes are helping to continuously refresh our talent pool and to retain and actively develop and promote the highest performing individuals in our organization. Main characteristics of the NOS Alfa programme . 12 months; . Experience in two different departments (6 months each); . Welcome and team building sessions, presentations of different business areas, visits to key areas of the company, business challenges and interactions with other employees; . Mentoring; . NOS Campus training 45 4 A rapidly changing sector and consumer habits 46 A mature level of competitive intensity, revenue trends were negative for the market as a whole for sophisticated market, a number of years and only started to inflect towards the latter half of 2017, according to starting to show data published by operators. However, at NOS, successful execution of our growth strategy improving revenue enabled us to achieve positive revenue growth much earlier in 1Q15. trends The Portuguese telecoms market has shown 92% Pay TV Penetration remarkable progress in the last years, with By the end of 3Q17, Pay TV penetration had considerable growth in the number and quality reached 92% of Portuguese households, an of services provided. Since our merger at the increase of more than 13pp from 2013, to 3.8 end of 2013, total RGUs for the market grew million subscribers. The level of sophistication by 1.7 million, whereas we grew our total of services provided has increased dramatically RGUs by 2.1 million, reflecting an increase and platforms have become more advanced, in market share of 6.2 pp to 31%. Overall with NOS at the forefront of innovation in service penetration in the market is already particular with our cutting edge UMA user quite high. In contrast, and due to the high interface. Total Market RGUs +1.7M Total Market Pay TV NGN Customers RGUs since (Millions) 2013 (Millions) 25.2 24.7 2.6 23.8 24.1 2.4 23.5 2.2 2.0 1.9 2013 2014 2015 2016 9M17 2013 2014 2015 2016 9M17 Portuguese Telecom Sector Revenues Fixed Broadband RGUs and Penetration (Billions of Euros) (Millions, %) 3.5 5.3 3.4 3.1 71% 5.1 68% 2.9 64% 2.6 59% 4.7 4.7 2.4 54% 51% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 9M17 Source: Anacom 47 Mobile Subscriber Market Share Evolution 35.6% 32.2% 30.4% 29.0% 27.7% 45.0% 45.9% 47.4% 46.5% 46.8% 24.3% 24.5% 18.4% 21.7% 15.5% 2013 2014 2015 2016 9M17 NOS Meo Vodafone Nowo Others Penetration of 3+4+5P Bundles 78% 74% 67% 59% 50% 2013 2014 2015 2016 9M17 Source: Anacom Since 2013, Fixed Broadband services have grown by more than 950 thousand RGUs, reaching total penetration of 71%. The quality of services provided has greatly improved, with expansion of high speed Next Generation Network coverage. Data for the market as a Convergent offers today represent almost whole shows that the number of customers 43% of fixed residential subscriptions and served by high speed networks has doubled in each household subscribes to an average of 2 the same period. sim cards. This has also led to a relevant shift from the market being predominantly preOn the mobile front, the market is already paid to post-paid in nature. It is fair to say that highly penetrated with more than 17.5 consumers have been the main beneficiaries million reported active sim cards by the end of the changes in the Portuguese telecoms of 3Q17 (over 170% penetration). Trends in market. The multitude of offers at their consumption have changed significantly in disposal are much more sophisticated and recent years with more and more customers it has never been easier to subscribe to taking their mobile subscriptions inside their integrated services that provide significantly residential convergent accounts, a change greater consumption allowances and that has led to big shifts in market shares. ultimately, value for money. 48 A Highly Invested +75% Kms installed €6 Bln invested Market (2012 2016) Portugal is one of the most invested and advanced telecoms markets in Europe. The three largest operators have been rolling out Next Generation Networks, which in a significant proportion of their footprints run side by side, demonstrating commitment to the market and the need to meet increasing demands for bigger and faster data offers. At NOS we have expanded our addressable fixed footprint by around 900 thousand homes approximately 4 million households. Of these, around 730 thousand are FttH and the remaining 3.4 million HFC households will be fully upgraded to DOCSIS 3.1 and capable of delivering 1Gbps speeds during 1Q18. Coverage by Operator and Technology NOS HFC + FttH: 4.1 DTH Meo FttH: 4.0 ADSL Source: Operator Reports Vodafone FttH: 2.7 Nowo HFC: 0.9 Source: Operator Reports 49 Consumer trends Portuguese spend 5h/day changing with rapidly online evolving technology and internet model/ Source: Anacom Video content is therefore a key element of Success of new this need for mobility. As such, a seamless, unified experience across devices and content delivery and networks is key – 15% of all Portuguese Pay TV subscribers watch TV on the move6. The consumption formats biggest share of online content viewing goes to free and social media videos, and nonlinear viewing trends are largely influenced by Consumers everywhere feel the need to be demographics, with the youngest age groups connected almost all the time. Social media, showing a much bigger preference for this with 80% and video content with 68% of type of viewing. users, are some of the biggest drivers of time spent online in Portugal.3 On average, Online Shopping ownership of devices reaches 3.3 per person in Portugal, which compares with 2.9 in other southern European countries.4 The 62% 56% growing proliferation of smartphone usage (Ages 25-34) (Ages 16-24) is expanding time spent online, but has not Source: Anacom yet superseded the PC as the main device to access the Internet. Globally, smartphones E-commerce is also a growing habit for the make up for around one fifth of total video Portuguese: in 2017, 34% of the population content viewing, which amounts to 6 hours shopped online, up 3pp from 31% in 2016, per week.5 which compares with 55% in the European Union, meaning there is still ample room for growth. 70% Watch video content on The proportion of people who searched for information about goods and services was smartphones, twice as much as in 83% in 2016, which compares with 80% in 2012 the EU. As is the case with video content, the proportion of people who have purchased Millennials watch 80 % online is much higher than average in lower age groups7. more non-linear content than those over 35 Over-the-top (OTT) networks, such as Netflix, Hulu or Amazon Prime are both creating and Source: Ericsson Consumer Lab taking advantage of the change in consumers’ viewing habits, such as binge viewing of all the episodes of a season or series in sequence. 50 In Portugal, the penetration of these services Average Monthly Fixed is still relatively low at 11.5% in December Broadband Consuption +2 x 20178, which compares with penetrations of (GB, Portugal) over 60% in the USA, for instance, whereas 78 penetration in Western Europe was around 66 20% as of 20169. This low figure is due to 58 the very high penetration of sophisticated 50 and wide-ranging Pay TV offers provided by 43 38 telecom operators. There are now almost limitless choices of content available at any time, which also 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 9M17 presents a problem to consumers whose experience has become more fragmented in terms of platforms, channels and content Average Monthly Mobile availability. Finding something to watch can Broadband Consuption +2.9 x even become a problem, so much so that (GB, Portugal) content aggregation and easy, smart search 2.8 features become increasingly valuable as the complexity consumers are faced with increases. 1.8 51/minutes daily time 1.4 1.1 1.0 0.9 spent searching for content, globally 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 9M17 Source: Ericsson Consumer Lab Source: Anacom Another trend which is set to change the 3 Source: ANACOM future of content consumption is Virtual 4 Source: Connected Life 2016-2017 5 Source: Cisco Reality, whose immersive features and 6 Source: Marktest potential for social interaction will make it one 7 Source: ANACOM of the arenas where content consumption is Source: Marktest. 8 9 Source: Broadband TV News most likely to grow. 10 Source: Cisco All these changes and trends lead to increasing online presence of consumers and have clear strategic implications for telecoms operators, both in terms of the design and features of their offerings and also of their network capabilities and performance. As a case in point, over 50% of all Internet traffic globally is related to video content, a trend that is set to continue growing at a very fast pace10. 51 Key regulatory developments A new European regulatory framework for the provision of electronic communications services is currently being prepared for approval in 2018 and is likely to be transposed and applied at the member state level during 2020. The Commission’s proposal, presented in 2016, is designed to encourage investment in high capacity networks as a means to promote the development of the Gigabit Society. Several themes have been presented for discussion at the European Parliament, Council and Commission, namely the (de)regulation of operators with significant market power that are available to co-invest, regulatory symmetry regardless of operator scale, spectrum management, future universal service specifications and financing mechanisms. As regards NOS, the main regulatory themes that affected our operations during 2017 and that are on the horizon for the medium and long term are presented below: RLAH: The new European roaming directive, Roam Like At Home (RLAH), was implemented in June. European citizens traveling in EU countries now pay domestic tariffs for roaming calls, SMS and data. While contributing to develop the European single market and benefit consumers, the new regime represented a significant change to tariff structures and traffic patterns and for NOS had a net negative impact in terms of incoming and outgoing roaming traffic. 52 Although we are a net beneficiary of tourism 5G: Following adoption by the European driven mobile traffic, the increase in traffic Commission of “An Action Plan for 5G” (in terminated on our network was not sufficient September 2016), in December 2017 the to compensate for the loss of revenues European Council published a “5G Roadmap” from outgoing roaming revenues which are which sets out the main milestones. While now charged at domestic rates. Wholesale the full harmonization of technical standards termination agreements have yet to adjust in is not yet complete, one of the main concerns full to accommodate the more challenging is linked to the availability, award and use economics. of spectrum, namely in what regards the timing, price, duration and renewal process for Net Neutrality: The Portuguese regulator licenses. Commercial availability of 5G services has recognized publicly that the situation is set for 2020 in at least one city per member is not problematic, given the absence of state, with pilot projects set to take place specific customer complaints although it before that date. The ultimate goal of this is still analysing market wide commercial roadmap is the “Gigabit Society”, to make 5G practices. Further guidance from the regulator available in all major cities and along the major is expected once this analysis is completed. transport routes by 2025. Network security: During 2017 the Mobile Termination Rates (MTR): at the Portuguese regulator issued a draft regulation beginning of 2018, ANACOM approved a draft on the security and integrity of electronic decision to lower MTRs to 0.43 euro cents communications networks and services. as from 1 July 2018, representing a decrease Among others, the draft aims to establish of 43% from the 0.75 euro cents currently in the technical implementation measures and place. Additional MTR cuts were drafted for 1 additional requirements which operators must July 2019 and 1 July 2020, to 0.41 euro cents meet with regards to network security and and 0.36 euro cents, respectively, adjusted for integrity. ANACOM’s proposal was subject to a projected inflation for each year. We are net public consultation process which is still under payers of mobile termination and therefore analysis by the regulator. welcome the move to introduce a more level playing field. Universal Service: Universal Service (US) requirements for each service are currently under discussion in Portugal, with a view to adapting to changing consumer needs and market evolution. It is possible that the outcome of the process will be a reduction in requirements for fixed voice and public payphone sites accompanied by increased focus on fixed broadband and mobile services, both data and voice. 53 5 Performance in 2017 54 Once again, we delivered relevant RGU growth an improved pricing environment; reinforcing market shares across the board; Profitability and earnings increased with Significant effort was put into the business expanding operating leverage, more cost enablers that will ensure long term efficiency and financial discipline; competitiveness and differentiation; Cash generation grew significantly providing a Our operating revenue growth was well ahead path for attractive and sustainable shareholder of the market, supported by RGU growth and remuneration. RGUs EBITDA (Thousands) +3.7% (Millions of Euros) +4.3% 581 9,412 557 9,077 533 8,465 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Telco Revenues FCF Bef. Dividends (Millions of Euros) +3.1% and Financial Investments +147% (Millions of Euros) 1,487 1,442 133 1,372 54 41 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total Revenues Dividends (Millions of Euros) +3.1% (Eurocents) +50% 1,515 1,562 30 1,444 20 16 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Source: NOS 55 José Pedro Pereira da Costa Vice-President, CFO The success of our commercial activity and increased FCF together with our solid capital structure and balanced debt maturities, provide a solid basis for continued and sustainable growth in dividends without compromising our long term financial strength. Another year of solid We are the leading operator in the Pay TV market with a 43% share of subscribers. operating growth Convergence take up and additional fixed network deployment have been the principal drivers of growth in fixed customers in We continued to grow in all services with total the past years. However in 2017, the pace RGUs increasing by 3.7% to 9.412 million. of growth was slower than in previous By the end of the year, we had 1.617 million years, as expected, due to the already Pay TV subscribers of which 1.292 were high level of penetration of services and to connected over next generation networks the comparatively lower level of network (FttH or HFC). Satellite customers fell by 11 expansion. By the end of the year, we had thousand to 324 thousand, a decline driven 721.4 thousand households taking their essentially by an increase in fixed network communication services in fixed and mobile coverage by all operators. In the second half convergent bundles, 47.4% of the fixed of the year, market-wide remedies imposed customer base, representing a total of 3.651 by ANACOM in June regarding price increase million convergent RGUs, 7.8% more than in communication procedures led to a temporary 2016. increase in churn and subsequently lower net adds in the last months of the year. Pay TV Subscribers Pay TV Net Adds (Thousands) (Thousands) 1,544 1,601 1,617 67 324 57 328 335 18 7 1,266 1,292 50 1,215 49 16 27 2015 2016 2017 -11 Fixed Access DTH 2015 2016 2017 Pay TV Market Shares 8% 9% 10% 11% 11% 12% 12% 13% 13% 14% 14% 42% 41% 41% 41% 40% 40% 39% 39% 38% 38% 38% 44% 44% 44% 44% 44% 44% 44% 44% 44% 43% 43% 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 NOS Meo Vodafone Nowo Others Source: NOS, ANACOM 58 Convergence (Thousands, %) 47.4% 45.8% 3,651 41.9% 3,387 34.0% 2,854 2,195 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 Convergent RGUs Convergent Penetration Convergent RGU Net Adds (Thousands) 1,000 533 263 2015 2016 2017 Source: NOS 59 Within our new FttH network expansion areas, FttH Net Penetration we have already achieved an average level of net penetration of 21%, well above our target 20% 21% threshold to extend coverage, with the highest levels typically being reached in geographies 16% where we expanded our footprint earlier or encountered a less populated competitive environment. Source: NOS Homes Passed 2015 2016 2017 (Thousands) 4,084 Source: NOS 3,764 3,600 We grew our mobile customer base by 4.9% in 2017 to 4.673 million subscribers, an additional 217 thousand. Our market share has been expanding fast since the merger, on the back of our convergent offers, increased presence in the stand alone mobile space, namely in the youth market, and in B2B. The most recent 2015 2016 2017 data published by the regulator for 3Q17 Source: NOS shows that we now have 25% of the mobile market, closing the gap to the second player and well above our 15% share at the time of the merger in 2013. 60 Mobile Subscriber Market Shares 32% 31% 31% 30% 30% 30% 29% 29% 29% 28% 28% 48% 47% 46% 46% 46% 45% 45% 45% 45% 46% 46% 21% 22% 23% 24% 24% 24% 24% 24% 25% 19% 20% 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 NOS Meo Vodafone Nowo Others Mobile Net Adds (Thousands) 164 131 125 98 97 95 87 60 62 50 31 29 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 Source: Anacom; NOS 61 With customers taking more services within their household accounts together with the Revenue growth price increase implemented at the start of the year, the level of average revenues per led by solid fixed access household (ARPU) posted a yoy increase of 2.4% to 44.3. operating trends ARPU per Unique Subscriber with Fixed Access Growth in our telco operating indicators, a (Euros) generally more disciplined price environment 44.3 and another strong year for the audiovisuals 43.3 and cinema sector, was supportive of solid 42.0 consolidated revenue growth of 3.1% in 2017 to 1.562 million euros. Consolidated Revenues and YoY Change (Millions of Euros, %) 1,562 2015 2016 2017 1,515 Source: NOS 1,444 4.9% 4.4% 3.1% 2015 2016 2017 Source: NOS NOS Retail Revenues Market Share 31.4% 31.2% 31.2% 30.4% 30.4% 30.2% 30.3% 29.2% 29.0% 29.1% 28.8% 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 Source: Anacom Our continued outperformance of the telecom market has enabled us to capture significant gains in market share of retail revenues to 31.4% as of 3Q17, well ahead of our original target of 30% for 2018. 62 Telco Revenues and YoY Change just 15% of the consumer business, the (Millions of Euros, %) very positive performance of the standalone mobile segment in recent years, is particularly noteworthy as it validates the recovering 1,487 1,442 trend in this sub segment reaching break-even 1,372 mid-2016. 5.1% Consumer Revenues and YoY Change 3.8% (Millions of Euros, %) 3.1% 932 895 854 2015 2016 2017 4.8% Audiovisuals Revenues and YoY Change 4.2% 4.2% (Millions of Euros, %) 71 72 72 2015 2016 2017 Source: NOS 22.0% Growth in Business and Wholesale revenues of 5.5% to 438 million euros resulted from a combination of varying paces of growth in our mass business, corporate and 0.5% 0.3% wholesale operations. Our particularly strong performance in wholesale revenues was 2015 2016 2017 the result of relevant gains in market share during 2017, which tends to be higher than Cinema Exhibition Revenues and YoY Change our average share of the business market, (Millions of Euros, %) however very volatile quarter on quarter. 63 Although roaming related revenues have 60 a relatively small weight in total revenues, 58 approximately 2%, the impact of market wide implementation of the European Roam Like 19.3% at Home directive (RLAH) as from 15 June did cause some drag on growth. Roaming out 2.9% 5.1% revenues to Europe declined 54%, however were partially offset by a 36% increase in 2015 2016 2017 revenues from European tourists traveling to Source: NOS Portugal. Total roaming revenues fell by just 3%, given that the rest of the world makes up The consumer telco segment posted growth for almost 60% of the total. of 4.2% to 932.7 million euros in 2017 with the residential and stand-alone mobile businesses both recording material gains of 4.1% and 5.2% respectively. Although representing 63 Business & Wholesale Revenues Our Cinemas posted strong revenue and YoY Change performance in 2017, up by 5.1%, and was (Millions of Euros, %) the best year ever in terms of ticket sales and revenues generated. Our audiovisuals 438 415 distribution business posted a solid 403 performance, in line with 2016. The earlier 5.5% part of the year was vibrant in terms of movie line-up driving very strong box office and distribution revenues, however there was a 3.0% 2.3% marked slowdown in the second half of the year with fewer hit movies in the theatres, consistent with worldwide trends. 2015 2016 2017 Weight of Roaming in Telco Revenues Total Market Cinema Tickets Sold 2017 (Thousands) 2.26% 16,560 2.12% 15,702 15,581 14,924 14,566 13,811 12,547 12,091 2016 2017 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Geographical Breakdown NOS Cinema Tickets Sold 2017 of Roaming Revenues (Thousands) 9,451 9,101 9,097 56% 59% 8,742 8,852 7,815 7,905 7,277 44% 41% 2016 2017 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 EU Rest of the World Source: ICA; NOS Source: NOS 64 Being the largest operator in the market with 219 screens, we continued to capture a share of more than 60%. On the audiovisuals front, we distributed 7 of the top 10 movies in 2017, driving continued leadership in box office hits and overall share of distribution. Top 10 Movies in 2017 1. The Fate of the Furious * 2. Despicable Me 3 * 3. Beauty and the Beast * 4. Fifty Shades Darker * 5. Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell no Tales * 6. The Boss Baby 7. Star Wars: The Last Jedi * 8. The Emoji Movie 9. Baywatch * 10. La La Land * Distributed by NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais 65 Operating leverage Almost 60% of total OPEX can be considered variable in nature including primarily direct and efficiencies and commercial costs driven by operating activity. In 2017, growth in these cost driving better aggregates was of 4.8%. Variable costs have been impacted by the material growth in profitability operating activity driving traffic and capacity related costs, and by a material increase in premium sports programming costs. Of the almost 27 million euros increase in variable Total OPEX grew less than revenues in 2017, costs in 2017, approximately 22 million came by 2.4%, driving EBITDA margin expansion to from higher programming costs related with 37.2%. Expressed as a percentage of revenues, the renegotiation of premium sports content total OPEX represented 62.8%, down from contracts in 2015 and the adoption of a new 63.3%, a decline achieved in spite of a material distribution model by all operators. Remaining increase in programming costs as discussed programming costs actually posted a yoy below. decline of close to 4% in 2017. Revenue YoY Change OPEX Breakdown 7.6% 32% 32% 31% 6.4% 5.8% 11% 11% 10% 10% 10% 9% 4.8% 4.2% 3.8% 48% 48% 50% 3.2% 3.5% 2.9% 3.2% 2.0% 2.2% 2015 2016 2017 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 Direct Costs W&S Commercial Costs Other Op. Costs OPEX YoY Change Direct Costs Breakdown (Millions of Euros, %) 7.5% 492.7 436.7 457.8 10% 11% 12% 44% 5.4% 43% 5.0% 5.0% 46% 4.7% 4.2% 3.3% 41% 42% 2.6% 36% 2.9% 3.1% 2.1% 2015 2016 2017 1.6% Programming Traffic Capacity Others 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 Source: NOS Source: NOS 66 Within traffic and capacity related costs, As a result of the aforementioned growth in interconnection costs reflects the performance of revenues and OPEX, increase in voice and traffic on the network consolidated EBITDA grew by 4.3% in 2017 and the impact of RLAH which has driven a to 580.6 million euros representing a 37.2% materially higher volume of traffic terminating margin of consolidated Revenues. Yearly on European operators networks, without growth in telecom EBITDA of 4.9% to 531.6 a corresponding increase in revenues as million euros compensated a decline in discussed above. Savings have been achieved EBITDA for the audiovisuals and cinema in general telecom costs, namely in terms of business division of 2.1% to 49 million euros. line rentals and backbone and capacity related costs, through continued replacement of third Consolidated EBITDA and Margin party network rentals with own build, as has (Millions of Euros, %) +4.3% been the case over the past few years. Fixed costs posted a small decline of 1% in 557 581 2017 to 391.8 million euros, the main items 533 being wages and salaries, support services, 37.2% maintenance and repair, supplies and external 36.9% 36.7% services and operating taxes. The decline in wages and salaries in 2017 to 89.2 million euros was due to a temporarily lower level 2015 2016 2017 of headcount and fewer integration and own work related costs when compared with previous years. All other fixed OPEX was Telco EBITDA and Margin relatively stable during 2017 at 302.6 million (Millions of Euros, %) +4.9 % euros, reflecting a number of savings, one of the most relevant being a reduction in supplies 532 and external services of 3 million euros, offset 507 486 by an increase in support and maintenance related services of approximately the same 35.4% 35.1% 35.7% amount. It is also worth highlighting a relevant increase in regulated fees and other rates and taxes, which grew by 3 million euros in 2017 to 2015 2016 2017 32.5 million euros and of which the lion’s share, almost 80%, were paid to the sector regulator ANACOM. Audiovisuals and Cinema EBITDA and Margin -2.1% (Millions of Euros, %) 50 49 48 42.6% 41.5% 40.7% 2015 2016 2017 67 Earnings expansion Share of Results of Associates and Joint Ventures improved from a negative supported by EBITDA contribution of 5.9 million euros in 2016 to a positive contribution of 22.9 million euros in growth and improved 2017, mainly due to the improved financial contribution of Sport TV (2.5 million euros) contributions from resulting from the revised distribution model implemented during 2H16 and also to the associate companies improved performance at ZAP (20.1 million euros) led by an improved exchange rate environment when compared with 2016. Net Results grew by 37.3% to 124.1 million euros driven by the aforementioned growth in Net Financial Expenses declined 2.5% yoy EBITDA and contributions from associates and to 24 million euros in 2017, reflecting lower despite a significant increase in Depreciation total financing costs of 5% with pure interest and Amortization. costs down 4%. The savings achieved on total financing costs were partially offset by a lower The major investment project initiated in yoy level of interest received on outstanding 2017 to modernize the mobile network led to client debt, compared to 2016. impairments of existing equipment of close to 40 million euros which were the main Income Tax Provision in 2017 amounted reason for a 7.8% increase in Depreciation to 17.5 million euros, a yoy decline of 4.7 and Amortization to 422.2 million euros. As a million euros mainly explained by a lower result, Operating Profit (EBIT) remained stable municipal tax surcharge and a combination yoy at 142.8 million euros as the growth in of positive and negative contributions from EBITDA was offset by the increase in D&A. tax incentives. Effective tax as a proportion Other Expenses declined by 6.7 million of Earnings before Tax was 12.3% in 2017, euros to 15.7 million euros reflecting lower compared with 18.5% in 2016. integration and non-recurrent costs. 68 Investing in the core Telco CAPEX, Breakdown (Millions of Euros) 23% Telco network enablers Revenues 369 356 347 to secure long term 196 185 153 competitiveness 173 172 194 Despite our strategic decision to implement major modernization projects and extend 2015 2016 2017 our network footprint and capabilities, as Technical Customer discussed before in this report, total CAPEX declined in 2017 to 381 million euros, Technical Telco CAPEX, representing 24% of revenues. Total telecom Breakdown 13% Telco related CAPEX also fell by 2.6% to 347 (Millions of Euros) Revenues million euros, due to a combination of lower 194 Customer CAPEX and an increase in technical 71 173 172 CAPEX driven by the aforementioned 50 57 modernization and expansion projects underway. 123 121 123 Total CAPEX, Breakdown (Millions of Euros) 24% 2015 2016 2017 of Revenues 408 Baseline Telco NW expasion/ substitution and integration projects & others 393 40 381 36 34 Customer CAPEX Breakdown, 2017 369 356 347 Installation Costs 20% 2015 2016 2017 CPE 38% Telco CAPEX AV & Cinema CAPEX Source: NOS SAC 41% Source: NOS Customer related CAPEX in 2017 recorded a declining trend as was to be expected given the slower operating activity and subsequently gross adds as discussed in the operating review, helping to offset the growth in technical CAPEX. 69 Significant growth in euros from the sale of the Optimus fixed network to Vodafone in 1Q17, as imposed by cash generation the regulator at the time of the merger. Cash Restructuring Payments remained stable at 15.8 million euros, while Income Taxes Paid Operating Cash flow grew by 43.4% in 2017 recorded a decline of 17.9% to 17.3 million to 174.9 million euros with an increase in euros. Net Interest payments increased by EBITDA-CAPEX of 21.9% in the same period to 11.0% in 2017 essentially due to the lower yoy 200.1 million euros. In addition to the EBITDA level of client default interest payments, which and CAPEX trajectory already described, more than offset a decline in financing related we recorded a substantial improvement in interest costs from lower average cost of debt. working capital and other non-cash items FCF margin as a proportion of consolidated included in EBITDA minus CAPEX of 17.0 revenues increased to 8.5%, up almost 5 p.p. million euros. from the 3.6% recorded in 2016. EBITDA CAPEX and YoY Change (Millions of Euros, %) A very solid capital 200 structure and debt 125 164 31.4% maturity profile Our capital structure and debt maturity profile 21.9% remain very solid with Net Debt at the end -8.3% of 2017 amounting to 1,085.5 million euros. Total financial debt was 1,088.5 million euros, 2015 2016 2017 which was offset with a cash and short-term investment position on the balance sheet of Operating Cash Flow and YoY Change 3.0 million euros. At the end of 2017, NOS also (Millions of Euros, %) had 245 million euros of unissued commercial 175 paper programmes. 122 Net Financial Debt, Net Financial 98 43.4% Debt/ EBITDA 24.4% (Millions of Euros, x) 1,112 -44.6% 1,085 1,048 2015 2016 2017 Source: NOS Total FCF before dividend payments increased by almost 80 million euros to 133.4 million 2.0x 2.0x 1.9x euros as a result of the growth in operating cash flow and savings achieved in a number of items, namely long term contract payments (long term transponder and IT contracts) and due to a one off cash-in of 24.2 million 2015 2016 2017 Source: NOS 70 Financing Costs and Average Cost of Debt Taking into account the loans issued at a fixed (Millions of Euros, %) rate, the interest rate hedging operations in place, and the negative interest rate 32 environment, as at 31 December 2017, the proportion of our issued debt paying interest 24 at a fixed rate is approximately 79%. At the 23 end of the year, our debt maturity profile was well balanced with no relevant peaks in 3.0% funding requirements. 2.2% 2.0% Contracted Debt by Instrument Type 2015 2016 2017 Liquidity Back-Up Bank Bilateral Source: NOS Facilities Loans 20% For 2017, the all-in average cost of our Net 26% Financial Debt amounted to 2.0%, which compares with 2.2% for 2016. Net Financial EIB Loan Gearing stood at 50.0% at the end of 2017 and 7% Net Financial Debt / EBITDA (last 4 quarters) now stands at 1.9x. The average maturity of 12% our Net Financial Debt at the end of 2017 was Private 21% Placement 3 years. 14% Bond Issues We continue to execute on our financial Syndicated FRN strategy of diversifying debt sources and extending maturities and are constantly tapping the market with a view to further optimizing our debt structure. During 2017 we Contracted Debt by Source executed four deals to refinance existing lines: EIB Projects . In March, a new commercial paper program with a maximum amount of 75M Euros and Institutional Portuguese maturing in 2021, with Banco Milllennium Investors 7% Banks bcp; 12% 32% . In June, a new commercial paper program with a maximum amount of 100M Euros, 50% of which amortized in 2021, and the remaining in 2023, with Banco Santander Totta; and 27% . In December, two new commercial paper Foreign Banks not represented in 22% programs of 25M Euros and 50M€ maturing Portugal in 2022 and 2024, respectively, with Banco Foreign Banks represented in Portugal Millennium bcp. Source: NOS 71 Strong operating FCF Per Share (Euro Cents) performance and 26 positive medium long term expectations 10 are supportive 8 of progressive 2015 2016 2017 and sustainable Dividend Per Share shareholder (Euro Cents) 30 remuneration 20 Increased cash generated by our operating 16 activity together with our strong capital structure and balanced debt maturities provide a solid basis for continued and sustainable growth in dividends, above the level of earnings and FCF generated. 2015 2016 2017 Earnings Per Share Source: NOS (Euro Cents) 24 Reflection of our confidence in our operating prospects and our ability to generate cash and 18 earnings in the long run, and without forfeiting 16 our financial stability, the Board has proposed to the General Meeting payment of a 30 eurocents dividend per share over 2017 results as set out in the following proposal: 2015 2016 2017 Source: NOS 72 Shareholder 2. That, since it is not possible to accurately Remuneration determine the number of treasury shares that will be held on the date of the payment proposal to the mentioned above, the overall sum of EUR 154,548,414.00 mentioned in the General Meeting preceding paragraph calculated on the basis of an amount per share issued (in this case, 0.30 euros per share) be distributed by way Considering that: of dividends as follows: For the year ended December 31, 2017, a) The unit amount of 0.30 euros that a net profit for the year was determined presided over the drafting of this proposal in the separate accounts in the sum of be paid to each share issued; EUR 96,556,031.78, and that this amount results from the fact that the company, b) The unit amount corresponding to in accordance with applicable accounting those shares that on the first day of the standards, recognised in its accounts for the payment period mentioned above belong year, the sum of EUR 1,130,546 by way of to the Company shall not be paid and directors’ profit sharing, in keeping with article shall be transferred to Free Reserves. 14(3) of the articles of association; 3. Under article 14(3) of the Company’s It is proposed that the following resolution be Articles of Association and as profit passed: sharing in the Company, it is proposed to resolve on the allocation of the amount 1. Given the current financial and asset of EUR 1,130,546 to the Directors, under position of NOS, that the net profit the criterion established by the Board of distributable under article 32 of the Directors Companies Code, in the sum of EUR 96,556,031.78, be paid to shareholders, in addition to EUR 7,420,945.07 of Retained Earnings and EUR 50,571,437.15 of Free Reserves, making a total payment by way of ordinary dividends for the 2017 financial year of EUR 154,548,414.00 (or 0.30 euros per share, in respect of the total number of shares issued); 73 Reporting Changes As from 1Q18, NOS’ accounts will be reported . Commissions and other contract acquisition applying the new IFRS 15 framework with costs: capitalization of acquisition costs regards mainly to the disclosure of revenues is no longer limited to contracts with and costs related to contracts. Restated values loyalty periods. As such, other costs and for the corresponding comparative periods for commissions previously expensed, will now FY17 will also be provided. also be capitalized. The main changes are as follows: The table below summarizes the main differences that result to 2017 accounts with . Handset sales in Telecom bundles: revenues the application of IFRS15: are no longer recognized according to the amount paid by the customer but according Before to the value received by the customer. IFRS 15 Impact Restated As such, part of the contract revenue will Revenues 1,561.8 (3.1) 1,558.6 be allocated to equipment sales implying OPEX 981.1 2.1 983.2 higher revenues from equipment sales EBITDA 580.6 (5.2) 575.4 at the beginning, and lower monthly bill Net Income 124.1 (2.0) 122.1 revenues over the period of the contract. CAPEX 380.6 (3.4) 377.2 The same principle applies to equipment leased to customers under commodate (free of charge), which will be considered part of the bundle, as an equipment sale and no longer as an operational lease, which implies an increase in OPEX, compensated by a decrease in D&A. 74 Appendix Operating Indicators (‘000) 2015 2016 2017 2017 /2016 Telco (1) Aggregate Indicators Homes Passed 3,600.1 3,763.9 4,084.2 8.5% Total RGUs 8,464.8 9,076.8 9,411.7 3.7% Mobile 4,123.1 4,455.7 4,672.9 4.9% Pre-Paid 2,075.5 2,071.3 2,079.7 0.4% Post-Paid 2,047.5 2,384.4 2,593.2 8.8% Pay TV 1,543.8 1,600.6 1,616.6 1.0% Fixed Access (2) 1,215.3 1,265.6 1,292.2 2.1% DTH 328.5 335.0 324.4 (3.2%) Fixed Voice 1,623.3 1,724.7 1,758.2 1.9% Broadband 1,144.7 1,264.6 1,333.1 5.4% Others and Data 29.9 31.2 30.9 (0.9%) 3,4&5P Subscribers (Fixed Access) 968.4 1,061.8 1,112.1 4.7% % 3,4&5P (Fixed Access) 79.7% 83.9% 86.1% 2.6% Convergent RGUs 2,853.7 3,387.2 3,650.6 7.8% Convergent Customers 590.8 680.2 721.4 6.1% Fixed Convergent Customers as % of Fixed Access Customers 41.9% 45.8% 47.4% 3.6% % Convergent Customers 38.3% 42.5% 44.6% 5.0% Net Adds Homes Passed 274.4 163.8 320.2 95.4% Total RGUs 839.3 611.9 334.9 (45.3%) Mobile 479.9 332.6 217.2 (34.7%) Pre-Paid 14.3 (4.3) 8.4 n.a. Post-Paid 465.5 336.9 208.8 (38.0%) Pay TV 67.1 56.8 16.0 (71.9%) Fixed Access 48.8 50.3 26.6 (47.1%) DTH 18.3 6.5 (10.6) n.a. Fixed Voice 130.6 101.4 33.6 (66.9%) Broadband 151.8 119.9 68.5 (42.9%) Others and Data 9.9 1.3 (0.3) n.a. 3,4 & 5P Subscribers (Fixed Access) 116.8 93.4 50.3 (46.2%) Convergent RGUs 1,000.4 533.5 263.4 (50.6%) Convergent Customers 206.2 89.3 41.3 (53.8%) (1) Portuguese Operations (2) Fixed Access Subscribers include customers served by the HFC, FTTH and ULL networks and indirect access customers. 75 Operating Indicators (‘000) 2015 2016 2017 2017 /2016 Telco (1) Indicators per Segment Consumer Total RGUs 7,180.5 7,658.9 7,953.1 3.8% Pay TV 1,435.6 1,478.3 1,491.3 0.9% Fixed Access 1,134.3 1,172.0 1,193.6 1.8% DTH 301.2 306.3 297.7 (2.8%) Broadband 1,039.2 1,143.5 1,206.3 5.5% Fixed Voice 1,336.9 1,393.3 1,413.8 1.5% Mobile 3,368.9 3,643.8 3,841.6 5.4% ARPU / Unique Subscriber With Fixed Access (Euros) 42.0 43.3 44.3 2.4% Net Adds Total RGUs 634.5 478.4 294.2 (38.5%) Pay TV 44.2 42.7 13.0 (69.6%) Fixed Access 31.8 37.6 21.7 (42.4%) DTH 12.5 5.1 (8.7) n.a. Broadband 135.4 104.4 62.8 (39.8%) Fixed Voice 60.3 56.4 20.5 (63.6%) Mobile 394.6 274.9 197.9 (28.0%) Business Total RGUs 1,284.3 1,417.9 1,458.6 2.9% Pay TV 108.2 122.3 125.2 2.4% Broadband 135.5 152.3 157.6 3.5% Fixed Voice 286.4 331.4 344.5 3.9% Mobile 754.1 811.9 831.3 2.4% Net Adds Total RGUs 204.7 133.5 40.8 (69.5%) Pay TV 22.8 14.1 3.0 (79.0%) Broadband 26.3 16.8 5.4 (67.9%) Fixed Voice 70.3 45.0 13.1 (71.0%) Mobile 85.2 57.8 19.4 (66.5%) Cinema (1) Revenue per Ticket (Euros) 4.7 4.7 4.8 0.8% Tickets Sold 8,852.3 9,096.9 9,450.6 3.9% Screens (units) 215 215 219 1.9% (1) Portuguese Operations 76 Profit and Loss Statement (Millions of Euros) 2015 2016 2017 2017 /2016 Operating Revenues 1,444.3 1,515.0 1,561.8 3.1% Telco 1,372.3 1,442.5 1,487.2 3.1% Consumer Revenues 854.2 894.8 932.4 4.2% Business and Wholesale Revenues 402.7 415.0 437.2 5.3% Equipment Sales 48.0 53.7 51.0 (5.0%) Others and Eliminations 67.3 79.0 66.6 (15.6%) Audiovisuals 71.3 71.6 71.8 0.3% Cinema (1) 58.4 60.2 63.3 5.1% Others and Eliminations (57.7) (59.3) (60.5) 2.1% Operating Costs Excluding D&A (911.2) (958.2) (981.1) 2.4% W&S (89.1) (93.1) (89.2) (4.2%) Direct Costs (436.7) (457.8) (492.7) 7.6% Commercial Costs (2) (98.1) (104.6) (96.6) (7.6%) Other Operating Costs (287.2) (302.7) (302.6) (0.0%) EBITDA 533.1 556.7 580.6 4.3% EBITDA Margin 36.9% 36.7% 37.2% 0.4pp Telco 485.5 506.7 531.6 4.9% EBITDA Margin 35.4% 35.1% 35.7% 0.6pp Cinema Exhibition and Audiovisuals 47.6 50.1 49.0 (2.1%) EBITDA Margin 41.5% 42.6% 40.7% (1.9pp) Depreciation and Amortization (366.4) (391.6) (422.2) 7.8% (Other Expenses) / Income (19.9) (22.4) (15.7) (30.1%) Operating Profit (EBIT) (3) 146.8 142.8 142.8 (0.0%) Share of results of associates and joint ventures 3.6 (5.9) 22.9 n.a. (Financial Expenses) / Income (35.7) (24.6) (24.0) (2.5%) Income Before Income Taxes 114.6 112.2 141.7 26.3% Income Taxes (32.1) (22.2) (17.5) (21.4%) Net Income Before Associates & Non-Controlling Interests 78.9 95.9 101.3 5.6% Income From Continued Operations 82.5 90.0 124.2 38.0% o.w. Attributable to Non-Controlling Interests 0.2 0.4 (0.1) n.a. Net Income 82.7 90.4 124.1 37.3% (1) Includes operations in Mozambique. (2) Commercial costs include commissions, marketing and publicity expenses and costs of equipment sold. (3) EBIT = Income Before Financials and Income Taxes. 77 CAPEX (Millions of Euros) 2015 2016 2017 2017 /2016 Telco 368.6 356.3 347.1 (2.6%) o.w. Technical CAPEX 173.0 171.6 194.1 13.1% % of Telco Revenues 12.6% 11.9% 13.1% 1.2pp Baseline Telco 123.2 114.3 123.0 7.6% Network Expansion / Substitution and Integration Projects and Others 49.8 57.3 71.1 24.1% o.w. Customer Related CAPEX 195.6 184.7 153.0 (17.2%) % of Telco Revenues 14.3% 12.8% 10.3% (0.2pp) Audiovisuals and Cinema Exhibition 39.6 36.4 33.5 (7.9%) Total Group CAPEX 408.3 392.7 380.6 (3.1%) % of Total Group Revenues 28.3% 25.9% 24.4% (0.1pp) Cash Flow (Millions of Euros) 2015 2016 2017 2017 /2016 EBITDA 533.1 556.7 580.6 4.3% Total CAPEX (408.3) (392.7) (380.6) (3.1%) EBITDA Total CAPEX 124.8 164.1 200.1 21.9% % of Revenues 8.6% 10.8% 12.8% (0.0pp) Non-Cash Items Included in EBITDA CAPEX and Change in Working (26.8) (42.1) (25.1) (40.3%) Capital Operating Cash Flow 98.0 122.0 174.9 43.4% Long Term Contracts (17.9) (17.1) (14.9) (12.8%) Cash Restructuring Payments (20.7) (15.8) (15.8) (0.4%) Interest Paid (24.2) (18.9) (21.0) 11.0% Income Taxes Paid (4.2) (21.1) (17.3) (17.9%) Disposals 3.9 5.0 27.0 n.a. Other Cash Movements 6.5 0.0 0.5 n.a. Total Free Cash-Flow Before Dividends, Financial Investments and Own 41.5 54.1 133.4 146.6% Shares Acquisition Acquisition of Own Shares (8.1) (20.7) 0.0 (100.0%) Dividends (72.2) (82.1) (102.6) 25.0% Free Cash Flow (38.8) (48.7) 30.8 n.a. Debt Variation Through Financial Leasing, Accruals & Deferrals & (24.0) (15.2) (4.0) (73.9%) Others Change in Net Financial Debt 62.9 63.9 (26.8) (142.0%) 78 Balance Sheet (Millions of Euros) 2015 2016 2017 2017 /2016 Non-current Assets 2,510.1 2,453.0 2,422.2 (1.3%) Current Assets 466.4 529.6 544.9 2.9% Total Assets 2,976.5 2,982.6 2,967.1 (0.5%) Total Shareholders' Equity 1,063.5 1,053.1 1,086.4 3.2% Non-current Liabilities 1,150.7 1,168.7 1,127.7 (3.5%) Current Liabilities 762.2 760.8 753.0 (1.0%) Total Liabilities 1,913.0 1,929.5 1,880.7 (2.5%) Total Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 2,976.5 2,982.6 2,967.1 (0.5%) Net Financial Debt (Millions of Euros) 2015 2016 2017 2017 /2016 Short Term 160.0 213.9 197.3 (7.8%) Bank and Other Loans 141.7 196.4 183.6 (6.5%) Financial Leases 18.3 17.5 13.7 (21.6%) Medium and Long Term 898.3 900.7 891.2 (1.1%) Bank and Other Loans 862.6 871.8 870.3 (0.2%) Financial Leases 35.8 28.9 20.8 (28.0%) Total Debt 1,058.3 1,114.6 1,088.5 (2.3%) Cash and Short Term Investments 9.9 2.3 3.0 28.7% Net Financial Debt 1,048.4 1,112.3 1,085.5 (2.4%) Net Financial Gearing (1) 49.6% 51.4% 50.0% (1.4pp) Net Financial Debt/ EBITDA 2.0x 2.0x 1.9x n.a. (1) Net Financial Gearing = Net Financial Debt / (Net Financial Debt + Total Shareholders’ Equity). 79 Non Financial Statements Sustainability Strategy and Performance 80 81 82 Non-Financial Statements Table Of Content 1. On this report 834 2. Sustentability in review 85 2.1. 2017 main indicators 85 2.2. Main Sustainability milestones 86 3. NOS and Sustainability 86 3.1. Organisational profile 86 3.2. Sustainability management 88 4. Acting ethically and responsibly 96 4.1. Ethics and conduct 96 4.2. Information security 98 4.3. Sustainable management of the supply chain 100 5. Ensuring a service of excelence 102 5.1. Responsible marketing 102 5.2. Customer service 103 5.3. Service quality and reliability 106 5.4. Access to content 107 6. Valuing human capital 108 6.1. Diversity 108 6.2. Performance and development 111 6.3. Remuneration and benefits 112 6.4. Talent management 113 6.5. Health and well-being 114 7. Preserving the environment 116 7.1. Energy and climate change 117 7.2. Low carbon solutions 120 7.3. Waste management and circular economy 121 7.4. Eletromagnetic fields 122 8. Promoting Sustainable innovation 123 8.1. Innovative solutions 124 8.2. Promoting entrepreneurship 126 9. Annex 127 9.1. Core 127 9.2. Table of correspondence with Decree-Law 89/2017 133 9.3. Methodological notes 134 9.4. Declaration of external verification 139 83 1. On this report With this report, the NOS Group seeks to share with its stakeholders and with society at large, in a transparent and open manner, its economic, environmental and social strategy and performance. The sustainability report relates to the activity of the NOS Group (hereinafter referred to as NOS ), for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2017. Whenever deemed appropriate and relevant, information on previous years is included, so as to allow a comparative perspective of the evolution. This report aims to disclose information regarding NOS performance on sustainability topics that may affect its ability to create long-term value and, simultaneously, respond to the annual Communication on , following adherence to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It also seeks to comply with the requirements of Decree-Law no. 89/2017, published on July 28, 2017, regarding the disclosure, by large companies in Portugal, of non-financial information and information on diversity. The report was developed in accordance with the most recent guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in the GRI Standards 2016 version, for the Core Its structure follows the results of the materiality analysis carried out in 2017, whose results allowed identifying the material topics for both NOS and its external stakeholders. The results of this exercise are well as the alignment of our initiatives with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculation were grounded on international accounting standards, the tax system, the applicable Portuguese and international law, and the GRI guidelines. For a correct understanding of the reported data, we have prepared methodological notes that are referred next The non-financial information included in this document has been subject to independent verification by an external entity, as per the EY verification statement, which is provided in annex. This verification analysed the compliance and reliability of the information made available, in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016, so as to ensure that it reflects the reality of NOS. For further clarification on the information published in this Report, please contact: Isabel Borgas Corporate Communication and Sustainability Department NOS Comunicações, S.A., Rua Actor António Silva, no. 9, Campo Grande, 1600-404 Lisboa sustentabilidade@nos.pt 84 2. Sustainability in review 2.1. 2017 Main indicators Material Economic value generated, distributed and accrued topic (Amounts in thousands of euros) GRI 201-1 Economic value generated Revenue 1 567 441 Total amount distributed: 1 233 922 Shareholders and financial institutions: 133 481 Economic value distributed State: 124 266 Suppliers: 881 578 Employees: 94 451 Community: 147 Economic value accrued 333 519 Employees Suppliers Total no. of training hours / employee 85% of the amount of purchases related to national 19.5 suppliers Environment GHG emissions, scope 1 and 2 Energy consumed (GJ) Waste produced (Tons) (tCO2e) 580 703 545 62 701 Energy consumption per Equipment recovered and reused Waste recovery rate volume of data traffic (GB/TB) (Tons) 99,99% 0,59 450 85 2.2. Main Sustainability milestones 2014 Launch of the NOS brand Publication of the Code of Ethics Certification in Quality and Publication of the Sustainability Manual Environment (ISO 9000 and ISO 14001) Endorsement of the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 2015 Certification in Occupational Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001) Publication of the Sustainability Policy NOS distinguished as one of the best 2016 Publication of Sustainability Requirements for Suppliers & Partners Signing of a Protocol within the scope of 2017 Smart Cities Publication of the guide to a responsible online presence Endorsement of the BCSD Portugal Charter of Principles Completion of the 1st strategic cycle 3. NOS and Sustainability 3.1. Organisational profile Mission and values NOS is a solid, responsible and future-oriented company whose ambition is to remain the largest communications and entertainment group in the country. At NOS we are committed to excellence and satisfaction of our customers, employees and partners, and we seek to constantly innovate through the placement in the market of differentiating products and 86 services, which generate value for our shareholders, improve the productivity of companies and the quality of life of society at large. Values such as Professionalism, Integrity, Transparency and Independence are a requirement of our daily life and are a key element for the success of the business. Material Corporate Governance topic At NOS we understand that a detailed and transparent corporate governance is an important instrument in the relationship with shareholders and other stakeholders, aligning interests with the purpose of preserving -term sustainable development. If, on the one hand, a good corporate rate bodies and its govern it, namely with regard to the responsibility towards the surrounding community, equity, leadership, assurance and management of all stakeholders. At NOS, we actively participate and cooperate in the evolution of the Portuguese securities market, and follow the process of drafting the new Corporate Governance Code of the Portuguese Institute of Corporate Governance. Our action in the market aims to deliver a value proposition based on the trust of our investors, employees, customers and public at large. More detailed information on our corporate governance practices can be found in the 2017 Corporate Governance Report, which aims to comply with the obligation of annually disclosing a detailed report on corporate governance structure and practices, pursuant to article 245-A of the Securities Code, applicable to issuers of shares admitted to trading on a regulated market located or operating in Portugal. 87 The NOS Group 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% NOS Comunicações, NOS Lusomundo NOS Lusomundo NOS Lusomundo NOSPUB Publicidade S.A Audiovisuais, S.A Cinemas, S.A TV, S.A e Conteúdos, S.A 100% 100% 100% 100% NOS NOS NOS NOS Technology, S.A Towering, S.A Sistemas Inovação 84% 78% 50% 30% 25% NOS Açores NOS Madeira DREAMIA ZAP SPORT TV Comunicações, S.A Comunicações, S.A S.A S.A For further information on our Management Team, please see the Corporate Governance Report; for further information on the business portfolio, please see the Management Report. 3.2. Sustainability Management Sustainability policy The principles set out in the NOS Sustainability Policy aim to foster prosperity and create social, in sum, they gear our sustainability ambitions. More detail on this Policy may be consulted in the institutional area of the website. Sustainability Governance At NOS, we constantly seek to integrate ethical, environmental and social issues in the day-to-day of the structure that allows managing these topics and assigning internal responsibilities at different levels and organisational functions. NOS Sustainability Mission Pursue Sustainability goals and establish mechanisms to monitor, communicate with and challenge the various areas, to improve the interaction of the bases of sustainable development economic progress, environmental performance and social responsibility -, ensuring compliance with the normative requirements endorsed and monitoring the interaction of processes, so as to enhance their continuous improvement. 88 The NOS Executive Committee takes on its full commitment to sustainability management and has the highest responsibility for approving the Corporate Sustainability Strategy. The Corporate Communication and Sustainability Department, by delegation of the Executive Committee (Excom), is responsible for managing and coordinating the implementation of the sustainability strategy, setting commitments, monitoring and assessing progress towards sustainable development, and, finally, monitoring and supporting the definition of mechanisms and tools for the reporting of sustainability indicators. By the end of 2017, 60 sustainability pivots were also defined, distributed by different business areas, and with responsibilities in defining objectives and goals, in the process of collecting, consolidating and reporting sustainability indicators, and in the preparation and monitoring of internal and external audits. At NOS we also have a set of partners who support the development and implementation of the sustainability strategy. Sustainability Governance model Structure Roles Areas Strategy / Approval Pivots Strategy / Management Sustainability Implementation team Support Excom Partners Sustainability risk management At NOS we are exposed to distinct types of risks economic, financial, legal, environmental and social, inherent in our activities. So as to effectively manage the risks of our business, we have a system of internal control and risk management Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) aligned with the best international practices and standards, which ensures continuous monitoring of identified risks and the respective controls implemented, through key indicators and actions follow-up. Through a Business Risk Model (BRM) we classify and cluster the different types of risks. BRM incorporates a Risk Dictionary that allows identifying, in a systematic way, the risks affecting the Company, defining and clustering them into categories, as well as facilitating the identification of their main causes (risk drivers). Within the scope of ERM, we implement risk management cycles, with average biennial periodicity. In these cycles we review and prioritise the main risks, updating and submitting them to an assessment process by the Executive Committee, which aims to classify them according to their probability of occurrence and impact. 89 For the 2015-2017 threeresidual, address the relevant sustainability topics. Type and description of potential sustainability risks identified in ERM Type and description of potential sustainability risks identified in ERM How we manage the risks Fraud risk See Chapter 4. Acting Ethically and Responsibly Team, employees or partners in schemes of corruption, bribery, extortion, Corporate Governance benefit. Report Ethics and culture risk See Chapter 4. Acting Ethically and Risk associated to the possibility that the company does not respect the Responsibly commitments with the employees (e.g. work-life balance, etc.) or fails to See Chapter 6. Valuing Human Capital Risk associated to the possibility that conflicts of interest are not ethically managed (e.g. gifts/offers, parallel activities, family and friendship Corporate Governance relationships, etc.). Report Occupational safety and health (OSH) risk Risk associated to the possible existence of an unhealthy and unsafe working See Chapter 6. Valuing environment, as well as poor communication or disregard of OSH standards Human Capital that may expose the company to damage due to occupational accidents, penalties, loss of reputation or other costs. Environmental risk Risk associated to the company not incorporating in its activities and in the See Chapter 7. development of products and services the responsibility of reducing the Preserving the environmental impacts associated to resources consumption (energy, water, Environment paper, etc.), waste production (electronic equipment, batteries, etc.) and greenhouse gases emission. In order to manage this type of risks in Sustainability Requirements for suppliers and partners. For further detail on the internal control and risk management system, including key stakeholders, accountabilities and objectives, see the 2017 Corporate Governance Report. Integrated Management System The management system (Quality, Environment, and Occupational Health and Safety) is integrated into the sustainability management cycles. 90 At NOS, we carry out information management through the Sustainability Portal, aiming at the environmental impacts resulting from the reduction/elimination of the use of paper and printing materials. NOS SGPS SA is certified, within the scope of quality and environment, by the ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2012 standards, through NOS Comunicações S.A., NOS Inovação S.A., NOS Sistemas S.A., NOS Technology S.A. and NOS Towering S.A., and, within the scope of information security, by the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 standard, through NOS Comunicações S.A. 1 and NOS Sistemas S.A.2 In addition, NOS Comunicações S.A. is certified by the OHSAS 18001:20073 and ISO/IEC 20000-1:20114 standards. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% NOS Comunicações, NOS Lusomundo NOS Lusomundo NOS Lusomundo NOSPUB Publicidade S.A Audiovisuais, S.A Cinemas, S.A TV, S.A e Conteúdos, S.A ISO 9001 (Quality) ISO 14001 (Environment) 100% 100% 100% 100% OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety) ISO 27001 (Security information) NOS NOS NOS NOS Technology, S.A Towering, S.A Sistemas Inovação ISO 20000 (Service management) 84% 78% 50% 30% 25% NOS Açores NOS Madeira DREAMIA ZAP SPORT TV Comunicações, S.A Comunicações, S.A S.A S.A Stakeholders At NOS we believe that a close cooperation and interaction relationship with stakeholders is critical to the success and management of our business. In 2015, we identified the relevant stakeholders after an extensive sectoral benchmark exercise. Subsequently, in 2017, we sought to clarify the importance of the different groups for our business through a prioritisation process that involved the Management Team in the completion of a questionnaire based on dependency and influence criteria and aligned with the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard guidelines. Customers, employees, suppliers and partners, financial entities, shareholders and regulatory bodies (ANACOM) were identified as strategic groups. 1 The scope of the certification are the processes related to the customers of the fixed and mobile service of NOS Comunicações, in the market segments: Residential, Personal, Business (with main focus on Corporate clients) and Wholesale. 2 The scope of certification are the security processes related to housing services in the NOS Data Centres of Lisbon and Porto. 3 The scope of certification is the Development, Marketing and Management of the Customer Service of Corporate Products and Services. 4 The scope of certification are the Telecommunications and ICT services for its business customers, according to its services catalogue of from its operational centres of Lisbon and Porto. 91 Material Ways of involvement with stakeholders topic Our investors increasingly acknowledge the importance of non-financial reporting, along with financial reporting, and focus their responsible investment priorities on companies that integrate principles of sustainable development into the corporate strategy. Acknowledging the importance of an effective and permanent dialogue with our stakeholders, we have several mechanisms of communication and close interaction. On the basis of this dialogue strategy, which allows the alignment with the sustainability strategy and, consequently, with the creation of value for our business and society at large. Examples of dialogue channels by group of stakeholders Suppliers and Business Clients Employees Financial Bodies partners  Social Networks  Welcome sessions  Institutional Website  Institutional Website  Market / satisfaction  HR Open Door  Institutional E-mail  Satisfaction studies studies  Institutional Website  Conferences in the field   Hotline  Intranet  Roadshows   Stores  Social Networks  Results Disclosure mail  Digital: website, self  Direct Contact care and app  Internal publications  NOS forum (e.g. Media Report)  Social environment report Government and Community Media Industry Regulatory Bodies  Direct contact  Institutional Website  Participation in press  Institutional Website  Access to extranet for  NOS Innovation Award conferences and events  Institutional E-mail the communication of  Involvement in  Dissemination and  Meetings in the field/ privileged information initiatives that foster sending of information direct contact  Participation in corporate social on NOS activities to the  Participation in national national and responsibility different media and international international associations associations Sustainability Strategy The first strategic cycle, encompassing the 2015-2017 period, started with an extensive sectoral benchmark exercise, which allowed mapping the most relevant sustainability topics for the telecommunications sector. In 2016 we continued the process, crossing the topics identified with the result of an analysis of external context (international and national agenda of sustainable development, global risks, legal and 92 regulatory framework) and an analysis of internal context (business strategy and risk matrix, environmental impacts matrix and stakeholder mapping). Through this process, we have identified potentially material topics, grouped into three dimensions internal, business environment and society. Subsequently, these topics were assessed, through a process of listening to internal and external stakeholders (employees, customers, suppliers and business partners). The results of the exercise were the basis for the definition of our Materiality Matrix. Materiality matrix + 18 8 2 3 7 9 34 4 28 13 12 16 30 26 6 10 15 29 32 33 27 5 20 RELEVANCE STAKEHOLDERS 35 25 31 23 24 17 11 22 21 1 14 19 RELEVANCE NOS + # TOPIC # TOPIC 1 Government of the company * 19 Outsourcing 2 Conduct * 20 Economic value generated and distributed * 3 Corruption * 21 Patronage 4 Conflict of interests * 22 * 5 Transparency and reliability of information * 23 Environmental impacts of the supply chain 6 Intellectual property * 24 Social impacts of the supply chain * 7 Privacy * 25 Raw materials (conflict minerals) 8 Working conditions * 26 Safe and responsible use 9 Health and safety at work * 27 Access to contents * 10 Remuneration and benefits * 28 Responsible marketing * 11 Diversity 29 Environmental impacts of the use of products and services 12 Assessment and development * 30 Accessibility 13 Talent management * 31 Education for ICT 14 Volunteering 32 Solutions with a positive impact 15 Energy and climate change 33 Innovation and Entrepreneurship * 93 16 Waste of electrical and electronic equipment 34 Response to emergency situations * 17 Electromagnetic fields 35 Indirect economic impact 18 Customer service * * Relevant topics Caption: Governance Employees Environment Company Business environment Society The identification of material topics for our company considered, besides the results of the listening process, the challenges imposed by the market (in particular, the concerns and expectations of our investors and our customers, and the need for legal compliance) and commitments entered into. Based on this reflection, we concluded the sustainability strategy and identified the action guiding axes, the relevant topics and associated commitments. The Strategy we defined, which we present in this report, is also the starting point for the second NOS strategic sustainability cycle, for the 2018-2020 period. At NOS we also believe that through our action, our operations and our products and services, we can make a significant contribution to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). In this sense, the Sustainability Strategy we put forward is in line with the SDG identified as strategic for our business and on which the impact of our action may be more relevant. 2018-2020 NOS Sustainability Strategy SDG which NOS activity contributes to: SDG which NOS activity contributes to: 1 5 Promoting Acting Ethically Sustainable and Responsibly Innovation Associated material topics: Associated material topics: • Development of products and services with environmental and social benefits • Governance of the company • Promotion of entrepreneurship 2018-2020 • Conduct, corruption, conflict of interests • Intellectual property Strategic Preserving Ensuring a • Transparency and reliability of information Axes the Service of 2 • Economic value generated and distributed • Involvement with stakeholders Environment Excellence • Information security and privacy SDG which NOS activity contributes to: • Sustainable management of the supply chain 4 Valuing Human SDG which NOS activity contributes to: Associated material topics: Capital • Energy and climate change • Waste • Low carbon solutions • Electromagnetic fields 3 Associated material topics: • Customer service • Responsible marketing SDG which NOS activity contributes to: • Access to content • Response to emergency situations Associated material topics: • Working conditions • Health and safety at work • Remuneration and benefits • Assessment and development • Talent management • Diversity 94 So as to guarantee the suitability of the Sustainability Strategy and relevant topics identified, we assess, on a yearly basis, the results of the previous year and define new objectives and action plans, together with the departments and areas involved, to ensure continuous improvement towards meeting the defined commitments. For each of the five strategic axes, we defined sustainability commitments that reflect our commitment to the implementation of a sustainable development model and long-term value creation. Strategic axe Commitment 2018 Objectives Transversal Share the Sustainability Strategy and Publish the sustainability report on a yearly ensure its effective implementation basis Acting Promote an organisational culture Develop an Ethics communication plan on a Ethically and based on ethics and integrity yearly basis Responsibly principles Extend the training plan for Suppliers & Promote the dissemination of BCSD Portugal Charter of Principles in the value chain Ensuring a Improve customer experience Service of stores and franchising Excellence Valuing Human Identify new talent needs and Identify future profiles and competencies that Capital implement new processes to ensure are critical for business sourcing and development Define sourcing strategy for new competencies Boost talent retention and enhance Implement development and recognition NOS attractiveness in the labour initiatives for the various segments market Promote operational excellence and Ensure end-to-end review of the attraction innovation in human capital and recruitment process management Develop, on a yearly basis, initiatives that being -being in the three well-being axes: social, mental and physical Preserving the Effectively manage the environmental Define a goal of reducing energy consumption Environment impacts associated to the P&S life and emissions cycles Prepare the widening of the scope of accounting for the NOS Carbon Footprint to cover the supply chain and the use of products and services by customers Promoting Continue to support technology-based Boost the innovation ecosystem with the Sustainable innovation academy and the business fabric Innovation Develop own or in partnership formats of innovation distinction in Portugal 95 4. Acting ethically and responsibly Material 4.1. Ethics and conduct topic At NOS we believe that ethics is a basic principle of all internal and external relationships and, consequently, a strategic dimension of the organisation. Conducting business, acting in the market and in society are governed by a set of ethical principles that should be reflected in the actions of our employees, suppliers, and any person or entity that provides us services, on a lasting or temporary basis. In 2017, we reinforced this position since the broad stakeholder listening identified several topics associated with ethics as relevant. Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics encompasses topics ranging from integrity, transparency, respect, social and environmental responsibility, safety and health, information use, to conflict of interest management, corruption, bribery attempts. At NOS we also have a channel for the communication of alleged irregularities or the clarification of doubts. To note that we have also developed a summarised version of the Code of Ethics for suppliers and partners, based on an exercise of identification of the most relevant ethical risks associated to the activities carried out on our behalf. Training and communication on the Code of Ethics GRI 205-2 So as to ensure that all employees, suppliers and partners know and incorporate in the activities that they carry out the principles and rules described in the Code of Ethics, in 2017 we continued the communication and training program on the Code of Ethics. The training plan we defined for employees is carried out through mandatory e-learning. All employees und This training has the following main objectives:  Introduce the principles and rules of the code of ethics;  Share the ethical commitments of the group so that all employees know how to act accordingly;   Introduce the internal mechanisms available to report an alleged irregularity or to clarify doubts. ave identified as having activities that are more exposed to ethical risks also participated, during 2017, in training sessions, whose format was defined by the unit itself (face-to-face and/or e-learning). For 2018, we expect to extend training to partner 96 In addition to disclosing the Code of Ethics to all employees, partners and suppliers, we publish this document in the institutional area of the website and on the intranet. For new employees, the Code of Ethics is distributed when the employment contract is formalised, when they also sign the declaration of individual commitment with its compliance and carry out the mandatory training. Releasing of the guide to a responsible online presence Considering the emerging challenges associated to the presence of the company and its employees in the various communication channels available on the Internet (social networks), in 2017 we developed and communicated the Guide for a Responsible Online Presence, which is an integral part of the NOS Code of Ethics and complements the principles and rules established therein. The main purpose of this Guide is to support and guide employees in the conduct they are expected to have when working in a professional context or on our behalf, always seeking to ensure the they are entitled to, in the use of the various digital channels. Besides establishing the fundamental principles for the online presence of NOS and its businesses, the Guide acknowledges the importance of all Employees being aware of the impact of the way they engage in these platforms, in particular, the conversations that mention our company and, in this sense, it defines guidelines applicable to all those who use social networks or other online channels in a professional context. At NOS we also have a Policy of Irregularities Communication and a Regulation on Procedures to Adopt in institutional area of the website. ful or negligent, practiced within the scope of our activity, which constitute violations of an ethical or legal nature, with a material impact in the areas of accounting; audit; internal control and fight against corruption; financial crimes of any kind. For 2018, we plan to define and formalise an Anti-Corruption Policy that will allow the alignment of our corruption management program with the best market practices and recommendations from standardsetting organisations. Ethics Committee The Ethics Committee, whose composition and competencies are described in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report, is responsible for overseeing and maintaining the Code of Ethics, for monitoring its enforcement and for ensuring that all members of the corporate bodies and all employees comply with it. 97 The Ethics Committee may receive requests for clarification or the manifestation of concerns related to the Code of Ethics and its compliance, on the part of employees, partners, suppliers, customers or third parties, through the e-mail comitedeetica@nos.pt. Material 4.2. Information security topic At NOS we remain committed to creating the necessary conditions for the safe use of our services; we therefore reassert the commitment we have with stakeholders regarding the issues that we consider to be priorities in terms of information security and privacy. Information security, within the scope of our activity, consists of protecting the information and its supporting assets in the following fundamental cornerstones: Availability, Integrity, Confidentiality and Privacy. Information protection should also be in line with both our internal information-related policies and external laws and regulations. We further consider the service requirements documented in the agreed service levels, contracts or operating agreements with customers. The guidelines for the management of the information asset security are regulated in the Code of Ethics and in the Information Security Policy (ISP). ISP defines the principles of information security that should be followed by our employees, suppliers and partners, also defining the security levels and domains and their control objectives. It is voluntarily based on the adaptation of recommended international standards, such as the ISO 27001 standard and the Technical Guidelines for Security Measures of ENISA European Network and Information Security Agency. We also have a Privacy Policy that aims to enable customers and users understand the way we collect, treat and protect personal information conveyed by anyone using our services or websites. Through the Information Security Management (ISM) program, we manage the risks associated to information availability, integrity, confidentiality and privacy. This program, coordinated by the GRC (Governance, Risk and Compliance) Security Committee, is mandated by the Executive Committee and its main objectives are to develop and supervise the ISP, verify whether the procedures comply with it, establish and monitor security KPIs and promote security awareness (through training and communication programs). monitoring of information security controls whose implementation is assigned to them. The business units, under the supervision of the Committee, develop a plan of internal actions, with the purpose of consolidating the processes and controls of information security management. Employees take on obligations of confidentiality, secrecy and personal data protection, and cannot transmit to any unauthorised third parties the data they have access to in the course and as a result of their functions. These obligations and duties remain in force even after termination of the employment relationship. These obligations should also be part of the agreements with all our partners, whose employees may have access to customer personal data. Furthermore, these partners are responsible for communicating and enforcing these rules with all employees who provide services to us. 98 Further information on the service fraud management and participation in external initiatives on these topics can be found in the Corporate Governance Report 2017. Training and communication for information security The Information Security and Privacy Policies are published in the institutional area of the website. Internally, we have a portal (Portal ISP) for the publication and dissemination of the ISP documents, and the control activities are maintained in the Internal Control Portal. In 2017, employees participated in training and awareness-raising activities within the scope of information training was extended to the most relevant partners. Information security and privacy actions In 2017, the objectives of the ISM program were generally attained, and for the goals not met or partially met we defined a set of improvement actions and specific action plans for their implementation. Aiming at continuous improvement, and given that this is a particularly relevant issue for the company, we have made some changes and improvements to the ISM program, such as the convergence of the information security program with the privacy program, the inclusion of ISP security objectives in ISO control objectives, and the updating of the internal e-learning training process on information security and physical security. In the course of the year, we also continued the Privacy Program created with the purpose of preparing for compliance with the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which will come into force in May 2018. In 2018, we will continue working on the improvement of the ISM system and on the convergence with the Privacy topic within the scope of the GDPR. Material Intellectual property topic is not to disclose to third parties and not to use, for own benefit or that of third parties, and to treat as confidential the information defined therein that is transmitted by each party in the execution of the contracted supply, as well as the responsibility of the Parties for the confidentiality and use of information by the respective employees or subcontractors that they may use in any way. 99 Material 4.3. Sustainable management of the supply chain topic NOS suppliers At NOS we recognise that our activity produces both direct and indirect economic, social and environmental impacts on the communities where we operate. We believe that we can and should run our business with maximum benefit to the various stakeholders with whom we interact, enhancing the positive impacts and minimising the negative ones. Our Suppliers and Partners are vital not only for the quality of the products and services we develop, but also for the sustainability performance of the business value chain. This importance was recognised in the materiality exercise carried out in 2017, which identified as a relevant topic the issues related to the impacts on society resulting from activities developed by suppliers In 2017, we had more than 8 thousand suppliers, that is, approximately 4 hundred more than the previous year. The volume purchases in that same year was slightly over 2 billion euros, of which 85% were related to national suppliers. The telecommunications business is the business segment with the highest weight in payments to suppliers (89%). Volume purchases with national and international suppliers (2015-2017) (in %) 85.9% 85.4% 85.2% 14.1% 14.6% 14.8% 2015 2016 2017 National suppliers International suppliers Excluding intra-group suppliers, the most relevant supply areas relate to interconnections, IT equipment and services, which together account for more than 50% of our purchases. 100 Sustainability requirements The quality of the products and services we purchase is critical. We pay special attention to the selection and sustainable management that we establish with our suppliers and partners, both to ensure careful risk management and to develop and maintain a healthy and lasting relationship, respecting thorough aspects of economic, environmental and social sustainability. that translate the essence of our orga sustainability. The Requirements are communicated to all Suppliers and are publicly available in the institutional area of the website. They are also an integral part of the technical specifications to be considered in the market test processes and of the general conditions sent to suppliers. Within the scope of the supply of products and services to NOS, the supplier undertakes to fully comply with the requirements, to the extent that they are applicable within the scope of that supply. The Sustainability Requirements are based on national and community law, as well as on principles and standards endorsed by us. Thus, we consider it imperative that our suppliers, among other obligations, collaborate in the requests related to the implementation of good sustainability practices, namely in the areas of human resources, occupational safety and health, human rights, ethics, information security, business continuity and environment. In 2017, we highlight our endorsement of the BCSD Portugal Charter of Principles, which establishes 6 fundamental sustainability principles legal compliance and ethical conduct, human rights, labour rights, prevention, health and safety, environment and management. We are, therefore, committed to adopting them internally, on a voluntary basis, and extend them to our value chain, in the sphere of our influence. Selection and assessment of suppliers At NOS, we have defined processes for managing the activity of purchasing goods and services with an impact on the quality of the final product, as well as procedures for selection, assessment and classification of the associated suppliers. In strict compliance with these procedures, established in the Procurement Manual, the selection of suppliers is carried out according to objective criteria, considering a number of aspects, such as the technical, the economic and that of the compliance with the required obligations and certifications. To this end, this process is supported on an electronic platform, with acknowledged credibility in the market, and at the end of each formalisation a survey is carried out with the suppliers, to measure their satisfaction with the way the negotiation process is driven, the quality of information provided and the user-friendliness the electronic platform. As a consequence of this policy, there is a very low level of non-compliance or non-conformity in the provision of services by suppliers, with high levels of satisfaction with the process itself. 101 Purchasing process 3. 5. 2. Preparation 4. 1. Purchasing Consultation Order and 6. of the Contract planning and invoice Control consultation award negotiation validation In addition to the normal and recurring interactions in the course of the activity, in the supplier management cycle, a yearly assessment process is conducted internally, within the scope of the t of suppliers selected according to criteria of relevance for the business, turnover, among others. Suppliers are assessed in terms of fulfilment of the contractual conditions, compliance level, technical and operational performance, deadline compliance, delivery time, response time and resolution time, quality of materials, products and services, response to requests, problem resolution, technical support and information, flexibility, pro-activity, availability and customer focus, and also the price. The results are analysed individually and reported to all the assessed suppliers. Suppliers with the lowest score (< 70%) are encouraged to improve their performance according to the improvement opportunities identified. The assessment process for 2016 points towards very satisfactory results, with 92% of suppliers assessed achieving a score above 70% (+9% over the previous year), which demonstrates the importance of creating and maintaining a close relationship between the suppliers and the different internal areas which they relate with. The assessment for 2017 is taking place during the first quarter of 2018. 5. Ensuring a service of excellence Material 5.1. Responsible marketing topic At NOS we aim to provide customers with products and services of excellence. To do this, we seek to provide complete, clear and accurate information necessary to make a clarified and informed decision, ensuring the scrupulous fulfilment of the agreed conditions and the privacy of the information of stakeholders that relate to us. In this way of communicating, besides ensuring compliance with the laws and rules that regulate the sector, we intend that communication is clear, effective, fast, predictable and consistent, so as to always guarantee customer satisfaction according to the principles of experience that we define. 102 NOS Voice NOS unique voice enhances the customer experience and builds a stronger brand image. At the end of 2016, NOS Campus created the NOS Voice course for employees. The trainees learn to apply the voice attributes clarity, naturalness, empathy, dynamism and solidity through practical examples and to adapt the communication to the most appropriate tone. In 2017, 3,500 hours were spent on NOS Voice training. We are constantly striving to ensure respect for and compliance with all applicable legal provisions on marketing and advertising, being associated to APAN Associação Portuguesa de Anunciantes [Portuguese Advertisers Association] and ICAP Instituto Civil da Autodisciplina da Publicidade [Civil Institute for Advertising Self-Discipline], and adhered to the Code of Conduct drawn up and approved by this body. In this context, procedures were established to ensure adequate communication with the customer through various means, such as customer service hotlines, the NOS Ombudsman and the network of stores. Concerning the general requirements of the service we provide, besides being described on the NOS website, they are also described in the documentation submitted when purchasing our products or services. Material 5.2. Customer service topic Since our establishment, we have sought to meet customer needs and attain excellent levels of satisfaction. Due to the dynamism of the telecommunications market, we believe that the implementation of a customer-focused innovation strategy is the only way to ensure a sustained pace of customer attraction and retention. Customer service model stakeholders consulted as one of the most relevant topics. Therefore, our Customer Service model is a cornerstone of our sustainability strategy. Customer satisfaction is vital for long-term stability, so we are very focused on meeting their expectations. We know that each customer has specific needs, so we are present in several channels, all adapted to the specificities of each customer profile (visits to the stores, clarification of doubts through the different available digital channels, among others). We highlight the concern with the growth of customer autonomy and the use of the digital, which has led to reinforcing the priority ascribed to self-care channels, with particular emphasis on the client APP. We have achieved greater simplicity in the relationship of service with NOS. The 40% growth in the ratio of self-care channels use vs. call centre calls is a clear reflection of this reality. 103 2017 was characterised by the development of new proximity channels. An investment was made, with great success, in the community of clients (forum.nos.pt), where the clients themselves help each other on how to take greater advantage of our value proposition. Our community has 17,000 active clients and was accessed, during 2017, close to 1 million times. At the same time, new practices of interaction with customers in social networks have been developed (Facebook Messenger of the WTF and NOS brands), and are a laboratory of experimentation of new concepts of digitally assisted service. A new email channel has also been opened, aimed to address a need identified as important by some client sub-segments. This channel currently represents less than 1% of our channels mix, but is highly valued by some customer profiles. Finally, in 2017, we have invested in a set of initiatives with the purpose of becoming a reference company in the implementation of a sustainable development model. Along with digitalisation, several paperless initiatives are underway, aimed to decrease printed documentation and, consequently, reduce paper use. At the same time, we have invested in efficiency and have reduced the process treatment time, through the automation of back office tasks. New training models have been created and implemented, increasingly oriented towards behavioural competencies and reduction of customer effort. Paperless Project The PaperLess project was born to make retail even more digital, with the purpose of continuing to improve the customer experience and enhancing the principles of the service model, and at the same documentation decrease. The project has several benefits for stores in terms of customer satisfaction, optimisation of document management tasks, simplification and dematerialisation of processes, safety and error reduction, and at the same time it allows not only a faster and more efficient service, but also a reduction of costs with printing, paper and mail services, also contributing to the compliance with good environmental preservation practices under the ISO 14001 standard. The implementation of PaperLess in Own Stores and Franchising began in June 2017 and will run until April 2018. Currently we already have more than 150 stores with the digital process available and hybrid computers that support this service. Customers are satisfied and fully accept the processes in PaperLess. PAPER LESS CORE FUNCTIONALITIES Purchase | Retention with Change | Portability Validation of Scanning and Signature Delivery or sending customer documents storage collection of documentation Listing of Photography of Digitalised Submission by documents client documents signature email required in the and automatic to the client process upload 104 CHECK IN: Trips through Customer Experience The Check-in started in 2016 and is one of the many customer-oriented initiatives that we promote internally and that materialises the movement around delivering customers the best experience. The concept of Check-in is bor with NOS, but also of the intention to lead employees to travel through the customer experience, so that they may see, feel and experience the NOS relationship with customers. Trips, routes, destinations, passengers, crew, passport, stamp, departures and arrivals, itinerary and logbook are some of the most used terms in internal communication regarding this initiative. The employees, seen as passengers, have the opportunity, in the Check-in, to make a road map that house. In 2017, 2 editions were carried out, totalling 807 registrations that joined the 1,340 registrations from 2016. The overall evaluation of the program made by the participants is, in all editions, above 4.8 (on a scale from 1 to 5). Our strong concern to develop solutions for people with special needs is also to be highlighted. Solutions for hearing impaired people Solutions for visually impaired people  Hotline for hearing impaired customers:  Invoice in braille 12472  Movies with audio-description in the  TV App for teletext subtitles Video-club  DVDs with subtitles in Portuguese and  DVDs with audio-description sign language The detail about each of these solutions may be found in the institutional area of our website. The market has acknowledged this focus on proximity and Customer Service, proving the validity of our strategy and giving us renewed energy to continue pursuing this path. As proof of this, in 2017 we received a number of distinctions and awards from Associação Portuguesa de Contact Centres (APCC) (Portuguese Association of Contact Centres) regarding Customer Service. Further detail on these distinctions can be found in the institutional area of the website. Monitoring customer experience At NOS we plan our activities and processes so as to enable and ensure continuous improvement, the effectiveness of our system and customer satisfaction. The management of the processes associated to the provision of products and services meets customer satisfaction, which is ensured by a management system certified according to the ISO 9001:2008 standard. Being the customer the basis of the strategy, we continually monitor the market, the needs and the preference trends through customer and consumer market surveys. In particular, recurrent assessment of NOS customer satisfaction is one of the cornerstones of this positioning, being measured at a relational and transactional level. 105 In the relational domain, which seeks to perceive the relationship of customers with NOS and its brand, a satisfaction tracking and recommendation study was carried out, with a biannual periodicity for each of the businesses. The study is carried out on the basis of a questionnaire that assesses the level of overall customer satisfaction with the service provided measuring metrics that are widely used in the industry, such as the Net Promoter Score (NPS) and the C-SAT, as well as the level of satisfaction with several factors relevant to each service, the interaction of factors between themselves and their contribution to overall satisfaction. Based on the results obtained, a set of strategic and tactical improvement actions is defined, incorporated into the working plans of the business and operational units. In the transactional domain, we implemented a Customer Voice program, which aims to collect customer feedback on service processes and thus ensure that actions for continuous improvement of operations incorporate the customer perspective. In 2017, the coverage of customer feedback through this program was reinforced to all face-to-face customer interaction channels, resulting in a total of 2.4 million customer satisfaction observations in 2017. These results allowed extracting significant insights on the behaviour and professionalism of our employees, their ability to solve the different issues and the degree of effort required from customers in these processes. The broadening and sophistication of customer experience monitoring was also a major concern in 2017. We launched the first stage of a customer listening program on the digital where, in the first month, it was possible to get feedback from 10.6 thousand users on the experience of using these channels. 5.3. Service quality and reliability As the network and platforms are one of NOS main assets, one of the central aspects for strengthening our competitive position is the way we ensure their sustainable growth, maintaining a high requirement in terms of availability, quality and efficiency of the operation and a control of operating costs. This action is systematically subject to continuous improvement that guarantees the adequacy of our performance to the increasingly rapid and evolutionary market trends. Thus, year after year, the challenges that lie ahead are ever greater, and we have been responding to them with increasingly state-of-the-art strategies. Aware of this, we have made a deep reformulation of the operating model, which we implemented in the first half of 2017. Along with this reformulation of the operating model, in 2017, the strategic areas of action outlined in 2016 were reinforced and several projects were carried out regarding network capacity and resilience in terms of the transportation network, energy, data, safety, among others. Several projects of automation, self-configuration and improvement of operational frameworks are also -to-market; among them, we highlight: the implementation of a Network Analytics platform with real-time treatment of all network information; use of the Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning concepts for monitoring, as well as n and automation portals in processes of configuration and deployment of new software solutions; Service Oriented architectures that enable agility; and Dev Ops strategy with the purpose of shortening the development and production cycle. 106 In 2018, with the new operating model, we will consolidate the strategy outlined with a strong focus on a Customer Centric action, in order to maximise the impact of the projects developed on customer satisfaction throughout the whole life cycle of our products and services. The review and optimisation of all the operational processes that derive from the new operating model will allow obtaining gains of efficiency to answer three big blocks of challenges:  End2End client vision, from the platforms to the client equipment, with characterisation and management of the experience of using the various services;  Intelligent Service Management supported in Analytics and Automation;  Use of Artificial Intelligence with predictive algorithms and Machine Learning to anticipate network and service failures. Material Response to emergency situations topic At NOS we have business continuity management processes, whose objective is to reduce the risk of interruption of the activity, due to disaster situations, technical-operational failures or massive failures of human resources. These processes, within the scope of the BCM Business Continuity Management program, encompass the facilities, the network infrastructures and the most critical activities that support communication services, for which resiliency strategies, continuity plans and actions are developed, as well as procedures of incident/crisis management. In 2017, within the scope of the business continuity management processes and a Customer Centric strategy, we incorporated the learning obtained during crisis management of the disasters that took place in Portugal during the year, with the updating of risk matrices and the locations with greater risk to new threats, the implementation of additional resilience and protection measures, the improvement of the monitoring and operation of the crisis management operational teams in situations of extreme events. Material 5.4. Access to contents topic At NOS, we seek to ensure that the whole delivery of products and services meets the excellence standards, both in terms of innovation and in terms of functionalities for access to contents. In this sense, we provide our customers with functionalities that guarantee access control to the contents distributed by us, avoiding exposure of vulnerable groups, such as children and youth, to abusive content and illegal activities. Through the boxes, there are several relevant functionalities that also address this concern and that are available to NOS customers, namely channel and content lockout pin, rental pin, M/18P content filtering in the experience and the TV profile functionality that allows creating a profile for each family member and associating a different pin to access it. 107 Given that we also provide the television service through mobile equipment, namely PCs, tablets and smartphones, via NOS TV and NOS Play, the scope extends beyond the box itself. In these devices, content access control is guaranteed through valid login in the apps, which will correspond to a user registered in the NOS client area (who is the contract holder or a user authorised by the holder). Concerning the mobile product, we also provide some functionalities that can help protect customers from exposure to abusive content value-added subscription services via SMS are blocked by default; the access the customer may also block the making and/or receiving of any calls or international calls only. 6. Valuing human capital At NOS we believe that Resources management is a vital topic in its activity. To this end, we continue to invest in the development of new tools, practices and experiences that seek to attract and retain the best professionals, enhance their constant motivation and professional evolution, and ensure that they have, in their daily experience, the knowledge to be agents in their development and, consequently, in the development of the company. All this guaranteeing a healthy and safe working environment. ket. Material 6.1. Diversity topic departure) are based on the principles of equality, non-discrimination and meritocracy. -discrimination (based on age, gender, sexual orientation, race, disability, religion or creed), in particular in situations of recruitment, promotion or termination of employment relationship. At the end of 2017, we had a total of 1,947 employees 5, of which 95% belong to the Telecommunications business. Regarding the distribution by gender, 42% are women and 58% are men; this percentage reflects by the male gender. In 2017 there was a slight decrease in the number of employees compared to 2016 (1%). 5 Does not include operational employees of Cinemas, with internship contracts and Governance Bodies 108 secondary education level. Our commitment to sustainable employability policies is further translated by the permanent nature of GRI 102-8 95% have a permanent contract and the remaining have fixed-term contracts. By 2017, 100% of employees are full-time employees. The geographical distribution of our employees can be found in the 2017 Management Report. Distribution of employees by type of contract and gender (2015 2017) (No. of employees) 1,200 1,137 1,107 1,082 1,000 773 780 776 800 600 400 200 52 38 41 36 37 52 0 2015 2016 2017 Permanent contract Women Permanent contract Men Fixed-term contract Women Fixed-term contract Men In terms of nationality, our team is composed of employees from 24 nationalities; 4% of employees have foreign nationality. Regarding age, at the end of the year, 7% of employees are over 50 years of age, 83% are in the age group from 30 to 50 years of age and 10% are under 30 years of age. 109 Distribution of employees by organisational group, gender and age group (2017) (No. of employees) Woman 12 3 Diretors Man 27 11 Woman 104 7 Managers Man 3 220 29 Woman 96 548 45 Technicians Man 90 712 40 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Under 30 years Between 30 and 50 years Over 50 years Distribution of Governance Bodies by gender and age group (2017) (No.) 6 Over 50 years 10 Between 30-50 years 5 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Men Women These results reflect our growing investment in the integration and development of young people: not only do we recruit a number of young graduates every year to integrate the different areas of our business, but we also provide them with professional internships, summer internships and curricular internships. The , see the 2017 Management Report). 110 Through the various initiatives and programs developed in this field, we seek not only to leverage young professional growth. Material 6.2. Performance and development topic Performance management is one of the most effective tools to promote the sharing of business strategic objectives, organisational values and culture, being a critical success factor for the human capital development. At NOS we promote a culture of development, management and recognition of all employees that is embodied in the Performance and Development Model, which allows a transversal, equitable and impartial performance management, in order to value the results obtained, the behaviours and attitudes demonstrated, and to promote meritocracy. This model is based on the following principles: universality; coherence and integration; transparency and impartiality; accountability and development, and also consequent differentiation. In 2017, 98% of employees received performance appraisal. Number and percentage of employees appraised by gender and by organisational group (2017) (No. and %) Total number of Number of employees % of employees employees appraised appraised Man 1,132 1,120 99% Woman 815 783 96% Technicians 1,531 1,489 97% Managers 363 361 99% Directors 53 53 100% Total 1,947 1,903 98% The structure of the Performance and Development Model is based on two components Evaluative and Developmental. The Development Component is composed of self-assessment and the definition of a Personal Development Plan adjusted to the needs of each employee. The evaluative component is grouped into two distinct dimensions, considering a collective dimension and an individual dimension (that measures the individual performance of each employee), each with a different purpose and impact. 111 Evaluative Component (downward evaluation) Impacts COMPANY OBJECTIVES Variable remuneration GLOBAL ACHIEVEMENT Career INDIVIDUAL OBJECTIVES INDIVIDUAL Development EVALUATION Mobility BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCIES Salary progression The global achievement, which encompasses the two dimensions individual and collective has an impact only on the attribution of variable remuneration. The individual evaluation has a medium and longterm impact, serving as the basis for the development of the Individual Development Plan, with direct effects in terms of employee development, career, training, salary progression and mobility. The Performance and Development Model is supported by a manual and timetable of the model execution cycle, so as to clearly communicate its guidelines to employees. However, the culture of recognition at NOS is not confined to the model. Amongst other initiatives, the following are to be highlighted: special bonuses, consolidation of mid-term feedback in the appraisal and development process, and the investment in employee empowerment, not only through promotion and functional mobility, but also, for example, through the integration in challenging training plans, and in the careful and stimulating increase in autonomy and responsibilities. Material 6.3. Remuneration and benefits topic NOS Remuneration Policy is governed by a set of principles aligned with the best national and international practices. Equity: ensure the principles of internal equity that support integration into a single culture Balance: ensure the balance between the fixed and variable components of the remuneration structure Simplicity: simplified remuneration structure, ensuring clarity in its communication and understanding by employees Flexibility: guarantee, within the defined rules, the flexibility to treat distinct situations, namely in the management of high potential employees Performance: ensure the linkage of remuneration to individual and company performance in the short and long term Competitiveness: Equity: ensure the guarantee levels principles of of competitiveness internal needed equity that support to ensure integration Talent into attraction cultureand retention a single 112 The remuneration package is based on components of basic remuneration and variable remuneration, with differentiated attribution by organisational group, according to the policy in force in the company. All organisational groups have a reference wage band that aims to ensure a competitive positioning in the telecommunication and information technology market. Aware of the importance of the remuneration and benefits policy in attracting and retaining talent, we add GRI 401-2 to the remuneration package a set of benefits, programs and initiatives geared towards the needs of different work generations. Examples of additional benefits are life insurance, health insurance, personal accident insurance and meal card. Material 6.4. Talent management topic NOS is a company with a strong ambition to develop our people and to invest in talent. Within the scope of talent management, the core objectives are to identify, retain, develop and value the employees with better performance and potential. Furthermore, we seek to implement specific initiatives that foster the development of competencies, professional acknowledgement and growth through, for example, the integration in transversal strategic projects and, consequently, the retention of talent and the consolidation of NOS attractiveness in the labour market. In 2017, there were a total of 117 admissions and 139 departures of employees, which GRI 401-1 corresponds to an admission rate of 6% and a net replacement rate of -1%, respectively. Net admission and replacement rates by age group and gender (2017) (No. and %) Net Total no. of Total no. of Admission rate replacement admissions departures rate < 30 years 72 31 4% 22% Between 30 and 50 years 44 94 2% -3% > 50 years 1 14 0% -10% Women 46 56 2% -1% Men 71 83 4% -1% Total 117 139 6% -1% NOS Campus sharing and transferring knowledge among all professionals and for developing their potential and talent in five areas of knowledge: management, leadership, technique, technology and fundamentals. It is also an innovation centre, closely monitoring external surroundings, geared to capture new ideas, transform them and integrate them into our organisation. In addition to the actions that are part of the NOS Campus 113 training plan, we provide our employees extra-technical training. In 2017, there were 37,933 training hours (+ 13% compared to 2016), equivalent to an average of 19.5 training hours per employee. In the same year, we dedicated 434 training hours to topics related to sustainability, namely on ethics, information security and health and safety. Training hours per type (2015-2017) (Total no. of training hours) 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL 32,294 33,622 37,933 Corporate university 22,073 17,728 23,183 Extra-plan training 10,221 15,894 14,750 In 2017, on average, female employees received 21.9 training hours, which is slightly higher than the average for male employees (17.8 training hours). Average hours of training by gender and organisational group (2017) (Average no. of training hours) 45.0 40.9 40.0 35.0 33.4 30.0 25.0 22,7 21,3 20.0 19,0 16.7 15.0 10.0 5.0 0.0 Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Technician Manager Director Material 6.5. Health and well-being topic In line with the NOS Sustainability Policy, we ensure that our employees, suppliers and partners develop their activities in a safe working environment that prevents risks, injuries, and occupational accidents. 114 Thus, since 2015, NOS Comunicações S.A. has an Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Management System implemented and certified, in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 standard, which essentially encompasses the Corporate Products and Services segment, although we have good OHS practices implemented throughout the whole company. The exercise of mapping the main occupational safety and health hazards and risks resulting from the activity carried out by NOS allowed identifying the psychosocial and ergonomic risks, as well as risks associated to in-service missions as the main categories of risks, and which we have been working on through the definition and implementation of a plan of initiatives. In our Sustainability Portal, employees find information related to the management of health and safety issues, such as the matrix of occupational safety and health hazards and risks and associated means of control, relevant legislation and related audit reports. Within the scope of the commitment to promote a culture of prevention and minimisation of occupational risks and the investment in health and well-being as a performance driver, besides the risk categories identified, we deepen our action in a holistic vision based on three health and well-being axes: physical, emotional/mental and social axis. -nos-quer) Programme communication integrator of several initiatives we have for the improvement of health and well-being, with through four fronts: Health and well-being week Organisation of the health and well-being week, in which numerous initiatives took place, namely 11 workshops and two screenings that had the participation of 850 people. The initiatives aimed to raise awareness of the importance of:  taking care of the body (nutrition and label reading, exercise and posture);  taking care of the mind (mindfulness and relaxation techniques, and movement of gratitude); and taking care of union bonds. Publication of content on the Intranet Publication of contents on the Intranet throughout the year, with the aim to raise consciousness and awareness of healthier behaviours, such as physical activity and food balance. Promotion of conviviality and celebration moments The establishment of positive relationships among colleagues is a strong contributor to team engagement and performance; hence, throughout the year we promote moments of celebration of special dates and get together in the common spaces of buildings to promote the ties that bond Employees. nds -up). 115 Combining work and family life At NOS we have a set of initiatives aimed at promoting the balance between work and family life, including through various partnerships (health and well-being, culture, sports and leisure, tourism, restaurants). In addition, we provide our employees with smartphones, laptops, videoconferencing systems and VPN systems, which ensure mobility and flexibility in daily working practices. Material Intervention in the facilities and working conditions topic We have defined a program of biannual audits carried out by accredited external entities, aimed to ensure working conditions, in terms of air quality, noise, lighting conditions and air-conditioning. Quarterly food audits are also carried out to ensure the quality of the food available in with a greater focus on their food and workspaces, so as to stimulate healthier habits, namely:  Refurbishment of feeding spaces;  Improved supply of vending machines, with the inclusion of sugar-free, lactose-free, gluten-free and organic products;  air-conditioning;  Creation of a breastfeeding room and an exercise room, as well as innovative spaces to stimulate productivity, concentration and creativity (rooftops, quiet rooms and thinking rooms);  buildings. Over the next five years, we will continue to focus on optimising the real estate portfolio by taking this opportunity to rethink the future of the workplace and make vital decisions for the future of workspaces. Lastly, to note that in 2017 we developed e-learning training courses in the area of physical security for new employees, having achieved an 82% completion rate. 7. Preserving the environment According to the most recent estimates6, the use of information and communication technologies can induce a 20% reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, simultaneously increasing productivity in various sectors of the economy and reducing the consumption of scarce resources. However, as there is an increase in the demand for ever more challenging digital technologies in terms of data processing and transmission, there is also a rise in the energy needs of telecommunication networks and in the waste generated by equipment with increasingly shorter life cycles. This is our challenge: to minimise our environmental impact while helping our customers reduce theirs. 6 GeSI, 2015. #SMARTer2030 ICT Solutions for 21st Century Challenges. 116 Material 7.1. Energy and climate change topic Energy efficiency Between 2015 and 2017, data traffic in our network grew 38%, well above the increase in total energy GRI 302-1 consumption in our activities (12%). The overall ratio of energy consumption by data traffic decreased by 19% over the same period, reflecting an increase in consumption efficiency. GRI 302-3 GRI 302-4 Overall energy consumption and energy consumption by volume of data traffic in the network* (20152017) (in GJ and GJ/TB) 0.72 0.70 GJ 0.59 GJ/TB 600,000 580 703 0.60 517 591 530 422 400,000 0.40 200,000 0.20 0 0.00 2015 2016 2017 Support (buildings, vehicle fleet and stores Technical Infrastructure Consumption per Terabyte * Mobile and fixed dat The technical infrastructure accounts for about 80% of our total energy consumption. Between 2015 and 2017, as a result of the activity expansion and the fast traffic growth, this consumption increased by 17%. The constant implementation of energy efficiency measures has, however, allowed limiting the increase in absolute consumptions and consistently improving efficiency ratios. The main form of energy consumed in our activities is electricity, which accounts for an average of 86% of global consumption. Fossil fuels consumed in own vehicle fleet (diesel and gasoline), buildings (natural gas) and emergency systems (diesel) account for an average of 13%. The remaining 1% of consumption refers -conditioning systems. The percentage of renewable energy consumed is directly related to the use, by the respective supplier, of renewable sources in the production of the electricity consumed. In 2015 this percentage was 37%, in 2016 50% and in 2017 again 37%. 117 Total energy consumption by type of energy consumed (2015-2017) (in GJ) 2015 2016 2017 Total energy consumption (GJ) 517,591 530,422 580,703 Fossil fuels 67,049 72,848 67,637 Electricity, heat and cold 450,542 457,574 513,066 interventions in the main infrastructures: we installed more efficient equipment of energy backup, energy transformation and air-conditioning; and we adopted freecooling solutions, which use the outside air to cool equipment, reducing the use of HVAC units. The potential of consumption reduction of these measures is estimated at around 500 MWh/year, raising the accumulated savings generated by the measures implemented over the last three years to more than 1 GWh/year. At the same time, in data centres, we consolidated equipment, strengthened measures of cold containment in technical corridors and adopted virtualisation solutions that reduce the use of physical and energy resources. With these interventions, we plan to reduce the energy consumption of these facilities by about 30% compared to the current baseline. In 2017 we also started an extensive project to modernise the mobile access network. The project, which will cover the entire country and runs until the end of 2018, involves the migration of 2G, 3G and 4G technologies to single equipment, with reinforcement of the network capacity and energy efficiency gains estimated at around 20%. -conditioning equipment, we renewed the vehicle fleet with lower consumption vehicles, and installed LED lighting in a set of 18 own stores. In 2017, the energy consumption of these activities recorded a decrease of 4% compared to the previous year, remaining practically constant in relation to 2015. Carbon footprint Throughout the life cycle of our products and services, greenhouse gas emissions take place, which is the NOS carbon footprint. Supply chain Own operations P&S use Production and Support activities Use of P&S by customers Telecommunication installation of network (facilities, vehicle and equipment end-ofnetworks and client equipment fleet, stores) life The carbon footprint of our operation is dominated by the indirect emissions associated with the production of the energy we consume (scope 2), especially the electricity needed for the operation of the technical network. The growth, in absolute terms, of network consumption, spurred by the increase in data traffic, contributed to the increase of these emissions. The high year-on-year variability of total emissions is associated to changes in the carbon content of the purchased electricity, which reflects the use of 118 renewable energy sources by the respective supplier, and which, in Portugal, is heavily dependent on weather conditions. Direct emissions (scope 1) decreased in 2017 as a result of measures that reduced fuel consumption in the vehicle fleet. Indirect emissions (scope 3) currently accounted for include in-service missions. We have been implementing measu rooms with video conferencing equipment, and also to optimise the use of means of transport when travelling cannot be avoided. With the Boleias [Rides] project, employees now have a multi-device platform that allows meeting the supply and demand of rides to any of our buildings. System functionalities include sending alerts via email and SMS and monitoring global indicators, including avoided emissions. We also started accounting for the emissions associated with commuting (home-work-home travel), based to promote more sustainable travel options. NOS carbon footprint (2015-2017) (in tCO2e) t CO2e 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 Direct emissions 4 897 5 285 4 961 Fuel consumption 4 645 5 048 4 718 F-gases leaks 252 236 243 Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions 54 064 38 914 57 740 Electricity consumption Market-based 53 615 38 500 57 337 method Electricity consumption Location-based 34 552 33 754 49 134 method Thermal energy consumption 449 414 403 Scope 3 Other indirect emissions 1 133 2 687 2 248 In-service missions 1 039 908 956 Waste treatment 94 90 87 Commuting n.d. 1 689 1 205 Total scope 1 + scope 2 Market-based 58 961 44 199 62 701 method We intend to progressively expand the scope of accounting for our footprint, with the objective of knowing GRI 305-1 and reducing the carbon emissions of our operations, but also those that occur in our supply chain and in GRI 305-2 the use of our products and services by customers. GRI 305-3 Among the measures already implemented to reduce emissions downstream of our activities, we include the recovery and reuse of customer equipment, in a circular economy perspective, and the launch of TV boxes, associated to the Iris and UMA bundles, which, together with innovation in the customer experience, incorporate advanced energy-saving functionalities, significantly reducing stand-by consumption. 119 Adapting to climate change At NOS we are also increasing the resilience of our activity, particularly the technical infrastructure, to the effects of climate change, whether concerning long-term changes in temperature and rain patterns or changes resulting from extreme weather events. The increase in the cooling needs of critical equipment, resulting from the expected rise in average temperatures in Southern Europe, is managed through programs that increase the reliability and energy efficiency of air-conditioning systems. These efficiency measures in addition to the maintenance and reinforcement of energy autonomy solutions, whether backup systems or websites with renewable self-production also reinforce the infrastructure resilience in situations of electricity supply interruption. Material 7.2. Low carbon solutions topic With a 1:10 ratio between the carbon emissions it induces and the emissions avoided 7 with the adoption of the products and services it provides, the information and communication technologies sector is vital in the fight against climate change. To materialise the potential of digital technologies in the transition to a low-carbon economic model, we have developed innovative solutions for the various customer segments that bring more functionalities and productivity, while reducing consumption and emissions. NOS low carbon solutions Collaboration and M2M connectivity Virtualisation Cloud videoconference Videoconference ezENERGY NOS IP Centrex Virtual servers systems Simple and intelligent Virtual workplaceVirtual servers, integrated Wide range of solution of energy oriented in cutting-edge data videoconference consumption communications centres with the best solutions monitoring centre security conditions Benefits  Increased  Consumption  Simplified  Uninterrupted productivity and optimisation management, availability costs reduction and costs service quality  Growth capacity and  Emissions reduction and costs flexibility reduction through rationalisation  No investment in contracted  Consumption equipment and plans and materials infrastructure  Emissions reduction and  Energy and reduction waste emissions reduction production reduction 7 GeSI, 2015. #SMARTer2030 ICT Solutions for 21st Century Challenges. 120 Material 7.3. Waste management and circular economy topic End-of-life electrical and electronic equipment whether the ones existing in our network or those used by our customers are the main waste associated with our activity. In a sector where technological renewal is constant, the transformation of this waste into resources, through its reuse and recycling, is an important contribution to the circular economy objectives. In own operations, we have implemented selective collection systems that guarantee the channelling to recycling or energy recovery of virtually 100% of the total waste we produce. Waste production in own operation and overall recovery rate (2015-2017) GRI 306-2 (tons) ton 100% 98% 99% 600 100% 545 500 80% 400 391 354 60% 300 40% 200 100 20% 0 0% 2015 2016 2017 Equipment and batteries Paper and cardboard Other waste % recovery Final destination of the waste produced (tons) Hazardous waste (t) Non-hazardous waste (t) Final destination 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Elimination Landfill 0,0 0,0 0,0 7,7 3,2 0,02 Recycling 4,1 1,7 1,2 341,8 364,2 540,6 Recovery Energy Recovery 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,3 21,5 3,6 TOTAL 4,1 1,7 1,2 349,8 388,9 544,2 For our fixed service customers, we have developed a logistics operation that currently assures the collection of about 75% of the equipment withdrawn from service and its use as resources. TV boxes, 121 routers and Hubs are transported to our Logistics Centre, where they are technically assessed. About 50% are considered recoverable, being subject to processes of cleaning, repair, replacement of parts, software update and reconditioning. The recovered equipment is placed back on the market and the discarded parts and equipment are sent for recycling. This process allowed for the recovery of 505,000 equipment devices in 2017, avoiding the consumption of raw materials and energy and giving new life to more than 450 tons of materials. Recovery and reuse of customer equipment in the fixed business (2015-2017) (Tons and %) 75% ton 500 70% 70% 450 420 400 60% 320 300 40% 200 20% 100 0 0% 2015 2016 2017 Reused material % Equipment collected For the remaining customer equipment, especially mobile terminals, NOS has associated with management bodies, through which it finances the correct channelling of all end-of-life equipment it places on the market. According to the most recent data 8, about 60% of the equipment and 30% of the batteries are currently collected through this system, being recovered more than 90% of the waste collected. Waste from all packaging placed on the market is also sent for recycling through the integrated system managed by Sociedade Ponto Verde. Material 7.4. Electromagnetic fields topic Mobile telecommunications equipment uses radio frequencies that, similarly to what happens with the operation of other electrical equipment, generate electromagnetic fields. The current scientific consensus is that there is no evidence of a relationship between adverse health effects and the use of mobile telecommunications equipment within the internationally established exposure thresholds. We follow the latest scientific developments on the topic, including the World Health Organisation recommendations, and seek to respond in a transparent manner to public concerns in this regard. 8 APA, 2017. Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Waste of Batteries and Accumulators – 2015 Management Main Results. 122 All our network equipment and mobile phones provided to customers comply with the Portuguese legislation on thresholds of exposure to electromagnetic fields, which follows the European Union regulations and the international scientific guidelines. Our main goal is to ensure that, in publicly accessible locations, radiation levels are at least 50 times below the reference power density value. Employees and partners accessing mobile antennas carry measurement equipment that emits audible warnings whenever exposure values are close to the permitted thresholds. Our yearly monitoring plan involves the mandatory measurement of the radiation level in network infrastructures installed in buildings, both new equipment and those whose operating conditions have been changed. Since 2014, we have performed over a hundred measurements, and no non-compliance situations have been detected. The results are conveyed to national and local entities, including Autoridade Nacional de Comunicações [National Communications Authority] (ANACOM), which also discloses the results of measurements made by them in response to requests from public and private bodies and which also demonstrate full compliance with the recommended exposure levels. Measurement of electromagnetic radiation on mobile network sites (2015-2017) (in No.) # 100% below the reference level 90% 50 times below the reference 50 38 40 30 28 28 20 10 0 2015 2016 2017 Measurements performed 8. Promoting sustainable innovation At NOS we acknowledge the important role of information and communication technologies in improving social inclusion, empowering people and stimulating a knowledge society. In this sense, we are committed to developing or supporting the development of new ICT solutions whose use induces economic, environmental and social benefits. 123 We have been developing a set of products and services that aims to fulfil this purpose. Information on products and services we provide for customers with special needs and low carbon solutions can be found Material 8.1. Innovative solutions topic In 2017, we continued to invest in the development of innovative solutions and digital transformation projects, specially designed for the needs of the distinct customer segments, based on our cutting-edge networks and service platforms and, whenever necessary, incorporating solutions derived from strong 2017 Report and Financial Statement). Smart Cities There are currently several technological solutions developed to make cities more intelligent. Intelligent parking, vehicle fleet management, guided tours, art and materials preservation, energy efficiency of public lighting, remote management of water meters, intelligent watering, noise maps, air pollution and ultraviolet radiation are some of the areas for which we develop solutions. In 2017, we signed a cooperation protocol with the Municipality of Lagoa, aiming to transform this municipality and their relationship with the municipality. At the beginning of 2018, the Control Centre was inaugurated. In a first stage, it will monitor situations reported by citizens regarding water and sanitation, gardens, cleaning/waste, inspection (works) and infrastructures. The Control Centre is followed-up by specialised technicians from our company. In the future, monitoring is expected to extend to areas such as tourism and electricity, with the help of a network of sensors spread throughout the municipality, optimising the interaction and proximity between the municipality and the citizens in favour of more participatory and efficient communication and resource management, promoting mobility, security and accessibility. SMART METER NB-IoT In 2017 we launched a worldwide unprecedented project in partnership with four large companies the first operational pilot with smart electrical energy meters and NB-IoT communication technology in Lisbon. This solution combines emerging technologies in intelligent electrical energy metering and in the cutting-edge networks for the electrical network supervision. Based on optimised and bi-directional communication, the value of NB-IoT technology is recognised worldwide in the concept of smart networks, addressing the following challenges:  Customer satisfaction, through automatic detection of energy failure, improving the replenishment service time.  Online consumption measurement, supporting several values per hour, of various energy records and events. 124  On demand response functionality, with installed capacity managed in near real-time. This function is particularly useful considering the progressive adoption of electric vehicles and the increasing transition to renewable sources of electrical energy.  Continuous development of technology, stirred by the potential mass adoption of operators worldwide. Enhancing capabilities Given the nature of the sector which we operate in, we believe that it is our responsibility to contribute to building a more inclusive society that promotes access to new technologies for all, regardless of age, ability, language, culture and technological literacy. So as to respond to this challenge, we work in partnership with the private and public sectors, and with third sector organisations to jointly develop projects in terms of information and communication technologies (ICT) that impact both these organisations and their target audiences. We have also developed a program based on the provision and supply, for third sector organisations and their audiences, of communication and television services from the NOS Comunicações portfolio. Among these, we highlight the offer of these services to special audiences. The goal is to make the equipment (cutting-edge laptops with mobile internet, free communications and maintenance support) available to children and young people with serious or chronic illnesses, promoting inclusion, fighting isolation, increasing comfort and strengthening their competencies. The program allows shortening distances through the intelligent use of new technologies, simultaneously contributing to the education and fight against info-exclusion, and promoting the responsible and correct use of the equipment that it makes available to such a special audience. PARTNERSHIP TO ENCOURAGE LITERACY AND DIGITAL INCLUSION We are partners of MUDA a national movement promoted by several companies, universities and associations and by the Portuguese State that are committed to encouraging the participation of Portuguese citizens in the digital space, contributing to a more advanced, inclusive and participatory Country. We are committed to the path of digital change, and firmly believe that, in so doing, we free up this goal, namely:  Internet and television anywhere, 24 hours a day with the NOS Apps: NOS Wi-Fi and NOS TV  Electronic invoice  Direct debiting  Online stores  App and NOS Client Area available for consultation and change of services in a safe and simple way, 24 hours a day  NOS Forum an online community sharing experiences and questions about our services. 125 Material 8.2. Promoting entrepreneurship topic Taking on a pivotal role in the innovation ecosystem, in 2017 we launched the 3 rd edition of the NOS Innovation Award, which aims to distinguish the best innovation projects in Portugal in three categories: Large Companies and Institutions, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, and National Start-ups. PwC was responsible for selecting 10 projects for each category, in a total of 30. The winners will be revealed in May 2018. Also in terms of entrepreneurship, on our website we provide a set of information useful to entrepreneurs, namely practical guides on what is needed to start and manage a business, sharing of cases of successful entrepreneurs who explain how their businesses were born, and also events and news in the area of entrepreneurship. Further detail on this available information can be found in the corporate area of the website. 126 9. Appendix 9.1. Core GRI 102 GENERAL CONTENTS UNGC Disclosures Location ODS* Principles* ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation 1. On this Report, p. 84 Activities, brands, products and 102-2 2017 Annual Report, p. 11-13; 16-19 services 102-3 Location of headquarters On this Report, p. 84 102-4 Location of operations 2017 Annual Report, p. 44 102-5 Legal ownership and nature Consolidated and Individual Financial Statements 102-6 Markets served 2017 Annual Report, p. 44 2017 Annual Report 102-7 Dimension of the organisation 2.1. 2017 Main Indicators, p. 85 3.1. Organisational Profile, p. 88 Information on employees and 102-8 6.1. Diversity, p. 108-110 6 5, 8 other workers 4.3. Sustainable management of the supply 8,12,16,17 102-9 Supply chain chain, p. 100-102 Significant changes in the There were no significant changes during the 102-10 organisation and supply chain period covered by the report. Approach to the precautionary 102-11 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 88-95 principle NOS is a member of the Business Council for Sustainable Development (BCSD) Portugal, having endorsed in 2017 the BCSD Portugal 102-12 External initiatives Charter of Principles. NOS is signatory of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact since 2014. Main institutions that NOS is a member of and where it is part of the corporate bodies: APRITEL Associação dos Operadores de Comunicações Eletrónicas 102-13 Member of associations AEM Associação de Emitentes de Valores Mobiliários Quinta da Regaleira Fundação CulturSintra Fundação Serralves IPCG Instituto Português de Corporate Governance STRATEGY 102-14 Message from the President 2017 Annual Report, p. 4-5 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Values, principles, standards and 3.1. Organisational profile, p. 86 10 16 102-16 rules of conduct 4. Acting Ethically and Responsibly, p. 96-102 GOVERNANCE 3.1. Organisational profile, p. 87-88 102-18 Governance Structure Corporate Governance Report, p. 285 127 INVOLVEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS 102-40 List of the Stakeholder groups 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 92 17 100% of employees of NOS Lusomundo Cinemas 102-41 Collective labour agreements and NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais are covered 3 8 by a collective labour agreement. Identification and selection of 17 102-42 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 91-92 Stakeholders 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 91-95 Most of the dialogue channels identified are used Approach of engagement with continuously. Participation in meetings, business 17 102-43 Stakeholders associations, press and specialty conferences, roadshows and events take place whenever necessary. The disclosure of results occurs on a quarterly basis. Main issues and concerns raised 17 102-44 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 92-94 by Stakeholders REPORTING PRACTICE The consolidated financial statements include the companies in the NOS universe in which the Bodies included in the 102-45 Group holds more than 50% ownership and holds consolidated financial statements management control. For further details see the Annual Report. Definition of the report content 1. On this Report, p. 84 102-46 and the topic boundaries 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 102-47 List of material topics 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 This is the first sustainability report of the NOS 102-48 Reformulation of information SGPS Group. This is the first sustainability report of the NOS 102-49 Changes in the report SGPS Group. The sustainability report refers to the 2017 102-50 Reporting period financial year. This is the first sustainability report of the NOS 102-51 Date of the most recent report SGPS Group. 102-52 Cycle of reports Annual Contact for issues about the 102-53 1. On this Report, p. 84 report This report was prepared in accordance with the 102-54 GRI Standards with Core 102-55 GRI Content Index This table 102-56 External verification 1. On this Report, p. 84 128 SPECIFIC STANDARD CONTENTS Disclosures UNGC and Forms of Location ODS* Principles* Management GRI 200 ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES GRI 201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 Management Consolidated Financial Statements, p. 110 approach Individual Financial Statements, p. 211 2.1. 2017 Main Indicators, p. 85 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 Direct economic value Scope: Companies in which the Group holds 201-1 8 generated and distributed more than 50% ownership and holds management control (in accordance with consolidated financial statements) The support received from the State through Financial assistance received 201-4 tax incentives was 5 million euros. from government Scope: NOS SGPS GRI 204 PURCHASING PRACTICES Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 4.3. Sustainable Management of the Supply Chain, p. 100-102 4.3 Sustainable Management of the Supply Chain, p. 100 Proportion of spending on 8, 12, 204-1 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 local suppliers 16, 17 Scope: NOS SGPS (Suppliers with turnover in the year under analysis) GRI 205 ANTI-CORRUPTION Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 4. Acting Ethically and Responsibly, p. 96-102 Communication and training 4. Acting Ethically and Responsibly, p. 96-97 205-2 about anti-corruption policies 10 16 Scope: NOS SGPS and procedures In the reporting period, no cases of corruption Confirmed corruption were identified. 205-3 10 16 incidents and actions taken Scope: NOS SGPS GRI 206 UNFAIR COMPETITION Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 4. Acting Ethically and Responsibly, p. 96-102 Legal actions for antiIn the reporting period there is no record of competitive behaviour, 206-1 such occurrences. 16 antitrust and monopoly Scope: NOS SGPS practices GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES GRI 302 ENERGY GRI 305 EMISSIONS GRI 306 WASTE AND EFFLUENTS GRI 307 CONFORMITY Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 7. Preserving the Environment, p. 116-123 7. Preserving the Environment, p. 117-118 Energy consumption within 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 7, 9 302-1 7 and 8 the organisation Scope: Excludes NOS Azores, NOS Madeira and 12,13 cinema complexes 129 7. Preserving the Environment, p. 117-118 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 7, 9, 302-3 Energy intensity 8 Scope: Excludes NOS Azores, NOS Madeira and 12, 13 cinema sites 7. Preserving the Environment, p. 117-118 Reduction of energy 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 302-4 8 and 9 7, 12,13 consumption Scope: Excludes NOS Azores, NOS Madeira and cinema sites 7. Preserving the Environment, p. 118-119 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 305-1 7 and 8 12, 13 emissions Scope: Excludes NOS Azores, NOS Madeira and cinema sites 7. Preserving the Environment, p. 118-119 7,12, 13 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 9.3 Methodological Notes, 134-138 305-2 7 and 8 emissions Scope: Excludes NOS Azores, NOS Madeira and cinema sites 7. Preserving the Environment, p. 118-119 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 9.3 Methodological Notes, 134-138 12, 13 305-3 7 and 8 emissions Scope: Excludes NOS Azores, NOS Madeira and cinema sites 7. Preserving the Environment, p. 121-122 Waste by type and disposal 306-2 Scope: Excludes NOS Azores, NOS Madeira and 7 and 8 12 method cinema sites Non-compliance with In the reporting period there is no record of 307-1 environmental laws and such occurrences. 8 16 regulations Scope: NOS SGPS GRI 400 SOCIAL DISCLOSURES GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES GRI 406 NON-DISCRIMINATION Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 6. Valuing Human Capital, p. 108-116 6. Valuing human capital, p. 113 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 New employee hires and 401-1 Scope: All employees with the exception of 6 5,8 employee turnover cinema operational staff, internship contracts and governance bodies. 6. Valuing human capital, p. 112, 113 and 116 NOS does not distinguish benefits provided to Benefits provided to full-time full-time employees compared to part-time employees that are not 401-2 employees. 8 provided to temporary or Scope: All employees with the exception of part-time employees cinema employees, internship contracts and governance bodies. Rates Women Men Total Return 95% 100% 98% Retention 98% 96% 97% 401-3 Parental leave 3 and 6 5,8 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 Scope: All employees with the exception of cinema operational staff, internship contracts and governance bodies. Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Rates 2015 2016 2017 403-2 lost days, absenteeism and Frequency 3.21 2.41 2.18 8 number of work-related Lost Days 76.50 69.50 31.40 fatalities Absenteeism 1.1% 1.2% 1.0% 130 Between 2015 and 2017 there is no record of proven occupational diseases and work-related fatalities. 9.3 Methodological Notes, 134-138 Scope: All employees with the exception of cinema operational staff, internship contracts and governance bodies. 6. Valuing human capital, p. 113-114 9.3 Methodological Notes, p. 134-138 Average hours of training per 404-1 Scope: All employees with the exception of 6 4,5,8 year per employee cinema operational staff, internship contracts and governance bodies. Percentage of employees 6. Valuing human capital, p. 111 receiving regular performance 404-3 Scope: All employees covered by the 6 5,8 and career development performance appraisal model. reviews 6. Valuing human capital, p. 108-110 Diversity of governance Scope: All employees with the exception of 405-1 6 5,8 bodies and employees cinema operational staff and internship contracts. NOS chose not to report this indicator since wages are defined on the basis of experience Ratio of basic salary and and function performed rather than gender. 405-2 remuneration of women to 6 5, 8 Thus, for the same function and experience men men and women earn the same base salary level. In the reporting period there is no record of Incidents of discrimination 406-1 such occurrences. 1 and 6 5,8,16 and corrective actions taken Scope: NOS SGPS GRI 407 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE NEGOTIATION GRI 408 CHILD LABOUR GRI 409 FORCED OR SLAVE-LIKE LABOUR At NOS there is no knowledge of such Operations and suppliers in situations. NOS guides its action respecting the which the right to freedom of labour legislation. In addition, it endorsed the 407-1 association and collective United Nations Global Compact Principles and 408-1 bargaining may be at risk; or applies its suppliers Sustainability 3,4 and 5 8,16 409-1 at significant risk for incidents Requirements that include these matters. In of child labor or forced or 2017, NOS also endorsed the BCSD Portugal compulsory labor Letter of Principles that includes this matter. Scope: NOS SGPS GRI 414 SOCIAL ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 4.3. Sustainable Management of the Supply Chain, p. 100-102 The assessment of ethical, environmental, and social performance was tested in 2015. 8, 12, New suppliers that were 1,2, 3, 4, 5 414-1 However, given the low response rate, it was 16 and screened using social criteria and 6 decided to review the methodology, which is 17 still underway. GRI 415 PUBLIC POLICIES Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 4. Acting Ethically and Responsibly, p. 96-102 NOS defines itself as a non-partisan and apolitical organisation. It does not support 415-1 Political contributions 10 16 financially or in kind, in any circumstance, political parties, organisations or individuals 131 associated to them, whose mission is essentially political. The Code of Ethics establishes principles in this regard. Scope: NOS SGPS GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 417 MARKETING AND LABELLING Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 5. Ensuring a Service of Excellence, p. 102-107 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 416-2 safety impacts of products In the reporting period there is no record of 417-2 and services; product and such occurrences. 16 417-3 service information and Scope: NOS SGPS labelling; marketing communications GRI 418 CUSTOMER PRIVACY Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 5. Ensuring a Service of Excellence, p. 102-107 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches We do not report this information for 418-1 customer privacy and losses confidentiality reasons. of customer data GRI 419 SOCIOECONOMIC CONFORMITY Management 3.2. Sustainability Management, p. 93-94 approach 4. Acting Ethically and Responsibly, p. 96-102 In the reporting period there are no significant Non-compliance with laws fines for non-compliance with laws and 419-1 and regulations in the social regulations. 16 and economic area Scope: NOS SGPS Notes: UNGC Principles United Nations Global Compact SDG Sustainable Development Goals * The correspondence of the GRI Standards to the UNGC Principles and to the SDG carried out by NOS took into consideration its approach to them, its sustainability strategy, as well as NOS activity itself. 132 9.2. Table of correspondence with Decree-Law 89/2017 Decree-Law No. 89/2017 of July 28 Chapter/section Page/s Art. 3 (referred to Art. 66-B and 508-G of CSC): The non-financial statement shall contain the information sufficient for an understanding of the evolution, performance, position and impact of its activities, regarding, at least, environmental, social and employee-related issues, equality between men and women, non-discrimination, respect for human rights, fight against corruption and bribery, including: 3.1 Organisational Profile pp. 86-88 model 2017 Annual Report p. 11-13; 16-19 1. On this Report p. 84 3.2 Sustainability Management p. 88-95 4.1 Ethics and Conduct pp. 96-99 b) A description of the policies pursued by the company in relation to these issues, including 4.3 Sustainable Management of the pp. 100-102 the due diligence procedures applied Supply Chain 6.1 Diversity pp. 108-110 p. 112; 113; 6.3 Remuneration and Benefits 116 6.5 Health and Well-Being p. 114-115 1. On this Report p. 84 3.2 Sustainability Management p. 88-95 c) The results of those policies 4.1 Ethics and Conduct pp. 96-102 6. Valuing Human Capital pp. 108-116 7. Preserving the Environment pp. 116-123 133 d) The main risks associated to these issues, if relevant and proportionate, its business 3.2 Sustainability Management pp. 90 relationships, its products or services that may have negative impacts in those areas and how these risks are managed by the company 2. Sustainability in Review p. 85-86 4.1 Ethics and Conduct p. 96-102 e) Key performance indicators relevant to its 6. Valuing Human Capital pp. 108-116 specific activity 7. Preserving the Environment pp. 116-123 9.1 GRI Table pp. 127-132 9.3 Methodological Notes pp. 134-138 Art. 4 (referred to Art 245.No. 1 r) and No. 2 of CVM): Description of the Diversity Policy applied by the company to its management and supervisory bodies, namely in terms of age, Corporate Governance Report p. 411 gender, academic qualifications and professional background, the objectives of that diversity policy, how it was applied and the results in the reference period. 9.3. Methodological notes 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The direct economic value generated and distributed is associated to the activity of NOS SGPS (consolidated financial statements). Economic value generated: The economic value generated is equivalent to turnover and corresponds to the sum of the following parts: net sales; income from financial investments; revenue from asset sales. Economic value distributed: The economic value distributed is equivalent to the costs with the purchase of products, materials and services and corresponds to the sum of the following parts: operating costs; ents; investments in the community. Economic value accrued: The economic value accrued corresponds to the difference between the economic value generated and the economic value distributed. 204-1 Proportion of expenses with local suppliers For NOS, a nati Sistemas España, a Spanish supplier is a national supplier. 134 401-1 New employee admission and net replacement The following formulas were used to calculate the admission and net replacement rates: Admission rate: No. admissions/Total no. employees Net replacement rate: [((Entries-Departures) + Total no. of employees) / Total no. of employees]-1 401-3 Rates of employee return to work and retention The following formulas were used to calculate the return to work and retention rates: Return to work rate: Total number of employees who returned to work after compulsory parental leave / Total number of employees who should return to work after compulsory parental leave)*100 Retention rate: Total number of employees who returned to work after compulsory parental leave and remain employed after 12 months / Total number of employees who returned to work after compulsory parental leave in the previous period)*100 403-2 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, days lost, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities Accident rates Occupational accidents: for the purposes of accounting for occupational accidents occurred in the reporting period, all accidents reported to the Human Resources Department are considered, even if they do not generate days of work lost. Days lost: only the working days are accounted for in the count of days lost. The count of days lost starts the day after the date of the accident. Occupational diseases: for NOS, occupational diseases are related to the type of work carried out by the employee and would predictably be related to psychiatric leave, nervous breakdowns, tendinitis and musculoskeletal injuries. For the purposes of reporting this indicator, occupational diseases are those communicated and proven in the reporting year. Accident rates: the following calculation formulas were used in calculating the accident rates: Frequency rate = (number of occupational accidents occurred in the reporting period / no. of working hours) * 1000000 Days lost rate = (number of lost working days related to occupational accident or occupational disease in the reporting period / no. of working hours) * 1000000 Absenteeism rate = number of working days lost due to absence / no. of working days Absenteeism: number of days lost resulting from injuries, occupational diseases, sick leaves, family assistance, medical appointments, quarantine and suspensions for disciplinary proceedings. Days of vacation, study, maternity/paternity leaves and absences due to the death of family members are excluded. 135 404-1 Average training hours per year and per employee The following calculation formulas were used to calculate the average number of training hours, by gender and organisational group: Average number of training hours per employee: Total no. of training hours / Total no. of employees Average no. of training hours per gender (M/F): Total no. of training hours per gender (M/F) / Total no. of employees per gender (M/F) Average number of training hours per organisational group (M/F): Total no. of training hours per organisational group / Total no. of employees in each organisational group 302 Energy consumption and energy efficiency Global energy consumption Total energy consumption associated with NOS activity. Includes fossil fuels consumption (vehicle fleet, buildings and emergency generators), electricity consumption, heat and cold purchased from third parties (technical infrastructure, buildings and stores) and consumption of electricity from renewable self-generation (micro-generation in mobile network sites). The indicator is expressed in Gigajoule (GJ), using the most recent versions of conversion factors published by the Portuguese national authorities: Lower calorific power and fuel density (Direção Geral de Energia e Geologia [Directorate General for Energy and Geology]) and fuel oxidation factor (Agência Portuguesa do Ambiente [Portuguese Environment Agency]). Data traffic Total volume of data traffic in the NOS telecommunications network. Includes mobile data (UMTS and GPRS) and fixed data. Excludes traffic associated with the fixed TV service (broadband and nonlinear). Energy consumption per volume of data traffic Ratio of NOS overall energy consumption, expressed in the network outside these facilities. 305 Carbon footprint Methodology NOS carbon footprint is accounted for according to the methodology The GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition (2004), complemented with the guidelines contained in The GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (2015), in accounting for scope 2 emissions, and The GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard (2011), in accounting for scope 3 emissions. The consolidation approach used is that of operational control. Greenhouse gases (GHG) The GHGs included are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), and fluorinated gases (hydrofluorocarbons HFCs; Perfluorocarbons PFCs, Sulphur hexafluoride SF6; Nitrogen trifluoride NF3). The results are converted to carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) using the Global Warming Potential (GWP) values published in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Forth Assessment Report. Scope 1 emissions Total direct emissions occurring in sources owned or controlled by NOS. Includes emissions associated with fixed and mobile combustion of fossil fuels and fugitive emissions of refrigeration gases used in equipment. 136 Fossil fuels Emissions calculated on the basis of the fuel supplied and on conversion factors included in the most recent edition of the National Emissions Inventory (Portuguese Environment Agency). For diesel fuel, the most recent information on the rate of incorporation of biodiesel in the fuel traded in Portugal is used. Fluorinated gases Emissions calculated by applying PAG values, specific for each type of gas, to the quantities emitted. It is considered that the quantity emitted is equal to the quantity consumed for leaks replacement. Scope 2 emissions Total emissions associated with the production of energy purchased from third parties and consumed in NOS facilities and equipment. Includes emissions associated with purchased electricity, heat and cold. Electricity Emissions calculated on the basis of electrical energy billed. The calculation according to the Location Based Method uses the representative conversion factor of the average carbon content of the electricity network in Portugal, according to the most recent data published by the International Energy Agency (2017 edition, data regarding electricity production in 2015). The calculation according to the Market Based Method uses the specific conversion factor of the carbonic content of electricity provided by the supplier in 2017. Thermal energy Emissions calculated on the basis of thermal energy billed (heat and cold). The calculation uses the specific conversion factor of one of the two thermal energy suppliers. This factor is considered representative of the total supply considering the similarity of fuel (natural gas) and technology (cogeneration) used. Scope 3 emissions Total emissions associated with third-party activities in the NOS value chain, upstream and downstream of own activities. Among the emission sources classified in the 15 categories defined by The GHG Protocol, curre -service missions, third-party -home travels Commuting (category 7) and treatment of waste generated in operations (category 5). Airplane travelling Emissions calculated on the basis of distances travelled and number of passengers. The calculation uses conversion factors per passenger.km, for each route typology, based on the most recent edition of the emission factors published by the UK Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs. The conversion factors are affected by the Radiative Strength Index, by reference to the CO 2 emitted, and of a distance adjustment factor for the correction of non-linear routes. Train travelling Emissions calculated on the basis of distances travelled and number of passengers. The calculation uses a conversion factor per passenger.km representing rail transport in Portugal, based on the most recent information from the operator. Taxi travelling Emissions calculated on the basis of estimated distance travelled, made from reimbursed expenses and average travel representative of the taxi travels of NOS employees in Portugal. The calculation of the emissions uses the representative conversion factor of diesel road vehicles, contained in the most recent edition of the National Emissions Inventory (Portuguese Environment Agency). Waste Emissions calculated on the basis of information on production and final destination of waste produced, as communicated to the Portuguese Environment Agency. The calculation uses the representative conversion factor for landfill waste, according to the most recent edition of the National Emissions Inventory (Portuguese Environment Agency), considering its full degradation period (30 years). The emissions associated with energy recycling and recovery are considered null because they 137 are, in terms of Portuguese national inventory, allocated to the respective sectors of activity and not to waste treatment. Wastewater Emissions calculated on the basis of estimated wastewater discharged, made from quantities supplied. The calculation uses the representative conversion factor of domestic wastewater treatment, according to the most recent edition of the National Emissions Inventory (Portuguese Environment Agency). Commuting Emissions calculated on the basis of distances and types of transport, ascertained through an employee survey. The calculation uses representative conversion factors of the different types of transport, similar to those used in the calculation of in-service missions. Electromagnetic fields Radiation exposure threshold values Maximum value of power density allowed for exposure to the electromagnetic field, dependent on the frequency under analysis, according to Ordinance no. 1421/2004 of November 23, which follows Council Recommendation no. 1999/519/CE of July 12. 419 Non-conformities For the purpose of reporting this indicator, administrative infraction proceedings from regulatory or public authorities are considered. 138 9.4. Declaration of external verification 139 140 141 Consolidated Financial Statements 142 143 144 NOTES 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 ASSETS NON CURRENT ASSETS Tangible assets 8 1,158,181 1,137,209 Investment property 663 661 Intangible assets 9 1,158,779 1,141,104 Investments in jointly controlled companies and associated companies 10 7,888 37,130 Accounts receivable other 11 6,489 6,185 Tax receivable 12 3,617 149 Available-for-sale financial assets 77 180 Deferred income tax assets 13 117,302 99,538 Derivative financial instruments 18 6 TOTAL NON CURRENT ASSETS 2,453,002 2,422,156 CURRENT ASSETS: Inventories 14 51,043 32,044 Accounts receivable trade 15 348,926 406,904 Accounts receivable other 11 15,814 10,366 Tax receivable 12 2,861 14,945 Prepaid expenses 16 84,391 77,657 Non-current assets held-for-sale 17 24,237 Derivative financial instruments 18 54 19 Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,313 2,977 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 529,639 544,911 TOTAL ASSETS 2,982,641 2,967,067 SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY Share capital 20.1 5,152 5,152 Capital issued premium 20.2 854,219 854,219 Own shares 20.3 (18,756) (12,681) Legal reserve 20.4 1,030 1,030 Other reserves and accumulated earnings 20.4 112,031 105,489 Net income 90,381 124,094 EQUITY BEFORE NON CONTROLLING INTERESTS 1,044,057 1,077,301 Non-controlling interests 21 9,041 9,067 TOTAL EQUITY 1,053,098 1,086,368 LIABILITIES NON CURRENT LIABILITIES Borrowings 22 972,003 954,658 Provisions 23 146,287 133,262 Accounts payable 27 21,551 17,615 Tax payable 12 1,298 Accrued expenses 24 9,185 8,767 Deferred income 25 4,138 3,773 Derivative financial instruments 18 4,027 2,462 Deferred income tax liabilities 13 10,206 7,140 TOTAL NON CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,168,696 1,127,678 CURRENT LIABILITIES: Borrowings 22 224,692 210,136 Accounts payable trade 26 238,828 224,864 Accounts payable other 27 68,733 58,155 Tax payable 12 23,957 19,222 Accrued expenses 24 174,514 213,564 Deferred income 25 30,123 27,047 Derivative financial instruments 18 33 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 760,847 753,021 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,929,543 1,880,699 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER´S EQUITY 2,982,641 2,967,067 NOTES 4th QUARTER 16 12M 16 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 REVENUES: Services rendered 364,478 1,425,163 377,501 1,480,102 Sales 21,374 71,609 18,771 68,833 Other operating revenues 5,023 18,197 3,042 12,847 28 390,875 1,514,969 399,316 1,561,783 COSTS, LOSSES AND GAINS: Wages and salaries 29 24,374 93,092 23,114 89,201 Direct costs 30 122,873 457,774 133,712 492,701 Costs of products sold 31 15,812 56,883 14,887 51,111 Marketing and advertising 12,898 36,269 13,641 36,415 Support services 32 23,838 91,445 24,564 92,920 Supplies and external services 32 45,285 184,416 45,014 180,110 Other operating losses / (gains) 433 831 122 605 Taxes 7,650 29,466 8,119 32,455 Provisions and adjustments 33 12,740 8,058 7,062 5,627 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 8, 9 and 35 99,052 391,555 111,798 422,211 Reestructuring costs 3,375 14,084 2,242 8,260 Losses / (gains) on sale of assets, net (29) (9) 56 56 Other losses / (gains) non recurrent net 7,556 8,333 1,655 7,349 375,857 1,372,197 385,986 1,419,021 INCOME BEFORE FINANCIAL RESULTS AND TAXES 15,018 142,772 13,330 142,762 Net losses / (gains) of affiliated companies 10 and 34 (2,297) 5,948 (7,950) (22,933) Financial costs 36 4,278 16,844 4,349 20,135 Net foreign exchange losses / (gains) (249) 480 (65) 57 Net losses / (gains) on financial assets 2 2 Net other financial expenses / (income) 36 1,797 7,277 1,408 3,800 3,529 30,549 (2,256) 1,061 INCOME BEFORE TAXES 11,489 112,223 15,585 141,701 Income taxes 13 (273) 22,226 (2,885) 17,480 NET CONSOLIDATED INCOME 11,761 89,996 18,470 124,221 ATTRIBUTABLE TO: NOS Group Shareholders 11,993 90,381 18,628 124,094 Non-controlling interests 21 (233) (385) (157) 128 EARNINGS PER SHARES Basic euros 37 0.02 0.18 0.04 0.24 Diluted euros 37 0.02 0.18 0.04 0.24 th th NOTES 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 17 12M 17 NET CONSOLIDATED INCOME 11,761 89,996 18,470 124,221 OTHER INCOME ITENS THAT MAY BE RECLASSIFIED SUBSEQUENTLY TO THE INCOME STATEMENT: Accounting for equity method 10 (867) 6,841 6,825 Fair value of interest rate swap 18 1,354 (659) 271 1,574 Deferred income tax interest rate swap 18 (305) 148 (61) (354) Fair value of equity swaps 18 (94) (4) 157 177 Deferred income tax equity swap 18 22 1 (35) (40) Fair value of exchange rate forward 18 (10) 47 Deferred income tax exchange rate forward 18 2 (14) 4 Currency translation differences and others (122) (726) (17) (48) INCOME RECOGNISED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY 847 (2,074) 7,160 8,134 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 12,608 87,922 25,630 132,355 ATTRIBUTABLE TO: NOS Group Shareholders 12,375 87,537 25,787 132,227 Non-controlling interests 233 385 (157) 128 12,608 87,922 25,630 132,355 ATTRIBUTABLE TO NOS GROUP SHAREHOLDERS OTHER RESERVES NON CAPITAL SHARE OWN LEGAL AND NET CONTROLLING TOTAL NOTES ISSUED CAPITAL SHARES RESERVE ACCUMULATED INCOME INTERESTS PREMIUM EARNINGS BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2016 5,152 854,219 (10,559) 3,556 119,004 82,720 9,430 1,063,522 Result appropriation Transfers to reserves (2,526) 85,246 (82,720) Dividends paid (82,121) (82,121) Aquisition of own shares 20.3 (20,676) (20,676) Distribution of own shares share incentive scheme 20.3 9,743 (10,502) (759) Distribuition of own shares other remunerations 20.3 2,736 (219) 2,517 Share Plan costs incurred in the period and others 2,864 (4) 2,860 Comprehensive Income (2,074) 90,381 (385) 87,922 Others (167) (167) BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 5,152 854,219 (18,756) 1,030 112,031 90,381 9,041 1,053,099 BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2017 5,152 854,219 (18,756) 1,030 112,031 90,381 9,041 1,053,099 Result appropriation Transfers to reserves 90,381 (90,381) Dividends paid (102,617) (102,617) Distribution of own shares share incentive scheme 20.3 5,790 (5,790) Distribuition of own shares other remunerations 20.3 285 (79) 206 Share Plan costs incurred in the period and others 42 3,261 (44) 3,217 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (58) (58) Comprehensive Income 8,133 124,094 128 132,355 Others 169 169 BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 5,152 854,219 (12,681) 1,030 105,489 124,094 9,067 1,086,368 NOTES 12M 16 12M 17 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Collections from clients 1,812,084 1,787,339 Payments to suppliers (1,154,400) (1,032,457) Payments to employees (118,272) (114,565) Receipts / (Payments) relating to income taxes (21,387) (17,333) Other cash receipts / (payments) related with operating activities (7,278) (99,369) CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (1) 510,747 523,616 INVESTING ACTIVITIES CASH RECEIPTS RESULTING FROM Financial investments 10 25,366 Tangible assets 6,927 4,129 Intangible assets 46 55 Available-for-sale financial assets 17 29,776 Interest and related income 8,670 5,397 41,009 39,356 PAYMENTS RESULTING FROM Financial investments 10 (25,347) Tangible assets (256,907) (217,148) Intangible assets (174,120) (169,211) (456,374) (386,359) CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (2) (415,365) (347,003) FINANCING ACTIVITIES CASH RECEIPTS RESULTING FROM Borrowings 415,000 228,550 415,000 228,550 PAYMENTS RESULTING FROM Borrowings (330,014) (270,676) Lease rentals (principal) (30,494) (26,383) Interest and related expenses (31,381) (30,419) Dividends 20.4 (82,121) (102,617) Aquisition of own shares 20.3 (20,676) (494,686) (430,095) CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (3) (79,686) (201,545) Change in cash and cash equivalents (4)=(1)+(2)+(3) 15,696 (24,933) Effect of exchange differences (224) 33 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (29,348) (13,877) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR (13,876) (38,776) Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,313 2,977 Bank overdrafts 22 (16,189) (41,753) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR (13,876) (38,776) • • • • • • • • • 2017 IFRS15 2017 Items Reported Impact Restated Revenues 1,561,783 (3,143) 1,558,640 Operating costs* 981,145 2,102 983,247 Depreciations and amortisations 422,211 (2,275) 419,936 Income before financial results and taxes 142,762 (2,970) 139,792 Income taxes 17,480 (980) 16,500 Net Consolidated Income** 124,094 (2,011) 122,083 Other reserves and accumulated earnings 105,489 28,353 133,842 Asset 2,967,067 43,481 3,010,548 • • • • • • • • • 2016 2017 (YEARS) (YEARS) Buildings and other constructions 2 50 2 50 Technical equipment: Network Installations and equipment 7 40 7 40 Terminal equipment 2-8 2-8 Other telecommunication equipment 3 10 3 10 Other technical equipment 1 16 1 16 Transportation equipment 3-4 3-4 Administrative equipment 2 10 2 10 Other tangible assets 4-8 4-8 • • • • • • • • 2016 2017 (YEARS) (YEARS) Period of the Period of the Rights of using capacities contract contract Telecom licences 30 to 33 30 to 33 Software licences 1 to 8 1 to 8 Customer portfolios 5 to 6 5 to 6 Loyalty contract Loyalty contract Costs incurred in raising costumers loyalty contracts period period Period of the Period of the Content utilization rights contract contract Other 1 to 8 1 to 8 • • • • Converted CPI Basis 100 CPI (Basis 100 Year 2010) dec/10 Year 2010 100.0 100.0 dec/11 Year 2010 111.4 111.4 dec/12 Year 2011 109.0 121.4 dec/13 Year 2014 93.0 130.8 dec/14 Year 2014 100.0 140.5 dec/15 Year 2014 114.3 160.6 dec/16 Year 2014 162.2 227.9 dec/17 Year 2014 204.6 287.5 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 US Dollar 1.0541 1.1993 Angolan Kwanza 184.4750 185.4000 British Pound 0.8562 0.8872 Mozambican Metical 74.5400 70.5700 Canadian Dollar 1.4188 1.5039 Swiss Franc 1.0739 1.1702 Real 3.4305 3.9729 12M 16 12M 17 US Dollar 1.1159 1.1297 Angolan Kwanza 182.3243 184.8662 Mozambican Metical 69.8233 71.5117 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Accounts receivable trade current i) 285,212 351,400 Accounts receivable other non-current (Note 11) 6,489 6,185 Accounts receivable other current (Note 11) 12,712 6,614 Cash and cash equivalents ii) 741 975 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 305,154 365,174 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Not Due 86,280 120,747 Due but not impaired 0 to 30 37,194 33,655 30 to 90 25,111 32,487 Over 90 94,054 135,214 Due and impaired 0 to 90 5,326 4,369 90 180 11,301 5,203 180 to 360 21,021 15,661 Over 360 162,678 143,549 442,965 490,884 Impairment of accounts receivable (157,753) (139,484) TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 285,212 351,400 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 A+ 8 A5 BBB+ 5 1 BBB 4 4 BB4 86 B+ 63 B1 without rating 651 704 TOTAL 741 975 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 LESS BETWEEN LESS BETWEEN OVER 5 OVER 5 THAN 1 1 AND 5 TOTAL THAN 1 1 AND 5 TOTAL YEARS YEARS YEAR YEARS YEAR YEARS Borrowings: Bond Issue 1,544 372,339 209,872 583,755 1,431 523,130 59,970 584,531 Commercial Paper 149,290 200,000 349,290 122,637 177,500 37,500 337,637 Foreign Loans 29,397 71,317 18,249 118,963 17,748 72,241 89,989 National Loans Bank overdrafts 16,189 16,189 41,753 41,753 Financial Leases 28,272 72,081 28,145 128,498 26,567 56,525 27,793 110,884 Accounts payable trade 238,828 238,828 224,864 224,864 Accounts payable other 90,284 90,284 75,770 75,770 Derivatives of financial instruments 4,027 4,027 33 2,462 2,495 Operating leases 44,619 101,740 40,860 187,219 58,728 131,050 36,695 226,473 TOTAL 598,423 821,504 297,126 1,717,053 569,531 962,908 161,958 1,694,396 31-12-2016 BRITISH MOZAMBIQUE US DOLLAR KWANZA POUND METICAL ASSETS Account receivable trade 4,747 2,960 Account receivable other 465,300 2,093 Tax receivable 3,222 Cash and cash equivalents 2 45,287 TOTAL ASSETS 4,749 465,300 53,562 LIABILITIES Borrowings Account payable trade 7,958 9 993 Accounts payable other 388 21 1,980 Tax payable 24 TOTAL LIABILITIES 8,346 30 2,997 NET (3,597) (30) 465,300 50,565 31-12-2017 BRITISH MOZAMBIQUE US DOLLAR KWANZA POUND METICAL ASSETS Account receivable trade 7,850 5 2,534 Account receivable other 1 465,300 896 Tax receivable 5,093 Cash and cash equivalents 45,605 TOTAL ASSETS 7,850 6 465,300 54,128 LIABILITIES Borrowings Account payable trade 9,118 32 592 Accounts payable other 354 22 185 Tax payable 403 TOTAL LIABILITIES 9,472 54 1,180 NET (1,622) (49) 465,300 52,948 • • • • 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Total gross debt 1,114,623 1,088,461 Cash and cash equivalents (2,313) (2,977) TOTAL NET DEBT 1,112,310 1,085,484 EBITDA 556,735 580,638 Total net debt/EBITDA 2.00 1.87 31-12-2016 LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets 77 77 Derivative financial instruments interest rate swap (Note 18) 23 23 Derivative financial instruments exchange rate forward (Note 18) 37 37 60 77 137 LIABILITIES Derivative financial instruments interest rate swap (Note 18) 4,027 4,027 4,027 4,027 31-12-2017 LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets 180 180 Derivative financial instruments equity swap (Note 18) 19 19 19 180 199 LIABILITIES Derivative financial instruments equity swap (Note 18) 9 9 Derivative financial instruments interest rate swap (Note 18) 2,453 2,453 Derivative financial instruments exchange rate forward (Note 18) 33 33 2,495 2,495 • • • • • 31-12-2016 TELCO AUDIOVISUALS ELIMINATIONS GROUP ASSETS NON CURRENT ASSETS: Tangible assets 1,145,456 12,725 1,158,181 Intangible assets 1,061,081 97,698 1,158,779 Investments in jointly controlled companies and associated companies 91,177 13,731 (97,020) 7,888 Accounts receivable other 55,358 26,520 (75,389) 6,489 Deferred income tax assets 103,434 13,868 117,302 Other non-current assets 3,700 663 4,363 TOTAL NON CURRENT ASSETS 2,460,206 165,205 (172,409) 2,453,002 CURRENT ASSETS: Inventories 36,687 14,356 51,043 Account receivables 346,689 66,374 (48,323) 364,740 Prepaid expenses 81,993 2,398 84,391 Other current assets 26,560 1,010 (418) 27,152 Cash and cash equivalents 798 1,515 2,313 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 492,727 85,653 (48,741) 529,639 TOTAL ASSETS 2,952,933 250,858 (221,150) 2,982,641 SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY Share capital 5,152 28,699 (28,699) 5,152 Capital issued premium 854,219 854,219 Own shares (18,756) (18,756) Legal reserve 1,030 1,087 (1,087) 1,030 Other reserves and accumulated earnings 83,518 69,526 (41,013) 112,031 Net income 84,837 31,347 (25,803) 90,381 EQUITY BEFORE NON CONTROLLING INTERESTS 1,010,000 130,659 (96,602) 1,044,057 Non-controlling interests 8,982 22 37 9,041 TOTAL EQUITY 1,018,982 130,681 (96,565) 1,053,098 LIABILITIES NON CURRENT LIABILITIES: Borrowings 995,074 52,318 (75,389) 972,003 Provisions 139,505 6,782 146,287 Accrued expenses 9,185 9,185 Other non-current liabilities 30,556 458 31,014 Deferred income tax liabilities 9,738 468 10,206 TOTAL NON CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,184,059 60,026 (75,389) 1,168,696 CURRENT LIABILITIES: Borrowings 254,689 609 (30,606) 224,692 Accounts payable 288,169 31,071 (11,679) 307,561 Tax payable 19,842 4,533 (418) 23,957 Accrued expenses 157,170 23,837 (6,493) 174,514 Other current liabilities 30,022 101 30,123 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 749,892 60,151 (49,196) 760,847 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,933,950 120,177 (124,585) 1,929,543 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER´S EQUITY 2,952,933 250,858 (221,150) 2,982,641 31-12-2017 TELCO AUDIOVISUALS ELIMINATIONS GROUP ASSETS NON CURRENT ASSETS: Tangible assets 1,125,129 12,080 1,137,209 Intangible assets 1,044,672 96,432 1,141,104 Investments in jointly controlled companies and associated companies 114,631 15,639 (93,140) 37,130 Accounts receivable other 51,054 24,520 (69,389) 6,185 Deferred income tax assets 87,582 11,956 99,538 Other non-current assets 312 678 990 TOTAL NON CURRENT ASSETS 2,423,380 161,305 (162,529) 2,422,156 CURRENT ASSETS: Inventories 31,217 827 32,044 Account receivables 401,942 76,166 (60,838) 417,270 Prepaid expenses 75,785 2,154 (282) 77,657 Other current assets 14,480 484 14,964 Cash and cash equivalents 1,211 1,766 2,977 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 524,635 81,397 (61,120) 544,911 TOTAL ASSETS 2,948,015 242,702 (223,649) 2,967,067 SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY Share capital 5,152 32,749 (32,749) 5,152 Capital issued premium 854,219 854,219 Own shares (12,681) (12,681) Legal reserve 1,030 1,087 (1,087) 1,030 Other reserves and accumulated earnings 57,987 56,833 (9,331) 105,489 Net income 146,362 27,250 (49,518) 124,094 EQUITY BEFORE NON CONTROLLING INTERESTS 1,052,069 117,919 (92,685) 1,077,301 Non-controlling interests 9,067 9,067 TOTAL EQUITY 1,061,136 117,919 (92,685) 1,086,368 LIABILITIES NON CURRENT LIABILITIES: Borrowings 975,853 48,194 (69,389) 954,658 Provisions 126,775 6,487 133,262 Accrued expenses 8,767 8,767 Other non-current liabilities 23,850 23,850 Deferred income tax liabilities 6,670 470 7,140 TOTAL NON CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,141,915 55,151 (69,389) 1,127,678 CURRENT LIABILITIES: Borrowings 226,145 22,410 (38,419) 210,136 Accounts payable 283,402 17,815 (18,198) 283,019 Tax payable 15,288 3,934 19,222 Accrued expenses 193,935 24,306 (4,677) 213,564 Other current liabilities 26,194 1,167 (281) 27,080 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 744,964 69,632 (61,575) 753,021 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,886,879 124,783 (130,964) 1,880,699 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER´S EQUITY 2,948,015 242,702 (223,649) 2,967,067 TELCO AUDIOVISUALS ELIMINATIONS GROUP th th th th 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 REVENUES: Services rendered 351,019 1,372,461 25,624 101,005 (12,165) (48,303) 364,478 1,425,163 Sales 16,305 53,698 5,127 18,052 (58) (141) 21,374 71,609 Other operating revenues 4,739 17,938 601 1,459 (317) (1,200) 5,023 18,197 372,063 1,444,097 31,352 120,516 (12,540) (49,644) 390,875 1,514,969 COSTS, LOSSES AND GAINS: Wages and salaries 21,842 83,013 2,533 10,080 (1) (1) 24,374 93,092 Direct costs 123,852 468,643 8,990 29,115 (9,969) (39,984) 122,873 457,774 Costs of products sold 15,812 56,821 1 74 (1) (12) 15,812 56,883 Marketing and advertising 12,973 36,168 1,726 6,996 (1,801) (6,895) 12,898 36,269 Support services 23,836 91,187 485 1,871 (483) (1,613) 23,838 91,445 Supplies and external services 40,883 164,845 4,686 20,710 (284) (1,139) 45,285 184,416 Other operating losses / (gains) 417 774 16 57 433 831 Taxes 7,595 29,320 56 146 (1) 7,650 29,466 Provisions and adjustments 13,258 8,004 (518) 54 12,740 8,058 260,468 938,775 17,975 69,103 (12,540) (49,644) 265,903 958,234 EBITDA 111,595 505,322 13,377 51,413 124,972 556,735 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 89,800 353,994 9,252 37,561 99,052 391,555 Other losses / (gains), net 10,839 22,241 63 167 10,902 22,408 INCOME BEFORE FINANCIAL RESULTS AND TAXES 10,956 129,087 4,062 13,685 15,018 142,772 Net losses / (gains) of affiliated companies (2,294) 6,665 (3) (717) (2,297) 5,948 Financial costs 4,218 16,381 60 463 4,278 16,844 Net foreign exchange losses / (gains) 74 70 (323) 410 (249) 480 Net losses / (gains) on financial assets (5,611) (15,600) (20,192) 15,600 25,803 Net other financial expenses / (income) 1,787 7,217 10 60 1,797 7,277 3,785 24,722 (15,856) (19,976) 15,600 25,803 3,529 30,549 INCOME BEFORE TAXES 7,171 104,365 19,918 33,661 (15,600) (25,803) 11,489 112,223 Income taxes (295) 19,912 22 2,314 (273) 22,226 NET INCOME 7,466 84,453 19,895 31,346 (15,600) (25,803) 11,761 89,996 CAPEX 91,602 356,282 8,430 36,379 100,032 392,661 EBITDA CAPEX 19,993 149,040 4,947 15,034 24,940 164,074 TELCO AUDIOVISUALS ELIMINATIONS GROUP 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 REVENUES: Services rendered 364,261 1,424,631 25,793 104,566 (12,553) (49,095) 377,501 1,480,102 Sales 14,385 51,026 4,450 18,063 (64) (256) 18,771 68,833 Other operating revenues 3,193 13,245 314 951 (464) (1,349) 3,043 12,847 381,839 1,488,902 30,557 123,581 (13,081) (50,700) 399,315 1,561,783 COSTS, LOSSES AND GAINS: Wages and salaries 20,186 78,650 2,928 10,551 23,114 89,201 Direct costs 136,010 501,259 7,925 31,571 (10,223) (40,129) 133,712 492,701 Costs of products sold 14,791 50,848 102 280 (6) (17) 14,887 51,111 Marketing and advertising 13,660 36,368 1,973 7,628 (1,992) (7,581) 13,641 36,415 Support services 24,491 92,463 629 2,200 (556) (1,743) 24,564 92,920 Supplies and external services 40,098 160,160 5,220 21,180 (304) (1,230) 45,014 180,110 Other operating losses / (gains) 105 550 17 55 122 605 Taxes 8,035 31,998 84 457 8,119 32,455 Provisions and adjustments 7,282 6,421 (220) (794) 7,062 5,627 264,658 958,717 18,658 73,128 (13,081) (50,700) 270,235 981,145 EBITDA 117,181 530,185 11,899 50,453 129,080 580,638 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 103,241 386,838 8,557 35,373 111,798 422,211 Other losses / (gains), net 3,880 15,374 72 291 3,952 15,665 INCOME BEFORE FINANCIAL RESULTS AND TAXES 10,060 127,973 3,270 14,789 13,330 142,762 Net losses / (gains) of affiliated companies (8,206) (22,535) 256 (398) (7,950) (22,933) Financial costs 4,182 19,642 168 493 (1) 4,349 20,135 Net foreign exchange losses / (gains) (49) 68 (17) (12) 1 1 (65) 57 Net losses / (gains) on financial assets (8,775) (33,888) (15,629) 8,777 49,519 2 2 Net other financial expenses / (income) 1,397 3,755 11 45 1 1,409 3,800 (11,451) (32,958) 418 (15,501) 8,778 49,520 (2,255) 1,061 INCOME BEFORE TAXES 21,511 160,931 2,852 30,290 (8,778) (49,520) 15,585 141,701 Income taxes (3,465) 14,442 580 3,038 (2,885) 17,480 NET INCOME 24,976 146,489 2,272 27,252 (8,778) (49,520) 18,470 124,221 CAPEX 108,620 348,092 9,423 33,502 118,043 381,594 EBITDA CAPEX 8,561 182,093 2,477 16,951 11,038 199,044 31-12-2016 AVAILABLELOANS AND INVESTMENTS FOR-SALE ACCOUNTS HELD-TODERIVATIVES FINANCIAL RECEIVABLE MATURITY ASSETS ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets 77 Derivative financial instruments (Note 18) 60 Accounts receivable trade (Note 15) 348,926 Accounts receivable other (Note 11) 19,201 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 19) 2,313 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 370,440 77 60 LIABILITIES Borrowings (Note 22) Derivative financial instruments (Note 18) 4,027 Accounts payable trade (Note 26) Accounts payable other (Note 27) Accrued expenses (Note 24) TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 4,027 31-12-2016 TOTAL NON OTHER FINANCIAL FINANCIAL FINANCIAL TOTAL ASSETS AND ASSETS AND LIABILITIES LIABILITIES LIABILITIES ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets 77 77 Derivative financial instruments (Note 18) 60 60 Accounts receivable trade (Note 15) 348,926 348,926 Accounts receivable other (Note 11) 19,201 3,102 22,303 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 19) 2,313 2,313 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 370,577 3,102 373,679 LIABILITIES Borrowings (Note 22) 1,196,695 1,196,695 1,196,695 Derivative financial instruments (Note 18) 4,027 4,027 Accounts payable trade (Note 26) 238,828 238,828 238,828 Accounts payable other (Note 27) 90,132 90,132 152 90,284 Accrued expenses (Note 24) 183,699 183,699 183,699 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 1,709,354 1,713,381 152 1,713,533 31-12-2017 AVAILABLELOANS AND INVESTMENTS FOR-SALE ACCOUNTS HELD-TODERIVATIVES FINANCIAL RECEIVABLE MATURITY ASSETS ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets 180 Derivative financial instruments (Note 18) 19 Accounts receivable trade (Note 15) 406,904 Accounts receivable other (Note 11) 12,800 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 19) 2,977 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 422,681 180 19 LIABILITIES Borrowings (Note 22) Derivative financial instruments (Note 18) 2,495 Accounts payable trade (Note 26) Accounts payable other (Note 27) Accrued expenses (Note 24) TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2,495 31-12-2017 TOTAL NON OTHER FINANCIAL FINANCIAL FINANCIAL TOTAL ASSETS AND ASSETS AND LIABILITIES LIABILITIES LIABILITIES ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets 180 180 Derivative financial instruments (Note 18) 19 19 Accounts receivable trade (Note 15) 406,904 406,904 Accounts receivable other (Note 11) 12,800 3,751 16,551 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 19) 2,977 2,977 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 422,880 3,751 426,631 LIABILITIES Borrowings (Note 22) 1,164,794 1,164,794 1,164,794 Derivative financial instruments (Note 18) 2,495 2,495 Accounts payable trade (Note 26) 224,864 224,864 224,864 Accounts payable other (Note 27) 75,591 75,591 179 75,770 Accrued expenses (Note 24) 222,331 222,331 222,331 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 1,687,580 1,690,075 179 1,690,254 DISPOSALS AND TRANSFERS AND 31-12-2015 INCREASES 31-12-2016 WRITE-OFFS OTHERS ACQUISITION COST Lands 919 919 Buildings and other constructions 325,185 5,745 (950) 38,253 368,233 Basic equipment 2,466,229 127,527 (52,164) (3,205) 2,538,387 Transportation equipment 14,655 339 (3,918) (2,403) 8,673 Tools and dies 1,266 1 74 1,341 Administrative equipment 329,029 16,986 (12,341) (58,105) 275,569 Other tangible assets 42,251 199 (114) (1,248) 41,088 Tangible assets in-progress 43,271 87,438 (98,642) 32,067 3,222,805 238,236 (69,487) (125,276) 3,266,278 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES Lands 37 37 Buildings and other constructions 168,657 12,333 (798) 18,161 198,353 Basic equipment 1,534,237 175,982 (50,601) (45,226) 1,614,392 Transportation equipment 6,174 950 (3,913) (150) 3,061 Tools and dies 1,225 28 (2) (1) 1,250 Administrative equipment 304,204 19,061 (12,145) (60,254) 250,866 Other tangible assets 40,733 512 (113) (994) 40,138 2,055,267 208,867 (67,572) (88,465) 2,108,097 1,167,538 29,369 (1,915) (36,811) 1,158,181 DISPOSALS AND TRANSFERS AND 31-12-2016 INCREASES 31-12-2017 WRITE-OFFS OTHERS ACQUISITION COST Land 919 36 955 Buildings and other constructions 368,233 818 (3,266) 13,114 378,899 Basic equipment 2,538,387 80,636 (107,504) 72,133 2,583,652 Transportation equipment 8,673 1,621 (871) (1,124) 8,299 Tools and dies 1,341 6 1,347 Administrative equipment 275,569 14,222 (4,747) 2,063 287,107 Other tangible assets 41,088 297 (20) 563 41,928 Tangible assets in-progress 32,067 138,071 (351) (107,091) 62,696 3,266,278 235,665 (116,759) (20,301) 3,364,883 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES Land 37 37 Buildings and other constructions 198,353 12,002 (3,134) 795 208,016 Basic equipment 1,614,392 212,636 (107,061) (11,342) 1,708,625 Transportation equipment 3,061 1,715 (868) 6 3,914 Tools and dies 1,250 32 1,282 Administrative equipment 250,866 16,789 (4,583) 1,625 264,697 Other tangible assets 40,138 5 (19) 979 41,103 2,108,097 243,179 (115,665) (7,937) 2,227,674 1,158,181 (7,514) (1,094) (12,364) 1,137,209 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Network investments 3,988 63,463 Information systems investments 3,023 3,307 7,011 66,770 DISPOSALS AND TRANSFERS AND 31-12-2015 INCREASES 31-12-2016 WRITE-OFFS OTHERS ACQUISITION COST Industrial property and other rights 1,489,997 81,118 (34,503) 160,423 1,697,035 Goodwill 641,599 641,599 Intangible assets in-progress 30,589 73,309 (70,524) 33,374 2,162,185 154,427 (34,503) 89,899 2,372,008 ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES Industrial property and other rights 979,470 182,654 (34,466) 80,792 1,208,450 Other intangible assets 4,156 623 4,779 983,626 182,654 (34,466) 81,415 1,213,229 1,178,559 (28,227) (37) 8,484 1,158,779 DISPOSALS AND TRANSFERS AND 31-12-2016 INCREASES 31-12-2017 WRITE-OFFS OTHERS ACQUISITION COST Industrial property and other rights 1,697,035 75,497 (247) 77,534 1,849,819 Goodwill 641,599 (199) 641,400 Intangible assets in-progress 33,374 70,432 (62,018) 41,788 2,372,008 145,929 (247) 15,317 2,533,007 ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES Industrial property and other rights 1,208,450 179,029 (201) 59 1,387,337 Intangible assets in-progress 4,779 (213) 4,566 1,213,229 179,029 (201) (154) 1,391,903 1,158,779 (33,100) (46) 15,471 1,141,104 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Telco 564,998 564,799 Audiovisuals 76,601 76,601 641,599 641,400 AUDIOVISUALS SEGMENT TELCO NOS NOS SEGMENT AUDIOVISUALS CINEMAS Discount rate (before taxes) 7.4% 7.4% 7.4% Assessment period 5 years 5 years 5 years EBITDA* Growth 3.6% -0.6% 2.4% Perpetuity growth rate 1.4% 1.4% 1.4% 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 INVESTMENTS EQUITY METHOD Sport TV 2,219 4,693 Dreamia 3,770 3,658 Finstar 1,632 28,389 Mstar (825) (425) Upstar 139 279 Canal 20 TV, S.A. 13 12 East Star 36 Big Picture 2 Films 80 100 7,063 36,706 ASSETS 7,888 37,130 LIABILITIES (NOTE 23) (825) (425) 12M 16 12M 17 AS AT JANUARY 1 29,922 7,063 Gains / (losses) of exercise (Note 34) (6,550) 22,070 Gains with the entrance of new shareholders (Note 34) i) 583 1,237 Dividends received (Dreamia) (490) Capital increase for covering of losses 25,347 Return of supplementary ii) (41,547) Supplementary capital 175 Changes in equity iii) (867) 6,825 Others 1 AS AT DECEMBER 31 7,063 36,706 2016 GAIN/(LOSS) ATTRIBUTED ENTITY ASSETS LIABILITIES EQUITY REVENUE NET INCOME % HELD TO THE GROUP Sport TV* 162,219 155,561 6,658 150,429 (11,342) 33.33% (3,781) Dreamia 15,085 7,546 7,539 3,790 1,314 50.00% 657 Finstar 206,721 201,281 5,440 229,535 (7,983) 30.00% (2,395) Mstar 7,148 9,898 (2,750) 19,946 (3,703) 30.00% (1,111) Upstar 169,448 168,986 462 117,163 141 30.00% 42 Canal 20 TV, S.A. 27 1 26 (9) 50.00% (5) East Star 137 17 120 30.00% Big Picture 2 Films 2,530 2,130 400 9,679 205 20.00% 41 563,315 545,420 17,895 530,542 (21,377) (6,550) 2017 GAIN/(LOSS) ATTRIBUTED ENTITY ASSETS LIABILITIES EQUITY REVENUE NET INCOME % HELD TO THE GROUP Sport TV* 146,300 127,529 18,771 185,213 4,947 25.00% 1,237 Dreamia 15,028 7,712 7,316 2,772 756 50.00% 378 Finstar 329,006 234,373 94,633 302,683 66,305 30.00% 19,892 Mstar 7,704 9,122 (1,418) 20,652 1,467 30.00% 440 Upstar 210,915 209,986 929 105,690 466 30.00% 140 Canal 20 TV, S.A. 25 1 24 (2) 50.00% (1) East Star** 30.00% (36) Big Picture 2 Films 3,745 3,244 501 10,411 101 20.00% 20 712,723 591,967 120,756 627,421 74,040 22,070 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 CURRENT NON CURRENT CURRENT NON CURRENT Accounts receivables 13,560 7,317 7,284 7,013 Advances of suppliers 3,102 3,752 16,662 7,317 11,038 7,013 Impairment of other receivable (848) (828) (672) (828) 15,814 6,489 10,366 6,185 12M 16 12M 17 AS AT JANUARY 1 2,115 1,676 Increases (Note 33) 136 35 Utilizations / Others (575) (211) AS AT DECEMBER 31 1,676 1,500 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 RECEIVABLE PAYABLE RECEIVABLE PAYABLE NON CURRENT Value-added tax (Note 41.2) 3,617 149 Income taxes (i) 1,298 3,617 1,298 149 CURRENT Value-added tax 974 18,633 943 13,739 Income taxes (i) 1,457 1,298 13,583 1,293 Personnel income tax witholdings 1,980 2,140 Social Security contributions 1,895 1,878 Others 430 151 419 172 2,861 23,957 14,945 19,222 6,478 25,255 15,094 19,222 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Estimated current tax on income (20,113) (12,504) Payments on account 15,070 19,680 Withholding income taxes 4,565 4,383 Others (661) 731 (1,139) 12,290 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • DEFERRED TAXES OF THE PERIOD 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 INCOME EQUITY (NOTE B) (NOTE 18) DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS Doubtful accounts receivable 7,704 (324) 7,380 Inventories 2,573 (91) 2,482 Other provision and adjustments 71,616 4,088 75,704 Intragroup gains 23,918 (884) 23,034 Liabilities recorded as part of the allocation of fair value to the liabilities 8,638 (837) 7,801 acquired in the merger Derivatives 772 (20) 149 901 Tax incentives 7,318 (7,318) 122,539 (5,386) 149 117,302 DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS Revaluations of assets as part of the allocation of fair value to the assets 11,156 (3,277) 7,879 acquired in the merger Derivatives (4) 14 10 Others 2,583 (266) 2,317 13,739 (3,547) 14 10,206 NET DEFERRED TAX 108,800 (1,839) 135 107,096 DEFERRED TAXES OF THE PERIOD 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 INCOME EQUITY (NOTE B) (NOTE 18) DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS Doubtful accounts receivable 7,380 (2,399) 4,981 Inventories 2,482 (142) 2,340 Other provision and adjustments 75.704 (12,366) 63,338 Intragroup gains 23,034 (2,108) 20,926 Liabilities recorded as part of the allocation of fair value to the liabilities 7,801 (405) 7,396 acquired in the merger Derivatives 901 50 (394) 557 117,302 (17,370) (394) 99,538 DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITIES Revaluations of assets as part of the allocation of fair value to the assets 7,879 (3,028) 4,851 acquired in the merger Derivatives 10 (10) Others 2,317 (28) 2,289 10,206 (3,066) 7,140 NET DEFERRED TAX 107,096 (14,304) (394) 92,398 4th QUARTER 16 12M 16 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 Income before taxes 11,489 112,223 15,584 141,701 Statutory tax rate 22.5% 22.5% 22.5% 22.5% ESTIMATED TAX 2,585 25,250 3,507 31,883 Permanent differences i) (1,931) 114 (4,168) (7,733) Differences in tax rate of group companies 159 (1,904) 484 (2,709) Income tax related to previous years 420 (4,278) (25) (855) Tax benefits ii) 1,907 181 (1,447) (6,545) State surcharge (277) 5,182 (1,903) 3,403 Autonomous taxation 4,133 4,712 213 810 Revaluation of assets iii) (6,696) (6,696) Provisions (Note 23) (416) (307) 336 (845) Others (157) (28) 118 71 INCOME TAXES (273) 22,226 (2,885) 17,480 Effective Income tax rate -2.4% 19.8% -18.5% 12.3% Income tax 7,689 20,387 (16,475) 3,176 Deferred tax (7,962) 1,839 13,590 14,304 (273) 22,226 (2,885) 17,480 4th QUARTER 16 12M 16 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 Equity method (Note 34) (2,297) 5,948 (7,950) (22,933) Others (6,283) (5,440) (10,574) (11,437) (8,580) 508 (18,524) (34,370) 22.5% 22.5% 22.5% 22.5% (1,931) 114 (4,168) (7,733) 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 INVENTORIES Telco 45,075 39,261 Audiovisuals 15,491 1,744 60,566 41,005 IMPAIRMENT OF INVENTORIES Telco (8,388) (8,044) Audiovisuals (1,135) (917) (9,523) (8,961) 51,043 32,044 12M 16 12M 17 AS AT JANUARY 1 9,640 9,523 Increase and decrease Cost of products sold (Note 31) 1,617 102 Utilizations / Others (1,734) (664) AS AT DECEMBER 31 9,523 8,961 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Trade receivables 285,212 351,400 Doubtful accounts for trade receivables 157,753 139,484 Unbilled revenues i) 63,714 55,504 506,679 546,388 Impairment of trade receivable (157,753) (139,484) 348,926 406,904 12M 16 12M 17 AS AT JANUARY 1 194,497 157,753 Increases and decreases (Note 33) 11,682 7,309 Penalties i) 8,255 9,076 Utilizations / Others (56,681) (34,654) AS AT DECEMBER 31 157,753 139,484 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Discounts i) 28,957 31,129 Programming costs 16,974 13,884 Costs of litigation procedure activity 22,775 18,875 Rentals 3,754 3,141 Insurance 1,249 Advertising 633 1,213 Others 10,049 9,242 84,391 77,657 31-12-2016 ASSETS LIABILITIES NOTIONAL CURRENT NON CURRENT CURRENT NON CURRENT Interest rate swaps 375,000 4,027 Equity Swaps 2,041 17 6 Exchange rate forward 1,032 37 378,073 54 6 4,027 31-12-2017 ASSETS LIABILITIES NOTIONAL CURRENT NON CURRENT CURRENT NON CURRENT Interest rate swaps 250,000 2,453 Equity swaps 2,318 19 9 Exchange rate forward 3,141 33 255,459 19 33 2,462 31-12-2015 RESULT EQUITY 31-12-2016 Fair value interest rate swaps (3,369) (659) (4,027) Fair value exchange rate forward (47) 37 47 37 Fair value equity swaps 27 (4) 23 DERIVATIVES (3,416) 64 (615) (3,967) Deferred income tax liabilities 4 (14) (10) Deferred income tax assets 772 (20) 149 901 DEFERRED INCOME TAX 772 (16) 135 890 (2,644) 48 (480) (3,077) 31-12-2016 RESULT EQUITY 31-12-2017 Fair value interest rate swaps (4,027) 1,574 (2,453) Fair value exchange rate forward 37 (70) (33) Fair value equity swaps 23 (190) 177 10 DERIVATIVES (3,967) (260) 1,751 (2,476) Deferred income tax liabilities (10) 10 Deferred income tax assets 901 50 (394) 557 DEFERRED INCOME TAX 890 60 (394) 557 (3,077) (200) 1,357 (1,919) 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Cash 1,572 2,002 Deposits 240 396 Other deposits i) 501 579 2,313 2,977 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 NUMBER OF % SHARE NUMBER OF % SHARE SHARES CAPITAL SHARES CAPITAL ZOPT, SGPS, SA (1) 268,644,537 52.15% 268,644,537 52.15% Banco BPI, SA (2) 14,275,509 2.77% 14,275,509 2.77% ​Blackrock, Inc 10,349,515 2.01% 11,562,497 2.24% MFS Investment Management 11,049,477 2.14% Norges Bank 10,891,068 2.11% 10,891,068 2.11% TOTAL 304,160,629 59.04% 316,423,088 61.42% QUANTITY VALUE BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2016 1,666,482 10,559 Acquisition of own shares 3,312,503 20,676 Distribution of own shares share incentive scheme (1,531,842) (9,743) Distribution of own shares other remunerations (429,540) (2,736) BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 3,017,603 18,756 BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2017 3,017,603 18,756 Distribution of own shares share incentive scheme (931,471) (5,790) Distribution of own shares other remunerations (45,898) (285) BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 2,040,234 12,681 DIVIDENDS Dividends 82,426 Dividends of own shares (305) 82,121 DIVIDENDS Dividends 103,032 Dividends of own shares (415) 102,617 ATTRIBUTABLE 31-12-2015 OTHERS 31-12-2016 PROFITS NOS Madeira 6,739 (285) (4) 6,450 NOS Açores 2,632 (99) 2,533 Lusomundo SII 23 23 Empracine Lusomundo Imobiliária 2 36 (1) 35 9,430 (385) (4) 9,041 ATTRIBUTABLE 31-12-2016 OTHERS 31-12-2017 PROFITS NOS Madeira 6,450 348 (35) 6,763 NOS Açores 2,533 (220) (9) 2,304 Lusomundo SII 23 (23) Empracine Lusomundo Imobiliária 2 35 (35) 9,041 128 (102) 9,067 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 CURRENT NON-CURRENT CURRENT NON-CURRENT LOANS NOMINAL VALUE 196,216 876,667 182,987 873,333 Debenture loan 585,000 585,000 Commercial paper 150,000 200,000 122,901 215,000 Foreign loans 30,027 91,667 18,333 73,333 Bank overdrafts 16,189 41,753 LOANS ACCRUALS AND DEFERRALS 204 (4,890) 582 (2,992) LOANS AMORTISED COST 196,420 871,777 183,569 870,341 FINANCIAL LEASES 28,272 100,226 26,567 84,317 Long Term Contracts 10,785 71,287 12,858 63,475 Other 17,487 28,939 13,709 20,842 224,692 972,003 210,136 954,658 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Until 1 year 33,779 31,255 Between 1 and 5 years 85,895 66,436 Over 5 years 30,615 30,208 150,289 127,899 Future financial costs (lease) (21,791) (17,015) PRESENT VALUE OF FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES 128,498 110,884 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Until 1 year 28,272 26,567 Between 1 and 5 years 72,081 56,525 Over 5 years 28,145 27,793 128,498 110,884 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 BETWEEN 1 BETWEEN 1 UNTIL 1 YEAR OVER 5 YEARS UNTIL 1 YEAR OVER 5 YEARS AND 5 YEARS AND 5 YEARS Debenture loan 1,544 372,339 209,872 1,431 523,130 59,970 Commercial paper 149,290 200,000 122,637 177,500 37,500 Foreign loans 29,397 71,317 18,249 17,748 72,241 Bank overdrafts 16,189 41,753 Financial leases 28,272 72,081 28,145 26,567 56,525 27,793 224,692 715,737 256,266 210,136 829,396 125,263 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Litigation and other i) 57,697 52,261 Financial investments ii) 825 425 Dismantling and removal of assets iii) 29,694 31,651 Contingent liabilities iv) 33,486 32,490 Contingencies other v) 24,585 16,435 146,287 133,262 31-12-2015 INCREASES DECREASES OTHERS 31-12-2016 Litigation and other 61,042 6,533 (7,901) (1,977) 57,697 Financial investments 825 825 Dismantling and removal of assets 24,204 362 (186) 5,314 29,694 Contingent liabilities 34,673 (3,164) 1,977 33,486 Contingencies other 19,565 2,926 (11) 2,105 24,585 139,484 10,646 (11,262) 7,419 146,287 31-12-2016 INCREASES DECREASES OTHERS 31-12-2017 Litigation and other 57,697 10,741 (12,710) (3,468) 52,260 Financial investments 825 (400) 425 Dismantling and removal of assets 29,694 981 (662) 1,639 31,651 Contingent liabilities 33,486 (996) 32,490 Contingencies other 24,585 2,113 (1,182) (9,080) 16,436 146,287 13,835 (15,950) (10,909) 133,262 12M 16 12M 17 Provisions and adjustments (Note 33) (3,876) (1,751) Financial investments (Note 10) 825 (400) Other losses / (gains) non-recurrent 2,432 2,057 Interests dismantling 176 318 Other interests (Note 36) 134 (1,494) Income tax (Note 13) (307) (845) INCREASES AND DECREASES IN PROVISIONS (616) (2,116) 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 NON-CURRENT Contractual obligations i) 8,776 8,139 Others 409 628 9,185 8,767 CURRENT Invoices to be issued by operators ii) 43,630 64,136 Vacation pay and bonuses 25,006 26,504 Advertising 17,272 17,298 Content and film rights 15,841 16,892 Professional services 13,066 14,628 Programming services 12,670 7,946 Investments in tangible and intangible assets iii) 11,806 37,532 Costs of litigation procedure activity 8,380 5,078 Comissions 5,835 5,122 Energy and water 3,696 3,474 Rentals 2,007 1,570 Maintenance and repair 1,621 2,304 Other accrued expenses 13,684 11,081 174,514 213,564 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 CURRENT NON-CURRENT CURRENT NON-CURRENT Advanced billing i) 29,491 26,415 Investment subsidy ii) 632 4,138 632 3,773 30,123 4,138 27,047 3,773 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Suppliers current account 232,305 222,840 Invoices in reception and conference 6,523 2,024 238,828 224,864 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 NON-CURRENT Assignment of receivables without resources i) 21,551 17,615 21,551 17,615 CURRENT Fixed assets suppliers 34,772 40,753 Assignment of receivables without resources i) 18,624 15,493 Football games broadcasting rights (Note 14) 13,500 Advances from customers 152 179 Others 1,685 1,730 68,733 58,155 90,284 75,770 th th 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 17 12M 17 SERVICES RENDERED: Telco i) 344,839 1,350,527 359,402 1,403,621 Audiovisuals and cinema exhibition ii) 19,639 74,636 18,099 76,481 364,478 1,425,163 377,501 1,480,102 SALES: Telco iii) 16,303 53,682 14,379 51,008 Audiovisuals and cinema exhibition iv) 5,071 17,927 4,393 17,825 21,374 71,609 18,771 68,833 OTHER OPERATING REVENUES: Telco 4,434 16,785 2,752 11,957 Audiovisuals and cinema exhibition 589 1,412 290 890 5,023 18,197 3,042 12,847 390,875 1,514,969 399,316 1,561,783 4th QUARTER 16 12M 16 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 Remuneration 16,353 69,424 15,227 65,497 Social taxes 4,254 17,211 4,187 16,817 Social benefits 843 1,804 490 1,961 Other 2,924 4,653 3,210 4,926 24,374 93,092 23,114 89,201 4th QUARTER 16 12M 16 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 Exhibition costs 52,973 187,841 51,716 206,045 Traffic costs 51,337 198,693 63,761 218,152 Capacity costs 12,801 49,753 12,077 46,967 Shared advertising revenues 4,969 15,440 4,907 16,035 Others 793 6,047 1,251 5,502 122,873 457,774 133,712 492,701 th th 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 17 12M 17 Costs of products sold 15,410 55,266 14,532 51,009 Increases / (decreases) in inventories impairments (Note 14) 402 1,617 355 102 15,812 56,883 14,887 51,111 th th 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 17 12M 17 SUPPORT SERVICES: Call centers and customer support 8,394 33,849 8,014 31,826 Information systems 5,844 19,690 6,387 19,208 Administrative support and others 9,600 37,906 10,163 41,886 23,838 91,445 24,564 92,920 SUPPLIES AND EXTERNAL SERVICES: Maintenance and repair 11,088 44,419 11,191 45,473 Rentals 11,727 44,682 10,987 43,583 Electricity 5,642 21,816 5,602 22,050 Commissions 2,456 11,472 1,654 9,114 Professional services 3,591 12,944 3,456 13,053 Communications 1,897 7,931 2,031 7,694 Installation and removal of terminal equipment 2,679 9,361 3,995 13,077 Other supplies and external services 6,205 31,791 6,098 26,066 45,285 184,416 45,014 180,110 4th QUARTER 16 12M 16 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 Provisions (Note 23) 555 (3,876) 1,440 (1,751) Impairment of account receivables trade (Note 15) 11,967 11,682 5,557 7,309 Impairment of account receivables others (Note 11) 126 136 42 35 Others 92 116 23 34 12,740 8,058 7,062 5,627 4th QUARTER 16 12M 16 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 EQUITY METHOD (NOTE 10) Sport TV (1,396) 3,197 362 (2,474) Dreamia 35 (657) 252 (378) Finstar (939) 2,395 (8,620) (19,892) Mstar 77 1,111 (190) (440) Upstar (36) (42) (122) (140) Others (37) (55) (6) 17 (2,297) 5,948 (8,324) (23,307) OTHERS 374 374 (2,297) 5,948 (7,950) (22,933) th th 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 17 12M 17 TANGIBLE ASSETS Buildings and other constructions 3,039 12,333 3,877 12,002 Basic equipment 44,367 175,982 58,561 212,636 Transportation equipment (344) 950 467 1,715 Tools and dies 8 28 8 32 Administrative equipment 4,141 19,061 4,264 16,789 Other tangible assets 1,101 512 (1) 5 52,313 208,867 67,176 243,179 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Industrial property and other rights 46,718 182,654 44,621 179,029 46,718 182,654 44,621 179,029 INVESTIMENT PROPERTY Investment property 21 34 2 21 34 2 99,052 391,555 111,798 422,211 th th 4 QUARTER 16 12M 16 4 QUARTER 17 12M 17 FINANCING COSTS: INTEREST EXPENSE: Borrowings 4,210 16,711 3,872 15,987 Finance leases 1,300 5,663 1,010 5,190 Derivatives 626 2,180 407 2,200 Others (72) 914 444 2,130 6,064 25,468 5,734 25,507 INTEREST EARNED (1,786) (8,624) (1,385) (5,372) 4,278 16,844 4,349 20,135 NET OTHER FINANCIAL EXPENSES /(INCOME): Comissions and guarantees 1,433 5,367 1,040 4,761 Others 364 1,910 368 (961) 1,797 7,277 1,408 3,800 4th QUARTER 16 12M 16 4th QUARTER 17 12M 17 Consolidated net income attributable to shareholders 11,993 90,381 18,628 124,094 Number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period (weighted average) 512,136,639 512,651,058 513,121,146 512,916,991 Basic earnings per share euros 0.02 0.18 0.04 0.24 Diluted earnings per share euros 0.02 0.18 0.04 0.24 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 Financial instituitions i) 110,264 91,843 Tax authorities ii) 14,850 13,112 Others iii) 12,288 11,479 137,402 116,434 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 BETWEEN BETWEEN AUTOMATIC UNTIL 1 OVER 5 AUTOMATIC UNTIL 1 OVER 5 1 AND 5 1 AND 5 RENEWAL YEAR YEARS RENEWAL YEAR YEARS YEARS YEARS Stores, movie theatre and other buildings 1,170 16,994 41,164 19,888 1,037 22,041 50,033 17,647 Telecommunication towers and rooftops 1,732 19,557 52,684 20,972 2,068 22,407 60,211 19,048 Equipments 1,338 2,848 8,922 18,229 Vehicles 3,828 5,044 2,253 2,577 2,902 41,717 101,740 40,860 3,105 55,623 131,050 36,695 Seasons 2017/18 following Estimated cash-flows with the contract signed by NOS with the sport entities* 50.1 M€ 1,098 M€ NOS estimated cash-flows for the contracts signed by NOS (net amounts charged to the 22.5 M€ 624 M€ operators) and for the contracts signed by the remaining operators 12M 16 12M 17 Return supplementary payments Sport TV 25,347 Others 19 25,366 12M 16 12M 17 Loss coverage Sport TV 25,347 25,347 12M 16 12M 17 NOS SGPS 82,121 102,617 82,121 102,617 ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS ACCRUED DEFERRED PREPAID RECEIVABLES PAYABLE EXPENSES INCOME EXPENSES SHAREHOLDERS BPI 1,614 (18) ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Big Picture 2 Films 5 104 193 Sport TV 4,971 9,634 3,454 13,745 JOINTLY CONTROLLED COMPANIES Dreamia Holding BV 2,892 Dreamia SA 2,471 1,157 293 Finstar 9,550 2 Mstar 1 Upstar 17,880 25 ZAP Cinemas 419 ZAP Media 3,451 OTHER RELATED PARTIES Digitmarket 78 273 151 Itrust Cyber Security and Intellig. , S.A. 50 931 (5) Modelo Continente Hipermercados 1,233 114 142 4 MDS Corretor de Seguros 83 143 SC-Consultadoria 131 4 Sonae Ind., Prod. e Com.Deriv.Madeira 106 Sierra Portugal 509 (19) 331 Sonae Center II 762 187 9 Sonaecom 107 270 UNITEL 1,824 1,229 1,441 We Do Consulting-Sist. de Informação 93 2,527 2 18 Worten Equipamento para o Lar 2,773 703 4 Other related parties 882 313 (12) 1 190 51,885 16,457 6,479 18 14,586 OTHER NONSUPPLIES AND OTHER FINANCIAL WAGES AND MARKETING AND SUPPORT RECURRING REVENUES DIRECT COSTS EXTERNAL OPERATING INCOME AND FIXED ASSETS SALARIES ADVERTISING SERVICES LOSSES / SERVICES LOSSES / (GAINS) (EXPENSES) (GAINS) SHAREHOLDERS Banco BPI 5,011 104 5 (391) ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Big Picture 2 Films 52 5,240 53 Sport TV 282 61,187 JOINTLY CONTROLLED COMPANIES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Dreamia Holding BV 276 212 Dreamia SA 2,734 (7) (564) 38 (6) 8 Finstar 939 Mstar 34 Upstar 14,942 (435) 20 (1) ZAP Cinemas (19) ZAP Media 491 OTHER RELATED PARTIES Cascaishopping 28 7 1 705 Continente Hipermercados 288 90 3 Digitmarket 404 319 349 3,900 Efacec Energia 129 Glunzag 108 Itrust Cyber Security and Intellig 11 246 120 54 307 Modelo Distribuição Materias Construção 193 Modelo Continente Hipermercados 5,036 137 477 (111) MDS Corretor de Seguros 492 302 Modalfa 213 Pharmacontinente 153 Público 193 30 1 Saphety Level Trusted Services 113 519 2 32 SC-Consultadoria 1,201 SONAESR-Serviços e logistica 107 1 Sonae Indústria PCDM 843 4 Sistavac 131 6 64 Sierra Portugal 3,521 325 4,970 Solinca Health & Fitness, SA 169 Sonae Center II 2,634 1 (7) Sonaecom 16 (53) 270 Sonaecom Serviços Partilhados 270 1 3 Spinveste Promoção Imobiliária 284 SDSR Sports Division SR 368 UNITEL 2,061 1,671 We Do Consulting-Sist. de Informação 506 7 2,785 212 4,489 Worten Equipamento para o Lar 6,115 633 30 1,297 1 Other related parties 1,594 45 (1) 123 39 432 30 51,639 (15) 67,585 1,660 3,784 31 8,641 278 (179) 8,830 ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS ACCRUED DEFERRED PREPAID RECEIVABLES PAYABLE EXPENSES INCOME EXPENSES SHAREHOLDERS BPI 1,519 41 47 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Big Picture 2 Films 60 123 628 Sport TV 1,418 4,795 3,680 13,568 JOINTLY CONTROLLED COMPANIES Dreamia Holding BV 2,693 Dreamia SA 1,801 1,470 211 Finstar 10,411 Mstar 1 Upstar 34,025 58 12 ZAP Cinemas 373 ZAP Media 3,744 OTHER RELATED PARTIES Centro Colombo 25 21 126 Digitmarket 117 85 2 170 Efacec Engenharia 35 237 Itrust Cyber Security and Intellig. , S.A. 7 292 117 Maiashopping 8 50 51 Modelo Continente Hipermercados 976 10 54 2 MDS Corretor de Seguros 74 (0) 238 Norteshopping 43 23 126 Saphety Level Trusted Services 25 82 SC-Consultadoria 162 Sonae Indústria PCDM 114 Sierra Portugal 475 18 0 28 Sonae Center II 627 Sonaecom 86 365 UNITEL 4,564 3,187 1,607 Vasco da Gama 8 49 79 We Do Consulting-Sist. de Informação 93 2,880 151 Worten Equipamento para o Lar 1,988 2 285 Other related parties 867 222 (2) 187 66,340 13,646 6,876 14 14,844 OTHER NONSUPPLIES AND WAGES AND DIRECT MARKETING AND SUPPORT OTHER OPERATING FINANCIAL INCOME REVENUES RECURRING LOSSES / EXTERNAL FIXED ASSETS SALARIES COSTS ADVERTISING SERVICES LOSSES / (GAINS) AND (EXPENSES) (GAINS) SERVICES SHAREHOLDERS Banco BPI 4,980 331 6 (391) ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Big Picture 2 Films 87 5,533 59 Sport TV 1,100 77,434 JOINTLY CONTROLLED COMPANIES Dreamia Holding BV 118 128 Dreamia SA 2,631 (30) (45) 54 (1) (14) Finstar 859 Mstar (34) Upstar 15,041 (294) 25 (5) ZAP Cinemas 7 ZAP Media 294 OTHER RELATED PARTIES Cascaishopping 24 8 662 Centro Colombo 12 8 780 Continente Hipermercados 281 28 11 Digitmarket 313 23 2 224 225 5,136 Efacec Energia 95 39 17 Efacec Engenharia 114 237 Glunzag 115 Itrust Cyber Security and Intellig 20 (246) 178 221 174 Maxmat 182 Modelo continente hpermercados 4,949 60 145 (83) MDS Corretor de Seguros 512 180 Modalfa 178 Norteshopping 19 7 772 Pharmacontinente 169 Publico 157 27 1 Saphety Level Trusted Services 103 295 2 20 SC-Consultadoria 1,370 Sonae Indústria PCDM 482 Sistavac 140 21 1 440 Sierra Portugal 3,221 243 1,739 Solinca HF 294 Sonae Center II 2,840 Sonaecom 31 17 95 SonaecomSP 120 (1) 0 Spinveste 231 SDSR 297 Troiaverde 76 20 26 UNITEL 2,175 1,817 Vasco da Gama 23 6 829 We Do Consulting-Sist. de Informação 446 13 2,854 2 4,504 Worten Equipamento para o Lar 5,435 204 890 Other related parties 1,383 8 157 18 444 30 50,659 (2) 84,614 926 3,588 7,027 95 (263) 10,570 12M 16 12M 17 Fixed remuneration 2,719 2,984 Profits sharing / Bonus 1,186 1,131 Share-based compensation plans 1,206 1,134 5,111 5,249 • • • • • • NUMBER OF SHARES STANDARD PLAN Plan 2013 60,378 NOS PLAN Plan 2015 639,674 Plan 2016 747,714 Plan 2017 848,472 STANDARD MAINROAD NOS PLAN PLAN PLAN BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016: 180,067 41,958 2,303,014 MOVEMENTS IN THE PERIOD: Awarded 834,211 Vested (117,296) (41,958) (772,217) Cancelled / elapsed / corrected (1) (2,393) (129,148) BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017: 60,378 2,235,860 ACCRUED RESERVES TOTAL EXPENSES Costs recognised in previous years related to plans as at 31 December 2016 1,199 6,317 7,516 Costs of plans vested in the period (810) (4,282) (5,092) Costs recognised in the exercise 837 3,217 4,054 TOTAL COST OF THE PLANS 1,226 5,252 6,478 PERCENTAGE OF OWNERSHIP SHARE COMPANY HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITY EFFECTIVE DIRECT EFFECTIVE HOLDER 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2017 NOS, SGPS, S.A. (Holding) Lisbon Management of investments Empracine Empresa Promotora de Atividades Lusomundo Lisbon Movies exhibition 100% 100% 100% Cinematográficas, Lda. SII Lusomundo Sociedade de investimentos Lisbon Management of Real Estate NOS 100% 100% 100% imobiliários SGPS, SA Lusomundo Lusomundo Imobiliária 2, S.A. Lisbon Management of Real Estate 100% 100% 100% SII Lusomundo Moçambique, Lda. Maputo Movies exhibition and commercialization of other public events NOS Cinemas 100% 100% 100% NOS Sistemas, S.A. ('NOS Sistemas') Lisbon Rendering of consulting services in the area of information systems NOS SA 100% 100% 100% NOS Sistemas España, S.L. Madrid Rendering of consulting services in the area of information systems NOS SA 100% 100% 100% Distribution of television by cable and satellite and operation of NOS Açores Comunicações, S.A. Ponta Delgada NOS SA 84% 84% 84% telecommunications services in the Azores area Management of social participations in other companies as an NOS Audiovisuais, SGPS, S.A. (a) Lisbon NOS 100% 100% 100% indirect form of economic activity NOS Communications S.à r.l Luxembourg Management of investments NOS 100% 100% 100% Implementation, operation, exploitation and offer of networks and rendering services of electronic comunications and related NOS Comunicações, S.A. Lisbon NOS 100% 100% 100% resources; offer and commercialisation of products and equipments of electronic communications Achievement and promotion of scientific activities and research and development as well as the demonstration, dissemination, technology transfer and formation in the fields of services and NOS Inovação, S.A. Matosinhos NOS 100% 100% 100% information systems and fixed solutions and last generation mobile, television, internet, voice and data, and licensing and engineering services and consultancy Management of social participations in other companies as an NOS Internacional, SGPS, S.A. (a) Lisbon NOS 100% 100% 100% indirect form of economic activity Import, distribution, commercialization and production of audiovisual NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais, S.A. Lisbon NOS 100% 100% 100% products NOS Lusomundo Cinemas , S.A. Lisbon Movies exhibition and commercialization of other public events NOS 100% 100% 100% Movies distribution, editing, distribution, commercialization and NOS NOS Lusomundo TV, Lda. Lisbon 100% 100% 100% production of audiovisual products Audiovisuais Distribution of television by cable and satellite and operation of NOS Madeira Comunicações, S.A. Funchal NOS SA 78% 78% 78% telecommunications services in the Madeira area NOSPUB, Publicidade e Conteúdos, S.A. Lisbon Comercialization of cable tv contents NOS SA 100% 100% 100% Design, construction, management and exploitation of electronic NOS TECHNOLOGY – Concepção, Construção communications networks and their equipment and infrastructure, e Gestão de Redes de Comunicações, S.A. Matosinhos NOS 100% 100% 100% management of technologic assets and rendering of related ('Artis') services NOS TOWERING – Gestão de Torres de Implementation, installation and exploitation of towers and other sites Lisbon NOS 100% 100% 100% Telecomunicações, S.A. (‘Be Towering’) for the instalment of telecommunications equipment Per-Mar – Sociedade de Construções, S.A. Purchase, sale, renting and operation of property and commercial Lisbon NOS 100% 100% 100% ('Per-Mar') establishments Realisation of urbanisation and building construction, planning, Sontária Empreendimentos Imobiliários, S.A. urban management, studies, construction and property Lisbon NOS 100% 100% 100% ('Sontária') management, buy and sale of properties and resale of purchased for that purpose Teliz Holding B.V. Amsterdam Management of group financing activities NOS 100% 100% 100% PERCENTAGE OF OWNERSHIP SHARE COMPANY HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITY EFFECTIVE DIRECT EFFECTIVE HOLDER 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2017 Import, distribution, commercialization and production of NOS Big Picture 2 Films, S.A. Oeiras 20.00% 20.00% 20.00% audiovisual products Audiovisuais Big Picture 2 Big Picture Films, S.L. Madrid Distribution and commercialization of movies 100.00% 20.00% Films, S.A. Canal 20 TV, S.A. Madrid Production and distribution of TV products rights NOS 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% Conception, production, realization and commercialization of sports programs for telebroadcasting, purchase and resale of the rights to Sport TV Portugal, S.A. Lisbon NOS 33.33% 25.00% 25.00% broadcast sports programs for television and provision of publicity services PERCENTAGE OF OWNERSHIP SHARE COMPANY HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITY EFFECTIVE DIRECT EFFECTIVE HOLDER 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2017 NOS Dreamia Holding B.V. Amsterdam Management of investments 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% Audiovisuais Conception, production, realization and commercialization of Dreamia Dreamia Serviços de Televisão, S.A. Lisbon 50.00% 100.00% 50.00% audiovisual contents and provision of publicity services Holding BV Management of investments involved in the development, operation and marketing, through any technological means, of Teliz Holding East Star Ltd (b) Port Louis 30.00% 0.00% 0.00% telecommunications, television and audiovisual products and B.V. services FINSTAR Sociedade de Investimentos e Distribution of television by satellite, operation of Teliz Holding Luanda 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% Participações, S.A. telecommunications services B.V. Distribution of television by satellite, operation of MSTAR, SA Maputo NOS 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% telecommunications services Electronic communications services provider, production, Upstar Comunicações S.A. Vendas Novas commercialization, broadcasting and distribution of audiovisual NOS 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% contents Projects development and activities in the areas of entertainment, telecommunications and related technologies, the production and ZAP Media S.A. Luanda FINSTAR 30.00% 100.00% 30.00% distribution of the contents and the design, implementation and operation of infrastructure and related facilities Projects development and activities in the areas of entertainment, telecommunications and related technologies, the production and ZAP Cinemas, S.A. Luanda FINSTAR 30.00% 100.00% 30.00% distribution of the contents and the design, implementation and operation of infrastructure and related facilities Projects development and activities in the areas of entertainment, telecommunications and related technologies, the production and ZAP Publishing, S.A. Luanda ZAP Media 30.00% 100.00% 30.00% distribution of the contents and the design, implementation and operation of infrastructure and related facilities PERCENTAGE OF OWNERSHIP SHARE COMPANY HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITY EFFECTIVE DIRECT EFFECTIVE HOLDER 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2017 Turismo da Samba (Tusal), SARL (c) Luanda n.a. NOS 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% Filmes Mundáfrica, SARL (c) Luanda Movies exhibition NOS 23.91% 23.91% 23.91% Companhia de Pesca e Comércio de Luanda n.a. NOS 15.76% 15.76% 15.76% Angola (Cosal), SARL (c) Caixanet – Telecomunicações e Lisbon Telecommunication services NOS 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% Telemática, S.A. Apor Agência para a Modernização do Oporto Development of modernizing projects in Oporto NOS 3.98% 3.98% 3.98% Porto Lusitânia Vida Companhia de Seguros, Lisbon Insurance services NOS 0.03% 0.03% 0.03% S.A ( Lusitânia Vida ) Lusitânia Companhia de Seguros, S.A Lisbon Insurance services NOS 0.04% 0.02% 0.02% ( Lusitânia Seguros ) Individual Financial Statements 240 241 242 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ​ Report and Opinion of the Statutory Auditor Ernst & Young Tel: +351 226 002 015 Audit & Associados SROC, S.A. Fax: +351 226 000 004 Avenida da Boavista, 36, 3º www.ey.com 4050-112 Porto Portugal (Translation from the original Portuguese language. In case of doubt, the Portuguese version prevails.) Statutory and Auditor’s Report REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED AND INDIVIDUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated and individual financial statements of NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. (the Group), which comprise the Consolidated and Individual Statements of Financial Position as at 31 December 2017 (which show a total of 2,967,067 thousand euros and 2,355,380 thousand euros, respectively, a consolidated and individual total equity of 1,086,368 thousand euros and 1,202,932 thousand euros, respectively, including a consolidated net profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent of 124,094 thousand euros and an individual net profit for the year of 96,556 thousand euros), and the Consolidated and Individual Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Individual Statements of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated and Individual Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and accompanying notes to the consolidated and individual financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated and individual financial statements give a true and fair view, in all material respects, of the consolidated and individual financial position of NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. as at 31 December 2017, and its consolidated and individual financial performance and its consolidated and individual cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European Union. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and other technical and ethical standards and guidelines as issued by the Institute of Statutory Auditors. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and individual financial statements” section below. We are independent of the Entity in accordance with the law and we have fulfilled other ethical requirements in accordance with the Institute of Statutory Auditors´ code of ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters – Consolidated financial statements Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We describe below the key audit matters relevant to the current period: Sociedade Anónima Capital Social 1.335.000 euros Inscrição n.º 178 na Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas Inscrição N.º 20161480 na Comissão do Mercado de Valores Mobiliários Contribuinte N.º 505 988 283 C. R. Comercial de Lisboa sob o mesmo número A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. Statutory and Auditors’ Report 31 December 2017 1. Recognition and measurement of revenue given the complexity of systems and the existence of multiple deliverable arrangements Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement The Group's revenues consist essentially of: Our approach to the risk of material misstatement included (i) a global response to the way the audit was conducted overall and (ii) a specific ► Revenue from telecommunications response involving a combined approach of assessing controls and services, namely: i) Cable television performing substantive procedures, including: services, fixed broadband and fixed voice; ii) satellite television; ii) mobile ► Involvement of internal experts in the evaluation of the broadband and voice services; Group's information technology general controls and in the test of the application controls of the most relevant revenue ► Advertising revenue; and processes; ► Revenue from production and ► Execution of specific audit procedures to assess the distribution of content and channels. operational effectiveness of the controls identified as The complexity of information systems that relevant, including: i) reconciliations between systems; ii) support a significant volume of transactions, testing the controls of the Bill Cycle Review; and iii) validation combined with the existence of multiple of the key controls operating throughout the end-to-end deliverable arrangements, represent a process; significant audit risk. ► Analysis of the various types of contracts in order to identify The process of revenue recognition and the specific elements of the contracts, such as services, measurement involves significant judgement goods, prices, discounts and offers. Our procedures included on the part of Management as disclosed in verifying the correct allocation of revenue to the various note 2.3.17 to the financial statements, with services / goods identified; particular regard to the appropriate allocation ► Analytical review tests of the disaggregated revenue, of revenue to each of the multiple deliverable comparing it with the same period of the previous year and arrangements and estimates of discounts and with the expectation formed based on projected and actual offers to be granted to customers. indicators of the Group's performance, including: i) revenue In 2018, the new revenue standard IFRS15 market share; ii) RGU’s (Revenue Generating Units); and iii) Revenue from contracts with customers ARPU (Average Revenue Per User); and will come into force, for which the process of ► Analysis of the disclosures included in the financial recognition and measurement of revenue will statements: be changed, and significant management judgments will be required. The estimated ► In Notes 2.3.17 and 28, in order to ensure that they retrospective impact (full retrospective adequately reflect the accounting policies adopted by the approach) of the new revenue accounting Group as well as the accounting records; and standard and the preliminary judgments are ► In Note 2.1, in order to ensure that it reflects the disclosed in Note 2.1 to the financial quantitative and qualitative impacts estimated by statements, which summarizes the estimated Management regarding the application of IFRS 15 impacts on the opening balances of 2018. Revenue from contracts with customers on the opening balances of 2018, considering the decision of the Group to adopt the retrospective application of the standard (full retrospective approach). 2/9 NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. Statutory and Auditors’ Report 31 December 2017 2. Goodwill impairment Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement As at 31 December 2017, the carrying We assessed the assumptions used in the valuation models prepared amount of Goodwill is 641 million euros, by management, namely cash flow projections, discount rates, representing 20% of the Group’s total assets. inflation rates, perpetuity growth rate and sensitivity analysis. We Goodwill is allocated to Telco and Audiovisual were supported, in the performance of these procedures, by internal segments. specialists in business valuations. The possible existence of impairment of We evaluated the reliability of the assumptions used in the Goodwill was considered a key audit matter development of the business plan when compared to prior periods and due to the significance of the amounts to the as compared to historical data and external information. We evaluated Group’s financial position and due to the the clerical and arithmetic accuracy of the models used. complexity involved in the impairment We focused on the sensitivity analysis of the two cash generating assessment process, which includes units, in order to validate the appropriateness of the disclosures assumptions such as future market and included in Note 9 to the financial statements, reflecting the results of economic conditions, market share, revenue the impairment tests carried out. and margin evolution. We verified compliance with the applicable disclosure requirements (IAS 36). 3. Cost capitalization and useful lives attributable to tangible and intangible assets Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement Capitalization of expenditure and We performed specific audit procedures to assess the operational determination of useful lives attributable to effectiveness of internal controls considered relevant in order to tangible and intangible assets are accounting assess whether: estimates where management uses significant ► The capitalization criteria are compliant with the Group’s judgement, as disclosed in Notes 2.3.3, 2.3.4 policy; and and 3.1 to the financial statements. The risks identified are related to the possibility that ► The tangible and intangible assets’ useful lives are approved the capitalized costs do not comply with the by management and are reviewed on a yearly basis. capitalization requirements prescribed in the applicable accounting standards or that the In addition, we analyzed capitalized costs by nature and assessed tangible and intangible assets’ useful lives are whether the capitalization requirements were met. not appropriate or consistent with the period In what concerns useful lives, we tested their consistency and during which economic benefits from the use appropriateness considering the specificities of the Group’s revenue of those assets will flow to the Group. recognition and the practices of the sector in which the Group During 2017, the Group capitalized 92.5 operates. million Euros (2016: 95.8 million Euros) under tangible and intangible assets related mainly to costs incurred in raising customer loyalty contracts. The subsequent measurement of the amounts recognized as assets requires a continued assessment of the existence of impairment indicators. 3/9 NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. Statutory and Auditors’ Report 31 December 2017 4. Recognition, measurement and disclosure of tax, regulatory and legal contingencies Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement The Provisions account and Note 41 – Legal Our approach to the risk of material misstatement included the processes in course, contingent assets and following procedures: contingent liabilities of the Notes to the ► Analysis of the controls established in the Group to identify financial statements, refer to obligations for situations likely to give rise to the recognition of provisions or tax, regulatory and legal contingencies. the disclosure of tax, regulatory and legal contingent Management periodically evaluates potential situations; liabilities arising from past events the probability for which implies the recognition ► Obtaining external confirmations from all the lawyers with of a provision and/or a disclosure in the whom the Group has relations; obtaining explanatory financial statements. This evaluation results memoranda prepared by external and internal lawyers for the from a process involving significant judgment main proceedings in progress; reading the minutes of the on the part of the Group’s management. The Group’s various Committees and Commissions; and analysis risks identified are both in the assessment of of the arguments used by management for the graduation of the likelihood of outflows of resources from each contingency; the Group as well as in the quantification of the liability or of the contingent liability. ► Involvement in the audit of internal experts in tax matters; ► Evaluation of the probabilities of the outcome of contingencies taking into account not only the historical decisions as well as the conclusion of similar processes in other entities in the sector; and ► Validation of the disclosures included in the Notes to the financial statements related to Provisions and Legal processes, contingent assets and contingent liabilities. In relation to regulatory and legal provisions, the following procedures were also performed: ► Quarterly meetings with the Group's Regulatory and Financial Departments to take note of new contingencies and obtain an update on any situations known in previous periods; ► Analysis of the newsletters issued by the sector regulator (ANACOM) and its decisions on specific issues of regulation of the sector and assessment of their possible impact on the Group's financial statements; and ► Analysis of National and International Regulation Reports prepared by the Group's Regulatory Department. 4/9 NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. Statutory and Auditors’ Report 31 December 2017 5. Impairment of trade accounts receivable recognition and measurement Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement Impairment of trade receivables amounts to Our approach to the risk of material misstatement included: i) a global 139.5 million Euros as at 31 December 2017, response in the way the audit was conducted overall; and ii) a specific representing approximately 25% of the total response involving a combined approach of assessing controls and balance of trade accounts receivable. performing substantive procedures on collections, recovery of overdue debts and the calculation of trade receivables impairment as The impairment testing of accounts receivable well as the assumptions used by management in quantifying the is one of the key areas of judgment for amount of impairment losses to be recognized. management. The identification of the accounts receivable impaired and the We have analyzed the assumptions underlying the quantification of determination of the recoverable amount is a the trade receivables impairment loss, taking into account the aging of process that involves the analysis of several the debt, the financial capacity of the debtors and the historical trends assumptions and factors, including the aging of collections. In addition, we performed sensitivity analysis regarding of the debt, the financial condition of the the assumptions used by the Group. The disclosures included in the debtor, the expectation of default and of financial statements in Notes 2.3.8, 3.1, 4.1 and 15 have been collection. In specific cases, the use of reviewed to evaluate whether they appropriately reflect the complex models and assumptions may accounting policies adopted by the Group and the accounting records. produce significantly different estimates of impairment of trade receivables, involving a significant volume of information. Audit risk arises from the significant judgment used in this type of calculation, and is increased by the large volume of information managed in different information systems, which requires complex calculations and various assumptions based on historical data. 6. Recognition and measurement of broadcasting rights Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement Broadcasting rights include: Our approach to the risk of material misstatement included (i) a global response in the way the audit was conducted overall and (ii) a specific response involving a combined approach of assessing controls and ► Television broadcasting rights of performing substantive procedures, including: films, series and sports content; and ► Analysis of the process adopted by the Group for the review ► Rights of transmission of television of the useful lives of the programming rights and analysis of channels. the frequency of use of the broadcasting rights with the relevant recorded costs; ► Assessment of the Group’s recognition and measurement policy for broadcasting rights, as well as the assertions of management regarding the use of those rights; 5/9 NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. Statutory and Auditors’ Report 31 December 2017 Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement Television broadcasting rights for films, series ► Assessment of the impact of qualitative factors, such as the and sports content involve judgment because capacity for retention of subscribers due to the ownership of of the existence of a large number of rights; or other factors resulting from agreements that qualitative factors, which include: involve the total or partial transfer of broadcasting rights acquired; ► The definition of when the right and the obligation should be recorded or ► Analysis of the most significant contracts signed during the when contractual obligations should current year to verify the consistent application of the only be disclosed; Group's adopted policy; ► The period during which the rights or ► Analysis of the accounting practices for recognition of programs are expected to be used broadcasting rights of other companies in the sector; and their frequency (linear or non► Analytical review of expenses for broadcasting rights, by linear); and comparison with the same period of prior year and with the ► The potential benefits related to the amounts budgeted for liabilities assumed by the Group; and ownership of rights. ► Analysis of the disclosures included in the financial As disclosed in Notes 2.3.4 and 2.3.10 of the statements in Notes 9, 14, 27 and 38.3 in order to evaluate Notes to the financial statements, the whether they appropriately reflect the accounting policies determination of the timing of recognition and adopted by the Group in the recognition and measurement of the amount to be recognized for the rights of broadcasting rights, with a special focus on the disclosure of transmission of content in the balance sheet, contractual liabilities assumed and shared. as well as the selection of criteria for recognition of expenses in the financial results require the use of judgment by management. Key audit matters – Individual financial statements Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the individual financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the individual financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We describe below the key audit matters relevant to the current period: 1. Goodwill and Financial investments impairment Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement As at 31 December 2017, the carrying We assessed the assumptions used in the valuation models prepared amounts of Goodwill and Financial by management, namely cash flow projections, discount rates, investments are 454 million Euros and 1,041 inflation rates, perpetuity growth rate and sensitivity analysis. We million Euros, respectively. These assets were supported, in the performance of these procedures, by internal represent 63% of the Company’s total assets. specialists in business valuations. We evaluated the reliability of the assumptions used in the development of the business plan when compared to prior periods and as compared to historical data and external information. We evaluated the clerical and arithmetic accuracy of the models used. 6/9 NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. Statutory and Auditors’ Report 31 December 2017 Description of the most significant assessed Summary of our response to the most significant assessed risks of risks of material misstatement material misstatement The possible existence of impairment of We focused on the sensitivity analysis of the two cash generating units Goodwill and Financial investments was and in the recoverability of the Financial investments located in considered a key audit matter due to the Angola and Mozambique, in order to validate the appropriateness of significance of the amounts on the Entity’s the disclosures included in the Notes 7 and 8 to the financial financial position and to the complexity statements, reflecting the results of the impairment tests carried out. involved in the impairment assessment We verified compliance with the applicable disclosure requirements process, which includes assumptions such as (IAS 36). future market and economic conditions, market share, revenue and margin evolution. Responsibilities of management and the supervisory board for the consolidated and individual financial statements Management is responsible for: ► the preparation of the consolidated and individual financial statements that presents a true and fair of the Group’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European Union; ► the preparation of the Management Report, including the Corporate Governance Report, in accordance with the law and regulation; ► the design and maintenance of an appropriate internal control system to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; ► the adoption of the appropriate accounting policies considering the circumstances; and ► the assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters that may raise significant doubts about going concern. The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and individual financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and individual financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated and individual financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: ► identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated and individual financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ► obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control; 7/9 NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. Statutory and Auditors’ Report 31 December 2017 ► evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; ► conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated and individual financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern; ► evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated and individual financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated and individual financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; ► obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated and individual financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion; ► communicate with those charged with governance, including the supervisory board, regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit; ► from the matters communicated with those charged with governance, including the supervisory board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated and individual financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter; and ► we also provide the supervisory board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Our responsibility includes the verification of the consistency of the information included in the Management Report with the consolidated and individual financial statements, as well as the verifications under nr. 4 and nr. 5 of article 451 of the Commercial Companies Code (“Código das Sociedades Comerciais”). REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS On the Management Report Pursuant to article 451, nr. 3, paragraph e) of the Commercial Companies Code, it is our opinion that the Management Report was prepared in accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory requirements and the information contained therein is consistent with the audited financial statements and, having regard to our knowledge and assessment over the Entity, we have not identified any material misstatement. On the non-financial statement as required by article 66-B of the Commercial Companies Code Pursuant to article 451, nr. 6, of the Commercial Companies Code, we inform that the Group has prepared a separate report, separate from the Management Report, which includes non-financial information, as required by article 66-B of Commercial Companies Code, and it has been published together with the Management Report. On the Corporate Governance Report In our opinion, the Corporate Governance Report includes the information required to the Entity to provide as per article 245-A of the Securities Code, and we have not identified material misstatements on the information provided therein in compliance with paragraphs c), d), f), h), i) and m) of the said article. 8/9 NOS, S.G.P.S., S.A. Statutory and Auditors’ Report 31 December 2017 On additional items set out in article 10 of Regulation (EU) nr. 537/2014 Pursuant to article 10 of Regulation (EU) nr. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 16 April 2014, and in addition to the key audit matters mentioned above, we also report the following: ► We were appointed as auditors of the Group for the first time in the shareholders' general meeting held on 23 April 2014 for the period between 2014 and 2015, to complete the mandate of the three year period from 2013 and 2015. We were reappointed for a second mandate in the shareholders' general meeting held on 26 April 2016 for the period between 2016 and 2018; ► Management has confirmed that they are not aware of any fraud or suspicion of fraud having occurred that has a material effect on the consolidated and individual financial statements. In planning and executing our audit in accordance with ISAs we maintained professional skepticism and we designed audit procedures to respond to the possibility of material misstatement in the consolidated and individual financial statements due to fraud. As a result of our work we have not identified any material misstatement to the consolidated and individual financial statements due to fraud; ► We confirm that our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the supervisory board that we have prepared and delivered today to the supervisory board; and ► We declare that we have not provided any prohibited services pursuant to article 77, nr. 8 of the Statute of the Institute of Statutory Auditors and we have remained independent of the Group in conducting the audit. Porto, 16 March 2018 Ernst & Young Audit & Associados – SROC, S.A. Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas Represented by: (Signed) Sandra e Sousa Amorim (ROC nr. 1213) Registered with the Portuguese Securities Market Commission under license nr. 20160824 9/9 Statement under the terms of Article 245, paragraph 1, sub-paragraph c) of the Portuguese Securities Code In accordance with Article 245, paragraph 1, c) of the Securities Code, the Board of Directors of NOS, SGPS, S.A., whose names and roles are listed below, declare that, to their knowledge: a) The management report, the annual individual and consolidated accounts, the legal certification of accounts, required by law or regulation, relative to the year ended 31 December 2017, were elaborated in compliance with the applicable accounting standards, accurately and truthfully portraying the assets and liabilitie in its consolidation perimeter; and position, as well as those of the companies included in its consolidation perimeter and, when applicable, contains a description of the main risks and uncertainties that they face. Lisbon, 9 March 2017 The Board of Directors Jorge Brito Pereira (Chairman of the Board of Directors) Miguel Nuno Santos Almeida (Chief Executive Officer) José Pedro Faria Pereira da Costa (Vice-President) Ana Paula Garrido de Pina Marques (Executive Member of the Board of Directors) André Nuno Malheiro dos Santos Almeida (Executive Member of the Board of Directors) Jorge Filipe Santos Graça (Executive Member of the Board of Directors) Luís Nascimento (Executive Member of the Board of Directors) Manuel Ramalho Eanes (Executive Member of the Board of Directors) 307 Ângelo Paupério (Member of the Board of Directors) António Domingues (Member of the Board of Directors) António Lobo Xavier (Member of the Board of Directors) Catarina Tavira Van-Dúnem (Member of the Board of Directors) Cláudia Azevedo (Member of the Board of Directors) João Torres Dolores (Member of the Board of Directors) Joaquim de Oliveira (Member of the Board of Directors) Lorena Fernandes (Member of the Board of Directors) Mário Leite da Silva (Member of the Board of Directors) 308 Report and Opinion of the Fiscal Board Shareholders, According to the articles of association, the supervision of the Company is committed to a Fiscal Board, comprised of three full members and one alternate member, elected by the General Meeting, as well as to a Statutory Auditor or Firm of Chartered Accountants. In these circumstances, as set forth in paragraph 1, sub-paragraph g), of Article 420º of the Portuguese Companies Code, we hereby submit our Report on our Supervision Activity and our Opinion on the Individual and Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts of NOS, SGPS, l year ended on 31 December 2017. The Fiscal Board has regularly accompanied the evolution of the activities of the Company and of its main subsidiaries, monitoring the compliance with the law and with the articles of management systems, internal control and internal auditing and the preparation and disclosure of individual and consolidated financial information. Moreover, the Fiscal Board verified the regularity of the accounting records, the accuracy of the individual and consolidated financial statements and the accounting policies and valuation criteria adopted by the Company in order to ensure that they lead to a correct appraisal of its assets and individual and consolidated profits, as well as its cash flow statements. As part of its duties, the Fiscal Board met with the Statutory Auditor and External Auditors in order to monitor their audits and learn their conclusions, supervising the works performed by the Statutory Auditor and External Auditors and their independence and competence. The Fiscal Board also met on a regularly basis with the heads of the Internal Audit Department and Legal Department, and the Board Member responsible for the financial area whenever was deemed fit and appropriate. The Fiscal Board received full cooperation from all at all times. The Fiscal Board monitored the whistleblowing system. This system is available to all shareholders, employees and to the general public. All reports received were duly analyzed. As for the Corporate Governance report, it is the duty of the Fiscal Board to merely verify that it includes the elements referred to in Article 245-A of the Portuguese Securities Code, which the Fiscal Board did. The Fiscal Board also received from the Statutory Auditor a letter confirming its independence in relation to the Company. As such, the Fiscal Board issues the following OPINION: The Fiscal Board was informed about the conclusions of the work of the examination of the Company´s accounts and external auditing on the Individual and Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year of 2017, which include the individual and consolidated financial position in 31 December 2017, the individual and consolidated Statements by nature, the individual and consolidated Statements of comprehensive income, the individual and consolidated Statement of changes in equity, the individual and consolidated cash flow 310 Statement and its respective Annexes. The Fiscal Board scrutinized the Audit Report from the Statutory Auditor and External Auditors on these documents which expressed no reservations. Within its powers, and according to paragraph 1, subparagraph c) of the article 245.º of the Portuguese Securities Code, the Fiscal Board declares that, to its knowledge, the Management Report, and the Individual and Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year ended on 31 December 2017 were drawn up in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, reflecting a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities, financial position and results of NOS, SGPS, S.A. and the companies included in the consolidation as a whole. Additionally, the position of the company and of the Group. It also complies with the applicable legal requirements and accounting standards as well as with the articles of association and, whenever deemed necessary, contains a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced. It is also mentioned that the Non-Financial Statements contain enough information to allow an understanding of the performance, position and impact of the group's activities, related to the matters of environmental, social and worker issues, gender equality, nondiscrimination, respect for human rights, fight against corruption and attempts at bribery. The Fiscal Board announced at the same time as the Management Report, includes the elements referred to in Article 245-A of the Portuguese Securities Code. In view of the above, taking into account the opinion and the information received from the Auditor, the Fiscal Board opinion is as follows: i) The Management Report for 2017 may be approved; ii) The Individual and Consolidated Financial Statements for 2017 may be approved; iii) The Proposal for the Application and Distribution of Profits presented by the Board of Directors, namely taking into account Article 32 of the Portuguese Companies Code, as per the Law Decree nr. 185/2009 of 12th of August, may be approved. Lisbon, 23 March 2018 The Fiscal Board ______________________________________________ Paulo Mota Pinto _______________________________________________ Patrícia Teixeira Lopes _______________________________________________ Eugénio Ferreira 311 Corporate Governance Report 312 313 314 1. Introduction on the Euronext Lisbon regulated market managed by Euronext Lisbon Sociedade Gestora de Mercados Regulamentados, S.A.. NOS is firmly committed to creating sustainable value for its shareholders and remaining stakeholders. Seeing corporate governance as a mean to optimizing Company performance and, hence, as a real tool for competitiveness and value creation, NOS aims to be a national and international benchmark, not only in the governance model, but also in the content and the way it discloses information to its shareholders and the market in general, keeping watch to the evolution of the best practices and committed to permanently and actively improving its practices in this area. NOS corporate governance, being a transversal undertaken commitment by all Company, is notably based on the following principles: (i) Commitment with the shareholders; (ii) Ethics; (iii) Transparency; (iv) Supervision; and (v) Risk assessment. 315 Part I Mandatory information concerning shareholder structure, organization and corporate governance A. Shareholder Structure I. Capital Structure 1. Share capital, number of shares, categories, admission or not to trading NOS share capital is 5,151,613.80 euros and it is fully subscribed and paid up. The share capital is represented by 515,161,380 ordinary shares. All NOS shares are admitted to trading on the Euronext Lisbon regulated market. 2. and 6. Restrictions on the transfer of shares, shareholder agreements and limits on owing the shares The Articles of Association do not set out limitations or restrictions to the transfer of the shares that represent the share capital of NOS. Notwithstanding, pursuant to article 9(1) of the Articles of Association, shareholders who directly or indirectly compete with the activity performed by the companies owned by NOS, cannot hold common General Meeting. NOS is aware of a shareholders agreement entered into between shareholders of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A. der the terms of the announcement to the market issued on 27 August 2013. Holdings, B.V. (where Kento and Unitel International hereinafter jointly referred to a into a shareholder agreement regarding ZOPT on 14 December 2012, in which they own the following a) SONAECOM owns 50% of the share capital and voting rights of ZOPT; 316 b) Grupo KJ owns 50% of the share capital and voting rights of ZOPT, where 17.35% is owned by Kento Holding Limited and 32.65% is owned by Unitel International Holdings, B.V.. In turn, ZOPT now holds, as result of the merger, more than 50% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS. Furthermore, on 14 June 2016, ZOPT acquired from Sonaecom SGPS, S.A. 11,012,532 shares representing 2.14% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS. Consequently, ZOPT became the direct holder of 268,644,537 shares representing 52.15% of the share capital of NOS, as disclosed to the market on 16 June 2016. Due to the Shareholders Agreement, this qualified shareholding can be attributed on the one hand to Kento Holding Limited and Unitel International Holdings B.V., directly or indirectly controlled by Mrs. Isabel dos Santos, and, on the other hand, to Sonaecom SGPS S.A. (which is controlled by Sonae SGPS, S.A. through Sontel BV which, in turn, is controlled by Efanor Investimentos, SGPS, SA). As of November 29th, 2017, EFANOR INVESTIMENTOS, SGPS, S.A., no longer have a controlling shareholder under the terms and for the purposes of articles 20 and 21 of the Portuguese Securities Code the Parties signed the Shareholders Agreement to govern their legal positions as shareholders of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A., under the terms summarized below: 1. CORPORATE BODIES 1.1 KJ Group will each have the right to appoint half the members of the Board of Directors, among which the Chairman will be appointed by agreement of the Parties. 1.2 members is present, and its resolutions will be made with the favourable vote of the majority of its Directors and always with the favourable vote of, at least, one member appointed by each Party. 1.3 of the Parties. The General Meeting can only meet, in first or second calling, once more than fifty per 1.4 ZOPT, SGPS, S.A. will be supervised by a Fiscal Board whose members will be appointed by agreement of the Parties. 1.5 Any member of the corporate bodies appointed under the Shareholders Agreement can be removed or replaced at any time, by way of a proposal submitted to that effect by the Party that appointed him/her or, if he/she is a member appointed by agreement, by any of the Parties; in such case the other Party must vote in favour and undertake all actions necessary for such removal or replacement. 1.6 of the corporate bodies of any subsidiary or of any companies in which ZOPT, SGPS, S.A. owns a shareholding, as well as concerning any other matters, will be determined by the Board of Directors. 2. SHARES TRANSFER 2.1 that they hold, as well as from allowing that they become encumbered in any way. 317 2.2 The Parties shall undertake all actions necessary to prevent ZOPT, SGPS, S.A. from transferring any ure, as well as to ensure that such shares will not become encumbered in any way, with the exception of the shares that exceed the number of shares necessary for its shareholding not to be equal to or lower than half of the ing rights. 2.3 The Parties shall abstain from acquiring or holding (directly or on behalf of anyone with whom they have a relationship under article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code) any shares representing the Merger. 2.4 Two years after the commercial registry of the Merger, KJ Group will have the right to purchase from capital held by SONAECOM or anyone with whom it has a relationship under article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code with the exception of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A. and the entities covered by article 20(1)(d) unless the Parties agree that, at the end of that period, the relevant shares will be acquired by ZOPT, SGPS, S.A.. 3. TERMINATION 3.1 The Shareholders Agreement will remain in force for an undetermined period, and shall only expire in case ZOPT, SGPS, S.A. ceases to exist following its dissolution and liquidation, or in case one of the Parties acquires the shares representing the share capital of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A. held by the other Party. 3.2 In a deadlock situation and in the absence of an agreed solution, as well as once twelve months have passed as from the commercial registry of the merger, any of the Parties is entitled to demand the dissolution of ZOPT SGPS, S.A.. 3.3 Should a deadlock situation occur, the Parties will endeavour to find a mutually accepted solution for the situation, appointing each a representative to that effect, whose identity will be notified to the other Party within five days from the occurrence of the deadlock. If, in the following fifteen days, the deadlock has yet to been solved, any Party will have the right to demand the dissolution of ZOPT SGPS, S.A.. There are no special rule process to alter the Articles of Association of NOS governed by the legal provisions in force from time to time. There are neither special rights attributed to shareholders n 318 3. Treasury Stocks At the end of 2016, NOS directly owned 3,017,603 own shares. During 2017, the following transactions took place, which are summarized in the table below: Description Number of Shares Initial Balance 3,017,603 Share Incentive Scheme and Other Remuneration Distribution 977,369 Final Balance 2,040,234 Following the above mentioned transactions, on 31 December 2017, NOS held 2,040,234 own shares, which corresponded to 0.3960% of the share capital and 0,3960% of the voting rights. Voting rights attached to own shares are suspended under the applicable law. 4. Significant agreements that variate with a change of control come into force, are amended, or terminate if there is a change of Company control or change in the members of the Board of Directors) following a takeover bid, except for normal market practice regarding debt issues. NOS and its subsidiaries are parties to some financing contracts and debt issues, which include provisions allowing for the change of control, typical in these types of transactions (including, tacitly, changes in the change of control as a consequence of a public takeover bid), and which are deemed necessary for the mentioned transactions. 5. Defensive measures NOS has not adopted any defensive measures that could automatically cause a serious erosion of the Company assets in the case of change of control or change to the composition of the Board of Directors. The Company, independently, or jointly with other Group companies has signed financing agreements with financing entities which set out the possibility of termination if there are significant alterations in the There are no other significant agreements signed by NOS or by its subsidiaries that include change of control clauses (including following a takeover bid), i.e., that come into force, are altered or terminate if there is a change of control, as well as the respective effects. There are no agreements between the Company and the board members or other NOS senior managers, in the sense of article 3 of Regulation (EU) no. 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 319 April 2014 ex vi article 248-B(3) of the Portuguese Securities Code, that set out a compensation in the event of dismissal, unfair dismissal, or termination of the labour relationship following any change in the Measures that could interfere with the success of a takeover bid NOS has not adopted any measures in order to impede the success of takeover bids contrary to the interests of the Company and its shareholders. NOS considers that there are no defensive clauses that could automatically cause erosion to the directors. II. Shareholdings and bonds 7. Owners of qualified shareholdings The structure of qualified shareholdings in NOS that the Company was notified of (including to information was, on 31 December 2017, as follows: % Share Capital and Shareholders Number of Shares Voting Rights ZOPT, SGPS, SA (1) 268,644,537 52.15% Banco BPI, SA (2) 14,275,509 2.77% Blackrock, Inc 11,562,497 2.24% MFS Investment Management 11,049,477 2.14% Norges Bank 10,891,068 2.11% Total Identified 316,423,088 61.42% (1) According to paragraphs b) and c) of number 1 of article 20º and article 21º of the Portuguese Securities Code, a qualified shareholding of 52.15% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS, SGPS, S.A. as calculated in the terms of article 20º of the Portuguese Securities Code, is attributable to ZOPT, Sonaecom and the following companies: a. This qualified holding is attributable Isabel dos Santos, under the terms of articles 20(1)(b) and (c) and 21 of the Portuguese Securities Code, being (i) Kento and Unitel International directly and indirectly controlled by Mrs. Isabel dos Santos and (ii) ZOPT controlled together by its shareholders Kento, Unitel International and Sonaecom as a result of the shareholders agreement entered into between these entities; b. The aforementioned qualified holding is also attributable to Sonaecom and all entities in a control relationship with Sonaecom, namely SONTEL, BV, Sonae Investments, BV, SONAE, SGPS, S.A., EFANOR INVESTIMENTOS, SGPS, S.A, also under the terms of articles 20(1)(b) and (c) and 21 of the Portuguese Securities Code, as a result of the control relationship and shareholders agreement mentioned in a. (2) Under the terms of paragraph 1 of article 20º of the Portuguese Securities Code, the voting rights corresponding to 2.77% of NOS' share capital, held by Banco BPI's Pension Fund, are attributable to Banco BPI. Note: The calculation of the voting rights corresponding to each shareholder does not consider own shares held by the Company. 320 There is a detailed record of the communications regarding qualified shareholdings on NOS website, on http://www.nos.pt/ir. Evolution of NOS/PSI 20 share prices 2016, which is compared with valuation of the PSI 20 index of 15.2% during the same period. The changes in the price of NOS shares over the year, along with the number of shares traded each day, are shown in the following chart. 5.638 5.481 20.0% 4,000,000 15.0% 3,500,000 10.0% 3,000,000 5.0% 2,500,000 0.0% 2,000,000 -5.0% 1,500,000 -10.0% 1,000,000 -15.0% 500,000 -20.0% 0 30-12-2016 13-01-2017 27-01-2017 10-02-2017 24-02-2017 10-03-2017 24-03-2017 07-04-2017 21-04-2017 05-05-2017 19-05-2017 02-06-2017 16-06-2017 30-06-2017 14-07-2017 28-07-2017 11-08-2017 25-08-2017 08-09-2017 22-09-2017 06-10-2017 20-10-2017 03-11-2017 17-11-2017 01-12-2017 15-12-2017 29-12-2017 NOS Volume NOS Share Price PSI20 to the market over the year, such as results presentations, General Meetings of shareholders and dividend payments: Date Event 02-03-2017 Full Year 2016 Earnings Announcement 27-04-2017 General Shareholders Meeting 27-04-2017 First Quarter 2017 Earnings Announcement 27-04-2017 Approval of the Own Shares Acquisition Programme 26-05-2017 Dividend payment for the 2016 financial year 20-07-2017 First Half 2017 Earnings Announcement 08-11-2017 Third Quarter 2017 Earnings Announcement 321 In total, 163,555,957 NOS shares have changed hands in 2017, which corresponds to an average volume of 641,396 shares per session which means 0.12% of the issued shares. The main Portuguese share index, the PSI20 showed during 2017 a valuation of 15,2%, and the Spanish index, IBEX 35, suffered an increase of 7,4% from the end of 2016. Other international indices presented, during the year 2017 positive performances, and the FTSE100 (United Kingdom) increased by 7,6%. During 2017, CAC40 (France)and DAX (Germany) appreciated by 9.3% and 12.5%, respectively, while Dow Jones EuroStoxx 50 suffered a fall of 6,9%. 8. Shares and bonds held by members of the board of directors and the audit and finance committee and fiscal board Shares Name Position/Job 1H17 Transactions Balance 31-12-2016 Balance 31-12-2017 Acquisitions * Disposals Unit Price * Date Jorge Manuel de Brito Pereira Chairman of the Board of Directors 0 0 Miguel Nuno Santos Almeida Chairman of the Executive Committee 21,025 18,000 5.413 € 04-05-2017 39,025 18,327 5.413 € 04-05-2017 José Pedro Faria Pereira da Costa Executive Member 117,392 117,392 18,327 5.500 € 04-05-2017 10,501 5.413 € 04-05-2017 Manuel Ramalho Eanes Executive Member 0 0 10,501 ** 05-05-2017 Ana Paula Garrido de Pina Marques Executive Member 7,709 10,501 5.413 € 04-05-2017 18,210 Spouse 11,206 6,435 5.413 € 04-05-2017 17,641 Luís Moutinho do Nascimento (1) Executive Member 80 80 4,706 5.413 € 04-05-2017 Jorge Filipe Pinto Sequeira dos Santos Graça Executive Member 13,716 0 18,422 ** 05-05-2017 Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério (2) Non-executive Member 0 0 ZOPT, SGPS, SA 268,644,537 268,644,537 António Domingues Non-executive Member 0 0 António Bernardo Aranha da Gama Lobo Xavier (3) Non-executive Member 0 0 BPI, SA 14,275,509 14,275,509 ZOPT, SGPS, SA 268,644,537 268,644,537 Catarina Eufémia Amorim da Luz Tavira Van-Dúnem Non-executive Member 0 0 João Pedro Magalhães da Silva Torres Dolores Non-executive Member 0 0 Joaquim Francisco Alves Ferreira de Oliveira Non-executive Member 0 0 Lorena Solange Fernandes da Silva Fernandes Non-executive Member 0 0 Maria Cláudia Teixeira de Azevedo (4) Non-executive Member 0 0 ZOPT, SGPS, SA 268,644,537 268,644,537 Mário Filipe Moreira Leite da Silva (5) Non-executive Member 0 0 ZOPT, SGPS, SA 268,644,537 268,644,537 Paulo Cardoso Correia da Mota Pinto Chairman of the Fiscal Board 0 0 Eugénio Luís Lopes Franco Ferreira Member of the Fiscal Board 0 0 Patrícia Andrea Bastos Teixeira Lopes Couto Viana Member of the Fiscal Board 0 0 Luís Filipe da Silva Ferreira Substitute Member of Fiscal Board 0 0 Ernst & Young Audit & Associados, SROC, S.A. Statutory Auditor 0 0 Sandra e Sousa Amorim Statutory Auditor 0 0 Rui Abel Serra Martins Statutory Auditor 0 0 Paulo Jorge Luís da Silva Substitute Statutory Auditor 0 0 (1) Luís Moutinho do Nascimento was co-opted as Executive Member of the Board of Directors on 29 June 2017. (2) Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério is member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A., which owned, on 31 December 2017 a share correspondent to 52.15% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS and a member of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of Sonaecom, SGPS, S.A.. (3) António Bernardo Aranha da Gama Lobo Xavier is member of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of Sonaecom, SGPS, S.A. and also Vice-President of the Board of Directors of BPI, S.A. (4) Maria Cláudia Teixeira de Azevedo is member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A., company holding a share, on 31 December 2017, correspondent to 52.15% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS, and member of Board of Dircetors and Executive Committee of Sonaecom, SGPS, S.A.. (5) Mário Filipe Moreira Leite da Silva is member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A., company holding, on 31 December 2017 a share correspondent to 52.15% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS. * Share acquisitions with a 90% discount under the Short and Medium Term Variable Remuneration Regulation of NOS, SGPS, S.A. ** Please refer to the announcement made on NOS' institutional website at www.nos.pt/ir for further detail. 322 9. Special powers of the board of directors conferred by the law and the Articles of Association. According to article 16 of the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is especially responsible for managing the Company business and namely: a) The acquisition, divestment, leasing and encumbering movable and real estate assets, commercial establishments, investments in companies and vehicles; b) Entering into financing and loan agreements, including medium and long-term, internal or external agreements; c) Representing the Company in and out of court, actively and passively, with the right to withdraw, settle and make admissions in respect of any judicial proceeding. It may also enter into arbitration agreements; d) Appointing attorneys-in-fact with whatever powers it deems appropriate, including powers of subdelegation; e) Approving the management plans and business investment and operating budgets; f) Co-opting to replace directors who are definitively unavailable; g) Preparing and submitting to the approval of the General Meeting a stock option plan for the members of the Board of Directors as well as for employees with positions of high responsibility in the Company; h) subsidiary or affiliate companies; i) Passing resolutions for the Company to provide technical and/or financial support to its subsidiaries or affiliates; j) Exercising any other powers attributed to it by the General Meeting. d of Directors regarding resolutions on increasing the share capital. Additionally, pursuant to the provisions of article 17(1) of the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors can delegate day-to-day management of the Company to an Executive Committee. 10. Relevant commercial relations with owners of qualified shareholdings. NOS carried out no economically significant operations or business, for any of the parties involved, with members of the management or supervisory bodies or companies that are in a control or group 323 relationship, that were not conducted under normal market conditions for similar operations and that were NOS has not conducted any business or operation with qualifying shareholders or entities that are in any relationship with them pursuant to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code outside normal market conditions. NOS has also implemented transaction control mechanisms with related parties, as detailed in item 89. The Company regularly executed transactions and agreements with various entities within NOS Group. These operations were conducted under normal market terms for similar transactions and were part of the The Company also regularly executes transactions and financing agreements with financial institutions, which are qualifying shareholders, conducted under normal market terms for similar transactions, and In this matter, the procedures and criteria that apply to the intervention of the Fiscal Board in taking resolutions as to the business dealings with qualifying shareholders are detailed in items 89, 90 and 91 in this report. B. Corporate Bodies and Committees I. General Meeting 11. Composition of the board of the general meeting Pursuant to article 12(1) of NOS Articles of Association, the board of the General Meeting is composed by a chairman and a secretary. The board of the General Meeting is composed of:  Pedro Canastra de Azevedo Maia (Chairman)  Tiago Antunes da Cunha Ferreira de Lemos (Secretary) The term of office of the members of the board of the General Meeting is three years. The current term of office began on 26 April 2016, with the election of the corporate bodies at the Annual General Meeting for the three-year period of 2016/2018. The current members of the board of the General Meeting were elected for the second time. 324 The General Meeting, composed of shareholders with voting rights, meets at least once a year, pursuant to the provisions in article 376 of the CSC. Pursuant to articles 23-A of the Portuguese Securities Code and 375 of the CSC, a General Meeting is also held whenever convened by the Chairman of the board of the General Meeting, upon request from the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Board, or by shareholders who represent at least 2% of the share capital. Pursuant to article 21-B of the Portuguese Securities Code, the notice to call a General Meeting is published http://publicacoes.mj.pt). The on the information broadcasting system of the http://www.cmvm.pt) and on the Euronext Lisbon website. The board of the General Meeting is provided with all the resources needed to perform its duties, namely explained in the item 82 below. 12. Voting right restrictions the General Meetings. To every 100 shares corresponds one vote. The law and Articles of Association state that shareholders with voting rights who, on the record date, which is at 0:00 (GMT) on the fifth trading day before the General Meeting, own shares that grant them at least one vote pursuant t legal formalities as described in the corresponding notice, have the right to participate, discuss and vote at the General Meeting. The shareholdings, as a whole, are not subject to limits on the respective voting power, as there are no cap limits on voting. Additionally, considering the relationship of proportionality there is no time lag between the right to receive dividends or to subscribe new securities and the voting right. Legally, shareholders with fewer shares than they need for voting rights, can join together to reach the required number or more and be represented at the General Meeting by one of these shareholders. The voting rights can be exercised by postal vote, under the terms set forth in the Company's Articles of Association and by the notice of meeting, and may cover all matters included in the respective notice, under the terms and conditions set forth therein. The Company also has a system that allows, without limitations, the provision to shareholders of the possibility to use their voting rights in electronic form, being this information duly and promptly sent to 325 shareholders and made available to the public through the publication of the corresponding notice on the 13. Maximum number of votes for any shareholder held or exercised by each shareholder. Notwithstanding, pursuant to article 9 of the Articles of Association, shareholders that directly or indirectly conduct any activity that competes with the companies owned by the Company, cannot own ordinary shares that represent more than 10% of the Company share capital without prior authorization from the General Meeting. For this purpose, competing activity is understood to be an activity that is actually provided on the same market with the same services as those provided by companies owned by the Company. Indirect competing activity is deemed to be carried out by those who, directly or indirectly, own at least 10% of the capital in a Company that performs the activity pursuant to the previous paragraph or who is held by them in the same percentage. 14. Matters requiring a qualified quorum under the articles of association Pursuant to article 13 of the Articles of Association, notwithstanding the qualified majority provided by law, the General Meeting takes its resolutions by the simple majority of votes cast. The General Meeting can run at a first meeting so long as shareholders representing more than 50% of the share capital are present or represented. NOS Articles of Association do not, therefore, set any qualified quorum greater than that provided by law. II. Administration and Oversight 15. Identification of the governance model NOS adopts the reinforced one-tier governance model, set forth in article 278(1)(a) of the CSC. 326 Pursuant to article 278(1)(a) and (3) and article 413(1)(b), both from the CSC and article 10(1) of the Directors (who manages the Company), the Fiscal Board and the Statutory Auditor (who supervises the Company). General Meeting Remuneration Committee Statutory Auditor Board of Directors Fiscal Board Company Secretary Appointment and Evaluation Committee Ethics Committee Audit and Finance Commission Corporate Governance Commission Executive Committee NOS Board of Directors believes this model is fully and effectively implemented and there are no constraints on its operations. In addition, the current governance model has proven to be balanced and open to the adoption of the best domestic and international practices in matters of corporate governance. It is also believed that this governance structure allows the Company to work properly, enabling proper transparent dialogue between the different corporate bodies and between the Company, its shareholders and other stakeholders. Pursuant and for the purposes of article 446Directors and have the tasks established by law and cease their mandates with the termination of the Board of Directors that appointed them.  Company Secretary Sandra Martins Esteves Aires 327  Alternate Company Secretary Francisco Xavier Luz Patrício Simas The Company Secretary has the following powers to: Guarantee the formalities and conformity of the corporate acts; Ensure that several corporate documents are updated and disclosed; Provide assistance to the corporate bodies, the Company in general and the other companies of the Group in matters related with Corporate law, Securities law and Corporate Governance, enhancing compliance with laws, regulations and recommendations; Guarantee the necessary assistance to the meeting of the Board of Directors, of the Executive Committee and of the General Meeting of both NOS and subsidiaries; Manage the administrative support to the corporate bodies. Furthermore, under the applicable law, the Company Secretary is also empowered to: Act in the capacity of secretary in the meeting of the corporate bodies; Prepare minutes and sign them jointly with the members of the relevant corporate bodies and with the Chairman of the Board of the General Meeting whenever applicable; Keep in good order the books and sheets of the minutes, the presence lists, the shares record book as well as any formality related thereto; Send notices of meetings of the corporate bodies as required by law; Certify signatures of the members of the corporate bodies included in the com Certify all copies or transcriptions from the books of the Company or other archived documents as true, updated and complete; and provide information to the members of the corporate bodies performing supervisory functions over resolutions of the Board of Directors or of the Executive Committee; Partially or wholly certify the content of the by-laws in force, as well as the identity of the members of the several corporate bodies and their corresponding powers; ell as ensure that they are delivered or sent to the shareholders that have required them and have paid the corresponding costs; Certify with the corresponding initials all the documentation submitted to the General Meeting and referred to in the corresponding minutes; Promote the registration of corporate acts whenever required. 328 16. Rules of the articles of association about the appointment and replacement of board of directors Directors is composed of up to twenty-three members elected by the General Meeting, which appoints a chairman and if it so wishes, one or more vice-chairmen. If the General Meeting does not appoint a Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Board will make the appointment. CSC. The replacement of a director, if they cease their office before the end of the term of office, shall comply with applicable legal requirements, namely under article 393 of the CSC. where the director who is definitively absent is the Chairman or Vice-Chairman, he/she shall be replaced through election at the General Meeting. For this purpose, a director is considered to be definitively absent if, during their term of office, they miss two meetings in a row or five in total, without a justification that is accepted by the Board of Directors. 17. Composition of the Board of Directors twenty-three members elected by the General Meeting, which appoints a Chairman as well and if so wishes, one or more Vice-Chairmen. The Articles of Association set out no express provision on minimum number of directors to be part of NOS Board of Directors, following that the statutory minimum corresponds to the minimum legal requirement for a collegial body, such as the Board of Directors in the one-tier model, as set out in of article 278(1)(a) of the CSC.The General Meeting shall also be responsible for designating the Chairman of the Board of Directors and, if it so wishes, one or more Vice-Presidents. Association do not set a specific number of members on a corporate body, this number shall be established, on a case by case basis, by the resolution to elect, corresponding to the number of members elected. This does not affect, pursuant to article 10(4), the possibility to change the number of the corporate body members during the term of office, up to the legal limit or up to the limit set out by the Articles of Association. The members of NOS corporate bodies and other bodies keep their terms of office for renewable periods of three calendar years, and the calendar year of their appointment counts as a complete year. The current Board of Directors was elected at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2016, for the threeyear period of 2016/2018, and at the date of the election, it was composed of 17 Directors with Jorge Manuel de Brito Pereira appointed as Chairman. 329 Afterwards, following (i) the resignation of the Director Isabel dos Santos, disclosed to the market on 06 June, 2016, to the position of Member of the Board of Directors which, under the terms of article 404(2) of the CSC, was effective as from 30 July, 2016; (ii) the resignation of the Director António Domingues, disclosed to the market on 29 August, 2016, to the position of Member of the Board of Directors which, under the terms of article 404(2) of the CSC, was effective as from 30 September, 2016 and further cooptation for the position of Member of the Board of Directors for the current three-year period of 2016/2018, disclosed to the market on 7 March, 2017 and ratified on the General Meeting on 27, April 2017; (iii) co-optation of the Director Luís Moutinho Nascimento for the position of Member of the Board of Directors and Member of the Executive Comitee, for the current three-year period of 2016/2018, disclosed to the market on 29 June, 2017 and to be ratified on the General Meeting which will be held on 10 May 2018; and, (iv) the resignation of the Director André Nuno Malheiro dos Santos Almeida, disclosed to the market on 23 August, 2017, to the position of Member of the Board of Directors which, under the terms of article 404(2) of the CSC, was effective as from 30 September, 2017, the Board of Directors comprised 16 Directors, as follows: Board of Executive Non-executive First appointed and end of Directors Committee Director term of office 01/10/2013 Jorge de Brito Pereira Chairman --X 31/12/2018 01/10/2013 Miguel Almeida Member Chairman --31/12/2018 José Pedro Pereira da 21/09/2007 Member Member --Costa 31/12/2018 01/10/2013 Ana Paula Marques Member Member --31/12/2018 01/10/2013 Manuel Ramalho Eanes Member Member --31/12/2018 26/04/2016 Jorge Graça Member Member --31/12/2018 29/06/2017 Luís Nascimento Member Member --31/12/2018 01/10/2013 Ângelo Paupério Member --X 31/12/2018 01/10/2013 António Lobo Xavier Member --X 31/12/2018 01/09/2004 António Domingues* Member Member X 31/12/2018 Catarina Tavira Van27/11/2012 Member --X Dúnem 31/12/2018 31/01/2008 Joaquim Oliveira Member --X 31/12/2018 01/10/2013 Lorena Fernandes Member --X 31/12/2018 01/10/2013 Maria Cláudia Azevedo Member --X 31/12/2018 19/04/2010 Mário Leite da Silva Member --X 31/12/2018 26/04/2016 João Dolores Member --X 31/12/2018 330 *The Director António Domingues did not perform any functions during the period between his resignation to the position of Member of the Board of Directors, under the terms of article 404(2) of the CSC, on 29 August 2016, which was effective on 30 September 2016, and his further co-optation, disclosed to the market on 7 March, 2017 and ratified on the General Meeting on 27, April 2017; 18. Distinction between executive and non-executive (and independent) directors Members elected at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2016, approved on its meeting held on that same day, the incorporation of an Executive Committee currently composed by 6 members. number of non-executive members who ensure effective monitoring, oversight and assessment of the executive members of NOS. the respective free-float, in line with the definition of independence under the Recommendation II.1.7 of the Company has, among its non-executive Directors, one independent Director Lorena Solange Fernandes da Silva Fernandes. It shall be noted that the Non-Executive Directors of the Company have regularly and effectively developed their legal functions which generally consist in the supervision, oversight and evaluation of the executive -Executive Directors did not encounter any kind of constraint in performing their jobs. Pursuant to applicable legislation and regulations, particularly the provision in article 407(8) of the CSC, NOS Non-Executive Directors have performed their functions so as to comply with their duties of vigilance regarding the activity of the members of the Executive Committee. According to that provision, Nonfor any losses caused or acts or omissions by it, when they are aware of such acts or omissions or the intent to practice them, and do not call on Board intervention to take the proper measures Since the Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS is a Non-Executive Director, the functions of the NonExecutive Directors are particularly easy, since the Chairman is empowered to coordinate the activities of the Non-Executive Directors and to act as a link, shortening and simplifying the dialogue with the Executive Committee. One should also note the efforts by the Non-Executive Directors to keep up to date with different matters at all times, being studied and handled by the Board of Directors and their regular presence and participation in the meetings of that body, which largely contributes to the good performance of their jobs. NOS Non-Executive Directors have also made important contributions to the Company by performing their duties on the specialised Board of Directors committees (see item 27). In order to better guarantee the due and effective monitoring, oversight and assessment of the Executive ity, as determined by the Board of Directors the Executive Committee presents, on a 331 quarterly basis, to the Board of Directors, a summary of the most important points of its activity in the relevant period. In practice, the agenda of the Executive Committee activity is forwarded to the members of the Fiscal Board every month. In addition, the members of the Executive Committee, when so requested by other members of the corporate bodies, also provide proper and timely information. 19. fications a. Jorge Brito Pereira: Chairman of the Board of Directors Qualifications:  Degree in Law from Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Faculdade de Direito;   MBA from IMD. Professional Experience:  Partner at Uría Menéndez Proença de Carvalho, Sociedade de Advogados;  Chairman of the Board of the Shareholders Meeting of Banco Bic Português S.A.  Chairman of the Board of the Shareholders Meeting of Efacec Power Solutions S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of the Shareholders Meeting of SAPEC, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of the Shareholders Meeting of BFA Banco de Fomento de Angola, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of the Shareholders Meeting of CIMINVEST Sociedade de Investimentos e Participações S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of the Shareholders Meeting of SANTORO FINANCE Prestação de Serviços, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of the Shareholders Meeting of SANTORO FINANCIAL HOLDINGS, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of the Shareholders Meeting of FIDEQUITY SERVIÇOS DE GESTÃO S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of De Grisogono S.A.; b. Miguel Nuno Santos Almeida: Chairman of the Executive Committee Qualifications:  Degree in Mechanical Engineering from Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Engenharia;  MBA from INSEAD. Professional Experience:  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Comunicações, S.A.  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Technology Concepção, Construção e Gestão de Redes de Comunicações S.A.; 332  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Towering Gestão de Torres de Telecomunicações S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Sistemas Serviços em Tecnologia de Informação S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Inovação S.A.  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Açores Comunicações S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Cinemas S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo TV S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Madeira Comunicações S.A;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOSPUB Publicidade e Conteúdos S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Audiovisuais SGPS S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Internacional SGPS S.A.;  Former Chairman of the Executive Committee of OPTIMUS Comunicações, S.A.;  Former Executive Director and Member of the Board of Directors of Sonaecom, SGPS, S.A.. c. José Pedro Faria Pereira da Costa: Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committe Qualifications:  Degree in Business Administration and Management from Universidade Católica Portuguesa;  MBA from INSEAD. Professional Experience:  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Per-Mar, Sociedade de Construções S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sontária Empreendimentos Imobiliários S.A.;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Mstar S.A.;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais S.A.;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Cinemas S.A.;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo TV S.A.;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOSPUB Publicidade e Conteúdos S.A.;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Audiovisuais SGPS S.A.;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of NOS Internacional SGPS S.A.;  ViceChairman of Finstar Sociedade de Investimentos e Participações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Comunições S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Technology Concepção, Construção e Gestão de Redes de Comunicações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Towering Gestão de Torres de Telecomunicações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Dreamia Holding B.V.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Dreamia Serviços de Televisão S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Lusomundo Imobiliária 2 S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Lusomundo Sociedade de Investimentos Imobiliários SGPS S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Sistemas Serviços em Tecnologia de Informação S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Sistemas España S.L.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Inovação S.A.  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Açores Comunicações S.A.; 333  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Communications S.à.r.l.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Madeira Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Teliz Holding B.V.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Upstar Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Sport TV Portugal S.A.;  Manager of Empracine Empresa Promotora de Atividades Cinematográficas, Lda.;  Former Member of the Board of Directors of Group Portugal Telecom acting as CFO and responsible for PT Comunicações, PT.COM e PT Prime companies;  Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee of Telesp Celular Participações;  Member of the Executive Committe of Banco Santander de Negócios Portugal, responsible for Corporate Finance;  Started his career in McKinsey & Company in Portugal and Spain. d. Ana Paula Garrido de Pina Marques: Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Economy from Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Economia;  MBA from INSEAD. Professional experience:  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Technology Concepção, Construção e Gestão de Redes de Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Towering Gestão de Torres de Telecomunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Sistemas Serviços em Tecnologia de Informação S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Inovação S.A.  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Communications S.à.r.l.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Cinemas S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo TV S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Açores Comunicações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Madeira Comunicações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOSPUB Publicidade e Conteúdos S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Audiovisuais SGPS S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Internacional SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Per-Mar, Sociedade de Construções S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Sontária Empreendimentos Imobiliários S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Lusomundo Imobiliária 2 S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Lusomundo Sociedade de Investimentos Imobiliários SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Sport TV Portugal S.A.;  Manager of Empracine Empresa Promotora de Atividades Cinematográficas, Lda.;  Former Executive Director of OPTIMUS Comunicações, responsible for Business Unit, Home Service, Costumer Service, Operations and Terminals Management;   Former Manager of Marketing and Sales Private Mobile Service Business Unit of Optimus. 334  Former Manager of Branding and Communication, as well as Director of the Data Business Unit of Optimus;  Started her career in the Marketing Department of Procter & Gamble. e. Luís Moutinho do Nascimento: Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Management from Universidade Católica Portuguesa;  MBA from INSEAD. Professional experience:  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Technology Concepção, Construção e Gestão de Redes de Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Towering Gestão de Torres de Telecomunicações S.A.;   Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Sistemas Serviços em Tecnologia de Informação S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Inovação S.A.  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Cinemas S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo TV S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOSPUB Publicidade e Conteúdos S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Audiovisuais SGPS S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Internacional SGPS S.A.;   Member of the Board of Directors of Dreamia Holding B.V.;   Member of the Executive Committee of Portugal Telecom, responsible for B2C Sales and Marketing;  Manager of the Home Segment & CRM of Portugal Telecom;  Non-executive member of the Board of Directors of PT Contact;  Former Manager of Strategic Marketing of PT Multimedia;  Former Associate and Manager on Diamond Cluster;  Started his career as analyst on McKinsey & Company; f. Manuel António Neto Portugal Ramalho Eanes: Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Management from Universidade Católica Portuguesa;  MBA from INSEAD. Professional experience:  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Comunicações S.A.; 335  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Technology Concepção, Construção e Gestão de Redes de Comunicações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Towering Gestão de Torres de Telecomunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Sistemas Serviços em Tecnologia de Informação S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Inovação S.A.  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Açores Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Cinemas S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo TV S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOSPUB Publicidade e Conteúdos S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Audiovisuais SGPS S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Internacional SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Finstar Sociedade de Investimentos e Participações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Sistemas España S.L.;  Former Executive Director of Optimus Comunicações, SA, responsible for Companies and Operators;  Former Director at Optimus of Home Wireline, Central Marketing, Data Service, Particular Sales,  Started his career in McKinsey & Co. g. Jorge Filipe Pinto Sequeira dos Santos Graça: Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Business Management and Administration from Universidade Católica Portuguesa;  MBA from Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. Profissional experience:  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Technology Concepção, Construção e Gestão de Redes de Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Towering Gestão de Torres de Telecomunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Sistemas Serviços em Tecnologia de Informação S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Inovação S.A.  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Açores Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Madeira Comunicações S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Cinemas S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo Audiovisuais S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Lusomundo TV S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOSPUB Publicidade e Conteúdos S.A.;   Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Audiovisuais SGPS S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of NOS Internacional SGPS, S.A.;  Former Director of ZON TV Cabo responsible of Product and Marketing,  Former Director of Product TV of ZON TV Cabo;  Former Project Leader at The Boston Consulting Group. 336 h. Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério: Non-Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Civil Engineering from Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Engenharia;  Master in Companies Management MBA (Porto Business School). Profissional experience:  Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sonaecom, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sonae Investment Management Software and Technology, SGPS,S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Público Comunicação Social, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sonae Financial Services, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of MDS, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of da SFS Serviços de Gestão e Marketing S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of APGEI;  Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sonae MC Modelo Continente, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors and Co-CEO of Sonae, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Sonae Center Serviços II, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Sonae Investimentos, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Sonae Sierra, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Love Letters Galeria de Arte, S.A.;  Member of the Superior Board of Universidade Católica Portuguesa. i. António Bernardo Aranha da Gama Lobo Xavier: Non-Executive Member Qualifications:  Professional experience:  Partner and Board Member of Morais Leitão, Galvão Teles, Soares da Silva & Associados;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco BPI, SGPS, S.A.;   Member of the Board of Directors of Sonaecom, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Riopele, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Mota-Engil, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Fundação Casa da Música;  Member of the Board of Directors of Fundação Francisco Manuel dos Santos;  Member of the Curators Board of Fundação Belmiro de Azevedo;   Chairman of the General Meeting of AEM Associação de Empresas Emitentes de Valores Cotados em Mercado;  Chairman of the General Meeting of BERD Bridge Engineering Research & Design;  Chairman of General Meeting of Textil Manuel Gonçalves S.A.;  Chairman of General Meeting of Ascendum, S.A.; 337  Council of State (since 07.04.2016). j. Catarina Eufémia Amorim da Luz Tavira Van-Dúnem: Non-Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Management and Company Organisation from Instituto Universitário de Lisboa, ISCTE Instituto Superior de Ciências do Trabalho e da Empresa. Professional experience:  Executive Member of the Marketing and Product team which she created, launched and currently manages in ZAP, the company engaged with the distribution of TV channels via satellite in Angola and Mozambique;  Led the Products and Services team of Unitel, the leading telecommunications operator in Angola;  Angola;  Started her career in the USA as assistant manager in Sentis and Coral, partners of Shell Oil USA. k. Joaquim Francisco Alves Ferreira de Oliveira: Non-Executive Member Professional experience:  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Controlinveste, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Controlinveste Media, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Olivedesportos, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Olivedesportos Publicidade, Televisão e Media, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sport TV Portugal, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sportinveste Multimédia, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sportinveste Multimédia, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Gripcom, SGPS, S.A.;  Since 1984, the year he founded the Olivedesportos (leader and pioneer in the area of television and advertising rights linked to sporting events), he has been Chairman Board of Directors of several companies that make up the respective business group (Controlinveste);  In 1994, acquired the sports newspaper O Jogo and created, in 1996, PPTV (now incorporated in Olivedesportos), through which he founded jointly with RTP and PT Multimédia (now NOS) the first sports cable channel Sport TV, chairing today to its Board of Directors.  He also chairs, since its foundation in 2001, the Board of Directors of Sportinveste Multimedia SGPS, S.A. and Sportinveste Multimedia, S.A., joint venture, created to run multimedia content linked to sporting events;  In 2005, he acquired Grupo Lusomundo Media (currently Global Media Group), which currently holds 19,25% of the capital following the shareholder restructuring of that business sector, with the entry of new shareholders. 338 l. Lorena Solange Fernandes da Silva Fernandes: Non-Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Business Management from the Economy and Management faculty at Universidade Lusíadas de Angola and Senior Executive Programme, London Business School;  Post-graduate degree in Labour Law and Social Security from Lisbon Law School;  MBA Financial and Commercial Management from Brazilian Business School Escola Internacional de Negócios. Professional experience:  Store manager at Unitel S.A.;  Responsible for stores and agent departments at Unitel, S.A.. m. Maria Cláudia Teixeira de Azevedo: Non-Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Management from Universidade Católica Portuguesa;  MBA from INSEAD. Professional experience:  Chairwoman of the Executive Committee of SONAE CAPITAL, SGPS, S.A.  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of SONAECOM Serviços Partilhados, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of SONAECOM CYBER SECURITY AND INTELLIGENCE, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of S21SEC PORTUGAL CYBERSECURITY SERVICES, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of WeDo Consulting, Sistemas de Informação, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Saphety Level Trusted Services, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Digitmarket Sistemas de Informação, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of PCJ Público, Comunicação, e Jornalismo, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of BRIGHT DEVELOPMENT STUDIO, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Inovretail S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of TLANTIC PORTUGAL Sistemas de Informação, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of GRUPO S 21 SEC GESTIÓN, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of WeDo Technologies Americas Inc.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of SC, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of SC HOSPITALITY, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Troiaresort, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of CAPWATT, SGPS, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Race SGPS S.A. (former SISTAVAC, SGPS, S.A.);  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of EFANOR SERVIÇOS DE APOIO À GESTÃO, S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of LINHACOM, SGPS, S.A.  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of SC Industrials SGPS S.A.;  Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Praça Foz Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of WeDo Technologies España Sistemas de Informacion, S.L. (former Sonaecom Sistemas de Información España, S.L.); 339  Member of the Board of Directors of Público Comunicação Social, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of SONAECOM SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of SONAE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE AND TECHNOLOGY, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Armilar Venture Partners Sociedade de Capital de Risco, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of EFANOR INVESTIMENTOS, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of IMPARFIN, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of SEKIWI, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Vistas da Foz Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Setimanale SGPS S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of BA Business Angels SGPS S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of BA Capital SGPS S.A.;   General Manager of SAPHETY TRANSACCIONES ELECTRONICAS, S.A.;  General Manager of WeDo Technologies Egypt;  General Manager of WeDo Technologies (UK) Limited;  Manager of Praesidium Services Limited (UK);  Diretor of WeDo Technologies Australia PTY Limited;  Diretor of WeDo Technologies Mexico, S. De R.L. De C.V.. n. Mário Filipe Moreira Leite da Silva: Non-Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Economics from Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Economia. Professional experience:  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Fidequity Serviços de Gestão S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Santoro Finance Prestação de Serviços, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Santoro Financial Holding SGPS, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of BFA Banco de Fomento de Angola, S.A.;  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Efacec Power Solutions SGPS S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Nova Cimangola, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, SGPS, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of SOCIP Sociedade de Investimentos e Participações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Finstar Sociedade de Investimentos e Participações, S.A.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Esperaza Holding B.V.;  Member of the Board of Directors of Kento Holding Limited;  Member of the Board of Directors of Victoria Holding Limited. 340 o. João Pedro Magalhães da Silva Torres Dolores: Non-Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Economics from Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Economia;  MBA from London Business School. Professional experience:  Manager of Strategic Planning and Management Control of Sonae, SGPS, S.A.;  Former Manager of Cloud Business Unit of Portugal Telecom, SGPS, S.A.;  Former Sub-Manager of Inovation Management of Portugal Telecom, SGPS, S.A.;  Former Senior Associate at McKinsey & Company;  Former Brand Manager of JW Burmester & Ca, S.A.. p. António Domingues: Non-Executive Member Qualifications:  Degree in Economics from Instituto Superior de Economia de Lisboa; Professional experience:  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Fomento Angola;  Non-executive Member of the Board of Directors Haitong Bank;  Chairman of Efacec Risk and Finance Committee;  Former Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of Caixa Geral de Depósitos;  Former Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of Banco BPI;  Former Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Português de Investimentos and of BCI Moçambique;  Former Member of the Board of Directors of UNICRE, SIBS and Allianz Portugal;  Former Member of the Board of Directors of BPI Madeira, SGPS, S.A.;  Former Member of the Management of BPI SGPS S.A.;  Former Central Manager of the Financial and International Management of BPI-Banco Português de Investimento S.A.;  Former Deputy Director-General of the French Branch of Banco Português do Atlântico;  Former Technical Advisor of the Foreign Department of Banco de Portugal;  Former Director of the Foreign Department of the Issuing Institute of Macau;  Former Technical Economist of the Planning and Studies Office of the Ministry of Industry and Energy. 341 20. Relationship between Directors and Shareholders with a qualified shareholding over 2%  Jorge Brito Pereira: Chairman of the Board of Directors He is Partner of a law firm, that acts as council of Companies controlled by Isabel dos Santos (to whom a qualified holding of the share capital and voting rights of the Company is attributable to, as explained in depth in item 7 of this report) and companies controlled directly or indirectly by her.  Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério: Member of the Board of Directors He is a Member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, a company which shareholding, on 31 December 2017, corresponds to 52.15% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS (disregarding own shares). He is Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sonaecom SGPS, S.A..  António Bernardo Aranha da Gama Lobo Xavier: Member of the Board of Directors He is a Member of the Board of Directors of Banco BPI, S.A., a company which shareholding, on 31 December 2017, corresponds to 2.77% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS (disregarding own shares). He is a Member of the Board of Directors of Sonaecom SGPS, S.A..  Mário Leite da Silva: Member of the Board of Directors He is a Member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, a company which shareholding, on 31 December 2017, corresponds to 52.15% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS (disregarding own shares). He is a Member of the Board of Directors of Kento Holding Limited.  Maria Cláudia Teixeira de Azevedo: Member of the Board of Directors She is a Member of the Board of Directors of ZOPT, a company which shareholding, on 31 December 2017, corresponds to 52.15% of the share capital and voting rights of NOS (disregarding own shares). She is a Member of the Board of Directors of Sonaecom SGPS, S.A.. 21. Organograms and competence maps Under the Articles of Association, the General Meeting, the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Board and the Statutory Auditor are corporate bodies of the Company. NOS General Meeting has, particularly, the following duties: a) To elect the members of the board of the General Meeting, the members of the Board of Directors, the members of the Fiscal Board and the Statutory Auditor; b) corporate governance report; c) To pass resolutions on the application of profits for the financial year; d) To pass resolutions on any amendments to the Articles of Association, including share capital increases; 342 e) To resolve on any other items to which it was convened. NO Members of the Board of Directors which do not perform executive duties shall promote the adequate supervision and surveillance of the performance of the members of the Executive Committee. and delegated the day-to-day management of the Company to an Executive Committee for the three-year period of 2016/2018, setting out the corresponding composition, functioning and delegation of management powers. Therefore, the Board of Directors delegated to the Executive Committee the necessary powers to develop and execute the day-to-day management of the Company. The following items were not delegated: a) Election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors; b) Co-optation and, where appropriate, election of members of the corporate bodies of the Company and its subsidiaries; c) Convening General Meetings; d) Approval of annual reports and financial statements, to be submitted to the General Meeting, as well as the half-yearly and quarterly reports and financial statements and the results to be disclosed to the market; e) Approval of the activity plans, budgets and annual investment plans of the Company, as well as any substantial amendments and which cause relevant impacts on those plans: f) Definition of the general goals and fundamental options that shall be deemed strategic due to their amount, risk or special characteristics; g) Posting bonds or secured or personal guarantees; h) or internal organization, as well as that of the other companies of the same group; i) j) Approval of merger, demerger and transformation projects of the Company or which envolve Group companies, except if, in these cases, such operations constitute mere internal restructures within the framework of the global goals and the fundamental principles that were approved; k) Appointing the Secretary of the Company and its alternate; l) Incorporating companies and subscribing, acquiring, encumbering and disposing of stakeholdings, when such transactions involve amounts higher than 2,500,000 Euros; m) Acquisition, disposal and encumbrance of rights, movable and immovable property, including any kind of securities, financial instruments, shares and bonds, when involving amounts higher than 2,500,000 Euros; n) Signing contracts to pursue the corporate object, when such contracts involve amounts higher than 50,000,000 Euros; o) Enter into any transactions between the Company and the shareholders of qualifying holdings of 2% or more of the voting rights (Qualifying Holders) and/or related entities under article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code (Related Party) when such transactions exceed the individual amount of 75,000 Euros or the annual aggregate amount by the service provider of 150,000 Euros 343 (regardless of the approval of such transactions, in general or structural terms, by the Board of Directors); p) Resolving, pursuant to the law and the Articles of Association, on the issue of bonds and commercial paper as well as the obtaining loans on the national and international financial market, once or more, when it involves amounts higher than that of the net financial debt of the Company on the EBITDA of 2 and up until the limit of 25,000,000 Euros per contract or issue. Alongside the day-to-day management of the Company, the Executive Committee is responsible, in particular, for: a) Proposing to the Board of Directors the strategic guidelines of the Group and the fundamental policies of the Company and its subsidiaries; b) Cooperating with the Board of Directors and its Committees regarding what is deemed necessary for the performance of the respective objectives; c) Defining the internal rules regarding the organization and functioning of the Company and its subsidiaries, notably concerning hiring, definition of remuneration categories and conditions and other employee benefits; d) Issuing instructions to companies of the same group under total control, and controlling the implementation of the guidelines and policies under the previous paragraphs; e) Exercising disciplinary authority and deciding on the application of any sanctions regarding the employees of the Company. The Board of Directors, when defining the functioning of the Executive Committee, especifically delegated to the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the following duties: a) Coordenating the activity of the Executive Committee; b) Convening and conducting the meetings of the Executive Committee; c) Providing for the proper implementation of the resolutions of the Board of Directors; d) Providing for the proper implementation of the resolutions of the Executive Committee; e) Ensuring the compliance with the limitations on the delegation of duties, on the strategy of the Company and the duties of cooperation with the Chairman of the Board of Directors and other members of the Board of Directors as well as other company bodies; f) Ensuring that the Board of Directors is informed of the actions and relevant decisions of the Executive Committee as well as guaranteeing that all the clarifications requested by the Board of Directors are provided in a timely and appropriate manner; g) Ensuring that the Board of Directors is informed, on a quarterly basis, of the transactions that, within the duties delegated to the Executive Committee, have been entered into between the Company and shareholders owing a qualified shareholding equal or above 2% of the voting rights (Qualifying Shareholders) and/or any entities in a relationship of article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code with them (Related Entities), when such transactions exceed the individual amount of 10,000 Euros. The Board of Directors, upon a proposal from the Chairman of the Executive Committee, defined and attributed specific responsibilities to each member of the Executive Committee to oversee and coordinate the various areas of the Group activity. 344 Nowadays, the organizational and operational structure of the Company is the following: Organizational and Operational General Structure Meeting Remuneration Statutory Board of Fiscal Committee Auditor Directors Board Company Appointment Secretary and Evaluation Committee Ethics Audit and Finance Committee Commission Executive Corporate Governance Committee Commission Miguel José Pedro Ana Paula Almeida Pereira da Costa Marques CEO VP/CFO Human Resources General Secretary Administrative, Financial and Transformation Accounting Legal and Regulation Brand Management & Corporate Finance Communication Corporate Communications and Sustainability Investor Relations Customer Service & Back Office Management Control Proceedings International Business Development Internal Audit and Risk Management Terminal Management Operations and Logistics Madeira Purchasing Market & Customer Intelligence Açores Assets & General Services NOS Luxembourg Installations and Maintenance Jorge Luís Manuel Graça Nascimento Ramalho Eanes Engineering and Development of Residential Product Corporate Network and Infrastructure Business Marketing Mobile and Convergent Network Engineering Product Corporate Solutions Infrastructure Development Sales (Private) Sales SMEs Service Platforms CRM Sales Large Enterprises Data Centre Commercial Wholesale Operation and Supervision Retail Information Enterprises & Operators Information Systems Business Development Demand & Governance Content Delivery & Transformation Advertising Support & Quality Broadcasting and Cinema Product Development 345 As previously referred, the Company adopted a reforced one-tier governance model where the out by a Fiscal Board and a Statutory Auditor, as better detailed in items 30 to 47 below. 22. Regulation for the functioning of the Board of Directors website. The Board of Directors is responsible for managing the Company's business, and to exercise the powers provided for in article 16 of the Articles of Association, described in item 9 above, to which reference is made. Pursuant to article 3 of the Regulations of the Directors is responsible for: a) Representing the Board of Directors and the Company; b) Co-ordinating the activity of the Board of Directors; c) Convening and chairing meetings of the Board of Directors; d) Ensuring, in conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer, proper implementation of the resolutions of the Board of Directors; e) Ensuring together with the Chairman of the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors is informed of all relevant actions and resolutions of the Executive Committee as well as ensuring that all the clarifications requested by the Board of Directors are provided in a timely and proper manner; f) Oversee the relation between the Company and the shareholders. The Company Secretary or they are responsible for organising the papers for the meetings, particularly ensuring that all members are notified, at least 5 days in advance, the agenda and supporting documents and for drawing up the minutes. 23. Meetings of the Board of Directors and attendance of each member Under article 4 of the Regulation of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors of NOS meets at least 6 times a year and whenever is convened on the initiative of the Chairman, or by two directors. Directors cannot be held without the attendance of the majority of its current members and the Chairman 346 of the Board of Directors, in cases of noted urgency, may excuse the attendance of that majority if their participation is ensured by postal votes or by proxy. The Directors may attend the meetings of the Board of Directors by electronic means. The Company shall ensure the authenticity of the statements and the security of communications, recording the contents thereof and identifying the participants. Postal votes and proxy votes are permitted, although a Director may not represent more than one other Director. Resolutions of the Board of Directors shall be taken by a majority of the votes cast, the Chairman having a casting vote. Resolutions taken at the meetings of the Board of Directors, as well as explanations of vote, are recorded in the minutes drawn up by the Company Secretary or by their Alternate. During 2017, the current Board of Directors met 8 times, 5 times in person and 3 by electronic means. The presence of the members on the in-person meetings was as follows: Attendance of Executive Non-executive Board of Directors meetings of the Board Committee Directors of Directors Jorge de Brito Pereira Chairman --X 5P Miguel Almeida Vice-Chairman Chairman --5P José Pedro Pereira da Member Vice-Chairman --5P Costa Ana Paula Marques Member Member --5P André Almeida* 1 Member Member --1P Manuel Ramalho Eanes Member Member --5P Jorge Graça* 2 Member Member --5P Luís Nascimento Member Member --3P Ângelo Paupério Member --X 5P António Lobo Xavier Member --X 5P António Domingues * 3 Member --X 4P Catarina Tavira VanMember --X 1 P, 1 R and 3 A Dúnem Joaquim Oliveira Member --X 4 P and 1 R Lorena Fernandes Member --X 5P Maria Cláudia Azevedo Member --X 3 P and 2 R Mário Leite da Silva Member --X 2 P and 3 R 347 Attendance of Executive Non-executive Board of Directors meetings of the Board Committee Directors of Directors João Dolores Member --X 4 P and 1 R P Present R Represented A Absent * Term suspended by personal motives, with effect from 1 October 2016, lasting 6 months. Subsequently, under the terms of article 404 (2) of the CSC, and there was no 1 appointment or alternate election, the resignation of Director André Almeida took effect on 30 September 2017. * 2 Under article 393 (3)(b) of the CSC, the Company disclosed to the market on 29 July 2017 the co-optation of the Director Luís Moutinho Nascimento. * 3 Under article 393 (3)(b) of the CSC, the Company disclosed to the market on 7 March 2017 the co-optation of the Director António Domingues. Moreover, regarding the meetings of the Board of Directors held by electronic means, pursuant to article of the Regulation of the Board of Directors, were present all the Directors, except for the meeting of 24 February 2017, in which the directors Cláudia Azevedo and Catarina Van-Dúnem did not attend for reasons accepted by the Board of Directors. The absences of the Directors, consecutive or not, were always duly justified and accepted by the Board of Directors. 24. Bodies with the power to conduct evaluation of executive Directors The Remuneration Committee is empowered to assess the achievement of objectives by the Directors, supported by an opinion issued by the Appointment and Evaluation Committee (AEC). The Board of Directors, at the begining of the new term of office corresponding to the three-year period 2016/2018, from 26 April 2016 to 31 December 2018, in its pursuit of the best corporate governance practices and in compliance with the Recommendations of the CMVM concerning the need for the Board of Directors to create the committees revealed necessary, notably to ensure competent and independent evaluation of the performance of executive Directors and of their own overall performance, as well as of the several existing committees, created the AEC, made up of a Chairman and two Members, who are: Chairman: Ângelo Paupério Member: Mário Leite da Silva Member: Jorge Brito Pereira A description of the powers and functioning of the AEC is presented in item 29 below. 25. Executive Directors evaluation criteria The evaluation criteria for the members of the Executive Committee are measurable and pre-defined, -long term perspective. 348 As an example, the aggregated items considered for the purposes mentioned above generally combine financial and operational indicators. In this scope and for further detail please refer to items 70 and 71 of this report. 26. Availability of the Directors diligence, guaranteeing careful management in accordance with best practices, scrupulously fulfilling their general and fundamental duties, namely: i) the duty of care; ii) the duty of diligent management; and iii) the duty of loyalty. For a better understanding of the effective availability of the members of the Board of Directors, reference is made to paragraph 19 of this report which contains not only the professional experience of the members of the Board of Directors, but also the positions currently performed by them. 27. Specialized committees Considering the limits set out by law and the best corporate governance practices, the Board of Directors of NOS, at its meeting on 26 April 2016, created and delegated to an Executive Committee the day-to-day management of the Company, for the term of office corresponding to the three-year period 2016/2018. In compliance with the applicable legal or regulatory requirements always with merely ancillary duties and the resolutions to be taken only by the Board of Directors NOS Board of Directors created, in addition to the Executive Committee: a. A Corporate Governance Committee; b. An Audit and Finance Committee; c. An Appointment and Evaluation Committee; d. An Ethics Committee. The Corporate Governance, Audit and Finance and Appointment and Evaluation committees as well as the 28. Composition of the Executive Committee The Board of Directors of NOS, at its meeting on 26 April 2016, created and delegated to an Executive Committee the day-to-day management of the Company, for the term of office corresponding to the threeyear period 2016/2018. 349 The members of the Executive Committee are chosen by the Board of Directors and the Committee is made up of a minimum of three and a maximum of seven Directors, as provided for in article 17(1) of the Currently, the Executive Committee is composed by a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman and by four members, whose professional profiles ensure their recognised reputation and competence to perform their duties. For more detailed information related with the professional experience and expertise to their positions by the Members of the Executive Committee, refer to paragraph 19 of this Report. Additionally, the Board of Directors defined the functioning and delegation of management powers to the Executive Committee, which is available for consultation on the Company's website. The Executive Committee sets the dates and frequency of its ordinary meetings and meets extraordinarily whenever called by the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman or by two of its Members. The Executive Committee is not able to function without the presence of a majority of its effective members. However, the Chairman may, when notably urgent, waive the presence of such majority, provided it is represented. Postal votes and proxy votes are allowed. However, any member of the Executive Committee may not represent more than one other member. The attendance by means of video or conference call is also allowed. Resolutions are taken by a majority of votes cast, and the Chairman has a casting vote. The resolutions taken at meetings of the Executive Committee, as well as explanations of vote are recorded in minutes drawn up by the Secretary of the Company or the Alternate. The Board of Directors delegates to the Executive Committee the necessary powers to develop and implement the day-to-day management of the Company, as detailed in item 21 of this Report, where an informative table presents the composition of the Executive Committee as well as the respective allocation of powers. The powers delegated to the Executive Committee may be subdelegated, in their entirety or in part, to one or more of its members, or to employees of the Company. Consideri Board, as well as the delegation of powers to the Executive Committee) and the practices it follows, NOS has appropriate mechanisms to allow the flow of information among the executive members and the members of other corporate bodies. The Directors who, jointly or separately, intend to access information included within the framework of the powers delegated to the Executive Committee may request it directly from the Chairman of that committee or through the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Moreover, as follows from the internal regulations on the functioning of the Executive Committee, its of Directors is informed of the relevant actions and resolutions of the Executive Committee and also ensuring that all explanations requested by 350 In turn, under the terms of the Regulations of the Fiscal Board, whenever deemed necessary, this Board shall request from the Chairman of the Board of Directors: a) The minutes of the meetings of the Executive Committee, as well as the quarterly reports on its activities that it has prepared; and b) The notices of meetings, the minutes of the Board of Directors and the corresponding support documents. 29. Powers of Committees and of the Ethics Committee Corporate Governance Committee By resolution taken on 26 April 2016, the Board of Directors, in the pursuit of best corporate governance practices and in compliance with the CMVM Recommendations, concerning the need to create the committees deemed necessary, in particular, to reflect on the governance system, structure and practices adopted, verify their effectiveness and propose measures to the appropriate bodies with a view to their improvement, created, for the three-year period of 2016/2018, a Corporate Governance Committee (CGC), made up of a Chairman and three Members: Chairman: António Lobo Xavier Member: Jorge Brito Pereira Member: Lorena Fernandes Member: Joaquim Oliveira The powers of the CGC are the following: a) To study, propose and recommend the adoption by the Board of Directors of the policies, rules and procedures necessary for compliance with the applicable legal and regulatory provisions as well as both national and international, in the matter of corporate governance, rules of conduct and social responsibility; b) To strive for full compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, recommendations and best corporate principles and practices in matters such as: (i) structure, competences and operation of the governing bodies and in-house committees and their internal articulation; (ii) requirements as to qualifications, experience, incompatibilities, and independence applicable to members of the management and supervisory bodies; (iii) efficient mechanisms for the performance of duties by non-executive members of the management body; 351 (iv) exercise of voting rights, representation and equal treatment of shareholders; (v) prevention of conflicts of interest; (vi) transparency of corporate governance, of information to be disclosed to the market and of the c) bodies, directors and employees and those of its subsidiaries and also to perfect and update the said Code, submitting to the Board of Directors such proposals as it may deem appropriate for the purpose, and proposing to the Board of Directors those measures it considers appropriate for the development of a corporate and professional ethics culture within the Company; d) To receive, discuss, investigate and evaluate alleged irregularities reported to it, as provided for in e) To s the matters of corporate governance, rules of conduct and social responsibility. The CGC shall meet at least once a year and may additionally meet whenever convened by its Chairman, by any of its members or by the Chairman of the Executive Committee. The resolutions taken are recorded in minutes signed by all the members of this committee taking part in each meeting. The Regulations of the CGC are available for c www.nos.pt. Audit and Finance Committee By resolution taken on 26 April 2016, the Board of Directors, in the pursuit of best corporate governance practices, created for the three-year period of 2016/2018, an Audit and Finance Committee (AFC), made up of a Chairman and five Members: Chairman: António Domingues Member: Ângelo Paupério Member: Jorge Brito Pereira Member: Catarina Tavira Van-Dúnem Member: Mário Leite da Silva Member: João Dolores However, following the resignation of the Director António Domingues as member of the Board of Directors of NOS as well as Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee which took effect from 30 September 2016, the Board of Directors on 7 November 2016 resolved to appoint the Director Mário Leite da Silva to fill in the vacant Chairman position. Subsequently, and because of the co-optation of the 352 Director António Domingues and of the resignation of the Director Mário Leite da Silva as Chairman of AFC, disclosed by letter dated 1 March 2017, the Board of Directors resolved to appoint António Domingues as Chairman of this committee. The powers of the AFC are the following: a) b) to review and examine, at the end of the year, the NOS Group Budget for the following year; c) to review and examine the NOS Group strategic plan for the relevant year; d) to review the annual, half-yearly, quarterly, and similar financial statements to be published, and to report its findings to the Board of Directors; e) to advise the Board of Directors on its reports for the market to be included in the publication of the annual, half-yearly and quarterly results; f) to advise the Fiscal Board, on behalf of the Board of Directors, on the appointment, duties and remuneration of the External Auditor; g) to advise the Board of Directors on the quality and independence of the Internal Audit function, and on the appointment and dismissal of the Internal Audit Manager; h) to review the scope of the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions, as well as their relationship with the work of the External Auditor; i) to review and discuss with the External Auditor and the person in charge of risk management the reports produced within the scope of their duties and, consequently, to advise the Board of Directors on matters deemed relevant; j) regarding, notably, the risk control policies, the identification of key risk indicators (KRI) and the assessment risk evaluation; k) for the financial information, risk management systems and internal audit; l) to review, discuss and advise the Board of Directors on the accounting policies, criteria and practices adopted by the Company; m) to establish, execute and supervise the receipt and processing of the accounting complaints, the internal accounting and auditing controls; n) hareholders and investors; o) p) q) to review and issue a prior opinion on transactions between the Company and Shareholders of qualifying holdings equal to or greater than 2% of the voting rights (Qualifying Shareholders) and/or entities with which they are in any relationship pursuant to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code (Related Parties). The AFC shall meet at least four times a year and may additionally meet whenever convened by its Chairman or by any of its members. The resolutions taken are recorded in minutes signed by all the members of this committee taking part in each meeting. The Regulation of the AFC is avai www.nos.pt. 353 Appointment and Evaluation Committee As in the aforementioned committees, by resolution taken on 26 April 20116, the Board of Directors, created for the three-year period of 2016/2018, the Appointment and Evaluation Committee (AEC), made up of a Chairman and three Members, appointed by the Board of Directors from among its members. Currently, the AEC has the following composition: Chairman: Ângelo Paupério Member: Jorge Brito Pereira Member: Mário Leite da Silva The AEC is responsible in particular for the following: a) Assist the Board of Directors when appointing Directors to be appointed by co-optation to join the rs, under Article 393(3)(b) of the CSC; b) In its duties of assisting the Board of Directors, in the event of a vacancy in the Board of Directors or in with the most suited profile to fulfill such vacancy, regarding the set of skills, knowledge and professional experience required to perform such tasks; c) Conducting the annual process of evaluation of the members of the Executive Committee, ensuring further harmonization with the Remuneration Committee; d) Within the annual process of evaluation of the members of the Executive Committee, propose to the Remuneration Committee the criteria which will be regarded when establishing the floating remuneration, namely the individual performing goals; e) Performing an overall evaluation of the Board of Directors and of its specialised committees existing within the Board of Directors. f) Whenever requested by the Board of Directors or by the Remuneration Committee, issue an opinion on Within its scope of activity, AEC must uphold the long-term interests of shareholders, investors and The AEC meets whenever it is convened by initiative of its Chairman or by any of its members. The resolutions taken by the AEC are recorded in minutes signed by all the members of this committee taking part in each meeting. The R www.nos.pt. 354 Ethics Committee Through the resolution adopted on 26 April 2016, the Board of Directors resolved, for the three-year period of 2016/2018, the incorporation of an Ethics Committee composed by a Chairman (Non-executive Director) and two Members (Executive Director in charge of Human Resources and the Chairman of the Fiscal Board) as follows: Chairman: António Lobo Xavier Member: Ana Paula Marques Member: Paulo Mota Pinto The Ethics Committee is responsible in particular for the following:  Receiving and responding to requests for clarification and expression of concerns related with the Code of Ethics and its observance, through an email created for this purpose;  Analysing, discussing and appraising the requests for clarification of questions or concerns related with the content of the Ethics Code or its observance, that have been submitted to the hierarchical managers, to the Human Resources Department or by e-mail created for this purpose;  Requesting the internal audit, within the framework of its powers, the investigations that may be deemed necessary at each moment;  Issuing opinions about measures to be taken as a result of such investigation;  Promoting and monitoring the implementation of the Ethics Code, in particular with regard to communication actions, awareness and training of employees, suppliers and partners, towards the strengthening of an ethical culture;  Issuing, when requested to do so by any corporate body of the Company, opinions about ethics or conduct codes, or about professional practices which need to meet legal and / or regulatory requirements;  itable, making a review of the Code of Ethics and respective procedures concerning the needs of the Company and submit it for the approval of CGC;  Suggesting to CGC policies, goals, instruments and indicators regarding the management system of corporate ethical performance;  Ensuring the management system of corporate ethical performance is compatible with the requirements of NOS internal control system;  Send to CGC, whenever relevant for the purposes of corporate governance, a report of the executed actions;  Reporting and annually submit to the Board of Directors an activity report;  Clarifying questions arising from the Ethics Code, including, without limitation, the clarification on the matters which are subject to the competence of the Fiscal Board under the Whistleblowing Regulation or other legal powers of this body as opposed to the matters that are under the Ethics Committee's competence under the Ethics Code;  Preparing the annual report of activity in order to meet the Company's commitments concerning sustainability. The resolutions of the Ethics Committee are taken by a majority or, in the event of a tie, by the casting vote of its Chairman. 355 The Ethics Committee is able to receive requests for clarification or concerns related with the Code of Ethics and its compliance, presented by employees, partners, suppliers, customers or third parties, in person or in writing, by the email comitedeetica@nos.pt. The Ethics Committee also analyses the requests for clarification and concerns relating with possible breaches of the Code of Ethics. The Ethics Committee meets whenever it is convened by initiative of its Chairman, or by any of its members and is assisted by the Internal Audit Director. III. Supervision 30. Identification of the Fiscal Board Pursuant to article 278(1)(a) and (3) and article 413(1)(b), all of the CSC, and article 10(1) and article 21 both of the Articles of Association, the supervision of the Company is the responsibility of: a) a Fiscal Board; b) a Statutory Auditor or an Audit Firm; Their duties correspond to those assigned by law. 31. Composition of the Fiscal Board Fiscal Board members and an alternate member, elected by the General Meeting, which shall also elect its Chairman. It is made clear that, while there is no provision in the Articles of Association requiring a minimum or maximum number of members of the Fiscal Board, this Board should necessarily be made of three effective members and one alternate member per the terms of law. Pursuant to article 10(6) of the Company perform their duties for renewable periods of three calendar years, the calendar year of their appointment is considered a full year. At the General Meeting, on 26 April 2016, the following members were elected as members of the Fiscal Board, for the three-year period of 2016/2018: Chairman: Paulo Cardoso Correia da Mota Pinto Member: Eugénio Luís Lopes Franco Ferreira Member: Patrícia Andrea Bastos Teixeira Lopes Couto Viana 356 Alternate: Luís Filipe da Silva Ferreira The Fiscal Board members were elected for the three-year period of 2016/2018; hence, their term of office ends on 31 December, 2018 (nonetheless, being kept in office until new election). Statutory Auditor Pursuant to article are elected by the General Meeting acting on a proposal from the Fiscal Board. corporate bodies perform their duties for renewable periods of three calendar years, the calendar year of their appointment being considered a full year. At the General Meeting, on 26 April 2016, the following were elected as full and alternate Statutory Auditors, to complete the current three-year period: Full: Ernst & Young Audit & Associados, SROC, S.A., (ROC No. 178), represented by Ricardo Filipe de Frias Pinheiro (ROC No. 739). Alternate: Paulo Jorge Luís da Silva (ROC No 1334) Since 18 July 2017, the Statutory Auditor was represented by Sandra e Sousa Amorim (ROC no. 1213) and Rui Abel Serra Martins (ROC No. 1119), as disclosed to the market on 21 July 2017. The Statutory Auditors were elected for the three-year period of 2016/2018; hence their term of office ends on 31 December 2018 (nonetheless, they may be kept in office until new election). 32. Identification of independent members All the members of the Fiscal Board are independent in the light of the criteria laid down in article 414(5) of the CSC. 33. and 36. Professional qualifications, availability and other offices held by the members of the Fiscal Board The members of the Fiscal Board are manifestly suitable and have academic and professional experience appropriate to the exercise of supervisory functions. law, notably and respectively, under the terms of articles 415 and 419 of the CSC. In order to ensure a more assertive understanding of the availability of the Fiscal Board members, the functions performed by them, as well as their academic and professional qualifications and professional activities, are described below: 357 Paulo Cardoso Correia da Mota Pinto Qualifications:  Degree, Mast de Coimbra, Faculdade de Direito. Professional Experience:  He began his teaching career in 1990 and is a Professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra. He has also taught and given lectures in the field of private law at other universities in Portugal and abroad (Brazil, Angola, Mozambique, Macau, Spain, Germany, etc.);  sometimes as examiner. He has published studies (articles and books) mainly in the field of civil law and fundamental rights and has written preliminary drafts of laws (such as the legal rules governing the sale of consumer goods and direct-mail advertising);  Constitutional Court Judge, elected by the Portuguese Parliament, from 11 March 1998 to 4 April 2007, having been rapporteur in that capacity for more than 550 judgments and more than 350 summary decisions on a variety of subjects (almost all available unabridged at www.tribunalconstitucional.pt);  Since April 2007 he has worked as a legal adviser and arbitrator. In this latter capacity, he has chaired or been a member of ad hoc arbitral tribunals, set up by the Centres for Commercial Arbitration of the Associação Comercial do Porto and the Associação Comercial de Lisboa or for the International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce;  Chairman of the General Meeting of Caixa Geral de Depósitos, S.A., since 2016;  Legal Advisor of BPI Banco Português de Investimento from 1991 to 1998;  Former Member of Parliament, Chairman of the Parliamentary Budget and Finance Committee of the 11th Legislature, from November 2009 to April 2011, and Chairman of the European Affairs Committee, of the 12th Legislature, from June 2011 to October 2015;  Former Chairman of the Intelligence Oversight Committee of the Portuguese Republic, elected by the Assembly of the Republic, from March 2013 to December 2017;  Former Vice-Chairman of the National Political Committee of the PSD between 2008 and 2010. Patrícia Andrea Bastos Teixeira Lopes Couto Viana Qualifications:  Ph.D. in Business Science from Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Economia (FEP), 2007, Doctoral Thesis   graduate in Management from the Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Economia, with the higher rank in 1994). Professional experience:  Porto Business School Vice-Dean; 358  Member of the Remuneration Committee of Caixa Geral de Depósitos;  Auxiliar Professor at the Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Economia;  Chairman of the Fiscal Board of the Fundação Instituto Marques da Silva;  Pro-Dean of Universidade do Porto, in charge of strategic planning and management (from April 2008 to April 2015);  Former Member of the General Council INESC TEC;  Former Member of the Fiscal Board of the Fundação Ciência e Desenvolvimento;  Former Member of the Board of UPTEC Associação para o Desenvolvimento do Parque de Ciência e Tecnologia da Universidade do Porto;  Former Director of the Instituto Mercado de Capitais da Euronext Lisboa from November 1999 to September 2002;  Joined the Gabinete de Estudos e Desenvolvimento da BDP Bolsa de Derivados do Porto, from September 1994 to November 1999;  Former Member of INTACCT, european project on adoption of IAS/IFRS in the EU Member States;  Author of several papers on national and international professional and academic magazines, regular speaker in conferences regarding IAS/IFRS adoption. Eugénio Luís Lopes Franco Ferreira Qualifications:  Degree in Economics from the Universidade do Porto, Faculdade de Economia in 1976, where he taught as assistant Financial Mathematics on 1976/77. During his professional career, he had attended numerous training courses in several European countries and the United States.  Member of the Portuguese Association of Economists and member of the Portuguese Institute of Corporate Governance. Em 2016 he voluntarily cancelled its membership on the Statutory Auditors Association and on the Certified Accountants Association. Professional experience:  Member of the Fiscal Board of Corticeira Amorim, SGPS, S.A.;  Freelance consultant since 2009;  1977-2008: joined Price Waterhouse (PW), now PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC), on their Porto offices. Following a brief period on their Paris offices (1986), he became a Partner in 1991, and afterword was transferred to the Lisbon offices in 1996. Inicially he joined the Auditing Department, and afterwards Transaction Services, taking part in numerous audits of companies and other entities and consultancy projects, notably in the area of transactions and company restructuring. As an auditor, the scope of his responsibilities mostly included the performance of duties as member of the Fiscal Board or as Statutory Auditor;  At different times played various internal functions in PW / PwC, notably (i) the head of the Oporto office (1989-1998); (ii) territorial responsibility for the technical audit function and risk management ( Technical Partner and Risk Management Partner ); (iii) responsibility for administrative functions, financial and internal computer ( Finance & Operations Partner ); (iv) responsible for the Audit Department; (v) member of the Executive Committee ( Territory Leadership Team ); 359  1966-1976: he began his activity on a small car company, which was interrupted during 19711974 during the course of military service. Luís Filipe da Silva Ferreira (Alternate) Professional experience:  He started his professional career on 1970 at Coopers & Lybrand (now PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers). On 1975, after carrying out obligatory military service (1973/75) started his career as an auditor. In January 1986 he was co-opted to Partner. On the same date, started the Consulting business line. As Partner kept responsibilities as Account Manager (Global Relationship Partner), including development projects of the three business lines Assurance, Advisory and Tax, large clients of the Firm EDP groups, REN, EDA, Generg, Portugal Águas, Cimpor, Tabaqueira, Vale de Lobo and public sector companies ANA, REFER, Estradas de Portugal, Administração dos Portos de Lisboa and Sines. In some cases, the extent of responsibilities as auditor included the performance of functions in the Fiscal Board. (In accordance with the rules on reform of Partners, ceased connection PwC in 2012, and startedto act professionally as a consultant in free regime);  Currently, he provides strategy and operations consulting services, in the areas in which he is specialized Energy, Mobility, Utilities for both public and private sectors;  He holds responsibilities on corporate bodies of Águas do Vouga, SA, Águas do Norte, S.A., Aguas do Centro, S.A., Aguas de Lisboa e Vale do Tejo, S,A., e Aguas do Algarve, S.A.;  Pro-bono contributor to BLC3 Plataforma para o Desenvolvimento da Beira Interior, assuming the functions related with the Financial Risk Management of the Association and Projects;  Participation in the innovation and development of products arising of social and civic saving projects;  Through partnerships, develops business activities regarding business development in Portugal and Mozambique;  Certified as a Financial Advisor Autonomous (Certified Financial Adviser) by the CMVM / Euronext Lisbon (2002), Financial Controller recognized by OROC Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas (2001), CISA Certified Information Systems Auditor, by ISACA Information Systems Audit and Control Association, Illinois, USA. (1994), TOC Accountant by the Câmara dos Técnicos Oficiais de Contas (1979) and Certified as a professional trainer;  Advisor to the Minister for Public Works, Transport and Communications from 2004 to 2011;  He also held internal positions within the Firm, notably: he was responsible for the launch of operations in Algarve, he was the head of the Auditing and Accountancy Technical Department and of the internal administrative, financial and IT services and responsible for the Governance and Audit Committee;  Internal and external instructor, teaching Information Systems, Computer Auditing, Systems and Consolidated Financial Processes on specialised, postgraduate and master degrees. 34. Regulations of the Fiscal Board The Fiscal Board, under its duties pursuant to the Articles of Association, approved a new version of the 360 Committee carries out the functions and duties provided for in articles 420, 420-A and 422, all of the CSC. In the performance of its duties assigned by law and the Articles of Association, the Fiscal Board is responsible, in particular, for the following: a) Supervising the management of the Company; b) Ensuring that the law and the Articles of Association are observed; c) Verifying the regularity of all books, accounting registers and supporting documents; d) Whenever it deems such action convenient and by the means it considers appropriate, verifying the extent of cash and the stock of any kind of assets or securities belonging to the Company or received by it by way of guarantee, as a deposit or in any other capacity; e) Verifying the accuracy of the financial statements; f) Verifying whether the accounting policies and valuing criteria adopted by the Company lead to the correct valuation of the assets and the results; g) Drawing up an annual report on its supervision of the Company and issuing a statement of opinion on the annual report, accounts and proposals presented by the management, in which it must express its agreement or not with the annual management report, with the annual accounts and with the legal certification of accounts or declaration that it is impossible to certify the same accounts; h) Convening the General Meeting whenever the Chairman of the board of the General Meeting fails to do so; i) Supervising the process of preparation and disclosure of financial information and issue recommendations or proposals to assure its integrity; j) Assist the supervision of the a statements, notably its execution, bearing in mind possible conclusions of CMVM; k) Engaging the services of experts to assist one or more of its members in the exercise of their duties. The engagement and remuneration of experts must take into account the importance of the matters committed to their attention and the economic situation of the Company; l) Assessing the functioning of the risk management system, the internal control system and the internal auditing system and supervise their efficiency, proposing any adjustments that may be deemed necessary, as well as receiving the corresponding reports; m) employees or others, informing the Company entity responsible for handling the reported irregularity; 361 n) Being the main counterpart of the external auditor and the first recipient of the relevant reports, and being responsible, inter alia, for proposing the relevant remuneration and ensuring that the proper conditions for the provision of services are provided within the Company; o) Assessing the external auditor on an annual basis and proposing to the competent body its dismissal or termination of the contract for services when there is a valid basis for said dismissal; p) Appointing the statutory auditor or audit firm to propose to the General Meeting and reasonably recommend its preference, under article 16 of Regulation 537/2014 (EU), 16 April 2014; q) Supervising and assessing the independence of the Statutory Auditor, including obtaining written formal confirmations under Articles 63 and 78 of the Statutory Auditors Bar Statute, in particular to assess the suitability and to approve the provision of other services besides audit services, under Article 5 of Regulation 537/2017 (EU), 16 April 2014; r) Issuing a prior opinion on relevant business activities with qualifying shareholders, or entities with who they are in any relationship, according to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code; s) Confirming whether the corporate governance report disclosed includes the information listed in article 245-A of the Portuguese Securities Code; t) Carrying out any other duties required by law or by the Articles of Association. The Fiscal Board shall also: a) particular, the scope, the process of preparation and disclosure as well as the accuracy and integrality of the accounting documents, and other financial information for which the law determines the involvement of the Fiscal Board; b) Inform the Board of Directors on the legal audit results and explain the way it contributed to the integrity of the process of preparation and disclosure of the financial information, as well as the role the Fiscal Board played in such process; c) Whenever it deems appropriate, make a decision, in advance and in good time, and give a prior opinion, on any reports, documentation or information of financial nature, that are assessed by the Board of Directors and are to be disclosed to the market, notably the preliminary anouncements of the quarterly accounts, or to be submitted by the Company to any competent supervisory authority. For the exercise of their functions, any member of the Fiscal Board may, jointly or separately: a) Obtain from the management the presentation of any books, records and documents belonging to the Company for examination and certification thereof, and verify the existence of any types of assets, notably cash, securities and merchandise; b) Obtain from the management or from any of the Directors information or clarifications about the course of the operations or activities of the Company or about any of its businesses; 362 c) Obtain, under the terms of article 421(2) of the CSC, from third parties who have carried out operations on behalf of the Company, any information required for clarification of such operations; d) Attend board meetings, whenever it sees fit. In addition to general and particular duties emerging from their duty of supervision, the members of the Fiscal Board have the following: a) The duty to exercise conscientious and impartial supervision, without taking any advantage of the information to which they have access in the course of their duties; b) The duty to attend meetings of the Board of Directors to which its Chairman calls them, to attend meetings of the Board of Directors in which the annual accounts and the preliminary anouncements of the quarterly accounts are reviewed and to attend the General Meetings; c) The duty to keep confidential any facts and information made known to them as a result of their supervisory activity, notwithstanding the duty to report any criminal activities to the competent authorities and to report at the first General Meeting that takes place, all irregularities and inaccuracies found and explanations asked for and received concerning them; d) The duty to report to the Company reasonably in advance or, if unforeseeable, immediately, any circumstances that affect their independence and impartiality or that constitute a legal conflict of interest to carry out their duties; e) The duty to report to the Company, within three days, any acquisition or sale of shares or bonds issued by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, made by themselves or by any person or entity as determined by law, in particular article 20 and article 248-B of the Portuguese Securities Code and article 447 of the CSC. The coordination between the Fiscal Board and the Board of Directors should be assured by the Chairman of the Fiscal Board and by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or by the Director that the Board of Directors designates for that purpose. The Fiscal Board obtains from the Board of Directors all the necessary information to carry out its duties, namely relating to the operational and financial progress of the Company, changes to its business portfolio, the terms of any transactions that have occurred and the details of the resolutions taken. The Fiscal Board may, whenever deemed necessary, request from the heads of the different departments any information considered necessary to carry out its duties. The Fiscal Board, whenever deemed necessary, shall request from the Chairman of the Board of Directors: a) The minutes of the meetings of the Executive Committee, as well as the half-yearly reports on its activities that it has prepared; and b) The notices of meetings, the minutes of the Board of Directors and the corresponding support documents. 363 Each year the Fiscal Board obtains from the internal auditor information on the internal audit plan and a periodical summary of the main conclusions of the internal audit, without prejudice to it also being a recipient of the internal audit report. The Fiscal Board keeps a record of all irregularities that are reported, taking necessary measures with the Board of Directors and/or the internal and/or external auditors, and prepares a report thereon. In its functions, the Fiscal Board will be assisted by the General Secretary, Audit and Internal Control, Financial and Administrative Department and may ask the Board of Directors, when deemed necessary, the occasional cooperation of one or more of its members within their expertises for information release and execution of tasks regarding the reasoning of its analysis and conclusions. 35. Meetings of the Fiscal Board and attendance of each member The Fiscal Board meets at least quarterly and may meet extraordinarily on the initiative of its Chairman or at the request of any of its members, who must propose the date and agenda for such purpose. Minutes shall be drawn up for each meeting, which are subject to formal approval at the following meeting and signed by all the members who attended the meeting. The resolutions of the Fiscal Board are taken by a majority, the Chairman having a casting vote. Members who do not agree with the resolutions must state the reasons for their disagreement in the minutes. During the year of 2017, the Fiscal Board met 10 times in person and all its members were present: Attendance at the meetings of the Audit Committee Paulo Cardoso Correia da Mota Pinto 10/10 P Eugénio Luís Lopes Franco Ferreira 10/10 P Patrícia Teixeira Lopes 10/10 P P Present 37. Intervention in engaging additional services from the External Auditor In order to ensure the independence of the External Auditor, the Fiscal Board, according to its Regulations, has the following powers and duties with regard to the external audit:  It is the main counterpart of the external auditor and the first recipient of the relevant reports, and is responsible, inter alia, for proposing the relevant remuneration and ensuring that the proper conditions for the provision of services are provided within the company; and 364  It evaluates the external auditor on an annual basis and proposes to the relevant corporate body its dismissal or termination of the contract of services where there is a valid basis for the said dismissal. In addition, the Fiscal Board, on 20 June 2017 approved a new version of the Regulation for the provision of se applicable to services other than audit services ( Non Audit Services ) or related to audit ( Audit Related Services ) provided by the external auditor to NOS and its subsidiaries, included on the appropriate scope of consolidation. This Regulation for the Provision of Services shall apply to services provided by the external auditor and related companies. Under the mentioned Regulation for the Provision of Services, hiring non-audit or audit-related services should be deemed as exceptions or complements, respectively, and in accordance with the rules laid down in that Regulation. The assessment of the eligibility of the service depends on the appreciation of the Fiscal Board, which considers the following principles: (i) an auditor cannot audit his own work; (ii) an auditor cannot perform any function or perform work that is the responsibility of management; and (iii) an auditor cannot directly or indirectly act on behalf of his client. The annual fees for several audit services cannot exceed the amount corresponding to 70% of the total of the average of the legal auditing fees of the last 3 years, provided to the Company and its subsidiaries, included in the consolidation perimeter using the full consolidation method. The provision of non-audit services by the full or alternate Statutory Auditor requires the prior approval and authorization of the Fiscal Board, which adequately assesses the threats to independence arising from the provision of these services and the safeguard measures applied in accordance with article 73 of Law no. 140/2015 of 7 September. For this purpose, the Fiscal Board should receive a proposal regarding the provision of services to be submitted for approval and authorization, as well as any additional information that may be deemed relevant, which shall comply with the following requirements: a) Be clear about the services to be rendered and the fees that will be charged for them; b) Include a declaration of conformity with the independence principles defined in article 2 of the Regulation for Provision of Services; c) Include reasoning for the provision of the services; d) Include the initial date for the provision of services and its respective fees. As per the Regulation for the Provision of Services, if a member of the network of the full or alternate Statutory Auditor who performs the statutory audit of the accounts of NOS or its subsidiaries, provides any non-services prohibited pursuant article 77(8) of Law no. 140/2015 of 7 September, to an entity with offices in a third country that is controlled by NOS or its subsidiaries, the full or alternate Statutory Auditor shall assess whether its independence is compromised by such service provision by the member of the network, in accordance with Article 5(5) of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. 365 38. Other functions lation, it is to be noted that the Fiscal Board:  Evaluates the functioning of the risk management system, the internal control system and the internal auditing system and supervises their efficiency, proposing any adjustments that may be deemed necessary, as well as receiving the corresponding reports;  Receives notifications of irregularities (whistleblowing) submitted by shareholders, Company reported;  Issues a prior opinion on relevant business activities with qualifying shareholders, or entities with which they are in any relationship, according to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code;  ccounts, including, in particular, the scope, the process of preparation and disclosure as well as the accuracy and integrality of the accounting documents, and other financial information for which the law determines the involvement of the Fiscal Board;  Informs the board of directors of the legal audit results and explains the way it helped to assess the integrity of the preparation and disclosure of the financial information process, as well as the role which the Fiscal Board played in such process; and  Whenever it deems appropriate, makes a decision, in advance and in good time, and gives a prior opinion on any reports, documents or information of a financial nature that may be evaluated by the Board of Directors and is to be disclosed to the market, notably the preliminary announcements of the quarterly accounts, or submitted by the Company to any competent supervisory authority. IV. Statutory Auditor 39. Identification of the Statutory Auditor Association, the Statutory Auditor, full and alternate, is elected by the General Meeting acting on a proposal from the Fiscal Board. At the General Meeting, on 26 April 2016, the following were elected as full and alternate Statutory Auditors for the three-year period 2016/2018: Full: Ernst & Young Audit & Associados, SROC, S.A., (ROC No. 178), represented by Ricardo Filipe de Frias Pinheiro (ROC No. 739); and 366 Alternate: Paulo Jorge Luís da Silva (ROC no. 1334). Since July 18, 2017, the Statutory Auditor was represented by Sandra e Sousa Amorim (ROC no. 1213) and Rui Abel Serra Martins (ROC No. 1119), as disclosed to the market on 21July, 2017. 40. Number of years working for the company The Statutory Auditors, full and alternate, were elected for the first time on the 23 April 2014 General Meeting, to fullfil the term concerning the period 2013/2015. Thus, new full and alternate Statutory Auditors began their functions in the Company in 2014, having consecutively served the Company for approximately 4 years. 41. Description of the services provided On 31 December 2017, Ernst & Young Audit & Associados, SROC, SA, also played the functions of External Auditor of the Company. V. External Auditor 42. Identification of the External Auditor and Partner The External Auditors of NOS are independent entities with international reputation, being their actions NOS does not grant its External Auditors any damages protection. The External Auditor should, within the framework of its powers, verify the implementation of policies and systems concerning the remuneration of corporate bodies, the efficiency and the effectiveness of internal control mechanisms and report any disabilities to the Fiscal Board, in full compliance with the recommendation IV.1 of the CMVM Corporate Governance Code (2013). On 31 December 2017, NOS External Auditor was Ernst & Young Audit & Associados, SROC, S.A., (ROC no. 178 and CMVM registration no. 20161480), represented by Sandra e Sousa Amorim (ROC no. 1213 and CMVM registration no. 20160824) and Rui Abel Serra Martins (ROC no. 1119 and CMVM registration no. 20160731). 367 43. Number of years working for the Company Pursuant the favourable opinion of AFC and the proposal of the Fiscal Board, the appointment of Ernst & Young Audit & Associados, SROC, S.A. as new External Auditor of the Company was approved for the first Thus, the current External Auditor and the respective partners started their functions at the Company in 2014, having consecutively served the Company for approximately 4 years. 44. Rotation of the external auditor and partner Pursuant to the Regulations of the AFC, the Commission advises the Fiscal Board, on behalf of Board of Directors, regarding the appointment, duties and remuneration of the External Auditor. As provided for in the Regulations of the Fiscal Board, this Committee evaluates the External Auditor on an annual basis and proposes to the competent body its dismissal or termination of the contract for services when there is a valid basis for said dismissal. Neither the Articles of Association nor the internal regulations set out the periodic rotation of the External Auditor. However, the practices followed by the Company are aligned with the recommendation IV.3 of the CMVM Corporate Governance Code, with the new Statutory Audit Bar Statute (EOROC), approved by Law no. 140/2015, 7 September, and with the Audit Supervision Framework (RJSA), approved by Law no. 148/2015, 9 September. 45. Body responsible for assessement of the External Auditor and its periodicity In light of the above, in compliance with Recommendation II.2.3. of the CMVM Corporate Governance Code (2013) and pursuant to article 3(1)(o) of the Regulations of the Fiscal Board, this Board annually evaluates the External Auditor, and proposes to the competent body its dismissal or the termination of the service agreement whenever there is a valid reason. 46. Identification of non-audit services As mentioned in item 37, on 20 June 2017, the Fiscal Board, approved a new version of the Regulation for the Provision of Services by External Auditors that defines the applicable regime to non-audit or audit related services provided by the External Auditor to NOS and its subsidiaries included in its scope of consolidation. This regulation is applicable to the services provided by the External Auditor and its related companies. Under the aforementioned regulation, the hiring of non-audit or audit-related services shall be considered, respectively, on an exceptional or complementary basis and in accordance with the rules established in the Regulation for the Provision of Services. 368 The non-audit services, which are defined by the negative, consist of all services in which the auditor does not issue an opinion on accounts in accordance with SAIs (excluding prohibited services), such as: a) Review of financial statements with a limited level of assurance, which includes limited reviews of quarterly, half-yearly or other period accounts; b) Advise on interpretation and counselling on implementation of new accounting and financial reporting rules; c) Counselling related with the required financial reporting for the compliance with the accounting policies adopted. d) Tax services related to the audit or mid-term review of the financial statements, including review of the compliance with Transfer Pricing rules; e) Requirements of internal control reporting, whether audits or reviews of internal controls; f) Review of financial information to be disclosed to the market; g) Reviews and audits to Information Systems, when related to the auditing of the financial statements; h) Comfort Letters and other reports of agreed procedures, within the scope of prospects and other procedures related to securities; i) Audit to the Social Responsibility and Sustainability Reports; j) Certification of the internal control report; k) l) Audit for the acquisition of new businesses (auditing of the opening balances), including advice on accounting restatement; m) Training in technical matters; n) Other services, namely the ones that may be provided by the External Auditors, due to their professional experience and/or knowledge of the company, and that are not described in the previous paragraphs, such as Due Diligences in potential acquisitions and/or sales. In 2017 were hired by NOS or its Group companies the non-audit services described on the above paragraphs a), h) and n). As per the Regulation for the Provision of Services, if a member of the network of the full or alternate Statutory Auditor who performs the statutory audit of the accounts of NOS or its subsidiaries, provides any non-services prohibited pursuant article 77(8) of Law no. 140/2015 of 7 September, to an entity with offices in a third country that is controlled by NOS or its subsidiaries, the full or alternate Statutory Auditor shall assess whether its independence is compromised by such service provision by the member of the network, in accordance with Article 5(5) of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. 369 Non-audit services are as follows: a) Tax advisory services relating to: i. Preparation of tax declarations; ii. Taxes on salaries; iii. Custom duties; iv. The identification of public subsidies and tax incentives, unless the assistance of the statutory auditor or audit firm in relation to such services is required by law; v. Assistance on inspections of tax authorities unless the assistance of the statutory auditor or the audit firm in relation to such inspections is required by law; vi. Calculation of direct and indirect taxes and deferred taxes; vii. Tax advisory; b) Services involving any participation in the management or decision-making of the audited entity; c) Preparation and issuance of accounts and accounting records; d) Wage processing services; e) The planning and implementation of internal control or risk management procedures related to the preparation and/or control of financial information or the planning and implementation of the computer systems used in the preparation of such information; f) Evaluation services, including evaluations of actuarial services or litigation support services; g) Legal services regarding: i. General advisory; ii. Negotiations on behalf of the audited entity; and iii. Representation of the audited entity in the context of dispute settlement; h) Services relating to the internal audit of the audited entity: i) Services relating to the financing, allocation and capital structure and the investment strategy of the audited entity, except for the provision of services relating to the accounts reliability assurance, such as the issuance of 'comfort letters' relating to prospectuses issued by the entity audited; j) The promotion, negotiation, or underwriting of shares in the audited entity; k) The human resources services regarding: 370 i. Management positions likely to exert significant influence over the preparation of accounting records or accounts subject to statutory audit when such services involve: i. The selection or search of candidates for such positions; ii. The carrying out of verifications of the references of the candidates for such positions; ii. The configuration of the organization structure; iii. The control of costs. 47. Remuneration paid to the auditor and its network In 2017, NOS Group (the Company and companies controlled by or in a group relationship with the Company) paid, as fees to NOS Statutory Auditor and External Auditor, Ernst & Young, S.A. (E&Y), and to its network of companies, the following amounts: COMPANIES INCLUDED NOS TOTAL IN THE GROUP % % % Audit services 35,439 72% 178,796 80% 214,235 79% Non-audit Services 13,800 28% 44,700 20% 58,500 21% NOS 49,239 100% 223,496 100% 272,735 100% The risk management policy at NOS, supervised by the Fiscal Board in coordination with the AFC, monitors and controls the services requested from the External Auditor and their network of companies, in order for their independence not to be undermined. The fees paid by NOS Group to E&Y represent less than 1% of in which E&Y guarantees the compliance with international guidelines on auditor independence. In addition, pursuant to the Regulation approved by the Fiscal Board, the annual fees for non-audit or auditrelated services in total may not exceed an amount corresponding to 70% of the total of the average of the statutory auditing fees of the last 3 years, provided to the Company and its subsidiaries, included in the consolidation perimeter using the full consolidation method. During the exercise of 2017, the non-auditing services represented 35% of the average of the statutory auditing fees of the last 3 years. The Fiscal Board quarterly receives and analyses the information concerning the fees and services provided by the External Auditor. The Fiscal Board, in the course of its duties, carries out each year a global assessment of the performance of the External Auditor and also of its independence. In addition, whenever necessary or appropriate on the reflects on the suitability of the External Auditor to carry out its duties. The current External Auditor of the 371 Company started its work at NOS in 2014, ensuring the compliance with the Recommendation IV.3 of the CMVM Corporate Governance Code (2013), with the Articles of Association of the Association of Chartered Accountants (Estatuto da Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas EOROC), approved by Law no. 140/2015, of 7 September. C. Internal Organization I. Articles of Association 48. Rules on changing the Articles of Association Association (article 12(4)(d)), ammendments to the Articles of resolutions, in which must be present or represented, in case of first call, at least fifty percent of the shareholders. Such resolutions are taken by the majority provided for by law, which consists of two thirds of the votes cast, except on a second call if the shareholders holding at least half of the share capital are present or represented, in which case these resolutions can be taken by a majority of the votes cast (article 386(3) and (4) of the CSC). II. Reporting of irregularities 49. Means and policy NOS has a policy for reporting irregularities occurring within the Company, and has a Regulation on February 2014. omissions occurr set out violations of ethic or legal nature, with material impact in the following domains: a) Accounting; b) Auditing; 372 c) Intern control and corruption combatting; and d) Any kind of financial crimes. The members of the corporate bodies or other managers, directors, collaborators and other employees of the Group, regardless of their hierarchical rank or professional relationship, participate in the implementation of the irregularities communication policy through internal communications in accordance with the rules and procedures provided for in the Whistleblowing Regulation. Any communication covered by the Regulation shall be treated as confidential, unless the author expressly and unequivocally requests otherwise. Anonymous complaints will only be accepted and treated on an exceptional basis and, in any case, no reprisal or retaliation will be tolerated against those that make the mentioned communications. addressed to the Fiscal Board, by letter sent to the post box address Apartado 14026 EC, 5 de Outubro, 1064-001 Lisboa, or to the electronic mail address comunicar.irregularidades@nos.pt, choosing the author one of the above mentioned ways of communication. The Fiscal Board is responsible for receiving, recording and processing the communications of irregularities that occur in NOS or in the companies within the respective group and for undertaking other acts which are necessarily related with those powers. After being registered, the communications are subject to a preliminary analysis in order to ensure the degree of credibility of the communication, the irregular nature of the reported behaviour, the viability of research and the identification of the people involved or who have knowledge of the relevant facts and, in this regarding, must be confronted or surveyed. The report of the preliminary analysis shall concludes by the continuation or not of the investigation. If the Fiscal Board considers that the communication is consistent, plausible and likely, an investigation begins, conducted and supervised by the Fiscal Board, which will be made known to the CGS and the Ethics Committee. Once the investigation phase is concluded, the Fiscal Board shall prepare a report, duly substantiated on the facts found during the investigation, and will present its resolution, proposing to the Board of Directors or, as the respective delegation, to the Executive Committee, measures that are deemed appropriate in each case. The Internal Audit must assist the Fiscal Board. The Fiscal Board may also hire external auditors or other experts to assist in the investigation, when the specialty of matters requires specialized services. The Fiscal Board, within the limits of its powers, shall monitor the correct application of the procedure established by the aforementioned Regulation. 373 III. Internal control and risk management 50. Entities responsible for Internal Auditing and risk management The internal control and risk management system at NOS consists of various key parties with the following responsibilities and goals:  Executive Committee The Executive Committee is responsible for the creation and functioning of ontrol and risk management system, in exercise of the powers of day-today management conferred by the Board of Directors. It is also responsible for setting risk objectives, in order to ensure that the risks actually incurred are consistent with those objectives.  Areas of business Each functional department in NOS business units is, as part of its responsibility in corporate or functional processes, responsible for the implementation of internal controls and for the management of their specific risks. In addition, for the development of certain risk management programmes, specific risk management teams may be set up, such as risk committees or working teams. These normally include an executive coordinator, a committee of directors and a team of pivots (interlocutors) representing the business units.  Risk Management The risk management areas work to raise awareness, measure and manage business risks that interfere with the fulfilment of goals and with value creation within the organisation. They contribute with tools, methodologies, support and know-how to the business areas. They also promote and monitor the implementation of programmes, projects and actions aimed at bringing risk levels close to the acceptable limits laid down by the management.  Internal Auditing Assesses risk exposure and verifies the effectiveness of risk management and of internal control of both business processes and information and telecommunications systems. Proposes measures to improve internal controls, aimed at more effective management of business and technology risks. Monitors the evolution of risk exposure associated with the main findings and non-conformities identified in the audits.  External Auditor Verifies the effectiveness and functioning of internal control mechanisms and carried out in the public interest, the external auditor is responsible for verifying the accounts of the Company and for the respective issue of the legal certification of accounts and of an audit report, among other duties. As a part of the Internal Control and Risk Management System, the Company has a corporate department specialising in risk the Department of Internal Auditing and Risk Management the mission of which is to contribute to effective management of NOS business risks. These Internal Auditing and Risk Management operations, through a systematic and disciplined approach in order to assess and help to improve the effectiveness of risk management, internal control and corporate governance processes. The area of Risk Management includes the teams from the Risk Management and Continuous Risk Monitoring Programmes. Within its scope is the maintenance of an integrated system that includes the 374 following activities: the management of Enterprise Risk Management, the management of the Internal Control Manual, management of the Information Security Management programme and its certification to ISO 27001 Information security management system, the implementation management of the certification to ISO20000 Service management system, management of the Business Continuity Management programme. Within its scope is also the continuous monitoring of risks activities, through follow-up of improvement and corrective actions, as well as key indicators in some business processes. These teams perform risk analysis, propose risk management policies for the Company and coordinate cross-cutting programmes or projects to endow the organization of adapted procedures and the respective internal controls which will allow for the risk management. They also ensure the review, assessment and adaptation of the internal control manuals implemented in the main NOS businesses. There are also risk management functions in some of the areas of business, particularly when the existence of specific pivots (interlocutors) is important for certain special aspects of risk management, such as Business Continuity Management, Information Security Management and Management of the Internal Control Manual. The area of Internal Auditing covers the Business Process Auditing and Systems Auditing teams. The following activities fall within its scope: assurance audits of processes and systems, compliance audits of the Internal Control Manual and the ISO 27001 certification, incident and complaint audits, as well as independent and objective advisory work. The activities of the Internal Auditing teams are defined under the Internal Audit Charter. The Internal Auditing activity is governed by the guidelines of the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), including the definition of internal audit, the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice annual Actions and Resources Plan and on a prioritisation of audit work, using a risk-based methodology that includes the results of Enterprise Risk Management and considers the roadmap for coverage of business procedures, telecommunications and information systems and legal obligations. The internal audit plan also considers the contributions of the Executive Committee, of other senior managers, of the Audit and Finance Committee and, separately, of the Fiscal Board which has a responsibility based on the law or on the Articles of Association to state its position on the working plan and the resources allocated to the Internal Auditing services. In accordance with good international practices, the Internal Auditing and Risk Management teams have the majority of their staff certified in audit norms and risk management methods, involving in total circa 25 certifications. These include the Certified Internal Auditor (CIA), the Certified in Control Self Assessment (CCSA), the Certified Information System Auditor (CISA), the ISO 27001 ISMS Lead Auditor, the ISO 31000 Lead Risk Manager, the Certified Continuity Manager (CCM), the Associated Business Continuity Professional (ABCP), the Certified Information System Security Manager (CISM), the ISO 27001 ISMS Lead Implementer, the Certified in Risk and Information Systems Control (CRISC), the Certified in the Governance of Enterprise IT (CGEIT), the ITIL Foundation (ITIL), the Project Management Professional (PMP) and the Certified Project Management Associate (CPMA). 375 51. Relationships with other bodies or committees The hierarchical and functional relationships are those specified below:  Internal Auditing reports hierarchically to NOS Executive Committee, namely to the CFO (Chief Financial Officer).  The Internal Auditing reports functionally to NOS Fiscal Board, as the supervisory body with responsibility based on the law or on the Articles of Association for assessing the performance of internal control and risk management systems, receiving the corresponding reports, and giving its opinion on the working plan and the resources allocated to the Audit Internal services.  Internal Auditing also reports functionally to NOS AFC, as the specialised commission that advises the Board of Directors on certain matters, including those concerning the Auditing and Risk Management functions, thus reinforcing, complementarily, the supervision of these matters already carried out by the Fiscal Board.  Internal Auditing secretaries the NOS Ethics Committee, in its capacity as committee responsible for overseeing and maintaining the NOS Code of Ethics, for monitoring its implementation and for ensuring that all members of corporate bodies and all employees of the company comply with it. The remaining responsibilities for the creation, operation and periodic assessment of the internal control and risk management system are defined in the Regulations of corresponding bodies or committees. General Meeting Remuneration Committee Statutory Auditor Board of Directors Fiscal Board Internal Audit Company Secretary CFO Audit/Risk Management Ethics Committee Executive Committee ,,, Risk Management Audit and Finance Commission Corporate Governance Commission Appointment and Evaluation Committee Hierarchical dependence Functional dependence 376 52. Other competent areas in risk control In addition to the areas referred to in the preceding sections, the Company has other functional areas with competence in internal control and risk management that make a decisive contribution to maintaining and improving the control environment. Particularly notable in this context are the following business areas and processes:  The areas of Planning and Control, in coordination with the corresponding pivots in the areas of business, are responsible for monitoring the implementation of annual action and resource plans, as well as budgets and forecasts, in the financial and operational components;  The various areas of business and individual employees are required to comply with the procedures set out in the Internal Control Manual, ensuring that all acts or transactions engaged in are appropriate and properly evidenced;  The different areas of business have processes and indicators to monitor operations and KPIs;  There are areas dedicated to monitoring specific business risks and generating alerts, such as the Revenue Assurance, Fraud, Service Security, and Network and Services Supervision teams, in the communications business;  The technical areas, including Networks and Information Systems, have indicators and alerts for interruptions in service and security incidents, on an operational level;  The various areas of business have internal controls that ensure not only their commitment in the environment of risk management and internal control, but also the permanent monitoring of the pattern of effectiveness and adequacy of these controls. 53. Main types of risk The Company is exposed to economic, financial and legal risks incidental to its business activities. The approach adopted by NOS for Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), is to incorporate risk management into NOS strategic planning activities. During the preparation of action plans and annual resources, the business areas consider risks that may compromise their performance and objectives and define actions to manage those risks, within the levels of acceptance intended and established by the Executive Committee. The main types of risks and the corresponding strategies that have been adopted for their management will now be described. Economic risks  Economic Environment During 2017, the Company was still exposed to the effects of the economic environment experienced in Portugal during the last years and consequently to a general reduction in consumption. Despite the reversal signals verified in 2017, mainly through the increase of the product, there is a risk of the market share, in clients and/or revenue, being affected by the 377 unemployment rate, by the still high use of measures for reduction of public consumption and also by the private consumption variability. NOS has carefully monitored this risk and adopted strategies that have been helping the increase of clients and counter the drop in revenue visible in the Portuguese telecomunications market until the end 2016 and beginning of 2017. NOS has also been paying attention to the identification of other opportunities, in conjunction with the competition and technological innovation risk response strategies that are described below.  Competition This risk is related to the potential reduction in the prices of products and services, reduction in market share, loss of customers, increasing difficulty in obtaining and retaining customers. The management of competition risk has involved a strategy of investing in constant improvement in quality, distinctiveness and innovation for the products and services provided, as well as in its protection from competition, diversification of supply, combination of offers related with different businesses of NOS and the strengthening of the portfolio of broadcasting rights and the respective provision of contents as well as the constant monitoring of customer preferences and/or needs. In addition, regarding the communications market, NOS has accelerated its growth in t, for the leadership in the market share of convergent offerings and, in the business segment, for the capture of a larger share of revenue in large accounts and the expansion of the sale of managed services and IT services. The operational integration processes that have taken place over the past 4 years in NOS have contributed to the development of a competitive position vis-à-vis its competitors. NOS intends to go even further in strengthening its competitive position, evolving from a logic of integration to a logic of transformation, and so by the end of 2017 launched a set of internal initiatives of operational transformation focused on customer satisfaction. NOS is also aware of the consolidation and acquisition moves of its competitors in the communications, content and entertainment industries.  Technological Innovation This risk is associated with the need for investment in increasingly competitive services (multimedia services, messaging services, multiplatform TV services, cloud services, infrastructure and information technology services, etc.), which are subject not only to accelerated changes in technology but also to the actions of the players which act outside of the tradiditional communications market, like the OTT (over-the-top players) Operators. NOS believes that having an optimised technical infrastructure is a critical success factor that helps to reduce potential failures in the leverage of technological developments. The Company has managed this risk in order to ensure that the technologies and businesses in which it is investing are accompanied by a similar development in demand and, consequently, an increase in the use of the new services by Customers. NOS has several mobile network infrastructure development projects in progress, improving in capacity and in coverage through the implementation of state-of-the-art radio equipment as well as fixed networks by upgrading the HFC network and expanding the FTTH network. In addition, NOS has continued to introduce to the market technological innovations associated with its multi-device TV service platforms.  Business Interruption and Catastrophic Losses (Business Continuity Management) Since the businesses of NOS are based above all on the use of technology, potential failures in technicaloperational resources (network infrastructures, information systems applications, servers, etc.) may cause a significant risk of business interruption, if they are not well managed. This may imply other risks for the Company, such as adverse impacts on reputation, on the brand, on revenue integrity, on customer satisfaction and on service quality, which may lead to the loss of customers. In the electronic communications sector, business interruption and other associated risks may be 378 aggravated because the services are in real time (voice, data/internet and TV), and customers typically have low tolerance for interruptions. Under the BCM Business Continuity Management programme, NOS has implemented Business Continuity management processes that cover buildings, network infrastructures and the most critical activities that support communications services, for which it develops resilience strategies, continuity plans and actions, and incident/crisis management procedures. The continuity processes may be periodically subject to impact and risk analysis, as well as audits, tests and simulations. NOS has also been developing the coordination with external official entities for catastrophic scenarios, critical infrastructure protection and communication in crisis, including the cooperation with the National Authority for Civil Protection.  Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (Information Security Management) Bearing in mind that NOS is the biggest corporate group in the area of communications and entertainment in the country, its businesses make intensive use of information and of information and communication technologies that are typically subject to security risks, such as availability, integrity, and confidentiality. Under the Information Security Management program (ISM), NOS has an Information Security Committee (Governance Risk and Compliance Committee), which is mandated by the Executive Board, among other responsibilities, to monitor security risks, to sugest rules and to promote awareness raising actions. The several business units, under the supervision of the Committee, develop an internal actions plan, with the purpose of consolidating the processes and controls of information security management. In addition, the Company has certain segments and business processes certified under the ISO27001 Standard Information Security Management Systems, namely those related to customer management of the communications business (manage customer, bill and charge) and services of NOS Sistemas data centers (housing service). Following on from previous years, in 2017 NOS conducted a safety risk assessment exercise, including in its scope the operational risks of safety and continuity as well as other corporate risks that relate at the level of the business environment and at the operational level. Just like other operators, NOS is increasingly exposed to cybersecurity risks, related to external threats to the electronic communications networks and to the surrounding cyberspace.  Privacy (Personal Data Protection) The risk assessment referred to in the previous point has also been increasingly important for privacy risks, mainly associated with changes in the regulations on personal data protection, which is transversal to all sectors of activity and also applicable, in particular, to the protection of personal data, which is subject to specific regulations on security and privacy. NOS has an ongoing Privacy Program in order to prepare the company for compliance with the new General Regulation on Data Protection (which will be effective in May 2018). Currently, for specific issues related to the confidentiality and privacy of personal data, the Company has a Chief Personal Data Protection Officer (CPDPO) who is responsible for compliance with laws and regulations applicable to data processing, acts in the name of the Company in interaction with the national regulatory authority for data protection (CNPD National Commission for Data Protection) and promotes the adoption of data protection principles, in line with international standards and best practices. Employees and partners assume obligations of confidentiality, secrecy and protection of personal data and must not transmit to any third parties the data to which they have access in the course of and as a result of their duties. The obligations are reinforced through the signature of terms of liability by its staff and partners, as well as through communication and sensibilization actions and holding of specialized training internal courses on security and privacy. 379 Service Fraud (Management of Telecommunications Fraud) Customer or third party fraud is a common risk in the comunications sector. Perpetrators of fraud may take advantage of the services. In view of this situation, NOS has a team dedicated to Service Fraud and Security Management. In order to encourage secure use of communications services, it has developed various initiatives and implemented controls, including the provision of an internal platform with information on security risks and service fraud, as well as the continuous improvement of processes to monitor and mitigate these risks. Fraud controls are implemented to prevent anomalous situations of fraudulent use or situations of misuse with a direct impact on the has also joined initiatives developed by the GSM Association (GSMA), namely the Fraud and Security Group (FASG).  Revenue and Cost Assurance (Enterprise Business Assurance) Electronic comunications businesses are subject to inherent operational risks associated with the assurance and monitoring of customer revenue and costs, from a viewpoint of revenue flows and platform integrity. Billing processes perform revenue controls, with regard to invoicing quality. NOS also has a Revenue Assurance area that applies processes to control revenue integrity (underinvoicing or overinvoicing) and cost control with the aim of presenting a consistent chain of revenue and costs, from the moment the customer enters our provisioning systems, involving the provision of the communications service, up to the time of invoicing and charging. Financial risks  Tax The Company is exposed to changes in tax legislation and varied interpretations of the application of tax and tax related regulations in several ways. The Finance Department contributes to management of this risk, monitoring all tax regulations and seeking to guarantee maximum tax efficiency. This department may also be supported by external consultants whenever the questions being analysed are more critical and, for this reason, require interpretation by an independent entity.  Credit and Collections These risks are associated with a reduction in receipts from customers due to possible ineffective or deficient operation of collection procedures and/or changes in the legislation that regulates the provision of essential services and have an impact on the recovery of customer debts. The current adverse economic climate also significantly contributes to the worsening of these risks. They are mitigated through the definition of a monthly plan of collection actions, their follow-up and validation and the review of results. Where necessary, the procedure and the timings of these actions are adjusted to ensure the receipt of customer debts. The aim is to ensure that the amounts owed are effectively collected within the periods negotiated without affecting the financial health of the Company. In addition, NOS has specific areas for Credit Control, Collections and Litigation Management and, regarding some business segments, also subscribes credit insurances. Legal risks  Legal and Regulatory The electronic communications market in Portugal is subject to a regulatory framework emerging from European and national law. In Portugal, ANACOM is responsible for defining a significant set of rules to which the market is subject, including the analysis of relevant markets, the identification of companies with significant market power (SMP) and the imposition of 380 appropriate measures for the resolution of market failures (eg. introduction of network access obligations, definition of price controls for wholesale termination in fixed and mobile networks, etc.). Within the scope of its market overviewing competences, ANACOM is responsible for ensuring the application and enforcement of the laws, regulations and technical requirements applicable to operators (examples: draft Regulations associated with pre-contractual and contractual information, proposed for a safety and integrity of networks Regulation, revision of the portability Regulation and project of a Regulation on requirements to be observed by providers in their complaint handling procedures, among others). ANACOM is also responsible for ensuring the dissemination and monitoring the compliance with European directives applicable to the sector, as well as participating and ensuring representation of Portugal in national and international entities and forums relevant to its activity. Within the scope of these attributions, in 2017, stands out the participation of the regulator, among other stakeholders, in the sector in the discussions on the measures planned under the Digital Single Market (DSM) strategy, with special emphasis to the European Code of Electronic Communications, which will reformulate the four main directives in force (Framework-Directive, Authorization Directive, Access Directive and Universal Service Directive), bringing them together in a single document. The DSM strategy also includes an action plan for the implementation of 5G services across the EU from 2018 and a proposal for a Regulation to promote Internet connectivity in local communities and public spaces (WIFI4EU). Also within the sope of the European regulatory framework, NOS must comply with regulations that have a direct effect in Portugal, such as the TSM Regulation (which includes rules for roam-like-at-home and protection of network neutrality), the General Regulation on Data Protection and the e-Privacy Regulation. In addition to the specific rules relating to the communications sector, NOS is also subject to horizontal legislation, including competition law. The management of the existing regulatory risks is ensured by the Legal and Regulatory Department, which monitors the evolution of the applicable regulatory framework, considering the threats and opportunities that represent to the competitive position of the NOS in the business areas in which it operates, 54. Risk management The risk management and internal control processes at NOS, including the methodologies used to identify, assess and monitor risks, are described in this section. The risk management and internal control processes are supported by a consistent and systematic methodology, based on the international standard Enterprise Risk Management Integrated Framework, issued by COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission). In addition, for the management of risks related to Information Security and Business Continuity, specific methodologies were also considered in line with the standards from the ISO 2700x series Information Security Management and with ISO 22301 Business Continuity Management, as well as legal and regulatory requirements on network security and integrity (supervised by ANACOM) and on personal data privacy (supervised by CNPD). The methodologies adopted for the internal control system also took into consideration the references provided by organisations responsible for promoting the existence of control mechanisms in markets, including recommendations from the CMVM Corporate Governance Code and from the IPCC (Portuguese Institute of Corporate Governance), as well as the CSC. In addition, for aspects of internal control related to ICT (Information and Communication Technologies), the COBIT (Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology) framework was also considered. 381 The diagram below illustrates the main stages of NOS general risk management methodology, which can be applied to entities or to the business processes of its main subsidiaries. 1 Evaluate 5 2 Monitor DECISION Source MAKING INFORMATION 4 3 Manage Measure Risk Management Cycle (ERM Enterprise Risk Management) In line with this general methodology, the management and control of risks are achieved using the main approaches and methods presented below: Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Approach: This approach seeks to align the risk management cycle with NOS strategic planning cycle. It enables NOS businesses to assign priorities and identify critical risks that may compromise its performance and its objectives, and to adopt actions to manage these risks. This is achieved through constant monitoring of risks and the implementation of certain corrective measures. Method: 1. Identify and assess business risks >> 2. Explore risks and Identify causes >> 3. Measure triggers >> 4. Manage risks >> 5. Monitor risks Business Continuity Management (BCM) Approach: It seeks to mitigate the risk of interruptions of critical business activities that may arise as a consequence of disasters, technical-operational failures or human failures. The scope of this process also includes the assessment and management of physica critical sites. Method: 1. Understand the business >> 2. Define resilience strategies >> 3. Develop and implement continuity and crisis management plans >> 4. Test, maintain and audit the BCM plans and processes. Information Security Management (ISM) Approach: It seeks to manage risks associated with the availability, integrity, confidentiality and privacy of information. Its goals are to develop and maintain the Information Security Policy, to verify the compliance of procedures with the policy, to develop training and awareness 382 programmes, and to establish and monitor KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) for Information Security. Method: 1. Identify critical information >> 2. Detail critical information support platforms/resources >> 3. Assess the security risk level >> 4. Define and implement indicators >> 5. Manage and monitor risk mitigation measures Continuous Monitoring of Risks and Controls (CM Continuous Monitoring) Approach: It can be used to continuously review business procedures, ensuring preventive, pro-active and dynamic maintenance of an acceptable level of risk and control. The Internal Control Manual systematises and references the controls, facilitating their disclosure and encouraging compliance by the different people involved in the organisation. Method: 1. Define processes, business cycles and data structure >> 2. Establish the design of controls >> 3. Implement, disclose and ensure the effective application of controls >> 4. Analyse and report status metrics for the implementation of controls >> 5. Follow up action plans and update controls. 55. Main features of the internal control and risk management systems related to the disclosure of financial information NOS recognises that, as is the case with other listed companies with similar activities, it is potentially exposed to risks related to accounting processes and financial reporting. The Company is thus committed to maintaining an effective internal control environment, especially in these processes. It intends to ensure the quality and improvement of the most important processes for preparation and disclosure of financial statements, in accordance with the accounting principles adopted and bearing in mind its goals of risk management has been conservative and prudent. Functional responsibilit subsidiary companies are distributed as follows:  Entity Level Controls are defined in corporate terms, including NOS, being applicable to all the group companies, and aim to establish internal control guidelines for NOS subsidiaries;  Process Level Controls and IS/IT Controls are defined in corporate terms, being applied to NOS subsidiaries, adapted to their specific characteristics, organisation and responsibility for processes. In view of this division, the controls related to collection of the information that will be the basis for preparation of the financial statements can be found, usually, at the departments of each of the subsidiary companies; the controls related to processing, recording and filing this information in accounting books can be found at a corporate level in the Administrative and Finance Department. The internal control and risk management system associated with financial statements includes the key controls specified below:  The process of disclosure of financial information is institutionalised, the criteria for preparation and disclosure have been duly approved, are fully established and periodically reviewed; 383  The use of accounting principles, explained in the Annexes of the financial statements notably on the section regarding Accountancy Policies, is one of the key pillars of the control system;  The controls are aggregated by the business cycles that give rise to the financial statements, and by the corresponding classes and subclasses of transactions;  Indexing is maintained between the controls defined in the Internal Control Manual and the four commonly accepted financial assertions: i. Completeness: to ensure that all transactions are recorded, that all valid transactions are submitted for processing and that there are no duplicate records; ii. Accuracy: to ensure that transactions are recorded correctly including recording in the accounts in the period in which they occurred, with appropriate accrual accounting; iii. Validity: which means that all transactions are valid, complying with two fundamental criteria: (i) they are properly approved in accordance with delegations of power and (ii) are related to the normal activities of the Company, in other words, they are legal; iv. Restricted Access: it seeks to ensure that there are appropriate restrictions on access to information in electronic format or any other means of protecting assets. In order to guarantee the know-how of all the those involved in the financial reporting process with regard their responsibilities, the Administrative and Finance Department shall prepare, for the most significant situations, a set of documents on the implemented policies and preocedures and their relevance to the IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) and also addresses potential causes of risk that may materially affect accounting and financial reporting. These potential causes of risk include the following:  Accounting estimates The most significant accounting estimates are described in the Annexes of the financial statements. The estimates were based on the best information available during the preparation of the financial statements, and on the best understanding and best experience of past and/or present events;  Balances and transactions with related parties The most significant balances and transactions with related parties are disclosed in the Annexes of the financial statements. NOS adopts various measures to help manage risks and maintain a robust internal control environment, including initiatives of the following type:  Conformity tests These include periodical control self-assessment of the internal control system and the consequent revision of the Internal Control Manual, ensuring that it is always up-to-date. They also include corrective actions concerning control procedures considered non-compliant, as a result of conformity assessment by Internal Auditing and by the External Auditor;  Review and improvement of design of controls These include the review of the procedures of control and the strengthening of business cycles and financial flows with levels of relevant materiality, to improve the control environment and the control and perception of current risks (operational and financial). This reinforcement includes the creation of an aggregating vision of the life cycles of the assets or the associated financial flows, as well as the respective processes and systems that support them. In addition to the financial risks referred to in the section on the main types of risks with an impact on the business, the Company is potentially exposed to other financial risks that may have an impact on the financial statements, such as credit risk (related to balances receivable), liquidity risk (related to sufficient 384 assets to cover liabilities), market risk (related to exchange rate and interest rate variations) and capital risk (related to financial loans and the remuneration of shareholders). In the Annexes of the financial statements, namely in the risk management policies section, more specific information can be found on financial risk management policies, as well as on how risks associated with the financial statements are managed and controlled. IV. Investor information 56. and 57. Department responsible for investor information and Market Relations Representative The Investor Relations Department aims at ensuring the proper relationships with shareholders, investors and analysts, under the principle of equal treatment, as well as with the financial markets in general and, in particular, with the regulated market where the shares representing the capital of NOS are admitted to trading Euronext Lisbon and with the regulator, the CMVM. Each year the Investor Relations Department publishes the management report and accounts, also publishing annual, half-yearly and quarterly information, in accordance with national corporate law and the laws of Portuguese capital market. The Company discloses privileged information on its activity or the securities it has issued immediately and publicly and shareholders and remaining stakeholders can access www.nos.pt/ir). All the information is made available on the The Investor Relations Department also provides up-to-date information on the activities of NOS to the financial community through regular press releases, presentations and announcements on the quarterly, half-yearly and annual results, as well as on any relevant facts that occur. It also provides full explanations to the financial community in general shareholders, investors (institutional and private) and analysts, also assisting and supporting shareholders in the exercise of their rights. The Investor Relations Department organises regular meetings between the executive management team and the financial community through the attendance in specialised conferences, roadshows both in Portugal and in the main international financial markets and frequently meets investors who are visiting Portugal. In 2017, the main Investor Relations events were: 385 DATE FORMAT LOCATION 12 January Haitong Iberian Conference London 02 February Santander Iberian Conference Madrid 09/10 March Roadshow London 16 March Roadshow Madrid 22 March Citigroup European and Em erging Telecom s Conference London 30/31 March Roadshow Paris 24/25 May Roadshow NY 01 June Berenberg TMT Conference Zurich 02 June Roadshow Dublin 26 June Roadshow London 31 August Credit Suisse Conference London 6 September Barclays TMT Forum London 7 September BPI Iberian Conference Cascais 13 September Goldm an Sachs Com m unacopia NY 15 November Morgan Stanley TMT Conference Barcelona 21 November Roadshow London 27 November Roadshow Madrid 30 November Roadshow Bilbao The composition of the Investor Relations Department is the following: Maria João Carrapato Head of the Investor Relations Department and Market Relations Representative Tel.: +351 21 782 47 25 Henrique Rosado Tel.: +351 21 791 66 63 Clara Teixeira Tel.: +351 21 782 47 25 The functions, composition and contacts of the Investor Relations Department can also be found on the Any interested party may request information from the Investor Relations Department, through the following contacts: Rua Ator António Silva, nº 9 1600 203 Lisboa (Portugal) Tel. +(351) 21 782 47 25 Fax: +(351) 21 782 47 35 E-mail: ir@nos.pt 386 58. Enquiries The Company has a record of all enquiries and their processing, all of which have been properly dealt with in good time. It is to be noted that, as at 31 December 2017, there were no enquiries unanswered. V. Website 59. Addresses Through its website (http://www.nos.pt/institucional/PT/Paginas/default.aspx), NOS offers access to information in Portuguese and English on its evolution and its current economic, financial and governance situation. 60 to 65. Location for the provision of: (i) information on the Company; (ii) articles of association and regulations; (iii) information on members of company bodies and other structures; (iv) accounting documents and other financial documents; (v) notice of meeting and preparatory and subsequent information; and (vi) archive of resolutions In line with Recommendation VI.1 of the CMVM Corporate Governance Code, the Company offers on its website (http://www.nos.pt/institucional/PT/investidores/governo-de-sociedade/Paginas/default.aspx) the following information and/or documentation, in Portuguese and English: Company name, its public company status, location of its headquarters and other elements referred to in article 171 of the CSC; Articles of Association and regulations governing the functioning of the internal bodies and committees (particularly the Executive Committee); Identity of the members of the Company bodies; Investor Relations Department, including, identity of the represetantive for the relationships with the market, duties and contacts; Financial statements from the last 10 years, as well as the half-yearly calendar of corporate events, disclosed at the beginning of each half-year, including, among other things, the General Meetings, and disclosure of annual, half-yearly and quarterly accounts. 387 Notices convening the General Meeting, proposals presented and extracts from minutes; ed and the results of votes for at least the last three years. D. Remuneration I. Power of decision 66. Identification a committee that it appoints is responsible for setting the remuneration of the members of the statutory boards and other corporate bodies, taking into account the duties performed and the financial situation of the Company. When there is a Remuneration Committee, it shall be made up of two or more members, shareholders or es of Association). II. Remuneration Committee 67. Composition of the Remuneration Committee At the Anual General Meeting, on 26 April 2016, a Remuneration Committee was appointed for the threeyear period 2016/2018. The Remuneration Committee is made up of two members with recognised experience, particularly in the field of business, who have the necessary knowledge to handle and decide on all the matters within the competence of the Remuneration Committee, including the remuneration policy. In order to determine the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee accompanies and evaluates, constantly and with the support of the Appointment and Evaluation Committee, the performance of the Directors, verifying to what extent the objectives proposed have been achieved, and it shall meet whenever necessary. The composition of the Remuneration Committee, on 31 December 2017, was the following: 388 Chairman: Ângelo Paupério Member: Mário Leite da Silva The Company provides members of the Remuneration Committee with permanent access, at the expense of the Company, to third party consultants specialised in various different fields, whenever needed by the committee. During 2017, the Remuneration Committee did not engage any services to support the performance of its duties. The Remuneration Committee met 4 times in 2017, having decided on matters of assessment, remuneration and definition of the goals of the Executive Committee. 68. Knowledge and experience of members The members of the Remunaration Committee hold a vast and recognized management experience, namely in listed companies as presented in item 19 of this report. III. Remuneration structure 69. Description of the remuneration policy A Remuneration Committee declaration on the remuneration policy for NOS management and supervisory compliance with article 2 of Law no. 28/2009, of 19 June a general outline of which is given below. Rewarding systems have a strategic rol the best professionals in the market. Best practices in remuneration systems for listed companies suggest the use of models that incorporate different components: a fixed component that be annual bonus, profit sharing and/or the implementation of share allocation plans. The components of NOS compensation scheme for Executive Directors are in line with practices in other comparable companies. The variable remuneration associated with the achievement of management goals is applied through the following components: Profit Sharing and Share Allocation Plan. The Profit sharing can be proposed to shareholders by the Board of Directors. After assessment of the total amount to be distributed, the amount to be received by each member will also depend on alignment with the results. 389 The Share Plans, approved, over time, at the General Meeting aim to guarantee the alignment of individual interests with the corporate goals and interests of NOS shareholders, rewarding the achievement of objectives that imply sustained value creation. The non-executive members of the Board of Directors, as they are not responsible for carrying out the defined strategies in a daily basis, have a compensation system that does not include any variable remuneration components, only a fixed amount. Remuneration policy for members of the supervisory bodies The members of the Fiscal Board, like other Non-Executive Directors, only receive a fixed component. The Statutory Auditor is remunerated under the terms established in the contract, in accordance with the law. In view of the above, NOS considers that its remuneration model for the Executive Directors is properly structured, since: i) it defines a potential maximum total remuneration; ii) it rewards performance, through discourages excessive risk-taking, since fifty per cent of the variable components Profit Sharing and Share Allocation Plan are deferred in time, during three years; iv) it actively guarantees the adoption of policies that are sustainable over time, namely through the previous definition of business goals and because the effective payment of the deferred variable components depends on the achievement of objective conditions, associated with the economic soundness of the Company; v) it enables talent to be obtained and retained; and vi) it is in line with the comparable benchmarking. 70. Remuneration structure and alignment of interests The aforementioned compensation system also has to ensure that the interests of the Board of Directors members (in particular, Executive Directors, who may benefit from a variable component of remuneration) are in line with the long-terms business objectives. The success of this strategy lies in ensuring that the alignment is conducted through clear objectives that are consistent with the strategy, strict metrics to assess individual performance, along with appropriate performance incentives that simultaneously encourage ethical principles, while discouraging excessive risk-taking. Therefore, the creation of value needs not just excellent professionals, but also a framework of incentives that reflect both size and complexity of challenges. Each year the Remuneration Committee, in coordination with the AEC, defines the large variables to be assessed and their corresponding objective amounts. The variable component of the Executive Directors was calculated using the performance of NOS as measured by the previously defined business indicators. In 2017, have been considered the aggregates ash Flow after interest and taxes and before dividends, Financial Investments, Acquisition of Own Shares and Net Promoter Score. 390 On the other hand, the goal of the component associated with the Share Allocation Plan, apart from complying with the already mentioned objectives for the Profit Sharing, is also to ensure the alignment with the creation of shareholder value and the strengthening of loyalty mechanisms. NOS has in operation a Share Allocation Plan, approved at the General Meeting on 23 April 2014 (named NOS Plan), applicable to collaborators that belongs to different organizational groups, including Executive Directors. It shall be highlighted, however, that, due to the deferral of the delivery of shares, during the course of 2017, the plans of t plans. 71. Variable component and performance The variable remuneration, using the components referred to above, seeks to consolidate a correct policy for setting objectives with systems that properly reward the ability to execute and to obtain results and to achieve ambitious performances, discouraging short-term policies and instead fostering the development of sustainable medium and long-term policies. The Share Allocation Plan defines the terms of the deffered shares vesting (deferral of 3 years), in compliance with the legal requirements in force regarding variable remuneration deferral. It should also be noted that despite the current Share Plans being deferred in time de facto (the NOS Plan and the Standard and Mainroad Plans) the Remuneration Committee limited, regarding the executive members, positive results, which requires compliance with the following additional condition: The consolidated net situation in the year n+3, excluding any extraordinary movements occurred after the end of year n, and discounting an amount for each financial year correspondent to a pay-out of 40% on the net profit in the consolidated accounts of each year of the deferral period (irrespectively of the effective pay out), must be higher than the one calculated found at the end of financial year n. Extraordinary movements, in the period between year n and n+3, include capital increases, purchase or sale of own shares, extraordinary dividends, annual pay-out other than 40% of the consolidated profit of the respective operating profits. The net situation of year n+3, must be calculated based on the accounting rules used in financial year n, so that comparability is ensured. The distribution of shares, under the approved plans, being totally dependent on Group and individual performance, primarily aims to ensure the maximum creation of value in a medium and long-term perspective, thus encouraging sustainable policies in the long term. These plans are described in a more detailed way in item 86 of Chapter VI below. The objectives that are assessed generally correspond to profitability and growth variables that ensure the development and the sustainability of the Company and, as an indirect result, of national economy and its stakeholders as a whole. 391 Maximum limits on variable remuneration The value of the variable components (including the Share Plans), when the allocation is decided by the Remuneration Committee, is limited to a maximum amount of 120% with regard to the fixed remuneration, in compliance with the best corporate governance practices in force on this subject. Guarantee of minimum variable remuneration There are no contracts with guaranteed minimums for the variable remuneration, regardless of the remuneration. 72. Deferral of variable remuneration Half of the variable compensation allocated was deferred for three years and its payment is dependent on a positive future performance. The definition of this condition for future access to the variable remuneration was already explained in the previous item 71. 73. Allocation of the variable component in shares The General Meeting approved on 23 April 2014 approved the Share Allocation Plan (NOS Plan). In this context, it shall be noted that there are no hedging or risk transfer contracts concerning a predefined amount of the total annual remuneration of the Executive Directors. Consequently, the risk underlying the corresponding variability of the remuneration is not mitigated. 74. Allocation of the variable component in options No remunerations in options are implemented for Directors, that is to say that the Share Allocation Plan only allows the allocation of shares. 75. Annual bonuses and other non-cash benefits In 2017, no significant other non-cash benefits were given. 76. Supplementary pension or retirement schemes There are neither supplementary pensions nor early retirement schemes for Directors. 392 IV. Disclosure of remunerations 77. Remuneration of Directors 2017 FIXED COMPANY'S NAME TOTAL REMUNERATION PROFIT SHARING EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MIGUEL NUNO SANTOS ALMEIDA 575,000 315,794 890,794 JOSE PEDRO FARIA PEREIRA DA COSTA 425,000 233,556 658,556 ANA PAULA GARRIDO PINA MARQUES 325,000 178,731 503,731 ANDRE NUNO MALHEIRO DOS SANTOS ALMEIDA (1) 218,454 218,454 MANUEL ANTONIO PORTUGAL RAMALHO EANES 325,000 178,731 503,731 JORGE FILIPE PINTO SEQUEIRA DOS SANTOS GRACA 257,143 151,319 408,462 LUIS MOUTINHO DO NASCIMENTO (2) 179,579 72,414 251,993 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS JORGE MANUEL DE BRITO PEREIRA 140,000 140,000 ANGELO GABRIEL RIBEIRINHO SANTOS PAUPERIO 75,000 75,000 ANTONIO DOMINGUES (3) 53,988 53,988 ANTONIO BERNARDO ARANHA GAMA LOBO XAVIER 60,000 60,000 CATARINA EUFEMIA AMORIM DA LUZ TAVIRA 55,000 55,000 JOAQUIM FRANCISCO ALVES FERREIRA DE OLIVEIRA 55,000 55,000 JOAO PEDRO MAGALHAES DA SILVA TORRES DOLORES 55,000 55,000 LORENA SOLANGE FERNANDES DA SILVA FERNANDES 55,000 55,000 MARIA CLAUDIA TEIXEIRA AZEVEDO 55,000 55,000 MARIO FILIPE MOREIRA LEITE DA SILVA 75,000 75,000 2,984,164 1,130,546 4,114,710 (1) Executive director whose term was suspended from 1 January 2017 to 31 March 2017, presented his resignation which, under the terms of article 404(2) of the CSC, without appointment or designation of a replacement, was effective as from 30 September, 2017; (2) Executive director co-opted on 29June 2017; (3) Executive diretor co-opted on 1 March 2017; The amounts shown in the table above were calculated on an accruals basis. 393 Additionaly and regarding the performance during the financial year of 2017, rights will be allocated under NOS 2018-2021 sh future positive performance under the terms referred in item 71. The estimated (1) number of shares to be given to each Director is detailed below: NAME NR OF SHARES EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MIGUEL NUNO SANTOS ALMEIDA 70,522 JOSE PEDRO FARIA PEREIRA DA COSTA 52,157 ANA PAULA GARRIDO PINA MARQUES 39,914 MANUEL ANTONIO PORTUGAL RAMALHO EANES 39,914 JORGE FILIPE PINTO SEQUEIRA DOS SANTOS GRACA 33,792 LUIS MOUTINHO DO NASCIMENTO 16,958 253,257 (1) The final number of shares to be allocated will be calculated based on the average closing price in the 15 sessions prior to 31 March or before the resolution of the Remuneration Committee. 78. Amounts paid by other companies in the NOS Group Executive Directors of NOS that also hold positions in other NOS Group companies do not receive any additional remuneration or other amounts in any ground whatsoever. 79. Profit sharing or payment of bonuses The variable components to be paid based on the 2017 performance, sharing or the payment of other components of the variable remuneration, are described in item 77. 80. Compensation to former Executive Directors In 2017 no compensations were paid to former Directors for the termination of their duties. 394 81. Remuneration received by members of the supervisory body The remuneration of members of the Fiscal Board, during 2017, was as follows: FIXED NAME REMUNERATION FISCAL BOARD PAULO CARDOSO CORREIA DA MOTA PINTO 60,000 EUGENIO LUIZ LOPES FRANCO FERREIRA 30,000 PATRICIA ANDREA BASTOS TEIXEIRA LOPES COUTO VIANA 30,000 120,000 The members of the Fiscal Board do not receive any variable component, nor benefit from NOS share plans. 82. Remuneration of the chairman of the General Meeting The remuneration of members of the Board of General Meeting, during 2017, was as follows: FIXED NAME REMUNERATION BOARD OF THE COMPANY’S GENERAL MEETING PEDRO CANASTRA DE AZEVEDO MAIA 18,000 TIAGO ANTUNES DA CUNHA FERREIRA DE LEMOS 5,000 23,000 V. Agreements with remuneration implications 83.Limits on compensation for unfair dismissal The Directors of NOS in the case of unfair dismissal are entitled to compensation for damages suffered in accordance with the applicable law and/or contract. 84. Compensation in case of dismissal, unfair dismissal or termination due to change of control (Directors and Senior Officers) compensatory conditions to those legally established, except in the case of a management contract that stipulates specific conditions in this matter. 395 VI. Share plans and stock options 85. Plans and targets The objectives of the Share Allocation Plan in force in NOS Group, mentioning all the details needed to be assessed (including the respective regulations) are: To ensure the loyalty of collaborators in the different companies of the Group; shareholders, rewarding their performance in relation to value creation for NOS shareholders, reflected in the value of its shares on the stock exchange. This Plan, which applies to collaborators that belongs to some organizational groups (including Executive Directors), is one of the pillars that makes NOS a benchmark company in personal and professional development matters and stimulates the development and mobilisation of employees around a common project. NOS Share Allocation Plan Regulation, which include all necessary elements for the correct evaluation of Through the Share Allocation Plan a number of shares will be allocated, which is exclusively dependent on the compliance with the objectives established for NOS and on individual performance assessments. This compensation philosophy, through share programmes that help to align the collaborators, in particular Executive Directors, with the creation of shareholder value, is an important loyalty mechanism, apart from bolstering the performance culture of NOS Group, since their allocation depends on compliance with the corresponding objectives. To make NOS a benchmark in terms of international remuneration practices, adopting the best models of market-leader companies, is the main goal of these Plans, which have three main objectives: alignment Following the deferral of the delivery of shares, will remain in force the plan prior to the merger called 396 86. Characterisation of plans NOS Plan A Share Allocation Plan which was approved at the General Meeting on 23 April 2014, for employees that belong to some organizational groups and are selected by the Executive Committee (or by the Remuneration Committee on proposal from the Chairman of the Board of Directors if the beneficiary is a member of NOS Executive Committee). The share vesting period of this Plan is three years from the date they are allocated, in other words, shares are actually delivered and made available to the executive members, only three years after they are allocated, if the conditions the delivery is subject to are satisfied, notably the positive performance under the terms referred to in item 71. A share allocation plan for employees, regardless of their jobs, who are selected by the Executive Committee (or by the Remuneration Committee on proposal from the Chairman of the Board of Directors if the beneficiary is a member of NOS Executive Committee). The vesting period for the shares in this plan is five years, the first vesting occurring twelve months after the period to which the allocation refers, at a rate of 20% a year. 87.Share plans and stock options for employees and collaborators Conditions and Resolution on the number of shares to allocate to beneficiaries Under the NOS Plan, the Executive Committee shall select the beneficiaries of each Plan and decide on a case by case basis on the allocation of shares to the eligible collaborators. The Remuneration Committee has this responsibility for Executive Committee members. The allocation of shares to the respective beneficiaries depends entirely on performance criteria, of both the Group and the individual. The number of shares to be allocated is established using the amounts that are set with reference to the percentages of the remuneration earned by the beneficiaries, taking into account the assessment of NOS annual objectives as well as the assessment of individual performance. The specific number of shares to be given will be, therefore, the result of the division of the value provided by the average closing price in the fifteen trading sessions prior to the Executive Committee resolution, except if the Executive Committee or s, considers at its sole discretion other criteria that are deemed to be more appropriate. Shares can be delivered for no consideration or through a right to buy with a discount up to 90%. These shares, or the equivalent value in cash, are delivered after a deferral period of 3 years. The final amount depends on the overall success of the Company during this period. However, should dividends be distributed or if the nominal value of the shares or share capital is changed during the deferral period, the 397 initial number of shares under the Plan will be altered to reflect the effects of these changes, so that the plan is aligned with the total return achieved. On 31 December 2017, the plans that allow the delivery of shares are the following: NUMBER OF SHARES STANDARD PLAN Plan 2013 60,378 NOS PLAN Plan 2015 639,674 Plan 2016 747,714 Plan 2017 848,472 During the financial year ended on 31 December 2017, the movements under the Plans are detailed as follows: PLANO PLANO PLANO STANDARD MAINROAD NOS BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016: 180,067 41,958 2,303,014 MOVEMENTS IN THE PERIOD: Awarded 834,211 Vested (117,296) (41,958) (772,217) Cancelled / elapsed / corrected (1) (2,393) (129,148) BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017: 60,378 2,235,860 (1) It mainly includes corrections introduced by virtue of the dividend paid, shares related to plans exceptionally settled in cash and shares related with termination of relationships with collaborators, not benefitting from the vesting of the shares. Share plan costs are recognised in the accounts over the period between the allocation and the vesting date of those shares. Total responsibility for the plans is calculated taking into consideration the share price at the allocation date for the plans settled in shares, or at the close date for the plans cash settled. As at 31 December 2017, liabilities for these plans are 6,478 thousand euros and are recorded under Reserves, in the amount of 5,252 thousand euros, for the plans settled in shares, and in Accruals of Costs, in the amount of 1,226 thousand euros, for the plans settled in cash. 88. Limits to the transfer of shares The rights to the shares allocated can only be disposed of after the respective vesting period, the length of which varies according to the share plan, being three years for NOS Plan and five years for the Standard plan (with annual vesting of 20%), according to the conditions described above. In the case of executive members who are beneficiaries of Share Plans, the transfer of the shares also depends on an extra condition related to the existence of future positive Company profits, also described on item 71. 398 E. Transactions with related parties I. Mechanisms and control procedures 89. Control mechanisms for related party transactions shareholders, or with entities with which they are in any relationship, pursuant to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code. Pursuant to article 3.1(o) of the delegation of management powers by the Board of Directors to Executive Committee, the delegation did not cover the entering into of any transactions, between the Company and shareholders with qualifying holdings representing 2% or more of the voting rights (Qualifying Shareholders) and/or entities related to them in any way pursuant to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities terms of framework by the Board of Directors). In turn, article 2(2.9)(g), also of the delegation of management powers by the Board of Directors to the Executive Committee, determines that the Chairman of the Executive Committee is responsible in particular for ensuring that the Board of Directors is informed, quarterly, of the transactions that, in connection with the delegation of powers of the Executive Committee, have been entered into by the Company and shareholders with qualifying holdings representing 2% or more of the voting rights (Qualifying Shareholders) and/or entities related to than in any way pursuant to article 20 of the The AFC, as a specialised committee of the Board of Directors, scrutinises these matters. article 3(q) of its regulations determines that its powers include, in particular, the power to analyse and issue its prior opinion on the transactions between the Company and shareholders with qualifying holdings representing 2% or more of the voting rights (Qualifying Shareholders) and/or entities related to them in any way pursuant to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code (Related Parties). In addition, pursuant to recommendation V.2 of the CMVM Corporate Governance Code (2013), under the terms of article 3(1)(r) of the Regulations of the Fiscal Board, this body is responsible, in particular, for issuing a prior opinion on relevant business activities with qualifying shareholders, or entities with which they are in any relationship, according to article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code; It is to be noted that, in 2014, the Company approved, through its supervisory body the Fiscal Board Regulations for Transactions with Qualified Shareholders and Related Parties (we refer to entities with which they are in any of the relationships described in article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code), which laid down, in particular, procedures and criteria that are required to define the relevant level of significance of business with holders of qualifying holdings or with related parties , and thus business of significant importance is dependent upon the prior opinion of that supervisory body. 399 NOS did not carry out any deals and transactions that are economically material to any of the parties involved with members of the management or supervisory bodies or controlled or group companies, except for those business deals or transactions conducted under normal market conditions for similar 90. and 91. Transactions subject to control and intervention of the supervisory body for prior assessment of these transactions The abovementioned Regulations on Transactions with shareholders of qualifying holdings and/or Related Parties lays down internal procedures for control of transactions with holders of qualified holdings, considered suited to the transparency of the decision-making process, defining the terms of intervention of the Fiscal Board in this process. Thus, without prejudice to additional obligations, pursuant to these Regulations, by the end of the month following the end of each quarter, the Executive Committee shall inform the Fiscal Board of all the transactions made in the previous quarter with each qualifying shareholder and/or related party. The list of transactions carried out during 2017 can be found in Note 40 of the Consolidated Annual Report. Transactions with qualifying shareholders and/or related parties require a prior opinion from the Fiscal Board in the following cases: (i) transactions which value per transaction exceeds a particular level set forth in the Regulations and described in the table below; (ii) transactions with a significant impact on the activities of NOS and/or its subsidiaries due to their nature or strategic importance, regardless of their value; (iii) transactions made, exceptionally, outside normal market conditions, regardless of their value. Types and values of the transactions to be considered for the purposes of item (i) above: TYPE VALUE Transactions Sales, services, purchases and services obtained, except in case of renovation of pending More than EUR 1,000,000 contracts Loans and other funding received and granted, except More than EUR 10,000,000 day-to-day management/ operations up to 180 days Financial investments More than EUR 10,000,000 The prior opinion of the Fiscal Board required for the transactions referred to in items (i) and (ii) above will not be necessary in the case of: (i) interest and/or exchange rate hedging transactions through trading rooms or auctions and (ii) applications or financial investments through trading rooms or auctions. Without prejudice to other transactions subject to the approval of the Board of Directors by law and under 400 shareholders and/or related parties when the opinion of the Fiscal Board referred to in the preceding paragraph is not favourable. For the Fiscal Board to appraise the transaction in question and issue an opinion, the Executive Committee must provide that body with all necessary information and a reasoned justification. The assessment to authorise and issue a prior opinion applicable to transactions with qualifying shareholders and/or related parties should take into account, among other relevant aspects, the principle of equal treatment of shareholders and other stakeholders, the interest of the Company and the impact, materiality, nature and justification for each transaction. II. Elements relating to the businesses 92. Location for the provision of information on related party transactions The accounting documents where information is available on business with related parties are available at the Company headquarters and on its website. (http://www.nos.pt/institucional/PT/investidores/informacao-financeira/Paginas/default.aspx ) Part II Evaluation of Corporate Governance 1. Identification of the Corporate Governance Code adopted Pursuant to article 2(1) of CMVM Regulation No. 4/2013, on corporate governance, NOS adopts the Recommendations set out in the CMVM Corporate Governance Code, in the version published in July 2013 (available at: http://www.cmvm.pt/CMVM/Recomendacao/Recomendacoes/Documents/Código%20de%20Governo% 20das%20Sociedades%202013.pdf ). 2. Analysis of compliance with the adopted Corporate Governance Code This report aims to fulfil the obligation for annual publication of a detailed report on corporate governance structure and practices, pursuant to article 245A of the Portuguese Securities Code, applicable to the issuers of shares admitted to trading on a regulated market situated or operating in Portugal. 401 In addition, this report describes the corporate governance structure and practices adopted by the Company in compliance with the CMVM Recommendations on corporate governance, in the version published on July 2013, as well as with best international corporate governance practices, having been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of article 7 of the Portuguese Securities Code and article 1 of CMVM Regulation No. 4/2013. The following table presents: i) a summary of CMVM Recommendations on Corporate Governance, in the version published in 2013; ii) the corresponding level of observance by NOS, as at 31 December 2017; and, also iii) the Chapters of this Corporate Governance Report that describe the measures taken by the Company to comply with the aforementioned CMVM Recommendations. Details of the Portuguese Securities Market Commission adoption of the Notes Report Recommendation recommendation I General Meeting I. Voting and Control of the Company I.1. Companies shall encourage shareholders to attend and vote at general meetings and shall not set an excessively large number of shares Adopted Number 12 required for the entitlement of one vote, and implement the means necessary to exercise the right to vote by mail and electronically. I.2. Companies shall not adopt mechanisms that hinder the passing of resolutions by shareholders, including fixing a quorum for Adopted Number 14 resolutions greater than that provided for by law. I.3. Companies shall not establish mechanisms intended to cause mismatching between the right to receive dividends or the subscription of Adopted Number 12 new securities and the voting right of each common share, unless duly justified in terms of long-term interests of shareholders. 402 provide for the restriction of the number of votes that may be held or exercised by a sole shareholder, either individually or in concert with other shareholders, shall also foresee for a resolution by the general assembly (five year NA NA intervals), on whether that provision of the articles of association is to be amended or prevails without super quorum requirements as to the one legally in force and that in said resolution, all votes issued be counted, without applying said restriction. I.5. Measures that require payment or assumption of fees by the company in the event of change of control or change in the composition of the Board and that which Adopted Numbers 2, 4 appear likely to impair the free transfer of shares and free assessment by shareholders of the performance of Board members, shall not be adopted. II. Supervision, Management And Oversight II.1. Supervision And Management II.1.1. Within the limits established by law, and except for the small size of the company, the board of directors shall delegate the daily Adopted Numbers 21, 28 management of the company and said delegated powers shall be identified in the Annual Report on Corporate Governance. II.1.2. The Board of Directors shall ensure that the company acts in accordance with its objectives and shall not delegate its responsibilities as regards the following: i) define the strategy and general policies of the Adopted Numbers 21, 22 company; ii) define business structure of the group; iii) resolutions considered strategic due to the amount, risk and particular characteristics involved. 403 II.1.3. The General and Audit Committee in addition to its supervisory duties, shall take full responsibility at corporate governance level, whereby through the provision of the articles of association or by equivalent means, shall enshrine the requirement for this body to decide on the strategy and major policies of the NA NA company, the definition of the corporate structure of the group and the decisions that shall be considered strategic due to the amount or risk involved. This body shall also assess compliance with the strategic plan and the implementation of key policies of the company. II.1.4. Except for small-sized companies, the Board of Directors and the General and Audit Committee, depending on the model adopted, Adopted Number 27 shall create the necessary committees in order to: a) Ensure a competent and independent assessment of the performance of the Numbers 24, 27, Adopted executive directors and its own overall 29 performance, as well as of other committees; b) Reflect on the system structure and governance practices adopted, verify its efficiency and propose to the competent Adopted Numbers 27, 29 bodies, measures to be implemented with a view to their improvement. II.1.5. The Board of Directors or the General and Audit Committeed, depending on the applicable model, should set goals in terms of Adopted Numbers 50, 55 risk-taking and create systems for their control to ensure that the risks effectively incurred are consistent with those goals. II.1.6. The Board of Directors shall include a number of non-executive members ensuring effective monitoring, supervision and Adopted Number 18 assessment of the activity of the remaining members of the board. 404 II.1.7. Non-executive members shall include an appropriate number of independent members, taking into account the adopted governance model, the size of the company, its shareholder structure and the relevant free float. The independence of the members of the General and Supervisory Board and members of the Adopted Number 18 Audit Committee shall be assessed as per the law in force. The other members of the Board of Directors are considered independent if the member is not associated with any specific group of interests in the company nor is under any circumstance likely to affect an exempt analysis or decision, particularly due to: a. Having been an employee at the company or at a controlled company holding or group relationship within the last three years; b. Having, in the past three years, provided services or established commercial relationship with the company or company with which it is in control or group relationship, either directly or as a partner, board member, manager or director of a legal person; c. Being paid by the company or by a company with which it is in a control or group relationship besides the remuneration arising from the exercise of the functions of a board member; d. Living with a partner or a spouse, relative or any first degree next of kin and up to and including the third degree of collateral affinity of board members or natural persons that are direct and indirectly holders of qualifying holdings; e. Being a qualifying shareholder or representative of a qualifying shareholder. II.1.8. When board members that carry out executive duties are requested by other board members, said shall provide the information Adopted Number 18 requested, in a timely and appropriate manner to the request. 405 II.1.9. The Chairman of the Executive Board or of the Executive Committee shall submit, as applicable, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Adopted Numbers 18, 28 the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Financial Matters Board, the convening notices and minutes of the relevant meetings. II.1.10. If the chairman of the board of directors carries out executive duties, said body shall appoint, from among its members, an independent member to ensure the coordination of the work of other nonNA NA executive members and the conditions so that these members can make independent and informed decisions or to ensure the existence of an equivalent mechanism for such coordination. II.2. SUPERVISION II.2.1. Depending on the applicable model, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee or the Financial Matters Committee Numbers 18,31, shall be independent in accordance with the Adopted 32 applicable legal standard, and have the necessary skills to carry out their relevant duties. II.2.2. The supervisory body shall be the main representative of the external auditor and the first recipient of the relevant reports, and is responsible, inter alia, for proposing the Adopted Number 34 relevant remuneration and ensuring that the proper conditions for the provision of services are provided within the company. II.2.3. The Audit Committee shall evaluate the external auditor on an annual basis and propose to the competent body its dismissal or Adopted Number 34, 45 termination of the contract as to the provision of their services when there is a valid basis for said dismissal. II.2.4. The Audit Committee shall evaluate the functioning of the internal control systems and Adopted Number 34 risk management and propose adjustments as may be deemed necessary. 406 II.2.5. The Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee decide on the work plans and resources concerning the internal audit services and services that ensure compliance with the rules applicable to the company (compliance Adopted Number 34 services), and should be recipients of reports made by these services at least when it concerns matters related to accountability, identification or resolution of conflicts of interest and detection of potential improprieties. II.3. REMUNERATION SETTING II.3.1. All members of the Remuneration Committee or equivalent should be independent from the executive board Adopted Number 67 members and include at least one member with knowledge and experience in matters of remuneration policy. II.3.2. Any natural or legal person that provides or has provided services in the past three years, to any structure under the board of directors, the board of directors of the company itself or who has a current relationship with the company or consultant of the company, shall Adopted Number 67 not be hired to assist the Remuneration Committee in the performance of their duties. This recommendation also applies to any natural or legal person that is related by employment contract or provision of services with the above. II.3.3. A statement on the remuneration policy of the management and supervisory bodies Adopted Number 69 referred to in article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 of 19 June, shall also contain the following: a) Identification and details of the criteria for determining the remuneration paid to the members of the governing bodies; 407 b) Information regarding the maximum potential amount, in individual terms, and the maximum potential amount, in aggregate form, to be paid to members of corporate bodies, and identify the circumstances whereby these maximum amounts may be payable; c) Information regarding the enforceability or unenforceability of payments for the dismissal or termination of appointment of board members. II.3.4. Approval of plans for the allotment of shares and/or options to acquire shares or based on share price variation to board members shall be submitted to the general Adopted Number 69 meeting. The proposal shall contain all the necessary information in order to correctly evaluate said plan. II.3.5. Approval of any retirement benefit scheme established for members of corporate members shall be submitted to the general NA meeting. The proposal shall contain all the necessary information in order to correctly evaluate said system. III. Remuneration III.1. The remuneration of the executive members of the board shall be based on actual Number 69 et Adopted performance and shall discourage taking on seq. excessive risk-taking. III.2. The remuneration of non-executive board members and the remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee shall not Number 69 et Adopted include any component which value depends seq. on the performance of the company or of its value. III.3. The variable component of remuneration shall be reasonable overall in relation to the Number 69 et fixed component of the remuneration and Adopted seq. maximum limits should be set for all components. 408 III.4. A significant part of the variable remuneration should be deferred for a period not less than three years, and the right of way Number 69 et Adopted payment shall depend on the continued seq. positive performance of the company during that period. III.5. Members of the Board of Directors shall not enter into contracts with the company or Number 69 et with third parties which intend to mitigate the Adopted seq. risk inherent to remuneration variability set by the company. III.6. Executive board members shall maintain virtue of variable remuneration schemes, up to Number 69 et twice the value of the total annual Adopted seq. remuneration, except for those that need to be sold for paying taxes on the gains of said shares, until the end of their mandate. III.7. When the variable remuneration includes the allocation of options, the beginning of the Number 69 et Adopted exercise period shall be deferred for a period seq. not less than three years. III.8. When the removal of board member is not due to serious breach of their duties nor to their unfitness for the normal exercise of their functions but is yet due on inadequate performance, the company shall be endowed Adopted Number 84 with the adequate and necessary legal instruments so that any damages or compensation, beyond that which is legally due, is unenforceable. IV. Auditing IV.1. The external auditor shall, within the scope of its duties, verify the implementation of remuneration policies and systems of the corporate bodies as well as the efficiency and Adopted Number 42 effectiveness of the internal control mechanisms and report any shortcomings to the supervisory body of the company. 409 IV.2. The company or any entity with which it maintains a control relationship shall not engage the external auditor or any entity with which it finds itself in a group relationship or that incorporates the same network, for services other than audit services. If there are Adopted Numbers 37, 47 reasons for hiring such services which must be approved by the Audit Committee and explained in its Annual Report on Corporate Governance said should not exceed more than 30% of the total value of services rendered to the company. IV.3. Companies shall support auditor rotation after two or three terms whether four or three years, respectively. Its continuance beyond this period must be based on a specific opinion of Adopted Number 47 the Audit Committee that explicitly considers the benefits and costs of its replacement. V. Conflicts Of Interest And Related Party Transactions qualifying holdings or entities with which they are in any type of relationship pursuant to Numbers 10, 89, Adopted article 20 of the Portuguese Securities Code, 90, 91 shall be conducted during normal market conditions. V.2. The supervisory or oversight board shall lay down procedures and criteria that are required to define the relevant level of significance of business with holders of Numbers 89, 90, qualifying holdings or entities with which they Adopted 91 are in any of the relationships described in article 20(1) of the Portuguese Securities Code thus significant relevant business is dependent upon prior opinion of that body. VI. Information 410 VI.1. Companies shall provide, via their websites in both the Portuguese and English Number 27, 59, languages, access to information on their Adopted 60 to 65 progress as regards the economic, financial and governance state of play. VI.2. Companies shall ensure the existence of an investor support and market liaison office, Number 56, 57, which responds to requests from investors in a Adopted 58 timely fashion and a record of the submitted requests and their processing, shall be kept. Global assessment of the level of adoption of Recommendations from the Corporate Governance Code NOS adopts all the applicable recommendations set out in the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Recommendations I.4; II.1.3; II.1.10; II.3.5 of the aforementioned code, which it deems not to be applicable. 3. Other informations Regarding article 245-A(r) of the Portuguese Securities Code, NOS has in place a set of principles and rules governing the internal and external relations of NOS Group companies, applicable to all members of the corporate bodies and employees of the Group. Indeed, NOS bases its human resources management policy on respect for diversity, individual rights and non-discrimination (depending on age, gender, sexual orientation, race, disability, religion or creed), in particular in the context of recruitment, promotion or termination of labour relationship. These principles and regulations are available through the consultation of the Code of Ethics of the Company, available at http://docs-institucional.nos.pt/Code-of-Ethics/. Notwithstanding the above, NOS is analysing the need to develop these principles in an autonomous Law 62/2017 of 1 August and Decree-Law no. 89/2017 of 28July. 411 Rua Actor António Silva nº9, Campo Grande 1600-404 Lisboa www.nos.pt/ir 88
