EYE ON THE HORIZON LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES CONTENTS LEADERSHIP.......................................................................................................................................................................................1 Message from the Global President & CEO........................................................................................................................................... 1 ABOUT US..........................................................................................................................................................................................2 At A Glance...................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 Governance..................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4 Materiality........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 6 OUR OPERATIONS..........................................................................................................................................................................11 People..............................................................................................................................................................................................................12 Diversity...........................................................................................................................................................................................................13 Indigenous Relations...................................................................................................................................................................................14 Training .......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 16 Health, Safety, Security & Environment ................................................................................................................................................17 Health & Safety Awards............................................................................................................................................................................ 20 Auditing .........................................................................................................................................................................................................23 Carbon Footprint.........................................................................................................................................................................................24 OUR WORK..................................................................................................................................................................................... 25 Project Profiles.............................................................................................................................................................................................27 Awards............................................................................................................................................................................................................36 OUR COMMUNITIES..................................................................................................................................................................... 39 Golder Trust for Orphans......................................................................................................................................................................... 40 Local Community Initiatives.....................................................................................................................................................................43 GRI REFERENCE TABLE................................................................................................................................................................ 46 GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES LEADERSHIP Message from the Global President & CEO Engineers and scientists are generally wired Every day, we witness the hard progression where we live and work. Our investments to be dedicated problem-solvers. Those of us of our carbon-constrained economy. The range from projects sponsored by the Golder who pursue this field of study and profession most traditional providers of fuels and Trust for Orphans, which supports sustainable do so specifically because we believe there power are actively seeking and embracing programs dedicated to a better life quality for is always a better way to do things, and in the alternatives. Changing demographics AIDs-ravaged African communities, to activities process, constantly challenge ourselves and including aging populations and migrations closer to home for many of our colleagues conventional wisdom. Because of this, our into urban settings are all challenging public where we support extensive community and industry is well-placed to contribute to society’s and private organizations to shift to better volunteer efforts. most pressing sustainability challenges. serve communities and stakeholders. We are In 2016, I signed, on behalf of Golder, a working each day to attack these challenges to In fact, our industry can lay claim to a devotion corporate commitment to the UN Global resources, infrastructure, and environments. to sustainability before there was a name for it. If Compact and have dedicated our firm to we look back on our historical achievements, we At Golder, caring is one of our core corporate transparency in our efforts to promote repeatedly find that we delivered projects that values. Our employee-owners are committed sustainable development in accordance with satisfied social, economic and environmental to sustainability – from both the perspective of the 17 components of the UN Sustainable agendas. We partner with our clients to delivering more sustainable projects that meet Development Goals and in regular reporting develop and deliver on increasingly challenging the needs of our clients and communities, to under GRI guidelines. sustainable development goals. Often the best “walking the talk” in our business operations. It is my pleasure to introduce Golder’s 2016answers come from inclusivity – engaging We have embedded sustainability principles 2017 Sustainable Development Report. I hope communities in which our clients operate and into our long-term strategy and included specific this report gives you insight into our company working together to find solutions that work goals for both internal processes and solutions and our commitment to sustainability. for all. This is no longer an altruistic idea, but a for our clients and communities. We further business strategy—a marriage between selfdemonstrate our commitment in our corporate Hisham Mahmoud, PhD, PE interest and the greater good. social responsibility program that is focused Principal Global President & CEO on creating more sustainable communities Sustainable Development Goals 17 GOALS TO TRANSFORM OUR WORLD GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 1 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES ABOUT US Golder is a highly specialized global Our Sustainable Development Report Golder’s 2017 annual revenues were in excess of consulting, design, and construction firm, covers a two-year period, 2016 and 2017, US$1B, earned by delivering services to clients owned by its employees. Our technical and has been prepared with reference to whose projects span the globe. This is achieved expertise as engineers and scientists is Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting through the work of more than 6,200 Golder requirements. It provides both internal and colleagues located in 36 countries. sought by clients from a broad range of external perspectives. Internally, the report sectors including infrastructure, power, Golder’s people remain at the center of our addresses Golder’s operations and people, manufacturing, mining, and oil and gas. enterprise and are the source of our success while the external view focuses on the work and that of our clients. we undertake for our clients as it relates to sustainable development. There have been no significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, or ownership since the previous (2015) report was compiled. Boreal Caribou are a species at risk in Canada. Golder is currently involved in assisting the recovery through habitat restoration and a rearing facility. ⊲ READ MORE GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES About us | AT A GLANCE Our Global Footprint Who We Are TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT & BY GENDER EUROPE NORTH AMERICA ASIA-PACIFIC AFRICA SOUTH AMERICA Countries where Golder has offices By the Numbers Industries We Serve 50+ Years Founded in 1960 as H.Q. Golder & Associates by 3 industry-leading experts MINING OIL & GAS MANUFACTURING TRANSPORTATION GOVERNMENT POWER 6,200+ $1B Employees Revenue Annual Gross Revenue of $1B USD Services We Provide 165+ 150+ Offices Countries We have conducted projects in over 150 countries ENVIRONMENTAL GROUND REMEDIATION REGULATORY TUNNELLING PIPELINES DESIGN CONSTRUCTION WASTE WATER ENGINEERING COMPLIANCE SUPPORT GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 3 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES About us | GOVERNANCE Governance Message from the EHL Board The Board of Directors Sustainability has been core to Golder’s mission The Board of Directors of Enterra Holdings Ltd, since the company was formed nearly 60 years the holding company for Golder’s businesses, ago, although we may not have described is the highest governance body within it in this way. Before the term sustainability the organization. The Board is comprised became a part of the modern lexicon, Golder of the President/Chief Executive Officer, 2017 EHL Board – Pictured from left to right: Yezdi Parvi, Emma Griffin, Luis Melges, Jan Hermanson, Neil Benson, was focused on the social, environmental seven Directors, one of whom is nominated Hisham Mahmoud, Rens Verberg, Richard Beddoes, Marcelo Bastos, Lisa Coyne, Amy Langhorne. Marcel Bastos and economic interdependencies to our Lead Director, selected by the employee & Lisa Coyne both joined the Board in 2017. Not pictured: Stephen Finn completed his service in 2017 & Diana Severs-Ferguson completed her service in 2016. business. For example, our ownership model shareholders of the company from among the was designed at the outset with a vision of senior staff, and three external directors. Except In 2017, our Board of Directors clarified and historical commitment to creating sustainable inter-generational transfer, attending to the for the external directors, board members are all refreshed Golder’s commitment to four key communities, with over fifteen years of social and financial benefits of our people Principals or Associates of the company. elements of sustainability which are central to philanthropy in the AIDS-ravaged continent and their communities. In addition, some of Every year each director is required to formally our strategy and brand: of Africa. We are taking our corporate social our earliest technical work involved assisting declare and record any actual or potential responsibility program to a more global clients seeking to provide renewable power or 1. Our work can positively impact the conflicts of interest to the Lead Director, who level, expanding it to more locations in mitigate environmental impacts. That mission world around us and we will support and maintains a record accessible to all directors. need – locations where we live and work. continues today. promote awareness of the UN Sustainable Directors selected by shareholders hold a four Elements of environmental conservation, Development Goals to continually increase Whether you use the word “sustainability”, the year term with the ability to seek an extension of education, alleviation of poverty, and our focus on designing and delivering phrase “corporate citizenship”, or some other two years. The term limits are reviewed regularly disaster relief can all be seen and addressed projects that achieve better outcomes for our term, it all remains the same within Golder. and are defined in advance of director selection, through this lens. clients, communities and the environment. We are aware of the larger world around us, while director transition is structured to promote 4. Finally, we remain committed to employee recognize the positive impact our expertise can stability and continuity. External directors have 2. Our own activities impact the environment ownership and passing on the benefits of provide, and foster the passion of our people to similar term limits but are reappointed annually. and we are committed to reducing these a successful business to the people who make the world a better place, through our work impacts. Commuting, travel and office space The Board revised its committee structure commit themselves every day to its success. and our giving. requirements can be lessened by effective in 2016 to focus more effectively on the Our business strategy is predicated on digital business applications and we are Richard Beddoes strategic priorities of the company as defined providing a rewarding and sustainable transforming towards a virtual business Lead Director – Board of Enterra Holdings Ltd within the 2020 Global Strategic Plan. The ownership opportunity to present and future environment where consultants can work chosen structure reduced the number of employees as a key part of their career effectively from almost anywhere in the world. Committees to three: development. Ensuring that the ownership • Ownership and People Committee 3. In 2017, we also updated our philanthropic model is designed to endure for the next • Governance Committee program, as our shareholders committed a generation is one of the Board’s most portion of our profits to charitable works. important tasks. • Finance and Audit Committee Our charitable focus is built upon our GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 4 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES About us | GOVERNANCE Executive Committee Anti-Bribery Anti-Corruption & Global Operating Group Golder’s values guide the behaviors of all In 2017, a revision to the global procedure The Golder Executive Committee, with employees. Golder’s global Anti-Bribery dealing with sub-contractors was undertaken. appropriate delegation to the Global Operating Anti-Corruption (ABC) Policy sets out the The updated requirement, effective in 2018, Group, is responsible for implementing the requirements for our business to comply with requires Golder to provide copies of relevant company strategy. The Executive Committee the anti-bribery and corruption laws in the global policies, including the Anti-Bribery comprises the CEO, COO, regional Presidents, countries in which we do business, or intend to Anti-Corruption Policy, to all sub-contractors. covering Canada, US, Asia Pacific, Europe, do business, and prohibits corrupt payments or A comprehensive review of each Golder Latin America and Mining, and executives with other improper conduct. operation was undertaken in 2017 to assess responsibilities for core business functions, risks related to corruption. While no significant Communication to all Golder staff about the including legal, finance, communications, risks were identified, some improvements requirements in this area is comprehensive risk, and human resources. The Executive and opportunities were noted and are being and continuous. All employees are required Committee’s key responsibilities are to lead progressively addressed. to participate in annual training concerning and manage Golder to ensure its long-term anti-bribery and anti-corruption and confirm All governance body members have undertaken sustainability and value, and thereby look after their understanding of the provisions of the ABC training including the EHL Board, the the best interests of shareholders. policy and the results of non-compliance. Executive Committee and the Regional Non-compliance is monitored through Golder’s Operations Group. Principals & Associates – Ethics and Compliance Hotline, Region Legal Leadership by Owners Counsel and self-awareness. Golder maintains a list of restricted countries where bribery and Golder’s Principals and Associates are corruption are deemed a risk, and undertakes responsible for achieving the desired outcomes the necessary assessments and third-party set out in our strategy, through leadership screening in line with our policy. within their own individual areas of practice and responsibility. Our Principals and Associates provide technical leadership, direct and manage projects, interface with clients, conduct business development, and mentor other employees. The Principals and Associates community forms the core of our employee 2017 Executive Committee – Pictured from left to right: Lee Anne Lackey, Kevin Stubblebine, Wendy Stoveland, ownership model and its inter-generational Mark Brightman, Caroline Tavares, Charlie Voss, Hisham Mahmoud, Tom Logan, Hannah Hamling, Greg sustainability. Herasymuik, Ma Eugenia Parot, Anna-Lena Oberg-Hogsta. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 5 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES About us | MATERIALITY Internal Perspective – Our Organization & Our People Our people, our clients and our Golder regularly surveys its people to gain Over 96% of respondents stated that it was A number of suggestions were made by communities are seeking true partnership a greater insight into how our colleagues extremely important or quite important that employees to minimize carbon emissions. These understand, prioritize, and act on issues related Golder champions human rights as an employer, include reducing air travel, substituting train in addressing the challenges of working, to sustainability. Each time we have offered including through our supply chain. travel where possible, selecting office locations operating and living sustainably. At the survey, the engagement has increased, that are more readily accessible by public Golder, we pay attention to the varying Respondents raised concerns about with the most recent survey (2017) generating transport, and developing greater reliance on perspectives of each stakeholder inconsistent internal and external approaches the largest number of responses yet. In 2017, virtual meeting technology. There are always group when considering the issues to sustainability, revealing an opportunity to more than 1,100 people replied to the survey, continuous improvement opportunities for that substantively influence their align what we do internally with the services representing a 40% increase in participation. To us in this area through education, action, delivered to our clients. assessments and decisions. In addition, make participation more accessible, the survey and measurement. Golder has its own set of sustainability was available in three languages – English, We consider the following UN Sustainable Development Goals to be most relevant to our operations. objectives that we aim to improve on French, and Spanish for the first time. It is our each year. In combination, this typically goal to continue to increase participation in this results in the development of a set survey year over year, gathering feedback and of shared perspectives that form the opinions from our people and demonstrating our commitment to using this information basis for our approach to delivering to shape, implement and improve our Ensure healthy lives and promote Ensure incisive and equitable quality Achieve gender equality and sustainable solutions. sustainability program. well-being for all at all ages. education and promote lifelong empower all women and girls. This speaks to our internal learning opportunities for all. This connects to the diverse A typical cross-section of the Golder workforce HSSE commitments and the This links to our ongoing support profile of our organization and our Sustainability will be measured was represented in terms of geographic programs and initiatives designed for professional development and recognition of its inherent value. spread (by operational group) and experience to continually improve HSSE in-house learning opportunities, and in much the same way clients outcomes. our support for education through and seniority (from members of the Executive regard HSSE today. Therefore Committee and Principals and Associates, the Golder Trust for Orphans. it is critical that it becomes part through to entry-level staff). of our operations, the way we Overwhelmingly, employees believe do business, and is integrated that it is important for Golder to operate into our service delivery as an environmentally-sustainable and Promote sustained, inclusive and Ensure sustainable consumption Peaceful and inclusive societies for through objectives, metrics, socially-responsible organization, with 88% sustainable economic growth, full and production patterns. sustainable development, provide and process. of respondents indicating that this is either and productive employment and Here our commitment to reduction access to justice for all and build extremely important or quite important. decent work for all. of waste and carbon emissions is effective and accountable and As an independent employeedemonstrated by our actions. inclusive institutions at all levels. – Golder employee, Materiality Survey 2017 This view is further confirmed with 86% of owned company the future This relates to our focus on respondents asserting the importance of waste sustainability of Golder is an anti-bribery and anti-corruption, minimization, and 77% of respondents indicating internal business imperative and and the effort made to educate the importance of Golder minimizing its carbon is reflected in the attention of our our people about these issues and emissions, in all aspects of its operations. Board. their prevention. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 6 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES About us | MATERIALITY 2016/2017 Employee Materiality Survey Analysis The 2016/2017 employee materiality survey Q1. Which of these groups do you belong to? was open to all employees for the first time and generated the largest number of responses yet. Overwhelmingly, employees believe that it is important for Golder to operate as Q2. Which operating group are you part of? an environmentally sustainable and socially responsible organization. 2016/2017 Materiality Survey Stats Q3. As an employee, how important is it to you Q4. How important is it to you that Golder Q5. How important is it to you that Golder 1,101 3 40% that Golder operates as an environmentally minimizes its carbon emissions in all aspects of minimizes waste (energy, water and physical sustainable and socially responsible its operations? resources) in all aspects of its operations? organization? Participants Languages Increased engagement 2016/2017 Survey opened to all Golder employees on an opt-in basis, 1,100+ responded 2015 Survey targeted 2,700 employees representing a cross section of the business, Q6. How important is it to you that Golder Q7. How important is it to you that Golder does Q8. How important is it to you that Golder is 786 responded is recognised as a provider of sustainable not condone the abuse of human rights as an affiliated to a global entity that promotes a solutions to clients in select markets? employer and through its supply chain? sustainable global economy? 2014 Survey targeted 650 employees representing a cross section of the 2013 Survey sent to 230 business, 390 responded employees from Golder’s technical communities, 67 responded 2012 30 Golder leaders & 200+ employees targeted representing a cross-section of our business. EXTREMELY IMPORTANT QUITE IMPORTANT SOMEWHAT IMPORTANT SLIGHTLY IMPORTANT NOT AT ALL IMPORTANT GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 7 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES About us | MATERIALITY Intersection – Internal to External The strong sentiments that When clients in select markets were asked We conduct regular surveys with our clients our people have about the how important is it that ‘Golder is recognized to check for alignment in our approach to way Golder conducts its as a provider of sustainable solutions’, 89% sustainability. This survey takes place with business transfer to the work of them stated this is extremely important, or a client selection that differs with each quite important. distribution, and serves as an additional source that Golder does. of information beyond that gained from our Views about Golder’s role in sustainable day-to-day interactions. development are candid and cover both our people’s understanding of Golder’s current The most recent survey was sent to a position as a provider of sustainable solutions targeted group of clients representing a and a future desired state. range of geographies and market sectors, and achieved a 40% response rate. Survey We know that our greatest impact on the world data reveal these clients overwhelmingly is through the solutions we provide to our believe that it is very important for Golder to clients. Therefore, we are actively working to operate as an environmentally-sustainable and develop meaningful metrics that are linked to socially-responsible organization. Similarly, our clients’ sustainable development goals these clients consider it important that Golder and the long-term benefits they derive from provides innovative and practical solutions that Founded in 2003, Golder Trust for operating in a sustainable manner. help them achieve their sustainability goals. Orphans has been helping thousands of children orphaned or displaced by the HIV AIDS pandemic. 89% ⊲ READ MORE of our clients surveyed stated that it is extremely important, or quite important that Golder is recognized as a provider of sustainable solutions GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 8 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES About us | MATERIALITY External Perspective – Helping Our Clients to Meet their Sustainability Goals At a global level, Golder works with thousands Q1. Which sector does your business belong to? of clients across the mining, oil and gas, Our company fosters manufacturing, infrastructure, and power sectors who each have their own sustainable environmentally and socially development goals. Through the skills and sustainable financing, thus we Q2. As a client, how important is it Q3. How important is it to you Q4. How important is it to you that expertise we provide, we align with their highly appreciate that involved to you that Golder operates as an that Golder minimizes its carbon Golder minimizes waste (energy, environmentally sustainable and emissions in all aspects of its water and physical resources) in priorities to improve the sustainability of their consultants reflect these socially responsible organization? operations? all aspects of its operations? projects. We consider the following eight UN values in their policies and Sustainable Development Goals to be most day-to-day business. relevant to our work for our clients. – Golder client, 2017 Client Materiality Survey. Q5. How important is it to you that Q6. How important is it to you that Q7. How important is it to you that Golder is recognised as a provider Golder provides services and advice the sustainable solutions Golder of sustainable solutions to your that helps your organization achieve provides are innovative? business? its sustainability goals? Clean Water & Sanitation Affordable & Clean Industry, Innovation & Sustainable Cities & Ensure availability and Energy Infrastructure Communities sustainable management Ensure access to Build resilient Make cities and human of water and sanitation affordable, reliable, infrastructure, promote settlements inclusive, for all. sustainable and modern inclusive and sustainable safe, resilient and energy for all. industrialization and sustainable. foster innovation. Q8. How important is it to you that Q9. How important is it to you Golder does not condone the abuse that Golder is affiliated to a global of human rights as an employer and entity that promotes a sustainable Responsible Consumption Climate Action Life Below Water Life on Land through its supply chain? and global economy? & Production Take urgent action to Conserve and sustainably Protect, restore and EXTREMELY IMPORTANT Ensure sustainable combat climate change use the oceans, seas promote sustainable consumption and and marine resources for use of terrestrial QUITE IMPORTANT production patterns. sustainable development. ecosystems, sustainably SOMEWHAT IMPORTANT manage forests, combat desertification, halt and SLIGHTLY IMPORTANT reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. NOT AT ALL IMPORTANT GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 9 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES About us | MATERIALITY Suggestions from the Employee Materiality Survey The Energy & Materials We Use in Our Offices Turn off lights, monitors, TVs, etc. when not in use – do not let them run 24/7. Most offices reported the air conditioning was too cold in summer, requiring extra clothing in the office – setting a higher temperature to compensate for summer clothing would save significant costs in electricity and create a healthier environment. Minimize the use of paper and other consumables, use recycled/fillable products where possible consistently across all offices. Avoid coffee machines that use pods – use biodegradable ones or brew with freshly ground beans. Recycling & Waste Management Establish consistent recycling paper, plastics and organics programs (composting or bakashi bins) across the offices. Send bathroom paper towels to recycling. Single use plastic is one of the biggest waste problems in the world today. Disposable cups/plates/utensils are unnecessary, use the real thing and wash it for repeat use. Disposable coffee cups are becoming a major source of waste, we can transition people to re-usable cups. Use jugs of water and glasses in meetings, not individual throw away water bottles. Travel Reduce carbon footprint by minimizing travel – can staff meet on Skype, take a train instead of a plane (in some countries this is a feasible option), public transport instead of a taxi or private car. Encourage the addition of cars rather than trucks, especially plug-in EV or hybrids for our fleet vehicles. When the opportunity to relocate an office arises, consider public transport routes. Encourage cycling to work. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 10 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS Our people share a common passion Developing Our People for technical excellence and innovation, The basis of our business is the knowledge and which is at the core of our culture. To expertise of our people; it is the application of 6, 2 6 6 maximize the power of this passion, that experience and passion to find the solution Golder provides our people with a that provides value to our clients and revenue supportive work environment, where for our business. Delivery of quality solutions, they have the opportunity to reach their with high calibre people leads to business fullest potential, and where diversity growth, and this has been the underlying reason and inclusion are valued, free from for Golder’s success throughout the world. It is discrimination and harassment. for that reason that people leadership strategies must be the highest priority. Through effective Golder is a place where collaboration leadership we will continue to attract the best and innovation are fostered, creating a people, deliver on the client-focused aspects unique culture where we build lifelong of our strategy, and be increasingly adaptive to Total employees in 2017* relationships that are strengthened with markets and opportunities. each passing day. We prioritize leading To that end, Golder has set out two important and engaging our people to help them People objectives in our 2020 strategy: to The program provides an opportunity for all TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY make their best contribution. This is establish career paths and a company-wide employees to engage in performance review EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT & BY REGION strengthened through global procedures, career development program for its people, and career development activities. The including our recently-launched High and to create and implement a comprehensive comprehensive nature of this program brings training scheme. together the key processes of engagement Performance and Contribution program. The High Performance and Contribution and retention by incorporating mentoring and program was introduced at the end of career development discussions and identifying 2017 and delivers on a significant part of future leadership potential, underpinning our our People strategy, ensuring we have a succession planning. As an integral part of the thorough understanding of the critical roles, High Performance and Contribution process, people, and skills necessary to sustain our the Career Development Program is designed business. In addition, it provides a consistent to support our people in navigating long-term global approach in the way we lead and careers and to help Golder future-proof our manage our people. business, supporting the sustainability of our talent and organization. *At the end of 2016 Golder had 6,016 employees. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 11 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | PEOPLE Our People Supporting Our Employees Share Ownership Corporately – As an employee-owned company, we control our future. Our model gives us the Improved Data Collection Golder’s employees enjoy a range of benefits As a 100% employee-owned company, our time and opportunity to be forward-thinking, relating to healthcare, retirement investment, people are truly invested in, committed to, In August 2017, Golder launched the without having to focus solely on the shortand work-life balance opportunities. and are the primary beneficiaries of Golder’s Oracle Human Capital Management (HCM) term performance requirements that are often Parental leave is accommodated throughout success. This commitment sets us apart in platform, a new and more robust method of imposed on public companies. Golder. Access and leave conditions vary every aspect of what we do. More than half of collecting and collating employee data at between regions and comply with local all full-time employees in Golder own shares Commercially – Being employee-owned is an a global level, replacing multiple collection legislation at a minimum. and participate as owners. We believe that important differentiating feature from many points throughout the organization. The ownership strengthens employee engagement competitors. It emphasizes, and reinforces, that HCM will be operational in all locations by At the time of writing this report, Golder is and is reflected in the quality and dedication of each individual employee has a stake in the mid-2018. With this system in place, Golder recruiting a global compensation and benefits service provided to our clients. success of every project – Golder clients deal will have ready access to data and analytics executive. One of the goals of this position is directly with the owners. to inform decision-making related to human to consider compensation and benefits from Employee ownership affects Golder personally, a global perspective to identify opportunities corporately, commercially and financially. Financially – As an owner, our people receive a capital and workforce planning at a global drawing on contemporary best practices and financial return balanced between cash, in the level for the first time. Personally – Choosing to be an owner is the views of our employees as guidance. form of incentive compensation and dividends, a personal commitment. It reflects pride and appreciation in the value of shares. in an organization that is contributing to important and challenging projects and significant global issues, as well as a desire SHAREHOLDER OWNERSHIP to be shared owners with a group of talented, highly-motivated people who seek to build a successful organization. 83% Of employees are full-time 48% Of employees own shares GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 12 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | DIVERSITY Balance & Perspective in Gender Diversity Diversity YEAR-OVER-YEAR BY GENDER HEADCOUNT BY GENDER* TENURE* Golder recognizes the significant value 66% of employee diversity and an inclusive workplace. Golder has a diverse operational footprint with an established local presence in multiple geographies, addressing the needs 37% of staff have been with Golder for more than 3 years Female of our clients through local expertise with 63% 3years global support. With the introduction of a more structured Male Global HCM system, Golder will gain a better understanding of the diversity profile of the The average tenure for Golder staff has organization and assess which issues are of increased from 7.1 in 2015 to 7.3 years in 2017. particular relevance to our employees and Females stay an average of 6.5 years, and achieve a measurable impact on our culture. male employees 7.9 years. FEMALE MALE Golder will conduct a series of workshops as a pilot program starting in Q1 2018, and learnings from these sessions will be shared with the wider organization to support a global program for diversity and inclusion. *As from August 2017 – see Improved Data Collection Article on page 12 for further information. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 13 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | INDIGENOUS RELATIONS Indigenous Relations Golder has a long history of working with Case Studies MAXIMIZING ECONOMIC BENEFITS TO INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES Indigenous communities. These relationships Golder has established numerous formal Golder has developed an Indigenous Participation Model to assist our clients in achieving their are guided by our corporate values of integrity, partnerships with Indigenous businesses Indigenous engagement, procurement, and training goals. Our model consists of a seven-phase excellence, teamwork, caring and ownership. and communities across Canada, our largest process as below. We are committed to working with Indigenous operation, allowing us to build and maintain peoples in ways that are respectful, welcoming relationships with communities based on trust, and culturally aware. respect, and meaningful collaboration. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Some of our current partnerships include: Golder’s work in this area supports the UNGC’s focus on social and environmental sustainability. Haneshe LP – provides environmental services for the oil and gas, mining and infrastructure Our Indigenous Relations Policy outlines sectors. Based in Cold Lake First Nations, our commitment to work with Indigenous Alberta, Haneshe is majority Indigenous-owned, communities and businesses to maximize with Golder as a minority shareholder. their participation in our projects, and develop profitable partnerships that contribute to IMG-Golder Corporation – provides capacity development and foster community environmental and engineering consulting success. In doing this, we support our services in the Inuvialuit Settlement Region of clients in fulfilling their commitments to the Northwest Territories of Canada. IMGIndigenous peoples. Golder is majority Indigenous-owned, with Golder as a minority shareholder. Kēyeh Nejéh Golder Corporation – provides engineering and environmental consulting services, focusing on projects in the traditional territory of the Kaska Nation within the Yukon Territory. Kēyeh Nejéh Golder is majority owned by Liard First Nation, with Golder as a minority shareholder. There are opportunities to involve Indigenous people in business ventures as owners, suppliers, contractors and employees. This can contribute to the long-term success of projects and help embed business in the local community. – UNGC, Social Sustainability, Indigenous Peoples Kluane National Park, Yukon, Canada GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 14 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | INDIGENOUS RELATIONS Project Collaboration with Indigenous Communities Golder is working collaboratively with Environmental Monitoring for a Pipeline Borrow Source Assessment for a Pipeline Site Monitoring Program for a Indigenous communities to develop Construction Project, Western Canada Construction Project, Western Canada Confidential Client, Nunavut training, employment and subcontracting Golder is undertaking an environmental Golder is providing borrow site investigation Golder is working on a four-year Site Monitoring opportunities for local community monitoring program for a major pipeline and design services as part of the project’s Program in Canada’s Arctic, hiring Inuit people members as part of our projects. construction project, including archaeology, construction preparation phase. Golder worked from the communities of Qikiqtarjuaq and wildlife and fisheries/aquatic site services. Our closely with the client and local First Nations Hall Beach as environmental assistants, polar work includes a comprehensive Indigenous to develop an Indigenous Participation Plan bear monitors, and expeditors. Environmental participation plan to train and hire Indigenous that includes the procurement of services assistants participate in job orientation and Environmental Monitors from five First Nations from local Indigenous groups and businesses. health and safety training programs provided by communities along the pipeline route. The These services comprise elder community Golder, and receive on-site training in sampling, project team is working with each community member engagement, wildlife monitoring, site decontamination and note-taking procedures. to develop a comprehensive training program security, labor, drilling, mobile ambulance, To date, Inuit people have made up 27% of the for the monitors, to prepare them for working site access, snow clearing, water hauling, and project workforce. Nearly half of the project’s on this project and future opportunities in test pitting. More than 22 Indigenous groups subcontracted services have been provided the environmental services field. Indigenous along the pipeline route are represented in by local Inuit businesses, including charter air participation on this project ranges from 30 to the plan, comprising 30% of the project’s services, freight shipping, accommodations, 75%, depending on the technical discipline (as a subcontracted services. local staff recruitment, payroll, taxes, and percentage of field staff). all-terrain vehicle rentals. Growing Our Indigenous Relationships We share our future goals with our clients as we recognize the important role building indigenous capacity plays for our collective future benefit. Our plans include continued growth of our existing Indigenous businesses, expanding our network of Indigenous relationships across the globe to support our strategy and increasing our capacity through training partnerships with industry. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 15 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | TRAINING Training 23,356 Ensuring that employees have At Golder, we capture three types of learning For training that is more structured education or sufficient skills, knowledge and and development: experience, exposure and compliance based, the Learning Management experience to perform their role is a education. By going beyond structured, single System (LMS) is the current delivery platform critical goal for Golder, and is driving event-based training, this approach has greater and includes an active suite of courses that impact, enhanced retention of knowledge and are offered online, or have elements that are Courses completed in 2016 the development and roll-out of a skills, and brings a focus on outcomes and completed online. The system includes a comprehensive training scheme. performance, enabling Golder to better invest diverse array of subject matter, and employees 25,873 in its people. This integrated approach to have the ability to participate in the training learning is bolstered by the High Performance courses as and when needed. In 2018, the and Contribution process mentioned LMS will migrate to the Oracle HCM platform previously, which sets out development to integrate learning with employee records. goals for employees and promotes lifelong Golder will benefit from the improved analytics Courses completed in 2017 learning opportunities aligned with longand interface to guide future training and term career goals. development decision making. Our culture of learning and development begins During 2017, the Manager Success Workshop WE CAPTURE THREE TYPES OF immediately upon joining Golder. Onboarding Series was launched. This has been introduced LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT is the mechanism through which employees to our leadership group to provide them with the are acclimated to the organization, or a new knowledge and tools to effectively lead teams. role, and includes the necessary training, The course addresses key managerial topics, skills and behaviors to initially perform their demonstrating the attributes of successful role. It is designed to support the employees leaders and provides support needed to apply to accelerate their engagement, promote best practices in the workplace. EXPERIENCE their integration into the Golder culture and We are excited to develop a sustainable processes, and maximize their effectiveness development awareness training module in and productivity. 2018. The focus and intention of this module Golder is currently trialing some pre-onboarding will be to expose our people to the many initiatives in some of our major locations, where future employees have access to a opportunities that Golder has to support our clients and their sustainable development goals, EXPOSURE number of resources prior their first day at and encourage them to incorporate sustainable work, whether their assignment will be office approaches and decision-making in every or field-based. We encourage new employees project we undertake as well as their daily lives. to complete all paperwork and administrative onboarding activities prior to day one so that we can focus on welcoming new employees as EDUCATION soon as they start. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 16 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & ENVIRONMENT Health, Safety, Security & Environment Overview At Golder, the commitment to our people begins A global Health and Safety Culture Survey was when we enter into an employment agreement conducted in 2016. This was the fourth survey and extends across their career journey. of its kind, setting a new baseline for Golder’s health and safety culture. The 2016 survey had To fulfil this commitment, Golder is creating the highest participation rate globally, with a culture of interdependence, built on trust, 67% of our employees participating. Golder teamwork and shared ownership of Health, scored at or above our benchmark of 80% in the Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE). We focus areas of ‘Leadership & Empowerment’, are encouraging mutual caring for the safety ‘Competence & Training’, ‘Systems, Compliance and wellbeing of others, organizational pride, & Procedures’ and ‘Communication’. and world-class safety performance. Golder Recognizing that stress has become an maintains a progressive discipline program as a increasing concern for health and wellness in positive reinforcement of desired behaviors. the workplace, we introduced a focus area of Golder is committed to effectively managing ‘Psychologically Healthy Workplace’ to initiate risk and continual improvement. We embed a benchmark score. We were pleased to see attention to HSSE in all that we do. We identify that while, as expected, stress was indicated and plan appropriate control strategies before as an area for more focused attention, this was we issue proposals, deliver services, and mitigated by the presence of strong scoring on throughout each work day. We expect the perceived supervisory support, fairness and same of our subcontractors and clients. In respect, which indicates a healthy culture of addition, through our “Work Safe, Home Safe” leadership in this area. program, we encourage safe behavior during off-hours as well. OVERVIEW OF HSSE STATS FOR 2017 Recognizing that measurement is a culture driver, we have identified a number of leading and lagging indicators that can best track our performance against our goals. In 2017, our 2,456 5,113 17,572 2,144 global total recordable case rate was 0.42, below industry average and holding steady now for three years. Our reporting focus is on those common elements across all of our Visible felt International trips Total number of Total number of senior operating regions, but we also track and leadership events supporting our needs reported learnings leadership site visits report as prescribed by health and safety and environmental legislation within each jurisdiction where we operate. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 17 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & ENVIRONMENT Direction Compliance Our employees completed over 5,113 international trips in 2017 and 6,300 in 2016. Our Global HSSE framework sets out Supervisors, where they cannot resolve Compliance with HSSE requirements is Working with International SOS (ISOS), we procedures, programs, controls and a concern or where they need additional monitored on a daily basis by supervisors and assess each trip for health, safety and security tools to address mandatory measures resources, take concerns to their managers, and project leadership, while senior leaders and risks prior to approving travel. This process also and controls made effective under our up the line for assistance in decision making, Golder Integrated Management System (IMS) provides information and support to prepare and where deemed appropriate, the allocation auditors monitor compliance on a monthly, Global HSSE Policy. Our people are our people before, during and after travel. Since of additional resources. quarterly and annual basis. required to report any HSSE-related 2014 we have had zero travel-related security or concern to their supervisor, including any All employees have the right to refuse unsafe Proactive leading indicators have been medical evacuations. conditions or situations with potential for work and are empowered to take appropriate identified for employees at every level, including significant harm to the environment. action to intervene where there are uncontrolled reporting of HSSE learnings, completion R U OK? Day hazards that are likely to result in imminent harm of site visits, and demonstration of VFL. In response to work started in 2015 on to a person and/or to the environment. Every These measurements are tied to employee psychologically-healthy workplaces, the Golder employee is represented by a formal compensation and recognition. first Global R U OK? Day was held on COMMITTEES OPERATING HSSE committee. THROUGHOUT GOLDER September 8, 2016. Timed to coincide with The provision of services to clients and the Reporting World Suicide Prevention Day, Golder offices 14 3 3 receipt of services from subcontractors are Golder records occupational injury and illness around the globe paused to focus on health established as part of contracts and service according to the US OSHA criteria. Where and wellbeing and extend caring to our agreements prior to any work planning and/or hazardous conditions are identified, gender colleagues by asking this simple question. Health & Safety Environment Wellness performance. They follow mutually agreed-upon is taken into consideration (for example in On September 14, 2017, Golder employees 4 61 terms and conditions, and include provisions relation to potential chemical exposures around the globe came together again to for compliance with HSSE standards. This and reproductive hazards, anthropometric ask R U OK? Employees are reminded requirement is established whether the measurements and ergonomics issues) in and encouraged to check in with one workforce of the subcontractor is part of a trade reporting and mitigating exposure. another each day. Sustainability Combined HSSE Committees union, and likewise for clients with organized labor work forces. Since 2015 Golder’s HSSE performance in our leading indicators has improved. Having honest, open and meaningful conversations about mental health is important. Jerry Vandenberg from Golder’s Kelowna (Canada) office, shared his mental health experience with his colleagues across the globe as part of the RUOK? initiative. Watch video on website President & CEO Hisham Mahmoud with Watch video on website CFO Lee Anne Lackey GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 18 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & ENVIRONMENT Strategic Improvements GOLDER FATAL RISK CONTROLS Golder identified HSSE-specific priorities Learnings Introduction of Fatal Risk Controls within our 2020 Strategy that resulted in The learnings database provides a platform and Based on the review of our loss history and 2020 objectives and tactics for 2016 and system for the reporting of hazardous conditions, experience, Golder implemented an approach 2017, including fatality prevention, visible felt near misses, incidents including workplace to the prevention of materially unwanted leadership (VFL) and promotion of personal injuries and illnesses, as well as commendations events, such as workplace fatalities, through health and wellbeing. Various components of for demonstrating excellence, leadership, caring the application of Critical Control Management, our strategic improvements related to HSSE and teamwork in HSSE. The commendation a model set out by the ICMM (the International are as follows. is copied to the employee’s supervisor and Council of Mining and Metals). Golder studied recognizes the employee formally for his or her and applied this model to sharpen our focus on Global HSSE Manual behavior and contributions. events with potential to cause serious incident At the conclusion of 2017, Golder introduced or fatality. Six fatal risks were identified. The Learnings Database was modified to the Global HSSE Manual under the Golder IMS facilitate a reporting system of events likely to umbrella, providing information enabling Golder result in either significant incident or fatality. 887 2,144 employees and stakeholders to understand Where such an event has occurred, a global and successfully fulfil their HSSE roles and alert is prepared and circulated in the timeliest responsibilities. This manual is based on the manner by our Chief Operations Officer to all Total P&A senior Total P&A senior ISO 14000/OHSAS 18001 management system Golder employees to raise awareness of the leadership site visits leadership site visits framework. 85 Golder offices are certified to in 2015 in 2017 event and to prevent recurrence. ISO14001, ISO 9000 and/or OHSAS18000. Visible Felt Leadership New Best Practice Guidelines Golder has set out the objective that, by 2020, In 2017, the review of the Golder Environmental every Golder employee will demonstrate Issues Register identified two high risk proactive visible felt leadership (VFL) in HSSE. Case Study – Outstanding Results in Annual Third-Party Audit environmental issues related to project In 2016, Golder defined VFL to be “observable delivery; uncontrolled releases and waste Golder’s UK operation scored outstanding rule, service providers such as Golder are behavior that demonstrates genuine care for management. In response, Golder developed results in their annual Achilles UVDB Verify considered appropriate if the score from the personal wellbeing and for the environment”. In two best practice guides in 2017, Project Waste audit for Health, Safety, Environment and audit is >85%. Our proficiency in these areas 2017, senior leadership throughout Golder was Management and Prevention of Uncontrolled Quality. Achilles is an external organization resulted in overall scores that exceeded this assigned targets to demonstrate VFL and held Releases, providing control strategies and that hosts a supplier database, which some of requirement, as follows: accountable through the recording and tracking practical measures for Golder projects where our clients use to procure goods and services. • 99% for management systems of VFL via their personal scorecards and an these risks are present. To serve such clients, our participation and • 100% for the site visit eForm style reporting system. We strongly prequalification is mandatory. As a general believe that the presence of our senior leaders in the field helps Golder achieve its strong HSSE performance. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 19 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | HEALTH & SAFETY AWARDS EHL Board HSSE Awards, 2016 The EHL Health & Safety Awards recognize best practices that advance Golder’s health Proactive Measures – Andy Haynes Care for our Future – Heather Di Lauro Vancouver, Canada Leeds, United Kingdom and safety culture. Awards are given in three This award recognized an outstanding contribution in the area of proactive This award recognized an individual who demonstrated intentional investment categories: Proactive Measures, Reactive measures to identify and mitigate risk, resulting in preservation of the health, in mentoring, coaching and instruction in health, safety and security, on a Measures, and Care for our Future. In 2015, safety and security of our people and others. The global emphasis placed on day-to-day basis, and was won by Heather Di Lauro from the Leeds, United a total of 24 outstanding nominations were fatality prevention and six Fatal Risk Controls is a result of the passion and Kingdom, office. Heather, a compelling role model for both junior and senior staff, received and four winners selected by the personal initiative of Andy Haynes. Andy’s effort powerfully illustrates the demonstrated exemplary health and safety performance, and developed a group EHL Board; two awards were presented in the contribution a single individual can make, and because of his inspirational of staff who routinely implemented best practices in the area of health, safety, Proactive Measures category. leadership we have adopted a simple yet powerful approach to address our security and the environment. highest consequence risks. With Golder’s focus on visible felt leadership in HSSE, the individual and team recipients Reactive Measures – Christchurch Ground Improvement Team Proactive Measures – The Sydney Metro City & Southwest represented powerful examples of this type of New Zealand Geotechnical Investigation Team leadership. The winners in each of the award This award recognized exemplary actions taken in response to unforeseen events Australia categories were announced and the awards that endangered the health, safety and security of our staff and others. The This award recognized a comprehensive program of proactive measures by a were presented at the 2016 Global Principals’ specific circumstances around this award involved a medical emergency on site project team. The Sydney Metro City and Southwest Geotechnical Investigation Meeting held in the United States. The winning experienced by a subcontractor, leading to a loss of consciousness, falling from team delivered a large, technically complex investigation, with an extremely individuals and teams received a personal call height and significant injuries. Golder’s field personnel responded immediately high public profile, including significant political and media attention, through from Dr. Mahmoud, Global President and CEO, as a team. Their actions were recognized by the attending physician as limiting exemplary planning and rigorous execution. A number of best practices for and members of the EHL Board to offer their the health consequences for the injured worker, and by the subcontractor’s projects of this nature were implemented, including hazard identification congratulations. management who noted “the professional response by the Golder team was workshops, sub-contractor on-boarding and Permit to Work processes. The result exactly what we would hope for from an associated party in such circumstances”. in this case was project delivery with zero injuries and a very satisfied client. The subcontractor recognized this response by making a contribution to the Golder has since publicized these best practices and broadened their application Golder Trust for Orphans. The Golder team followed up both by checking on the throughout the company. status of the subcontractor employee, and by introducing new work practices, adopted by Golder and the subcontractor, to limit the consequences of any future emergency of this nature. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 20 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | HEALTH & SAFETY AWARDS CEO HSSE Awards, 2017 Proactive Measures Responsive Measures Care for our Future Brazil Ankara, Turkey Brisbane, Australia In 2016 the EHL Board HSSE awards transitioned to become the CEO HSSE Awards. The winner in the Proactive Measure category Yasin Akçay, from our Ankara office in Turkey, is the Bianca Vanzati from the Brisbane, Australia office The intent of the Awards has not changed in that was the Samarco Renova Project Team (Brazil), 2017 winner in the Responsive Measures category is the 2017 Care for our Future award winner recognizing their work to identify and mitigate risk, recognizing exemplary actions taken in response recognizing the intentional investment she has made these awards recognize the best practice that resulting in preservation of the health, safety and to unforeseen events that endangered the health, in mentoring, coaching and instruction in health, advances Golder’s health and safety culture; security of our people and others. safety and security of our people and others. safety and security, on a day-to-day basis. the change reflects the company’s desire Two weeks after the collapse of the Fundão tailings Yasin is a Geological Engineer responsible for Bianca is a Field Geologist and spends a lot of her to create a more direct link between HSSE dam, Brazilian mining company, Samarco, appointed the supervision of the grading activities at a time on-site. She is well-known for helping others leadership and behaviors with the leadership Golder as the lead consultant for the development manufacting site. During one of his night shifts, and making sure that anyone working with her role of the CEO. The EHL Board continues to of the environmental plan to rehabilitate the 640km he observed another contractor working through or visiting is safe, paying particular attention to play a significant role in the selection process downstream area impacted by the release, which a strong wind and thunderstorm in the vicinity of preparing for site conditions, clearly communicating and selected the 2017 winners from a field of 29 was the largest accident of this type in the global a high voltage (HV) pylon. A number of potential with the onsite team and site visitors, and running exceptional nominations. history of the mining industry. Since that time, hazards including a lighting strike, strong wind, engaging and effective prestart meetings. Golder has been providing environmental and or any wind-blown debris could have potentially social assessment, engineering design and field damaged the pylon or electric lines, resulting in high supervision for the environmental rehabilitation voltage wires coming down in the work area. of aquatic and land ecosystems. Several H&S Although it was not Golder’s responsibility to procedures were introduced for the first time in monitor this construction activity, Yasin called the Brazil at this project including; contractor and explained his concerns about their • Use of a mobile app for instant work during the thunderstorm in the vicinity of the communications among the team pylon and associated risks. After receiving some • Upgraded vehicle safety kits for harsh initial resistance to his concern Yasin elevated the road conditions matter and work ceased until the weather conditions • Use of mapping software with were suitable. An incident report lead to the continuous hazard updates development of a protocol to address these hazards. • Identification and regular checking of hospitals Yasin prevented a potentially serious accident with anti-venin capability due to his awareness and action. His initiative and To combat the significant stress associated with the persistence ensured the safety of everyone on site. project, the team regularly promoted recreational activities that favor mental health and quality of life. Almost 2,000 hours of over 30 different work safety training, lectures and campaigns, were promoted as well. A highlight of this project is the record of more than 240,000 worked hours without any serious Bianca Vanzati being presented with the 2018 HSSE HSSE incident, an impressive performance formally Award by Scott Fidler, Principal & Regional Leader recognized by the client. Samarco Renova Project Team (Mining – Brazil) GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 21 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | HEALTH & SAFETY AWARDS CEO Commendations, 2017 In 2017, three CEO Commendations were The judges were so impressed by the awarded. This is the first time such awards have actions of three people they created special been given and stand apart from the existing commendations to honor these examples of award categories. personal bravery and caring. CEO Commendation – Greg Fleming CEO Commendation – Sandy Sharp CEO Commendation – Desmond Dean Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Americas Whose quick actions in responding to a bicyclist hit Whose sustained devotion and commitment For quick response in an automobile accident to by a truck was credited for saving the cyclist’s leg to a colleague undergoing cancer treatment help a fellow motorist and to secure his nuclear and potentially her life. demonstrated our caring value. testing equipment. Golder spent 5 years monitoring mountain goats as part of design solutions to mitigate impact on wildlife in the Jasper National Park, Canada. ⊲ READ MORE GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 22 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | AUDITING Auditing Golder Operations Supply Chain IT Hardware Change Reduces Golder operations establish an annual internal three-year cycle and are programmed to ensure In 2017, Golder appointed a Head of Global Energy Consumption audit program which complies with the global that all operations are audited annually and all Procurement to develop consistency in global audit criteria set out in the Golder IMS. These offices at least once in a three-year cycle. Issues procurement policies, procedures and systems Golder application workloads hosted in criteria are reviewed annually and, adjusted as that are identified as part of the internal and/or that are needed to support improved supply our Seattle data center co-location facility needed. Each Global Process is audited at least external audits are brought to the attention of chain performance. To support this objective, consume approximately 200,000 kW hours annually in each operating jurisdiction. The the leadership teams and appropriate actions, each Golder region has been assigned a of electricity per year. audit program focuses on Project Delivery, the such as control measures, are identified, Strategic Sourcing Specialist to conduct an We anticipate an approximately 50% key process for Golder’s business. Supporting discussed and implemented. A root cause initial analysis of overhead spend. This analysis reduction in energy consumption through processes, such as Health, Safety, Security and analysis is conducted by the operation within will lead to strategic sourcing plans at a the migration of these workloads from Environment, Human Resources and others, are which the issue occurred. A follow-up review of regional level. At the same time, Procurement our data center co-location facilities to included in the internal audit program. the implementation of control measures occurs is conducting a global assessment of existing the Microsoft Azure platform. The Azure to assess their effectiveness. Improvement processes and systems that support our project platform is able to deliver these power There are ten Global Procedures comprising opportunities revealed through the audit supply chain. Particular emphasis is being savings via increased efficiency due to the Golder IMS and providing the foundation process and targets relevant to global, given to identifying and managing supplier hardware that is both newer, and refreshed for audit and external certification by Bureau local, and regional strategies are included in risk. The outcome of these two investigations more often than our hardware, and via Veritas. External certification is managed business plans. will inform the design of a future global economies of scale allowing them to utilize globally using a multi-site audit plan which procurement program that will bring together their hardware at a higher average rate than covers Golder offices that have chosen to The Golder IMS team has identified some the requirements of Golder’s Procurement, we can achieve. achieve certification in international standards improvement opportunities for 2018 relating Legal, HSSE, Quality, and HR functions as well for quality, health and safety, and environment. to consistency in internal auditing and the root In addition, we will benefit from Microsoft’s as our goals for sustainable practices. A representative selection of offices is cause analysis process. environmental sustainability practices. audited externally each year, and the external Microsoft has committed to using 50% wind, certification is re-certified every three years. solar, and hydro power electricity in their Both internal and external audits occur over a data centers and campus by the end of 2018, to meet 60% early in the next decade, and to continue growing that percentage moving forward. approx 83% of our operations were audited in 2016 & 2017 GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 23 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our operations | CARBON FOOTPRINT What We Consume Across our operations, we are committed to Golder maintains a fleet of vehicles in order Golder achieved a the responsible use of energy and energy to facilitate business travel and to improve 5% decrease resources. We are also committed to the the safety, maintenance and environmental in emissions continual improvement of our facilities to sustainability of vehicle travel. Carbon emissions compared with optimize energy consumption. In each of our associated with the fleet operations represented 36,923 tons geographic regions, Golder tracks energy use 4% of our total emissions. in 2015. in our workplaces and this is reported into our While 28% of our 2016 emissions were carbon data collection database. A carbon offset associated with employee business travel in purchase against Golder operations and work activities are airplanes, vehicles, and trains, an additional 2016 emissions dependent upon the use of energy and fuels 32% of emissions resulted from employee reduced the total for travel by air, rail, road and ship, and office, commuting. The estimated commuting to 34,417 tons, laboratory and warehouse utilities. emissions intensity was 1.9 tons CO2e/person. representing a At the conclusion of 2016, our staff facilities Golder supports the more widespread 7% decrease occupied 160 offices and laboratories in application of practices for reducing carbon over 2015. 39 countries. Our staff facilities occupied emissions such as the following: approximately 200,000m2 around the world. • LEED offices (including water conservation, Our 2016 electricity usage increased by 17% renewable energy, etc.) over the previous year, while our total energy • Office locations with reduced footprints usage, which includes natural gas, heat and (including swing spaces with available steam, and electricity, remained the same. In services, etc.) 2016, our total energy usage intensity had a Carbon Tracking Tool • Travel alternatives small reduction to 20.6 GJ/person; however, Golder has developed a simple carbon tracking tool to support • Continued improvement in use of the occupied workspace intensity decreased by the Ontario Government’s greenhouse gas reduction program virtual meetings 8% to 0.62 GJ/m2. • Work-from-home agreements Ontario (Canada) introduced its Cap and Trade Program in 2016, During 2016, we travelled approximately 92 • Waste recycling aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions province-wide million km to support and deliver services to our and placing a price on carbon emissions. Golder developed • Offset use clients. This compares to 80 million km in 2015 the Carbon Pricing Compliance Tracking Tool to understand, and represents a 16% increase in total business Golder is targeting a 15% reduction by 2020 estimate and track the financial impact of the Program for travel (i.e., air, road and rail travel). Our business over the 2015 base year based on per-person participating enterprises. The Tool captures the compliance travel emissions intensity was approximately calculations. In 2017, Golder purchased 700 tracking in an easy to use graphical dashboard format of key 1.6 tons CO2e km/person, with an overall tons of carbon credits as an offset to the 2016 performance indicators which display the results for individual business travel reduction of 15%. emissions of 35,117 tons. and multiple facilities connected to a parent company. The tool is a secure hosted application that allows clients to login, review Emissions data for 2017 will be presented in history, and run scenarios. the 2018 report. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 24 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES OUR WORK Message from the Global Sustainable Development Leader Each year our organization advances in its goal States. The cost to governments of adapting The Award-winning Jasper National Park to provide innovative sustainable solutions for to climate change is in the billions. The City of (UNESCO World Heritage Site) project shows our clients’ projects, while at the same time Miami Beach, for example, is investing at least how Golder has worked to protect mountain reducing carbon consumption and contributing $400M in raising street heights and installing goats and bighorn sheep. The Vancouver water to the preservation of natural capital. Before water pumps in the most flood-prone areas. supply project is another example where Golder delving into our projects, let’s consider the worked to future-proof the water supply while The mitigations required to address this issue current state of the planet. protecting habitat for rare bird species. A great are of concern to us all. In early 2017 I met story is included on the WestConnex tunnel in The latest CO2 atmospheric measurements from with the Canadian High Commissioner to New Sydney and the award winning Zhuhai-Macau NASA show levels over 400ppm (in comparison, Zealand. Through his work in the region, he Bridge in Hong Kong where we suggested the 1950 values were around 300ppm). The had deep knowledge and understanding of an alternate and innovative design, delivered annual increase in global surface temperatures what many small countries in the South Pacific significant cost and resource saving, and met is 0.99°C (2016 was the warmest year on are facing with rising sea levels. We had the regulatory requirements. record). Sea levels measured in late 2017 show opportunity to speak about Canada’s aid rises of about 8cm since 1993. This rise is program in the Pacific Islands related to climate Collaboration with stakeholders and use of attributable to global warming, resulting in water change and how Golder skills and expertise GoldSET (a proprietary decision analysis tool added from melting ice sheets and glaciers were well-placed to play a critical role in developed by Golder) at the Smoky Range (which has accelerated since 2009), and other addressing this pressing issue in the Pacific and Boreal Caribou Rearing Facility allowed a factors such as land subsidence. around the world. rigorous assessment of options to protect the endangered boreal caribou. The Hot Sands The effects of these shifts in the global climate When I first read the 1987 Brundtland Report “Golder will are being felt by some of the world’s poorest (Our Common Future) and became acquainted Beach project in Canada demonstrates the advantages of taking an alternative approach always look for countries. In the Solomon Islands and Palau, with the words “sustainable development”, the to shore restoration, reducing costs and energy entire populations are losing land mass, leaving problems facing the planet were in the distant (50% of the original budget), while increasing the sustainable families homeless. The Maldives are predicted to disappear by the year 2020 if CO2 emissions future. I now realize that the far-off future is the present. As scientists and engineers, we can habitat for wildlife. I trust you will be inspired by the dedication of our people and the expansive solution.” continue to rise. Bangladesh is already severely impacted by flooding and rising sea levels, and it provide solutions to prevent runaway climate change and help create a sustainable presence range of sustainable solutions Golder provides. is anticipated that flooding and rising sea levels for our planet. Hannah Hamling will create 20 million climate refugees in the President Asia Pacific, Principal We see our clients moving towards developing Global Sustainable Development Leader coming decades. First-world countries are not renewable energy and creating resilient exempt: a 2°C rise in global temperatures will infrastructure. On the following pages, we displace 18 million people in Japan. Increased showcase how we have supported our clients in flood events in low-lying areas are impacting the achieving their sustainability goals and adapting UK, Ireland, Netherlands and parts of the United to the changing climate. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 25 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work The work we do for our clients not only Collectively, we act as the trusted advisor Case Study – GoldSET GOLDSET – SIMPLE VISUAL COMPARISON gives us an important perspective on the to a huge portfolio of projects that have the As our projects become more complex, the Option A challenges of sustainable development, potential to bring incremental and sometimes need to include many different and apparent but also presents a world of opportunity disruptive changes to our world. We believe ENVIRONMENT 62% conflicting requirements from stakeholders sustainability can be incorporated into every task SOCIETY 75% for our people to leverage their expertise increases. The ability to understand and we undertake. The tools Golder has developed ECONOMICS 39% and fulfil their purpose as trusted advisors assess the environmental, social, economic help us identify how to innovate, and remind us to TECHNICAL 46% and partners to our clients. and technical risks as well as opportunities keep the broader picture in mind. during project planning and design – in a Working with our clients, we create transparent fashion – is fast becoming essential opportunities for more sustainable Innovation to the success of a project, and forms the solutions which always add value and Innovation is an important aspect of technical basis for UNGC Sustainable Development invariably save costs. We recognize that excellence, a quality Golder is well-known for. Goal No. 17, which aims to foster collaboration our success, and the success of our clients, With Golder’s newly-established Innovation and partnerships between government, the is increasingly dependent on embedding Program, we seek to harness the benefits private sector and civil society. The spatial and sustainable development principles in our of innovation through increased investment dynamic simulation tools of GoldSET – created and by sharing information about our and owned by Golder – allow an integrated projects and activities. successes more widely. approach, which is consensus-based and covers multiple options. Golder’s Innovation Program, updated in 2017, GoldSET is a rigorous multi-criteria analytical Option B is aimed at supporting innovation in all its forms, from breakthrough technologies to incremental tool. It helps to visualize the strengths and ENVIRONMENT 64% improvements to existing services we weaknesses of the options, weighting the SOCIETY 79% provide. The innovation grant is administered themes and indicators which are important ECONOMICS 71% by Golder’s Technical Communities, global to the project, and grouping them in broad TECHNICAL 51% discipline-based groups of practitioners, categories of environmental, social, technical with preferential selection for projects with a and economic. GoldSET supports the decision sustainability element. process, not forcing the selection of an option, but allowing evaluation and comparison to help Golder is a signatory to the UNGC, which choose the design that is the most sustainable. aims to unite the global community to act in a GoldSET can highlight the trade-offs involved in sustainable manner. Material topics related to the selection of the preferred option. the work we do for our clients are set out in the Materiality section. Our projects are the greatest GoldSET is balanced, impartial and proof of our attention to sustainability. comprehensive, yet simple to use. It provides a convincing demonstration to stakeholders and regulators, helping to visualize the available options and fostering proactive engagement. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 26 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES Project Profiles Residue Storage Design Delivers Environmental & Economic Benefits Golder has completed a detailed design from another country), should a compacted clay for a bauxite residue storage facility liner been constructed. Specialist accelerated for Emirates Global Aluminium’s new Al durability testing was conducted on the Taweelah alumina refinery. proposed liner materials to ensure the liner system would perform satisfactorily under the An initial feasibility design prepared by another anticipated exposure conditions, including a consultant, included a compacted clay liner highly alkaline environment. and large earth fill perimeter embankments, requiring a large quantity of imported materials The stack has been designed to facilitate – clay and water – for construction. progressive rehabilitation, using site won materials excavated to construct the baseliner The design proposed by Golder substantially of the facility. This has limited the exposed reduced construction costs (by many millions area of residue, and the associated risk of dust of dollars), and greenhouse gas emissions generation in the hot and dry environment. associated with material transport, with no The design was prepared to enable waste additional environmental impact. The Golder liquid from the refinery to be used as a dust design utilised the geotechnical properties suppressant, reducing requirements to import of the bauxite residue to create a stack on a fresh water during operations (an extremely lined base rather than a dam, and avoided the precious resource in the local environment) and need to construct a perimeter embankment to eliminates the need to dispose of this liquid contain the waste. This significantly reduced elsewhere. The storage facility is currently being the volume of earthworks required to construct constructed in accordance with the design the facility and resulted in a much more efficient proposed by Golder. design. The optimised baseliner design was Darren Webb (Melbourne, Australia), a Senior Civil Initial stages of baseliner construction at Al Taweelah alumina refinery. sympathetic to existing topography limiting the Engineer in the Design team, was lead Designer and cut and fill required in construction. Materials Project Manager for the project. Fred Gassner was found on site were used in the works, including Project Director, Paul Baker the Lead Design Drafter. dune sand as a drainage layer, rather than Riccardo Fanni was responsible for undertaking the importing materials such as crushed rock. specialist laboratory testing (including wind tunnel work) and Mike Gowan provided technical support. A geosynthetic clay liner was incorporated in the design to avoid importing more than half a million cubic metres of clay, which would need to be hauled a significant distance (and possibly GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 27 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES Extending the Life of a Solid Waste Landfill In Ontario, Canada, the effective capacity material, and saves both costs and carbon of the City of Barrie’s municipal landfill emissions identified with haulage. has been increased to over 1 million cubic Groundwater control systems consisting of a metres, estimated to last an additional 18 drain and purge wells have been constructed years from the original estimated closure to intercept the leachate, which is then date of 2017, the result of an award discharged to the City’s wastewater treatment winning project for Golder. plant, reducing the impacts to the underlying groundwater flow. Once the existing plume in In 2008, the City’s municipal solid waste landfill the aquifer under the landfill has been captured had a licensed volume of 3,900,000m3 and was by the purge well system, and subsequently slated for closure in 2017. The landfill covers shut down, the flows to the wastewater an area of 18.6 hectares and extends to a peak treatment system will be reduced. Furthermore, thickness of 30m. Originally designed as a the cost of operating the active purge well natural attenuation facility, leachate seepage system will end, and the leachate collection will to the groundwater, and impacts to an adjacent be limited to gravity drainage of the leachate stream resulted in environmental risk and control system. compliance issues for our client. Landfill gas collectors have been installed in the The aim of the project was to address waste to remove new methane generated in the environmental compliance issues, reduce the newer parts of the landfill, which are flared to period and collection rate of the groundwater reduce the effects of greenhouse gas emissions. control systems, and recover air space, thus This system is currently collecting and flaring extending the operational life of the landfill. approximately 340m3/hr of landfill gas, and it growth predictions, the total lifespan of the manager for integration of design measures and Golder proposed re-engineering the landfill construction , Frank Barone, Principal and Senior is predicted that a maximum collection rate landfill is calculated to extend to 2035, or design to allow the reclamation, or “mining”, of Geo-Environmental, led the landfill design, Colin Wong, of up to approximately 500m3/hour may be an 18-year gain. Had this work not been waste in the landfill, and to incorporate two new Principal and managed the landfill gas component, achieved. On this basis, and considering current undertaken, the landfill would have closed in elements; a liner and leachate collection system, and Doug Kerr, Associate and Senior Civil Engineer, approaches to funding of LFG power generation 2017 and the City would have had to export the and a landfill gas collection system and flare. took the lead on stormwater. The project involved projects, installation of a 500 to 850kW waste elsewhere. a number of disciplines and staff working out of five Between 2009 and 2015, nearly 1,630,000m3 of generator is considered feasible and the City Golder was honoured with an Award of Excellence for offices across Golder, demonstrating our ability to waste was excavated and mined, representing will assess this as a business case. conduct a complex project in an integrated approach. the City of Barrie Landfill project in the 2017 Canadian 44% of the total licensed landfill volume. Of Consulting Engineering Awards, recognized as the In 2009, prior to reclamation, the remaining this, approximately 742,200m3 of fines were industry's highest honours, offered only to the most airspace was approximately 815,000m3; the processed through screening which can be remarkable engineering feats featured in projects by remaining airspace at the end of reclamation re-used as daily cover for waste reclamation, Canadian firms and a great credit to the project team. in 2015 was 1,144,550m3. Based on the current incoming waste, as well as interim and final Paul Dewaele, Principal and Senior Geo-Environmental annual waste disposal rates and population cover. This avoids the need to import cover Engineer, was the Project Director and overall GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 28 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES Building a Beach in British Columbia Property Development & Ecological Conversation – A Fine Balance The Hot Sands Beach is a popular The project, begun in 2013 is the first of its kind In Edmonton, Canada, Golder has helped the proposed neighbourhoods and natural attraction at a waterfront park in central in inland waters in British Columbia. Golder had the local municipal authority, The City of area into harmony. Kelowna, an urban community of around designed and installed similar systems in the Edmonton to better understand the impact The study proposed ‘leaky’ stormwater ponds in 200,000 people in British Columbia, marine environment in British Columbia, but of two large-scale residential property conjunction with adaptive wetlands monitoring not for a lake shore. It involves redistributing Canada. Erosion was limiting the developments on the Big Lake watershed to conserve wetlands. If implemented, sand from south to north on a segment of community’s recreational use of the beach – a nationally-recognized ecosystem – and this will be a paradigm shift to stormwater shoreline that has been isolated from its natural and the City of Kelowna had originally recommended the mitigation measures pond design and wetlands assessment in northerly littoral supply of sediment. Historically, considered a concrete block wall design that could balance preservation of the Edmonton and Alberta. sediment was transported to the beach from as a possible solution which would have rivers and shorelines further south. The work natural area with development of the John Wozniewicz, a Principal from the Hydrogeology resulted in the loss of the sandy beach as involves redistributing 3,400m3 of sand and proposed neighbourhoods. group in our Calgary (Canada) office was the Project a public amenity, an outcome that would Director, with Rudy Maji, Associate and Senior adding 400m3 to provide erosion protection Like many cities, pursing economic and Groundwater Scientist and Groundwater Lead, Surface disadvantage the community. over an estimated 10-year life cycle. This is the population growth while conserving the natural Water Lead Julien Lacrampe, Senior Water Resources first restored lake shoreline in British Columbia environment is a finely tuned arrangement. In Golder was co-opted into this project while Engineer, Lead Modeller Rob McLaren, Senior and broke with the 30-year conventional this case, the area at risk includes wetlands working on another assignment for the City Groundwater Specialist, Water Quality Lead Matt and regulatory guideline approach which with abundant biodiversity, a wide range of Neuner, Groundwater Scientist, and Senior Reviewer, and asked if we could come up with a better had promoted hardening (concreting) of the ecosystems and ecological processes, including Nathan Schmidt. solution. We did. Golder’s solution was notable shoreline and subsequent loss of habitat for hosting rare avian and aquatic species. from a financial, public use, visual esthetics, various species of trout and salmon. ecological and sustainability perspective, The City of Edmonton sought Golder’s expertise maintaining the amenity of the beach for the Golder will continue to work with the City of to conduct an integrated surface water and community, and at a lower cost. Kelowna to monitor the beach and prepare for groundwater assessment, and consider the next restoration works in 10 years’ time. the ecological sustainability of this natural By evaluating rates of erosion and longshore transport of sand such that the correct volume Rowland Atkins, Principal and Senior Geomorphologist, environment against the potential adverse of sand could be estimated to allow a beach from the Victoria (Canada) office, was the Project impacts of a residential development. nourishment approach, Golder’s Coastal and Manager for this project. Morgan Tidd, Project Golder completed a first-of-a-kind detailed Geoscientist and Bruce Dean the Project Director. Marine Team, from Victoria and Vancouver, ecohydrological study of stormwater-influenced designed and implemented a restored wetlands for the City of Edmonton, including shoreline design for erosion protection. This the evaluation of engineering implications for is a maintenance approach instead of capital storm pond design to manage run-off in more works and enables the recreational, ecological sustainable ways. and visual values of the beach to be maintained as well as the public amenity. Golder’s design Based on the technical and quantifiable cost half the price of the proposed wall, and outcomes of this study, and Golder’s conceptual importantly provided a sustainable shoreline. mitigation designs, the City has directed the developers to take specific actions to bring GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 29 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES Transport Infrastructure for WestConnex Stage 2 – Sydney, Australia Moorebank Intermodal Facility Resilient Cities The WestConnex Stage 2 mega transport Intermodal freight transport involves the This combined approach allowed for use Cities throughout the world are developing project will see the duplication of the M5 East transportation of freight in an intermodal of in-situ ground improvement in place of transport solutions designed to serve Motorway between Kingsgrove and Arncliffe container or vehicle, using multiple modes of the previously proposed excavation and the current and future needs of the urban in suburban Sydney, and an extension north transportation (e.g., rail, ship, and truck), without replacement of 0.5m of fill, which avoided some populations. Improved connectivity, economic to a proposed major new road interchange. It any handling of the freight itself when changing 10,000 truck movements, reduced the need development, and population growth are all features twin tunnels, each up to 10km long, modes. The method reduces cargo handling, to handle contaminated existing fill materials drivers of the investment governments and with two-to-four lane wide excavations, and and so improves security, reduces damage and and maintains space in landfill sites for other private institutions are making in transport six-lane wide transition caverns, which when loss, and allows freight to be transported faster. waste. Initial advice was provided on the use of infrastructure projects worldwide. Golder’s completed, will be the largest motorway fill from Sydney tunnelling projects, which were A 240 hectare Logistics Park is being skills and expertise are playing an important caverns in Australia. identified as a good potential source of high constructed at Moorebank, a suburb south role in delivering these large projects. While quality fill in sufficient quantities for the size of Golder is providing specialist geotechnical, west of Sydney, which includes an intermodal these projects appear to be unremarkable in the the site. Sandstone has been imported from contamination, hydrogeological, and landfill terminal to help Sydney manage the expected nature of the services Golder provides, Golder’s WestConnex to form a new fill platform as part of management and design advice. growth in freight moving through the city, and engineers and scientists viewing the design and the Stage 1 IMEX Construction works. take trucks off the road network and onto a managing of such works is through a sustainable The project has inbuilt sustainable development freight line providing access to Port Botany. Our scope on the project has developed to development lens, working to minimize the goals set out by the end client, the Sydney include production of earthwork specifications, energy and materials within the works. Motorway Corporation. Minimizing haulage Golder has been involved in the overall Project, completion of ground improvement trials and related to excavated materials and the reduction which is being developed by QUBE Holdings acting as the geotechnical representative for of contaminated and unsuitable materials is Ltd, a diversified logistics and infrastructure Tactical (our direct client) during construction. an important project principle. Material from company since 2013. In 2017 construction We have supervised construction works on site site (clean tunnel spoil and excavated waste of the first stage of the project commenced, and provided advice to our client on how best material) is being used elsewhere on site for comprising the Moorebank Precinct East (MPE) to manage earthwork materials on site in an pre-load embankments, temporary works Stage 1 IMEX Terminal Facility project. This on-going role that currently will extend until midplatforms and general earthworks. Existing involves construction of civil engineering works 2019. This highlights the sustainability benefits contaminated material on site is also being for container storage and handling, within part that we can provide our clients with when we housed within the site containment cell and of the overall site, which is approximately one work as a combined multidisciplinary team. barrier wall which Golder designed, so that this kilometre long and 200m wide. material is not transferred off-site. The major contributions towards sustainable development that Golder has made to the broader terminal development include offering combined and consolidated advice on contamination and geotechnical issues and to develop practical, pragmatic and cost effective solutions to address contamination WestConnex Stage 2 in development and geotechnical risks, taking into account the Arncliffe, Sydney Australia development of the overall precinct area. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 30 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES Species Recovery in Canada Little Smoky Caribou Range Rearing Facility Boreal caribou (Rangifer tarandus tarandus) Golder was contracted to inform the Golder’s project team consisted of biologists are a Species At Risk in Canada. They are Government of Alberta about the considerations from both Alberta and British Columbia offices, a forest dwelling species and mainly live in for implementing a pilot caribou rearing indigenous contracting specialists, as well peatland and old growth forest habitats within facility as a population recovery tool. The as planners and GIS support from Western the boreal forest. Their distribution once Little Smoky population is well recognized Canada and Italy. covered a large area of boreal forest in Canada, as the most impacted population of boreal The early involvement of the local Indigenous stretching from the Northwest Territories caribou in Canada due to more than 96% of its community and other stakeholders will enable through to Labrador. The species is highly habitat impacted by ongoing anthropogenic the future engagement required if the province sensitive to natural disturbance (such as forest disturbance, primarily from the forestry and oil goes ahead with the project. Golder’s suite of fires) and their habitat has been eroded and and gas activity in the region. Habitat change GoldSET optimization tools and processes were fragmented by human activity over the past has led to increased predation pressures which used to identify the areas of highest suitability 40 years. A government-led species recovery are the proximate cause of population decline. for the location of the potential rearing facility strategy is underway and Golder’s Wildlife and Since 2008, predation pressures have been which balanced environment, social and Habitat Restoration Specialists Team from the addressed by the Province through an intensive economic considerations. With this approach, a Edmonton, Calgary and Fort St. John offices wolf control program to maintain caribou on project that once seemed unfeasible, became a have been supporting boreal caribou research the landscape. feasible option. and monitoring in Western Canada since 2003. Golder assembled a project team of subject In North East British Columbia, this has included Golder’s feasibility study was presented to matter experts from Western Canada to work work on habitat condition, natural revegetation the Deputy Minister of Alberta Environment collaboratively with personnel (biologists, recovery (conventional linear footprints, low and Parks in the fall of 2017 and has been planners) from the Government of Alberta in a impact seismic) and woodland caribou habitat included as part of the Alberta draft range series of workshops to evaluate the risks, the restoration. Golder is presently involved with plan for caribou recovery. This plan is currently potential population outcomes, and operational two projects that are assisting the recovery of under public and stakeholder review prior to considerations of the rearing facility. This team boreal caribou through habitat restoration and a finalization in 2018. included the Aseniwuche Winewak Nation, population rearing facility. an Indigenous Community actively involved The project team was led by Paula Bentham, Principal in finding solutions to caribou recovery, and Senior Wildlife Ecologist and included Kevin Seel, Business Analyst, Brittney Sammons, Project providing local knowledge of the area, and Coordinator, Corey De La Mare, Principal and Senior input considerations to achieve success of a Biologist from the Calgary and Edmonton (Canada) rearing facility. Subject matter experts also offices. Support for GoldSET support came from included oil and gas industry representatives, Massimo Dragan and Michele Fernetti from our a wildlife veterinarian, caribou biologists, and Torino (Italy) office and GIS support from Moise academic advisors. Coulombe-Pontbriand and Sean Kurash from Calgary. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 31 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES Boreal Caribou Habitat Restoration on the Parker Range Golder worked with a group of stakeholders to field technicians and observers from local develop the Boreal Caribou Habitat Restoration communities will help to build capacity within Pilot Program on the Parker Range in northern the community to support caribou habitat British Columbia. Senior members of the British restoration efforts over the long-term in Columbia Oil and Gas Commission, Ministry north-eastern British Columbia. During the of Forestry Lands and Natural Resource Implementation Phase in 2017, over 36% of Operations, Ministry of Environment and the the Project spend went to Aboriginally-owned Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers businesses and over 40% went to local (CAPP) have joined together in an effort businesses to support the Project. The to restore habitat within an entire boreal process used by Golder to engage the local caribou range. communities, and the success of the Indigenous Inclusion Plan was considered a great success This is the first collaborative, landscape by the Government of British Columbia, and range restoration project of this scale in as a result their caribou planning and project Canada, with Golder leading this group of execution practices have been amended to stakeholders through the development of the involve indigenous communities at the start project permitting, barriers to implementation, of all new caribou restoration projects in project planning, and an Indigenous Inclusion that province. and Contracting Plan process. The plan has Solutions for Freshwater Fish Species been designed to be implemented over a Outcomes of the habitat restoration five year period, starting with a desktop implementation are projected to be immediate Jaewoo Kim, Aquatic Biostatistician with our New ways of curtailing aquatic invasive disturbance and vegetation mapping exercise for predator and human movement and access Calgary office, is investigating non-permanent species are needed if we are to keep Asian and implementation planning, through to control, and to take 20 to 30 years for ecological barriers for invasive fish species. A series of Carp, Sea Lamprey, Northern Snakeheads, applying restoration treatments and tactical habitat restoration for caribou. laboratory trials which found strobe lights Round Goby, and Zebra/Quagga mussels out implementation design. The project involves and vertical electric barriers may prove of our waterways and barrier technologies The project team came from a number of locations archaeology assessments, watercourse crossing across Canada and included Paula Bentham, Principal to be a useful deterrent in the field for are a potentially viable option. A related assessments, local contractor procurement, and Senior Wildlife Ecologist , Shauna Huculak, Senior managing both invasive and important native study by the same authors, Effects of vertical tree planting, wildlife monitoring, and Archaeologist, Caitlin Parker, Wildlife Biologist, Chris freshwater fish species was set out in the electric barrier on the behavior of common post-treatment monitoring. Shapka, Vegetation and Rare Plant Specialist, Jack study “Effects of strobe lights on the behavior carp published in June 2017, suggests that a Yurko, Environmental Specialist, Murdoch Taylor, of freshwater fishes , which was published in relatively weak electric gradient can inhibit the Through Golder’s influence, the overall Program Wildlife Biologist, Susanna Lin, Project Coordinator, the Environmental Biology of Fishes in August movement of common carp. Plan included an Indigenous Inclusion Plan and Medina Hansen, Associate and Project Manager. 2017, co-author by Nicholas E. Mandrak, focused on utilizing local Fort Nelson First For Golder clients, these findings Associate Professor with the University Nation owned businesses. Environmental may offer a variety of solutions of Toronto Scarborough's Department of for freshwater fish species Biological Sciences. management in the future. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 32 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES From Brownfield to Bayside Waterfront Neighbourhood Golder completed the geotechnical and Golder’s Expertise Informs Global environmental work for the award winning Mining Guidelines Bayside Development in Toronto, a project changing an underutilized, environmentally Golder made an important contribution to the impacted site into a vibrant mixed use International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) position statement on managing development and waterfront destination. tailings storage facilities, published in 2016. The Bayside site is situated on the former Queen to landfill. Disposal requirements were limited amenity in the locale, and is designed to The risks associated with mine tailings have Elizabeth Docks which were constructed in the to materials that were required to be removed attract visitors to the precinct, all significant long been recognized within the industry and late 1940s through infilling of Lake Ontario. Infill to accommodate site servicing and building enhancements to the public space in this area more recent dam failures prompted ICMM included materials such as foundry sands and foundations. Environmental barriers, including of Toronto. Sustainability features incorporated to undertake a review of current practices ash that would not meet current environmental vapour barriers and capping layers, were into the park’s design include easy access to and respond with a more robust framework standards. Further development in the 1950’s incorporated into the design of the development public transportation and low energy lighting, as around the safe management of tailings dams. was intended to support anticipated increases in sites and public spaces to limit the potential for well as the use of drought-tolerant native plants Golder’s experience in tailings management shipping traffic along the St Lawrence Seaway, contact between future site users with the fill that will be irrigated with harvested rainwater. across geographies, climates, commodities but with a decline in the manufacturing sector, materials that remain on site. For site servicing, The Bayside Project won the 2017 Canadian and regulatory frameworks was sought as this use was not fully realised. these barriers were integrated with geotechnical Urban Institute Brownie Award in the “Renew” part of a review of the practices of ICMM's 23 supporting systems that were intended to category for community-scale development member companies, representing the world's Environmental and geotechnical requirements, compensate for the low bearing capacity of the that transforms underutilized properties largest mining companies. and sustainability objectives were integrated fill materials. into productive residential and commercial throughout the designated development lots This work was led by Francois Marais, Principal and projects in Canada. and for public spaces. The project will target When the development is eventually completed, Strategic Advisor Engineering, and Mike Abbott, a LEED® rating. LEED (Leadership in Energy Bayside will include 190,000m2 of high-density Canada’s Mississauga office undertook this Manager – Engineering Services, both from our and Environmental Design) is a certification mixed residential, employment, cultural and project. Steven Desrocher (Associate and Senior Johannesburg, South Africa office. system developed by the US Green Building commercial uses on former brownfield land Contaminant Hydrologist) was the Qualified Person for Environmental Site Assessment (a regulatory Geotechnical Engineer) and Lisa Coyne (Principal and Council to encourage the construction of located 1.5km from downtown Toronto, a site requirement in Ontario) and Project Director, Frank Senior Geotechnical Engineer), and Vimy Henderson energy and resource-efficient buildings that are that has been underutilized since the 1960s. Barone (Principal and Geo Environmental Engineer) (Pavement and Materials Engineer) and Ludomir healthy to live in. The development will therefore make available the Engineer of Record in developing the risk Uzarowski (Principal and Pavement Engineer), land critically needed for housing and contribute management plans, Stephen Cioccio (Environmental pavement design. Characterization of the site beginning in the toward making Toronto a more sustainable Risk Assessor) the lead risk assessor, Jessica Yong late 2000s confirmed that the environmental and livable city. (Environmental Scientist) coordinated the investigation condition of the site needed to be addressed and reporting. The field team included Victoria Atencio to allow development for other uses. Golder Bayside will promote public access to the Lake (Environmental Health and Safety Technologist), became involved in the project in 2011 Ontario shoreline and includes pedestrian Bruce McDaniel (Senior environmental Technologist), undertaking additional investigation and risk friendly connections to the broader waterfront Amir Sodagar (Environmental Scientist) and Andrew assessment, and developing a risk management communities. Aitken Place Park, a 0.75 acre Van Roon (Environmental Field Technician), Lead plan allowed for the minimization of soil disposal multi-purpose public park will add recreational Geotechnical engineers Pierre Levasseur (Senior GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 33 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES Design Solution to Mitigate Impact on Wildlife in the Jasper National Park A five-year mountain goat monitoring Jasper National Park is part of the Rocky study associated with Brewster’s Glacier Mountain UNESCO World Heritage Site, and Skywalk in Jasper National Park clearly developing a project inside the park presented demonstrates that Golder’s environmental some unique challenges requiring innovative design and monitoring solutions to understand assessment correctly identified potential and mitigate the potential adverse effects impacts from the project and proposed from the Project, and to ultimately support mitigations that worked. The project is project approval. built and the mountain goats are present as star attractions. The Glacier Skywalk attracted a high level of public interest and was frequently featured In 2010, Brewster Travel Canada proposed to in local, national and international news. A redevelop the Sunwapta Canyon Viewpoint key area of public concern focused on the on the Icefields Parkway in Jasper National potential impacts of this project on local Drawing on their ecological expertise and and bighorn sheep use of the area around Park into a new interpretive attraction that wildlife, particularly mountain goats (Oreamnos decades of experience, Golder developed a the Glacier Skywalk during construction and would provide visitors of all abilities with a americanus) and bighorn sheep (Ovis unique approach to assess potential impacts for the first three years of operations. Results unique mountain experience. The development canadensis). The difficult ecological questions from the Project. Using a combination of remote of this work supported the predictions made included the Glacier Skywalk, a 300m surrounding the potential adverse effects of cameras and field observations, Golder was in Golder’s environmental assessment and glass-floored walkway projecting almost 30m the Glacier Skywalk on local wildlife meant that able to provide information about how mountain indicated that the Glacier Skywalk did not out over the Sunwapta Valley. Golder prepared there was considerable risk that the project may goats and bighorn sheep were using the site substantially affect bighorn sheep or mountain the environmental assessment for this project, not be approved. To add to these challenges, and interacting with people prior to developing goat patterns of site visitation when compared as required under the Canadian Environmental there was a lack of site-specific data on the project. Based on the high-quality results to pre-construction 2011 data. Assessment Act (CEAA). mountain goats and bighorn sheep. obtained during the first year of the monitoring, Golder was recognized with an Award of Golder was able to confidently identify Merit for the Glacier Skywalk Environmental potential impacts from the Glacier Skywalk and Assessment and monitoring project at the Congratulations to Golder for their innovative mountain implement changes to the project design and Consulting Engineers of Alberta Showcase construction schedule that would minimize the goat and bighorn sheep monitoring program and technically Awards in February 2014. impacts of the project on goats and sheep. excellent assessment of the potential impacts on goat The project team was drawn from our Calgary Golder’s commitment to technical excellence and sheep of Brewster’s Glacier Skywalk project. Their helped Brewster to obtain approval to develop office in Canada, principally Marcie Plishka, Project Manager, Martin Jalkotzy, Project Director, and Kyle exceptional contributions were instrumental in Brewster’s the Skywalk in early 2012, on the condition that Knopff, Environmental Lead with support from Talus Glacier Skywalk receiving approval to proceed with a monitoring program was implemented for Environmental for environmental monitoring services. five years post-construction to further evaluate construction of this attraction in the Canadian Rockies. potential effects to mountain goats and bighorn sheep and provide opportunities for adaptive – Judges’ Comment, CEA Showcase Awards, Award of Merit Alberta Innovators Magazine, Spring 2014 management. Golder monitored mountain goat GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 34 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | PROJECT PROFILES Future proofing a water supply for a growing community To meet the increasing water supply The pipeline route construction encountered demands of the Lower Mainland and sensitive bird nesting areas and the habitats of a respond to significant population growth number of rare species of invertebrates requiring south of the Fraser River, Metro Vancouver rigorous environmental management planning to meet regulatory requirements and community undertook a significant upgrade to its expectations. An archaeological assessment was water supply infrastructure. This included a undertaken and a resultant management plan new water supply tunnel across the Fraser involved useful input from the local First Nation River as well as new connecting water communities. During construction a collaborative mains on the north and south sides of the effort between Golder and the First Nation river, all of which Golder has been working communities ensured that excavated material on since 2005. was properly inspected for the presence of archaeological material. Golder team produces the first Mine Water Atlas for South Africa When commissioned, the Port Mann Main No. 2 North will comprise a 1.5-m-diameter, 2.1-km-long This has been a five year project for Golder with Commissioned by the South African Water water quality, flow, ecology, and hydrogeology, water main extending from the Cape Horn Pump commissioning expected in 2018. Research Commission, and launched to provide a comprehensive national water Station and Reservoir to the north shaft of the resource overview. The project team was drawn from our British Columbia by South Africa’s Water and Sanitation Port Mann Water Supply Tunnel. This upgrade will offices in Canada: Anthony Fuller, Project Manager and Minister, Nomvula Mokonyane, at the 2017 Expected users include the mining sector, ensure the continued supply of water to residents Geotechnical Engineer of Record, Trevor Fitzell, Project UN Water Summit in Durban, Golder has government departments, researchers, and businesses in the region and meet the Director, Shawn Redden, Environmental Lead, Ben produced the country’s first Mine Water students, and even the banking sector as demands of projected population and economic Hjermstad and Andy Mason – Archaeological Leads, Atlas, designed to be a tool for those with it assess water as a risk when determining growth for the next 75 years. and Mark Adamson, Geo-Environmental Lead. an interest in water resources from all investment potential. During construction of the new northern water sectors to broaden understanding of water Tracy Skinner, Enterprise Geo-Information Analyst, main savings on costs and carbon dioxide vulnerabilities and the challenges facing from our Johannesburg (South Africa) office, was emissions were realized as a result of the communities and mines, leading to better the GIS lead for the project and responsible for data re-use of excavated soil as backfill. Weak and analysis and creating the web map application and compressible organic soils along portions of the decision making. Massimo Dragan and Piero Santoro from Golder’s route needed to be stabilised to prevent settling. The Atlas gives a detailed description of Italian operation helped with the design and build of Golder’s recommended re-use of excavated mining and water resources, a ground water the web map application. spoil as backfill outside of the pipe-support zone, vulnerability model, surface water threat and through peaty sections of the route, offset model, and a geo-environmental risk model. the risks of large post-construction settlements The project consolidated multiple existing but in the organic soils and avoided 5,000 metres fragmented data points covering mineralogy, of imported fill and the associated trucking and compaction activity. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 35 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | AWARDS Awards & Achievements Safety Award for Golder Chile Victor Milligan Award 2017 Winners – Dennis Becker & Peter Thompson Golder received a safety award from Teck as Named after Victor Milligan (1929 -2009), one Significant material saving on fit for purpose part of the team working in a geotechnical of the founding fathers of Golder, the Victor design: Peter Thomson and Dennis Becker, field campaign, including borehole drilling, Milligan Award is an internal award open to Principals and Senior Geotechnical Engineers test pit excavations and surface geophysics ground engineering practitioners in any Golder form the Calgary, (Canada) office, are the Victor carried out on the Quebrada Blanca project office worldwide, and goes to the best technical Milligan Award Winners for 2017 for the work (Northern Chile). paper published by a Golder employee in a they have done on a fit-for purpose design of given year. Victor was recognized worldwide for driven steel pipe piles for a large oil and gas Despite challenging conditions, including his expertise in geotechnical engineering and processing facility in the Fort McMurray area. an altitude of over 4,000m and extreme served as president of Golder from the early temperatures, no incident with lost time had Their paper Reliability-Based Calibration of 1960’s until the early 1980’s, after which he been reported for more than a year. Geotechnical Resistance Factors for a Large continued as Chairman of the Board. Read more Industrial Project, with Gennaro Esposito about Victor’s legacy. The building code has provision for building and Jim Wright from Shell Canada Ltd was owners to develop project-specific values that published in Geo-Vancouver 2016 as part of 2016 Winner – Jason Cox could supersede the code. Dennis and Peter the annual Canadian Geotechnical Conference calculated the reliability values and associated Jason Cox from Golder’s Irvine, California, in Vancouver BC in October 2016. The geotechnical resistance factors for the facility office was the 2016 Victor Milligan award collaborative and innovative method presented that met the intent of the code, demonstrating winner. Jason’s paper Implications of variable in their paper resulted in savings of millions of that a lower reliability index was appropriate, waste placement conditions for Municipal dollars while maintaining the integrity and safety a revision that will save the client millions Solid Waste (MSW) landfills, detailed a of structures on the large industrial project. of dollars in materials by reducing the steel comprehensive field and laboratory-scale Our client, Shell, held a view that an existing pile requirement by 25-35% over the original The Quebrada Blanca Field Team in Northern Chile. investigation that involved studying systematic design of the proposed facility did not match design requirements. moisture addition to MSW during compaction the intended use of the structure, and that it with the goal of improving placement was over-engineered in order to meet strict efficiency, optimizing airspace, and increasing national building code guidelines. Dennis revenue potential. Becker, who has been a member of the National Building Code Canada working group for over 20 years, was the right person to turn to. Jason Cox, from Irvine, California GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 36 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | AWARDS Canadian Consulting Engineering Awards Australian Geomechanics Society Award Mining Safety Award for Salt for Nigel Ruxton Lake City Team Golder was recognized for engineering These awards represent the highest honors excellence at the 2017 Canadian Consulting for excellence in consulting engineering. The Australian Geomechanics Society 2016 Engineering Awards, held in Ottawa, Canada. Now in their 49th year, the awards are a Don Douglas Youth Fellowship Award for Golder received an Award of Excellence joint program between the Association of the most outstanding Australian paper at for the City of Barrie Landfill Reclamation Consulting Engineering Companies – Canada the 11th Australia and New Zealand Young and Re-Engineering Project. We were also (ACEC) and Canadian Consulting Engineer Geotechnical Professionals Conference was recognized as part of the winning team, led by magazine. Winning projects are selected based made to Nigel Ruxton, Design Group Leader Ausenco Engineering, for Metro Vancouver’s on high-quality engineering, imagination and in the Brisbane (Australia). Nigel’s paper, Port Mann Water Supply Tunnel project, which innovation, and showcase the important role Geotechnical Challenges of Brownfield Sites took home the top prize – the Schreyer Award, that Canadian consulting engineers play in for Use as Landfill, detailed the Queensland in addition to an Award of Excellence. every aspect of our lives. Waste Management Team’s work to develop a 3D model of underground mine workings and the detailed design for a challenging brownfield Kevin Anderson (left) VP, Utah Mining Association & landfill in south-east Queensland. Kent Houghton (right), Director of the Office of Coal Mine Safety at the Utah Labor Commission present safety award to Golder's Dave Fadling at a ceremony in Salt Lake City on April 12, 2017. Golder received a safety award at the 6th Annual Mining & Manufacturing Safety Conference in Salt Lake City, Utah. The award was in recognition of Golder’s commitment to safety, and presented by the Utah Mining Association for “advancing a culture of safety in Utah”. Nigel Ruxton is presented with his award by Darren Paul, Golder Principal and Senior Engineering Geologist from our Melbourne office and past President of the Australian Geomechanics Society, and Charlie Price, Chair of the New Zealand Geotechnical Society. City of Barrie Landfill Project Team at the CCE Awards Gala Reception. Left to right: Awards Host, Frank Barone, Principal, Geo Environmental Engineer, Paul Dewaele, Principal, Senior Geo Environmental Engineer, Doug Kerr, Associate, Senior Civil Engineer and Awards Host. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 37 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES Our work | AWARDS Catharine Shaw Honored by CIM with Innovatio Award for Golder Client Choice Awards in Australasia Inaugural Award Canada’s Legal Team Catharine Shaw, Mining Client Program Manager Golder’s Canadian Legal Team was honored from the Toronto (Canada) Office, was the firstwith the Risk Management, Small Department ever recipient of the Diversity and Inclusion award in the 4th Annual Innovatio Awards. Award, given by the Canadian Institute of The team continued their internal “Making Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM). Legal Services Better” campaign with a focus on risk management as a key vehicle for the This award was created to recognize legal department to help improve Golder’s exceptional contributions towards improving risk management. diversity and inclusion in the mining industry in Canada. Founded in 1898, CIM has more than 11,000 members and is the leading notfor-profit technical society for professionals in the Canadian minerals, metals, materials and The Client Choice awards are organized and In 2016 Golder won in the following categories: energy industries. governed by Beaton Research and Consulting, Winning awards for: an independent benchmarking and customized • Best consulting engineering firm research consulting group serving organizations (revenue >$200M) that provide professional, financial and member services to clients worldwide. These awards are • Best provider to Construction & Infrastructure conducted in partnership with the Australian • Best VIC firm Financial Review. • Best WA firm BHP Awards Golder Team for Nominations are based on client feedback In 2017 Golder won the Construction & Safety Campaign about Golder and assessed against other Infrastructure award. A Golder project team working on BHP Billiton’s contenders in each category. Golder is the most Jansen project finished first in the Summer decorated firm in the awards’ 13-year history, Safety Campaign conducted on site. Jansen with a total of 27 awards, reflecting Golder’s is a $14B potash mining operation, located ongoing commitment to technical and client approximately two hours east of Saskatoon. service excellence. Golder has been an active partner in this project since 2014 and has been providing quality assurance/quality control material testing and surveying services for the construction of the mining shafts (shaft sinking) as well as various above-ground construction projects. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 38 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES OUR COMMUNITIES Advancing Corporate Philanthropy Our business and our projects span the During a global meeting of Golder Principals A sustainable community needs: globe and impact the world around us. We in 2016, a decision was made to pursue a Education – Supporting existing frameworks for are committed to thoughtful balance as we corporate philanthropy program beyond learning and sharing knowledge, contributing the existing commitment to the Golder plan, design and consume, with a view to our expertise in science and engineering. Trust for Orphans. the long term. We aim to improve the lives of communities we touch through our work As a result, Golder will be focusing philanthropic and by our giving. efforts on Sustainable Communities. We will look to guidance from specific UN Sustainable Community Enhancement – Improving Development Goals that we believe link to communities in need, with a particular focus on our core culture and capabilities and create communities where we live and work. opportunities for long-term advancement of the communities in which we live and work. Conservation – Seeking to protect, preserve and restore our natural environment. Disaster Recovery – Applying our expertise to restore environments after destructive events, bringing life and prosperity back to communities. This program will launch in 2018 and build upon lessons we have learned from our 15-year experience with the Golder Trust for Orphans program on the African continent. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 39 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our communities | GOLDER TRUST FOR ORPHANS Golder Trust for Orphans The Golder Trust for Orphans was Since then, the Trust has evolved from a One-Time Grant Funding (20%) Skills Development & Education established in South Africa by Golder small grassroots operation and today is an Funding (40%) The intent of this type of funding is to provide employees in 2003, at a time when enterprise focused on developing sustainable immediate assistance for short-term/emergency Funding for bursaries, schools and early there were many children orphaned or solutions that empower the community and situations that our NGOs sometimes face. The learning centers, technical training and improve the lives of vulnerable children. To displaced by the HIV AIDS pandemic. NGO is required to demonstrate a genuine need life experiences. achieve this objective, the Trust supports and With the realization of their ability to and report how the funds will be used. This type partners with organizations who share the same The Trust has three primary sources of funding: make a significant difference in the world, of grant does not require a commitment from the mission, and currently funds 15 projects in 8 • Golder staff worldwide, through monthly our people decided to act and not be African countries where over 4,000 children Trust for further funding. In 2017, we provided grant funding for the survey and drilling of a new donation contributions and local bystanders to the devastation caused benefit from food security, healthy living borehole for a project in Malawi. The community fundraising activities by this disease. environments, and education. had no access to water at all, so having this vital • Golder operating companies, some who water source has allowed them access to clean match donations on a one-to-one basis Operating Model drinking water and is also used to irrigate crops • External organizations and private donors. The operating model adopted by the Trust they have planted for sustainable food supply is to partner with existing non-governmental during the dry season. organizations (NGOs) that are already providing support consistent with our objectives. Enterprise Development / Investment There is a stringent assessment process for Funding (40%) potential projects and in 2017, a new NGO This category involves equity funding to support located in the Molweni Valley in South Africa capital expenditure for the establishment or joined the Trust program. In partnership with expansion of income generating projects. The Philangethemba, the Trust has built an Early funding can be provided in a variety of ways: Childhood Development Training Centre for • Social capital: the expectation of income teachers, parents, grandparents, and support generation or in support of income generating group training. The Centre hosts homework ventures (such as dairies, bakeries, chicken clubs to support children with their homework layer operations, water bottling plants, etc.). tasks, and a toy library, allowing parents and • Loans (Patient capital): expansion of children to borrow toys for use at home. existing income generation ventures in organizations already supported by the Trust (additional warehouse space, cooling facilities, packaging areas, general project equipment, etc.). GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 40 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our communities | GOLDER TRUST FOR ORPHANS An Overview of GTO Projects for 2016 & 2017 Kenya • Lewa Children’s Home (Eldoret) • AIC Kijabe Hospital (Kijabe) Tanzania • Rhotia Valley Tented Lodge & Children’s Home (Arusha) • Food Water Shelter (Arusha) Zambia • Chikumbuso (Ng’ombe) Mozambique • Mission Station of Carlos Vilanculos (Vilanculos) KENYA Zimbabwe US$495,899 • ACET (South-western Zimbabwe) TANZANIA Botswana Donations made to 12 NGO’s in 2016-2017 • Xere (Rakops) ZAMBIA Swaziland UE B IQ • Bulembu Ministries (Bulembu) AM GOLDER TRUST PROJECTS MUST MEET THE FOLLOWING CRITERIA ZIMBABWE MO Z South Africa BOTSWANA • KwaSizabantu Schulzendal (Malelane) SWAZILAND • Onverwacht Community Care of St. Community Connected to Jospeh’s (Bronkhuorstspruit) Registered NGOs Focused on services SOUTH based, integrating an enterprise to AFRICA • Nokuphila School – Love Trust (Midrand) established for related to orphan orphaned children generate income • Lily of the Valley (Eston) five or more years. care & support. into the community. for the children. • Hope Farm (Cato Ridge) • Philangethemba (Molweni) GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 41 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our communities | GOLDER TRUST FOR ORPHANS Philangethemba Molweni, South Africa Employee Volunteer Visits to Trust Projects The Trust’s 2016/2017 donation to Employee Volunteer Visits to Trust Philangethemba was used to build the Early projects Zimbabwe Childhood Development Training Centre. In addition to financial support through a payroll deduction scheme, Golder employees contribute their knowledge and skills to the projects funded by the Trust. Annual volunteer visits to Trust projects give our people a first-hand experience of the impact of their contributions, becoming Trust Ambassadors in the process. Employee Volunteer Visit, 2016 Employee Volunteer Visit, 2017 Employee Volunteer Visit, 2016 ACET, Zimbabwe Employee Volunteer Trip, 2017 Utilizing the infrastructure already established, Bulembu, Swaziland Bulembu leadership discovered many Eleven Golder volunteers from New Zealand, Mission Station of Carlos Vilanculos opportunities to build innovative, sustainable, Chile, United States, Canada and the UK visited Seven Golder volunteers from the US, Vilanculos, Mozambique and profitable businesses in the community. the ACET program in Zimbabwe. ACET is a UK, Canada and Australia travelled to Each enterprise is formally a division of In 2016/2017, the Trust funded drought community care program and since 2001 has Swaziland in March 2017 to support various the larger charity, with the profits from relief activity for this project, including the cared for almost 3,500 orphaned children. projects at Bulembu. each enterprise flowing into Bulembu’s replacement of irrigation equipment, expansion There are currently 12,000 people in the The ongoing sustainability of the Bulembu Sustainability Fund for the advancement of the of the vegetable garden and repairs to shade ACET community, 45% are under the age of community is dependent upon two community vision. houses damaged by a storm. 15 and 5% of the local population is known to complimentary strategies – Community Care be HIV positive. One of the volunteer projects at Bulembu and Community Enterprise. was the design and construction of a chicken Volunteers spent six days building a 2,000-bird A variety of Community Care programs are coop to house 200 birds. Local high school chicken coop, painted wall murals in the Early transforming the town by restoring basic social agriculture students will learn how to take care Childhood Development school classroom, and services to the community, including a health of the chickens from day-old chicks until they erected fences around the school. clinic, schools, churches, training centers, and are fully grown, gaining vital skills in commercial other community organizations. poultry breeding and how to run a business. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 42 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our communities | LOCAL COMMUNITY INITIATIVES Local Community Initiatives Caring for the Community Riding for a Reason Whitby Waterfront Cleanup Golder’s Redmond, Washington office has been Cam Stevens, Associate, and Aquatic Biologist Colleagues from Canada’s Whitby office recognized for the fifth straight year as a Best from the Edmonton (Canada) office, endured helped in the annual clean-up of Lake Ontario’s Workplace for Waste Prevention and Recycling 210km of cycling over two days in Alberta’s Waterfront around the Heydenshore Pavilion, – reaching “Honor Roll” status. This King Ride to Conquer Cancer fundraiser in support pictured here at the end of the day. County initiative shines a light on businesses of cancer research. The event saw more than with “exceptional commitment to recycling and 1,500 riders raise $6.7M for the Alberta Cancer reducing the amount of waste their company Foundation. Cam and his team of riders raised sends to the landfill.” nearly $80,000 in memory of a special friend who lost her life to cancer. They will do it Harnessing their colleagues’ passion for taking all again in 2018. care of the environment and their community, Back to School Support in New Jersey the Redmond Environmental and Sustainability The Mt Laurel office in New Jersey (US) got Committee is the driving force behind the into the back-to-school spirit by supporting program of activities that has resulted in the Volunteers of America’s Operation Backpack. ‘Honor Roll’ achievement. Activities include One of the most devastating consequences of Holiday Giving the King County Adopt-A-Road program and homelessness is the impact it has on a child’s the “Office Trading Post,” which facilitates Golder staff from the Tampa (Florida, US) office education. Operation Backpack is a program the reduction, reuse, and recycling of collected food and toys for Thanksgiving which aims to lessen the financial burden of office supplies and equipment, instead of and Christmas for distribution through families at-risk of homelessness or living in purchasing new items. Metropolitan Ministries and the local crisis shelters by helping with school supplies. center. This collection program has been running for a number of years and is now Fort McMurray Wildfire a well-establish activity on the calendar of In May 2016, a wildfire swept through the Golder’s Tampa office. northern Alberta city of Fort McMurray, destroying approximately 2,400 homes and buildings, and forcing the evacuation of more than 100,000 residents, including Golder employees from our Fort McMurray office. In the wake of this disaster, Golder people stepped up – donating more than $40,000 CDN – including corporate matching funds, to the Red Cross. The “Office Trading Post” GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 43 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our communities | LOCAL COMMUNITY INITIATIVES Cleaning Up After Harvey Robogators Jeremy Yeglin, Senior Engineer from the Golder’s Maquette office in Michigan (US) Houston (US) office, volunteered his time for sponsored the FIRST Tech Challenge Robotics many weeks to help with the demolition of (FTC) Team of 6th-8th grade students from the houses on the west side of Houston in the wake North Star Academy. FIRST (For Inspiration and of Hurricane Harvey that devastated large parts Recognition of Science and Technology) is an of the US and Caribbean in 2017. international youth organization to develop ways to inspire students in engineering and technology fields. Known as the Robogators, the team had to complete a series of challenges using and programming their robot. The Robogators qualified at the FTC Qualifier competition in Petoskey, MI for the State competition in Battle Creek in December 2016. They were very successful and were honored at the FTC Qualifier competition with the 1st runner up for the Inspire Award. The Inspire Award is FIRST’s Finishing up the survey in February 2016. Left to right – Chris Phillips (Mississauga), Stephane Sol, (Mississauga) & top award at every tournament. They also Jason McGonigle (Whitby). People who also supported the project were Henry Cary (Nova Scotia), Robert Murdoch received the Connect Award and 1st runner up (Mississauga) & Thierry Imbert (Paris). for the Think Award. Providing Closure 100 Years after the Battle of Vimy Ridge The Robogators are keen to show their Contributing our expertise for the benefit of history community their new skills, demonstrating their robot, Roberta, at the Northern Michigan The Battle of Vimy Ridge in France in 1917 of these missing men who lie near what was University Aviation Center for residents of the has become a defining moment in Canada’s the front line of the war under what is now a Jacobetti Veterans community. history. Over four grueling days, Canadians from farmer’s potato field. With the site soon to be across the country fought side by side, as all built over by an industrial estate, time was of four divisions of the Canadian Corps waged a the essence. Golder colleagues responded to bloody battle. The Canadians were victorious the challenge, and offered geophysical, GIS, but with huge loss of life, and over 10,000 men and archaeological support to the project, killed or wounded. providing closure to the families of these men in time for observance of the one hundred year Thousands of those men killed in battle are anniversary of the battle in 2016. still missing and for the families of those missing men, their stories remain unresolved. Volunteering their vacation time to work on the project, six Golder people helped locate 44 GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 44 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES our communities | LOCAL COMMUNITY INITIATIVES Adopt a Family Catchment Care Over the past six years, the Golder London In 2010 to celebrate Golder’s 50th anniversary, (Canada) office has worked with Community a team from Brisbane, Australia, joined a project Living London (CLL) to sponsor needy families to help re-establish and maintain ecologicallyin their community. These families have at healthy catchments in the inner-western suburbs least one child in the home with an intellectual of Brisbane. It is an initiative of the Cubberla disability, and all of these families have required Witton Catchments Network, a volunteer some help over the holiday period. organization formed in 2001, and is focused on creating environmental and community benefits CLL identifies families that need support and in the catchment. provide Golder with a story about each one, as well as a “wish list” for each person. Since that time, Golder has been working on this project to restore and maintain native plant Souper Thursday fundraising lunches were Golder Boulders species on riverbanks within the catchment. held during the year where Golder colleagues The ‘Golder Boulders’ volleyball team donate homemade soup and others pay to enjoy “CWCN has really appreciated the continuing participated in the 22nd Heatwave for SickKids a “Souper Lunch”. A shopping extravaganza is relationship we have with Golder. There is no Volleyball Tournament at Toronto’s Ashbridges held before the holidays with Golder volunteers way that we could have achieved the successes Bay. This is the 7th year in a row for Golder braving the Christmas crowds for a massive along Cubberla Creek without this support.” Boulders and despite valiant efforts and having shopping blitz to buy the wish list items using lots of fun, the team only had one win, but are “I want to let you know how much we value the funds raised throughout the year. Golder winners for raising awareness and funds for the relationship with, and support of Golder volunteers deliver their goods to CLL just prior SickKids Hospital. – freely and happily given by Golder staff to the holiday break and CLL’s ‘Christmas Elves’ and families in their own time (usually Sunday deliver gifts to families. mornings). We have often had over 20 staff and families attend.” “Thank you Golder for this continuing support, and the successful outcomes achieved.” Dr Tony Pressland Cubberla-Witton Catchments Network Inc GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 45 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES GRI REFERENCE TABLE GRI REF INDICATOR LOCATION/COMMENT GRI REF INDICATOR LOCATION/COMMENT GENERAL DISCLOSURE – ORGANIZATION PROFILE 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders About Us, Materiality – pages 6-10 102-1 Name of the organization About Us – page 2 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-2 Activities, brands products and services About Us – page 3 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial As an employee-owned privately held company there are statements no publicly available consolidated financial statements or 102-3 Location of headquarters Golder does not have a designated headquarter location equivalent documents. About Us – page 3 102-46 Defining report boundaries The boundaries of the report are the Global operations and 102-4 Location of operations About Us – page 3 alignment of Clients priorities for sustainable development. 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Us, Governance – page 4 About Us, Materiality – pages 6-10 About Us – pages 2-10 102-6 Markets served About Us – page 3 Our Operations – pages 11-24 102-7 Scale of the organization About Us – page 3 Our Work – pages 25-38 102-8 Information on employees and other workers About Us – page 3 102-47 List of material topics About Us, Materiality – pages 6-10 Our Operations – page 12 Material topics: 205 – Anti-corruption 102-9 Supply chain Our Operations, Auditing – page 23 302 – Energy 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s size, There are no significant changes to report. 305 – Carbon Emissions structure, ownership, or supply chain About Us – page 2 401 – Employment 403 – Occupational Health & Safety 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach EHL Board Message – page 4 404 – Training and education 102-12 External initiatives Golder is a signatory to the UNGC Global Compact 405 – Diversity & Equal Opportunity 413 – Corporate Social Responsibility 102-13 Membership of associations Golder is a member of the Zofnass program at Harvard University, the Sustainable Development Council of New 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable in this reporting period Zealand, Consult Australia, CIAC, and the ICMM. 102-49 Changes in reporting periods About Us – page 2 STRATEGY 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from Global President & CEO – page 1 102-51 Date of most recent report 2015 Message from EHL Board – page 4 Message from Sustainable Development Leader – page 25 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual ETHICS & INTEGRITY 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Lindsay Pickles 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of About Us, Governance – page 4 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI behavior Overview – Vision & Values GRI standards Standards: Core option. All employees are encouraged to complete training and 102-55 GRI Index Table Evident herewith understanding of the Code of Conduct. 102-56 External assurance Not verified GOVERNANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION 102-18 Governance structure About Us, Governance – page 4 103 Management approach About Us, Governance – page 5 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 205.1 Operations assessed for risks related to About Us, Governance – page 5 102-40 List of stakeholder groups About Us, Materiality – page 6 corruption 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements About Us, Governance – page 4 205.2 Communication and training about anti-corruption About Us, Governance – page 4 policies and procedures 102-42 Identifying stakeholders About Us, Materiality – page 6 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About Us, Materiality – page 6 GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 46 LEADERSHIP ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS OUR WORK OUR COMMUNITIES GRI Reference Table GRI REF INDICATOR LOCATION/COMMENT GRI REF INDICATOR LOCATION/COMMENT ENERGY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 103 Management approach Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 103 Management Approach Our Operations, Health, Safety, Security & Environment – page 17 302.1 Energy consumption within the organization Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 403.1 Workers representation in formal joint Our Operations, Health, Safety, Security & Environment – page 18 management – worker health and safety 302.2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 committees 302.3 Energy intensity Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 403.2 Types of injury and rates of injury Our Operations, Health, Safety, Security & Environment – page 17 302.4 Reduction of energy consumption Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 403.3 Workers with high incidence ir high risk of Our Operations, Health, Safety, Security & Environment – page 17 302.5 Reduction of energy requirements of products Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 diseases related to their occupation and services 403.4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Our Operations, Health, Safety, Security & Environment – page 17 CARBON EMISSIONS agreements with trade unions 103 Management approach Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 TRAINING & EDUCATION Given the nature of our operations, Golder is not subject to any 103 Management approach Our Operations, Training – page 16 specific industry level emissions regulations and or policies. 404.1 Average hours of training per employee per year Our Operations, Training – page 16 305.1 Direct GHG emissions Golder does not have any significant Direct Scope 1 emissions 404.2 Programs for upgrading skills and transition Our Operations, Training – page 16 305.2 Energy indirect Our energy indirect (Scope 2) emissions are reflected assistance programs in the energy consumption figures set out in: Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 404.3 Regular performance and career development Our Operations, People – page 11 reviews 305.3 Other indirect Our other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions are given under Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 305.4 GHG emissions intensity Our emissions intensity data is given on a per person basis. 103 Management approach Our Operations, Diversity – page 13 Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 405.1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our Operations, Diversity – page 13 305.5 Reduction of GHG emissions CO2 emission reduction target set out on: Our Operations, People – page 11 Our Operations, Carbon Footprint – page 24 About Us, Governance – page 4 305.6 Emissions of ozone depleting substances Not applicable to our business 405.2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Information not available women to men 305.7 Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and other Not applicable to our business significant air emissions LOCAL COMMUNITIES EMPLOYMENT 103 Management approach Our Communities – page 43 103 Management approach Our Operations, People – page 11 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Our Communities – page 43 Code of Conduct – Golder code of conduct, built on and impact assessments, and development programs reflective of our values, guides the behaviors of all our 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential Golder has no operations with significant and potential employees, at all levels, wherever they conduct business. negative impacts on local communities negative impacts on local communities. It sets out the expectations of Golder conduct towards her employees, employees conduct towards Golder, and conduct with clients and suppliers. 401-1 New employee hires Our Operations, People – page 11 401-2 Employee benefits Our Operations, People – page 12 401-3 Parental leave Specific parental leave metrics not collected. Parental leave is accommodated according to different requirements in different jurisdictions. GOLDER 2016-2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 47 EYE ON THE HORIZON Thank you for reading our 2016-2017 Sustainable Development Report. We hope our work encourages you to look through the sustainability lens in the work you do and within your community. Visit golder.com to learn more information about the projects Golder has contributed to, and the challenges we have helped our clients to navigate. golder.com
