2017 Sustainability Report This Sustainability Report refers to Morris Profumi Group. The Group is also commercially known as Perfume Holding and for this reason the names “Perfume Holding” and “the Group” are used interchangeably in this Report, both referring to Morris Profumi Group. The Group logo has not changed. The reference “Morris Profumi S.p.A.” solely refers to the parent company. 2017 Sustainability Report Contents Chairman letter 6 1. About the Group 7 1.1 2017 Company Highlights 7 1.2 Our Sustainability Approch 8 1.3 Perfume Holding and its Corporate Governance 11 1.3.1 Corporate Governance 12 1.4 Perfume Holding’s priorities 13 2. Product stewardship 14 2.1 Products’ environmental responsibility 14 2.2 An integrated value chain 16 2.3 Quality and safety for customers 18 2.4 Product Innovation and R&D 19 2.5 Animal welfare 20 2.6 Labeling and packaging 20 2.7 Complaints management 21 3. Creating value for people and society 23 3.1 Employees 23 3.1.1 Development and training 25 3.1.2 Health & Safety at work 26 3.2 Supporting the local community 26 3.3 Value creation 27 4. Respecting the environment 28 4.1 Energy and Emissions 28 4.2 Water 30 4.3 Waste 31 4.4 Materials consumption 32 5. Performance Indicators 33 5.1 Human Resources indicators 33 5.2 Health and safety indicators 35 6. Note on Methodology 36 7. Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries and 38 correlation with the GRI Standards 8. Correlation between UN Global Compact and GRI Standards 40 9. GRI Standards – Content Index 41 6 Dear readers, principles concerning the and Development and derespect of human rights sign stages. For our Group, Sustainability and Corporaand workers, environmenshowing respect for the te Responsibility represent tal protection and fight environment is a distincticore pillars to our Group against corruption. The ve aspect throughout the and, in this second edition adherence to this initiative whole value chain. of our Sustainability Report, is not a mere statement of we collect all the commitintent, but embodies the For the coming year, the ments of our company conpledge of our day-by-day company is working, togecerning environmental and activities. ther with other local entersocial aspects, together prises, on the realisation with governance transpaWe took up some of the of the “Green Kilometer”, rency. We want to share seventeen Sustainable Dea green area (for a total both our achievements and velopment Goals identified length of 11 kilometers) our future ambitions. by the United Nation in its along the highway adjacent 2030 Agenda for Sustainato our factory. The project Dedicating a constant effort ble Development. will contribute to mitigain building a responsible With our work, we do our ting the environmental imapproach towards the enutmost in order to promopact produced by traffic, by vironment and our people te a long-lasting, inclusive reducing greenhouse gas has always been a funding and sustainable econoemissions thanks to the principle at Perfume Holmic growth by fostering planting of anti-smog trees Chairman letter ding. Our actions support full and productive emand bushes. our beliefs: in order to ployment and decent work guarantee an economic for all (SDG 8). We support This Sustainability Report growth, which is both aligender equality as well as reflects all the principles gned with our values and women and girls’ empoand commitments that our respectful to our stakeholwerment (SDG 5) and reGroup has supported throuders and the environment, ducing disparity (SDG 10). gh the years and will contiwe established solid guinue promoting with deterdelines for our conduct. We work in full respect of mination and courage. We We obtained and updated the environment and probelieve, in fact, that sustaia UNI EN ISO 14001 certifimote sustainable producnability is our only option cation, updated our Code of tion and consumption patif we aim at nurturing a Ethics, an Environment, Heterns (SDG 12), we adopt resilient economy and an alth and Safety, Corporate tangible actions in order to increasingly fair and incluSocial Responsibility policy fight climate change and its sive society. that, shared with all our impacts (SDG 13). people, have been guiding Giovanni Borri our business throughout To this end, the company Chairman many years. introduced, in 2017, concrete measures that ensuAs a clear evidence of such re the continuous improcommitment, the Group vement of environmental formalised, in 2016, its performance, not only conadherence to ten United cerning productive procesNations Global Compact ses, but also at Research 2017 Sustainability Report 1.1 2017 Company Highlights 7 approach to 68.3 7 sustainable business 89 1. About the Group 191 24 training courses on HSE aspects 75 60.2 405.1 3.6 electricity consumption 8 1.2 Our Sustainability Approach The concept of sustainamain internal and external of the results of an industry bility has, in recent years, initiatives the Group has benchmark and the GRI Suprofoundly influenced and implemented, and the postainability Reporting Stanshaped the way companies sitive impact generated for dards. approach their business, society. Subsequently, both internal understand their positive and external stakeholders and negative impacts on For the preparation of this were surveyed in order to the environment and soReport, Perfume Holding evaluate and prioritize the ciety, and define success. carried out a materiality topics based on their releWhile always being aware analysis in order to identify vance to the Group and to that a company’s economic and address all the sustaiits key stakeholders. performance cannot be dinability issues that are reFinally, these topics were sconnected from the ecosylevant for the Group and its mapped to create the mastem in which it exists, and stakeholders. The process teriality matrix which recommitted to ensuring high was undertaken for the elapresents on the x-axis the 1. About the Group standards of social and enboration of the first Sustairelevance of the topics for vironmental performance, nability Report, by applying Perfume Holding, and on in 2016 Perfume Holding the 2016 GRI Sustainability the y-axis their relevance decided to embark on a Reporting Standards for the for the stakeholders. journey towards the achieidentification and selection The picture emerging from vement of ambitious corof key stakeholders and the the matrix serves as a tool porate sustainability objecelaboration of the materiafor defining the Group’s sutives, by publishing its first lity matrix. stainability strategy, hence Sustainability Report and the aspects that are covered by becoming a member of Indeed, as requested by within the Sustainability Rethe United Nations Global the GRI Sustainability Report. Compact. This year, Perfume porting Standards, for the Holding continues along this 2016 Sustainability Report Compared to the previous journey, energized by the the Group identified the year, no changes were perlessons learned, the objecmost significant economic, formed to the stakeholder tives achieved, and the amenvironmental and social map identified before. bitious goals that wait aheaspects that could potenInstead, the materiality maad. In particular this report tially influence the assestrix was slightly updated in aims to give a clear picture sment and decisions of order to better align it to of the Group’s 360° approstakeholders. These topics emerging sustainability trenach to sustainability, the were selected on the basis ds in the cosmetic industry. Stakeholder Mapping Environment Local Distributors Suppliers communities and School and franchising University Employees Public Customers Institutions Shareholders, investors 2017 Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction & Privacy 9 1. About the Group The most relevant topics, potential impact of its propresented in the top-right ducts throughout their enticorner, mostly relate to re life cycle. In addition, the product quality, business topic “diversity and equal responsibility, the enviopportunities”, which was ronment and occupational previously considered part health & safety. These toof “human capital”, has pics reflect Perfume Holbeen added as a separate ding’s priorities and its comtopic in order to align the mitment to its customers, materiality matrix to the its people, and the envicurrent sustainability megaronment, and are therefore trends. The topic “logistics” the focus of this Report. was also added, illustrating The topics that fall below how the Company has bethe dashed line are classigun considering its impacts fied as not relevant to the beyond its internal perimeGroup’s core business. ter. Compared to 2016, the toThe matrix will continue to pic “materials and packabe periodically reviewed ging” has gained relevance and updated to ensure it in the eyes of the Group fully reflects the Group’s suand its stakeholders, due stainability priorities, critical to the increased attention issues and future opportunipaid by the Company to the ties. 10 Perfume Holding’s Sustainability Journey Perfume Holding has been working towards sustainability for many years. The key steps that marked the Group’s sustainability journey are described below: 2017 • The Group publishes its first Sustainability Report related to its sustainability performance in 2016. 2016 • Perfume Holding becomes a signatory of the UN Global Compact in 2016 and defines its commitment towards its 10 principles. • Morris Profumi S.p.A. earns the “Silver Recognition Level”, ranking among the top 30% of performers evaluated by EcoVadis1. 1. About the Group 2015 • For the first time, Perfume Holding includes non-financial information into the 2015 Annual Report, in order to provide stakeholders an overview of its sustainability approach. • The Code of Ethics is approved by the Board of Directors of Morris Profumi S.p.A. 2013 • Morris Profumi S.p.A. obtains the UNI EN ISO 22716:2008 certification. • The production plant in Parma is thermally insulated. • Morris Profumi S.p.A. obtains the UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 certification. For the 2007 first time, a roadmap with environmental, health and safety targets is defined, to be updated on an annual basis. UN GLOBAL COMPACT In order to reinforce its deareas: Human Rights, Labor, Endication to sustainability, vironment and Anti-corruption. Perfume Holding became a In being a signatory to the UN signatory of the UN Global Global Compact and integrating Compact in 2016 and is comthe principles into the company’s mitted to working towards core business. its 10 principles. The global Perfume Holding not only coninitiative, supported by the firms its main responsibilities to United Nations, is based on people and the planet, but also universal sustainability prinsets the stage for long-term succiples addressing four key cess. 1 Ecovadis is a collaborative platform that rates sustainability performance of companies based on CSR policies and supply chain management. 2017 Sustainability Report 1.3 Perfume Holding and its Corporate Governance Perfume Holding is an inrari, Iceberg, Liu Jo, Sergio Perfume Holding’s opera11 ternational Group that ofTacchini and Fiat 500. tions are mainly based in fers a unique integrated Italy where the following approach to meeting its Perfume Holding’s corporadepartments are located: clients’ needs along the te goal is to be the leader R&D, Regulatory Affairs, whole value chain, from in the niche and selective Quality Control, Manuthe creation to the producsegment of perfumes and facturing and Production, tion and distribution of percosmetics markets. Sales, Finance, Marketing fumes. Its scientific know-how and and Creation. Products its unique integrated apare distributed in over 80 Driven by creativity and proach allow for the choicountries, with represenpassion, the Group boasts ce of the finest essences in tative offices in the U.S.A., a prestigious portfolio2, the laboratory, a strategic United Kingdom, Germany, consisting of proprietary distribution of the products Italy, Russia, United Arab brands such as Atkinsons through the global network Emirates, Singapore, Hong 1. About the Group London 1799, I Coloniali, according to the specific Kong and Spain. English Garden and Morris, target market, as well as as well as licensed brands specialized marketing and like Dirk Bikkembergs, Fercommunications services. 3 Morris HongKong Germany Profumi (100%) (100%) S.p.A. UK Singapore (100%) (100%) Russia USA (100%) London Spain (100%) (100%) (100%) The Group is indirectly owned by a fund managed by Investindustrial, a leading European investment and advisory group. 2 A more detailed description of the Product Portfolio can be found in the Group’s 2017 Annual Report 3 The Group Morris Profumi is also commercially known as Perfume Holding. Instead, the reference “Morris Profumi S.p.A.” solely refers to the parent company. 12 1.3.1 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance is Directors in 2013 and sharatory activities have been the driving force behind red throughout the Group. carried out for the construcall the decision-making The Code of Ethics repretion of a risk prevention processes and plays a key sents the set of ethical and management system role in establishing relavalues and standards of in line with the provitionships of trust between conduct, already deeply rosions of Legislative Decree the Group and its stakeholoted in the Group’s culture, 231/20014. ders: integrity and ethical on which people working behavior of all employees, for the Group should base As a result of Perfume Holadministrators and collabotheir activities. The Code ding’s attention to these rators is key to maintaining of Ethics is an instrument topics, no incidents of diPerfume Holding’s reputadesigned to preserve the scrimination or corruption tion and to ensure mutual values and the integrity of were recorded in 2017. trust. the company over time, in particular the values of 1. About the Group Perfume Holding has imlegality, integrity, transpaplemented a control and rency, and impartiality, and governance system based represents a set of positive on the role of the Board of principles and standards Directors, comprising seven the Group has chosen to members, which is entruadopt as a concrete expressted to ensure the ordinary sion of its commitment in and extraordinary manageits relations to all stakeholment of the Company. ders. Perfume Holding recogniMoreover, the Group beliezes the importance of high ves in the respect for Hustandards of ethical behaman Rights as the foundavior and social responsition for liberty, justice and bility in the conduct of its peace. The organization, corporate and business afmanagement and control fairs and is committed to model adopted complies respecting the legitimate with the provisions of Leinterests of all stakeholgislative Decree 231/2001 ders, including the commuand implements procedunity in which it operates. res, criteria and sanctions The Group’s conduct and designed to ensure comactivities are guided by the pliance with the ethical Code of Ethics of Morris values and standards of Profumi S.p.A., which was conduct set in the Code of approved by the Board of Ethics. A number of prepa4 More information is provided within the Code of Ethics and the 231 Model (both available on the website) 2017 Sustainability Report 1.4 Perfume Holding’s priorities The following chapters focus on the three key areas that guide Perfume Holding’s 13 sustainability agenda, based on the materiality analysis. In particular, these priorities can be clustered into three different dimensions: Perfume Holding’s priorities Product Respecting stewardship the planet Creating value for peopple and society The year 2017 in brief Product stewardship More than 500 new preliminary formulas tested Development of new skincare products Creating value for people and society 22.5 tons of products donated to charity More than 1000 hours of employee training, including more than 500 hours of training on quality management Respecting the environment 60.2% of waste generated sent to recovery plants 3.6% reduction in electricity consumption thanks to the replacement of traditional lighting systems with LED solutions 14 2.1 Products’ environmental responsibility The art of perfumery and processes entailed, to the the creation of beauty creation of the final packacare products are simultaging. neously one of the most ancient forms of craftsTo this end, in 2017, Mormanship and one of the ris Profumi introduced a most innovative sectors new Product Life Cycle Astoday. On one side of the sessment (LCA) Procedure, spectrum are traditional with the goal of incorpo2. Product stewardship beauty remedies and inrating key environmental gredients passed down criteria during the design through generations; on and development of new the other, are highly soproducts, in order to encouphisticated research and rage the selection of matedevelopment studies barials and suppliers that are sed on molecular science. in line with the Group’s enAt Perfume Holding, we vironmental performance are becoming increasingly objectives. The Procedure aware of the power of naentails the completion of tural active ingredients, but a checklist which includes, also of the potential of new among others: information technologies to amplify on whether the supplier and replicate such beneselected offers after sales ficial effects, often with a services to reuse and/or lower environmental imrecycle the products sold pact. Central to our work, (e.g. packaging), whether is ensuring that we design, the product packaging has produce and commerciabeen designed to facilitate lize high quality products its reuse/recycling, whethat are optimal for consuther alternative ingredients mers’ use while also being have been considered in increasingly respectful of order to lower the use the environment, from the of potentially hazardous strategic selection of the substances, whether the materials used, to the deproduct contains reused/ signing of the production recycled components, whe2017 Sustainability Report 15 ther an eco-label could be The substitute oils, derived applied, etc. from olives and Brassica Campestris, are readily bioIn 2017, the Product Life degradable and thus have Cycle Procedure was pera negligible impact on the formed for the first time on environment compared to the new perfume FIAT 500, the silicon ones, in addition which achieved a good scoto offering precious properre in terms of environmenties for the skin. tal performance thanks to the use, for example, For the coming years, Per2. Product stewardship of recyclable materials fume Holding commits (except for the glass attato continuing and to amched to the bottle pump) plifying its environmental and of FSC certified paper performance, by researpackaging. Since 2017, the ching new solutions and Procedure will be applied market opportunities for to all new and improved eco-products. To this end, products. in 2017, Morris Profumi began to carry out an internal The environmental perforengagement process with mance of a few product all employees, in order to lines – in particular, Atkinevaluate the potential desons scrub creams has also mand for eco-friendly probeen improved, in this case ducts, as well as to raise by substituting the scrubawareness on products’ bing micro-plastic material environmental sustainabiwith natural and bio-degrality within the Company. In dable ingredients. In addi2018, the Company comtion, in 2017, the Company mitted to progressively proceeded with the replaexpand this engagement cement, in some formulas, process to its external staof silicon oils with vegetakeholder. ble derived oils, in order to prevent the potential negative impact of silicon oils on the environment and on aquatic animals. 16 What’s inside your perfume? For the production of frawater. In 2017, 462 tons ter were also used for the grances, the primary maof alcohol and 76 tons of preparation of fragrances in terials used are alcohol essence were used in the 2017. (usually around 75-78% of production plant. Furtherthe fragrance), essence and more, around 82 m3 of waAverage components 12% of a perfume 2. Product stewardship 13% 75% alchool water essence The main components for material in order to ensure with the aim of maintaithe production of perfume they undergo a recovery ning an adequate proporbottles and their packaprocess. The company is tion between the size of ging are glass, paper and committed to eliminating perfume bottles and their cardboard, plastic (ferrules, secondary packaging of packaging and consequencaps, pipettes) and alumicertain product lines in ortially reducing the amount num. All components are der to reduce paper and of packaging required per sourced from suppliers and cardboard consumption. product. not produced by the comThe reduction in packapany itself. Glass, paper ging size is also very imBeauty care products such and aluminum are highly portant for the Group, and as creams, shower gels, recyclable materials, and products’ packaging design and body lotions are produfor this reason Morris Profuhas become a central comced by external providers. mi S.p.A. sorts them sepaponent of our Products Life rately from the remaining Cycle Assessment procedure 2.2 An integrated value chain Perfume Holding’s 360° and distribution phases, regulations and guarantee integrated approach is Perfume Holding is today a high quality standards, the one of the company’s key unique actor within the inGroup works with suppliers strengths. As it maintains dustry, due to its in-depth throughout all activities, a direct control over all staunderstanding and expertifrom product design to proges of a product’s life cycle, se of the sector. To ensure duct distribution. from the creation, to the that products are in line development, production with applicable laws and 2017 Sustainability Report 17 The following figure illustrates Perfume Holding’s 360o integrated approach: SUPPORT ACTIVITIES Research & Developement Quality Management Stakeholder Consultation 2. Product stewardship Regulatory Affairs Design Phase Developement Manufacturing Distribution Phase Phase Phase Product Concept Technical Brief Material Procurement Final Testing Market Analysis Sample Products Product Manufacturing Product Dispatching Timeline Choice of Materials Advertising PRIMARY ACTIVITIES 360° Integrated Approach5 The Group’s impacts lie not and safety of employees their responses. Should any only in its operations and and CSR approach. A qualispecific issue be identified, final products but also in ty audit is conducted for all corrective actions are taken its suppliers’ and custonew subcontractors in or(e.g. official communicamers’ operations. For this der to sign a quality agretion, audits, etc.). reason, Perfume Holding is ement to guarantee quality In 2017, a total of 108 supcommitted to ensuring restandards and procedures pliers (72%) have been sponsible procurement and are being met. This allows assessed, which is a 21% excellence throughout the Perfume Holding to ensure increase over 2016, and value chain. The Group has all suppliers and subconthe Group is committed to a qualification and evaluatractors apply the Group’s extending the process to tion procedure for suppliers standards throughout the 100% of suppliers. In adas well as for subcontracsupply chain. Furthermore, dition, main suppliers and tors, which is measured via all environmental authosubcontractors are also rea questionnaire addressing rizations are assessed to quired to sign Perfume Holissues such as quality maensure they are valid and ding’s Code of Ethics and nagement systems, enviup to date. Suppliers are operate in compliance with ronmental impact, health then ranked according to its principles. 5 A detailed description of the Integrated Approach can be found in the Group’s 2017 Annual Report 18 2.3 Quality and safety for customers One of Perfume Holding’s The main steps of a safety monstrated its commitkey priorities is ofassessment are: ment to continuous quality fering high quaimprovement by obtaining lity and safe • Ingredient testing, incluthe ISO UNI EN 22716:2008 products to ding potential effects of certification in June 2013. customers. product packaging on the ISO UNI EN 22716:2008 is 100% of safety of the product; a harmonized standard and products are • Stability testing of the guideline for Good Manucompliant product before and during facturing Practices (GMP) in 2. Product stewardship with relevant the use-phase, to assess the cosmetic sector. The apEuropean regulahow the quality of the proplication of such standards tions and are assessed for duct varies with time under allows one to comply with health and safety impacts the influence of a number provisions of the European by qualified external safety of environmental factors regulation 1223/2009 goexperts before being laun(for example, temperature, verning the composition, ched into the market. humidity and light), enlabelling and packaging of suring no safety risks are finished cosmetic products The product safety assesidentified; and ensuring a high degree sment process requires • Analysis of product perof safety, transparency and expert knowledge with reformance to ensure safety objectiveness of product inspect to the product comof exposure to substances. formation. Holding the ISO position, the chemical and When possible, the safety UNI EN 22716:2008 certiphysical properties of the margins are obtained. In fication requires having a ingredients, the manufaccases where it is not posQuality Assurance System turing process and the mesible to obtain the safethat, in order to maintain thod of application of the ty margins, bibliographic product warranty and safeproduct. All the data neeinformation of the ingrety, guarantees high quality ded for safety assessment dients is evaluated in order and security of finished prois kept by the Regulatory to assess health and safety ducts through various proAffairs department as part impacts; cedures, such as: process of the Production Informa• Verification of the product mapping; criticality monition Forms (PIFs) and Colabeling to ensure accuracy toring; internal and extersmetic Product Safety Reof the instructions and warnal planned audits in order ports (CPSRs). ning information provided to verify the compliance of and that all legal requirethe processes; and emploThe experts undertaking ments are being met; yee training in line with the assessment combine • Identification of the final Standard Operating Procetheir in-market experience product and its compliance dures (SOP). The Standard with best available techniwith Good Manufacturing also certifies compliance ques in order to perform Practices (GMP). with GMP throughout the proper safety evaluations. whole supply chain. Relevant information is No episode of non-comalso collected from the dipliance relating to product stributors of the products, quality and safety has been as they have useful sales reported in 2017. and market information. Morris Profumi S.p.A. de2017 Sustainability Report 19 Morris Profumi S.p.A. is the their impact on everyday from stocking to production first company in the peroperations and customers’ to product recalls. fume manufacturing induhealth. To this end, in 2017, A dedicated function, the stry to obtain the ISO UNI Morris Profumi offered 523 Quality Assurance Manager, EN 22716 certification by hours of training related to is in charge of planning, DNV Business Assurance in its Quality Management Syexecuting and monitoring Italy. Being certified implies stem, mostly to its blue colall these training activities, the entire staff is working lar workers (440 hours), to in order to guarantee a towards a common target ensure employees respect unique and solid approach and is aware of the imporGood Manufacturing Pracwithin the company. 2. Product stewardship tance of quality policies tices guidelines throughout and procedures as well as all steps of the value chain, 2.4 Product Innovation and R&D The research and deveWorking in the laboratory, The R&D lab also cooperalopment (R&D) laboratory with the use of cuttingtes with external partners of Perfume Holding is chaedge resources, the sciento translate scientific discoracterized by a strong pastists explore the materials veries into healthy skincare sion for science and intuioffered by the market and products. tion for creativity. follow a set of criteria in The mission of the R&D order to choose the best inIn 2017, Perfume Holding department is to fulfil the gredients to use. has continued in its collacontinuously increasing reWhen possible, suppliers of boration with the Univerquests of customers who primary resources are chosity of Pavia to develop see cosmetics as an intesen according to their cominnovative formulas for a gral part of their daily life. mitment to social and ennew generation of “I ColoThe creation of new provironmental responsibility. niali” skincare products, in duct formulas is a metiFor example, suppliers with which scientific excellence culous process: in order to certifications attesting prois mixed with the knowleddefine the perfect formula, duct traceability and high ge of traditional herbs and adjustments need to be levels of working condispices. made ingredient by ingretions are prioritized for dient until the perfect outthe procurement of ingrecome is achieved. dients. More than 500 49 28 preliminary formulas formulas formulas for approved for produced in product product launch 2017 developement 20 The R&D lab develops and 500 preliminary product several testing phases6. The tests hundreds of product formulas were tested for remaining 21 will be evaluformulas every year. These new product development, ated for future production. formulas undergo several out of which 49 formulas The tests managed by the stages before being apwere approved for proR&D lab are represented in proved for production and duction and 28 effectively the following figure: launch. In 2017, around produced, after undergoing 2. Product stewardship 2.5 Animal welfare Perfume Holding complies 1223/2009), which prohidients and final products with the European Directibits to market products with alternative proceduve against animal testing containing ingredients that res, in order to ensure that (2003/15/EC), in force have been tested on anino animal is harmed while since 2004, which forbids mals. simultaneously ensuring any form of animal testing high standards of safety for cosmetic products, and These laws are in line with and quality of its products. with the EU regulation on the values of Perfume Holcosmetic products (EC No ding, which tests all ingre2.6 Labeling and packaging Perfume Holding ensures munication perspective. Perfume Holding’s intercustomers have access to Fair and responsible comnal policy on labeling and accurate and adequate inmunication, transparency packaging is defined and formation on the products on product composition supervised by the Reguand services they consume, and their proper use and latory Affairs department both from a product labedisposal allow customers and is periodically updated. ling and a marketing comto make informed choices. Products, product packag6 For more detailed data and information regarding the R&D lab activities in 2017, please refer to the Group’s 2017 Annual Report. 2017 Sustainability Report 21 ing and product labeling the safe use of fragrance •LRegulation 1223/2009 are compliant with all relingredients. The Standards of the European Parliament evant European regulations represent a self-regulating governing the composition, applicable to the industry framework of the industry, labeling and packaging of and contain all necessary based on risk assessments finished cosmetic products information to sell products carried out by an indein the European Union. worldwide, including Asia, pendent Expert Panel. The regulation was adoptRussia, Far East, Middle ed to improve the protecEast, and South America. A Cosmetic Product Safetion of human health and Required product informaty Report is prepared for the environment from the 2. Product stewardship tion includes product comevery finished product berisks that can be posed by ponents, content, and safe ing placed on the market chemicals. use and disposal of the and is reviewed on a regproduct. Distributors must ular basis. To that end, po•LDirective 94/62/EC of check the packaging of the tential undesirable effects the European Commission products and verify that on human health resulting on packaging and packagthe required information is from product use are filed ing waste. illustrated on the label, in and taken into account in the language required unthe next safety assessment •LREACH (EC 1907/2006) der the applicable national of the product. regulation on the use of law. For packaging in direct chemicals. contact with the cosmetic Furthermore, all of Perfume product, specific regulato•LDirective 75/324/EEC Holding’s fragrances are ry verifications are carried regarding aerosol dispenscompliant with the Standout. ers. ards of the International Fragrance Association (IFRA All of Perfume Holding’s •LRegulation (EC) No. Standards), a globally acproducts comply with ap1272/2008 on labeling cepted and recognized risk plicable regulations, includand packaging of substancmanagement system for ing: es and mixtures. 2.7 Complaints management Perfume Holding keeps and ISO UNI EN 9001:2005, dence, loyalty and satisfaccustomer care and prowhich include procedures tion. duct quality at the top of for quality management, its agenda. In 2017 the customer satisfaction and In particular, the complaint percentage of reclaimed guidelines for complaints management process alproducts and their packahandling in organizations. lows Perfume Holding to ging material was below provide a transparent and 1% and no product batches The SOP Complaint Manaresponsive complaint mawere taken off the market. gement provides guidannagement process; enCustomer complaints are ce for handling complaints hance its ability to resolve managed through an interrelated to both commercial complaints in a consistent, nal Standard Operating Proand non-commercial actisystematic and responsicedure (SOP) for complaint vities, ensuring consistent ve manner and to identify management as required complaint treatment and trends and eliminate cauby ISO UNI EN 22716:2008 reinforcing customer confises of complaints through a 22 customer-focused approach. plaints classified as techniComplaints filed for reaEnd-users can directly concally founded was around sons that are not related tact Perfume Holding and 45%. The severity of the to technical defects are the company’s internal technically founded comalso addressed by Perfume policy requires all signals plaints was also aligned to Holding, classified as “unto be singularly addresprevious years, as illustrafounded”. These types of sed within 24 hours by the ted below: complaints allow to underQuality Assurance division. Severity of the stand how certain custoEach filed complaint is asmers actually perceive the 55+27+18A sessed for non-compliance technically-funded products and services ofcomplaints (2017) 2. Product stewardship with regulations and/or fered by the company and voluntary codes. As prescritake preventative actions. bed by the internal policy, In 2017, the percentage of all complaints are analyzed 18% unfounded complaints was and corrective or preven55%, in line with 2016. tative actions are taken if required, in alignment to For what concerns privathe quality continuous im55% cy, all personal data which 27% provement system. identifies the final consumer is censored in accorThe nature of complaints dance with the classificain 2017 was in line with tion of the internal code. previous years and, comCritical defect: important Personal data includes: pared to 2016, the number defect which inhibits the name and surname, email of complaints and signaling use by the end-user address, telephone numwas decreased by 36%. For Major defect: which ber and any data that could what concerns the source inhibits the purchasing identify the final consuof signaling, in 2017 they of the product by the mer. Moreover, the email were aligned to the preend-user addresses of complainants vious year and distributed Minor aesthetical deare accessible solely to the as illustrated in the folfects: which give a nedefined internal reference lowing graph: gative impression on the person. During 2017, PerThe percentage of comquality of the product to fume Holding received no the end-user. complaint concerning breaches of customer privacy 33+24+112210A and losses of customer Source of signaling (2017) data. 10% 33% Web 22% Export Customer Service Final Consumer Italian Customer Service Brand Manager and 11% Trade Marketing 24% Manager 2017 Sustainability Report 23 The dedication, passion In order to promote sustaiPerfume Holding also relies and skills of the people nable growth, a company on the society and the local working at Perfume Holneeds to rely on human community it is supported ding are the main features resource capabilities and by, conscious that the value that reinforce the capacity willingness to implement generated and distributed 3. Creating value for people and society of the company to innovate and act on all strategic to its surroundings will geand to achieve excellence. decisions of the managenerate and feed a virtuous Perfume Holding is fully ment. In Perfume Holding, circle, from which the comaware that the sustainable people, recognized as the pany will benefit, too. value it is able to generate most important and central Given such premises, the relies, to the largest extent, resource, are treated as the value generated for emon the relationship it built most crucial factor for the ployees and society is one over the years with its pecompany’s success. Deeplyof the key focus areas that ople and the local commurooted on the local territory, guide Perfume Holding’s nity in which it operates. sustainable pathway. 3.1 Employees 191 Considering its workforce a the Group employed 191 employees fundamental and strategic people. The Group’s per(+9% from 2016) factor for the achievement sonnel is mainly located of the company’s business in Italy (75%), where the objectives, Perfume Holparent company has its heding continuously protects adquarter; the remaining and values its staff. The aim employees are distributed is to keep improving and across Russia, UK, Spain, broadening their profesSingapore and the United sional skills, while creating States. The Italian workfora fulfilling and rewarding ce, employed by Morris Proworking environment and fumi at the production site increasing their sense of in Parma, in 2017 counted belonging to the company. 143 people, of which 76% As of December 31st 2017, women. 76% Women Perfume Holding employees, by geography and gender 1% United States 2% Spain 25% 2% Singapore 75% 3% UK Italy 17% Russia 24 2017 Employees 2016 20157 Country Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Italy 35 108 143 37 110 147 32 108 140 3. Creating value for people and society Spain 3 1 4 UK 3 2 5 United 1 1 1 1 States Germany 1 1 1 1 Dubai 1 1 2 2 1 3 Singapore 1 1 2 2 Hong Kong 2 2 Russia 8 26 34 4 18 22 n.a. n.a. 17 France 1 1 n.a. n.a 10 Total 51 140 191 45 131 176 33 110 170 Table 1: Perfume Holding total number of employees by gender and geographical area Morris Profumi manages period and in the previous In 2017, 6 people have been its relationship with the year. In 2017, 95% of the hired for seasonal changes employees through peremployees worked full-tito the production line throumanent contracts, which, me, such portion remained gh external agencies. in fact, represent the toalmost unchanged with retality both in the reporting spect to the prior year. Discovering all the trade secrets In September 2017 Morris Profumi, aimed at improving the working environment, opened the doors of its production site in Parma to the families of all employees. Children had the chance to join their parents at work while taking part in leisure and recreational activities and discovering all the trade secrets of their mums and dads’ work. All of Morris Profumi emstandard employment conMore detailed data on diployees are covered by tracts. Moreover, Morris versity and employees turcollective bargaining agreProfumi has an internal bunover are reported in the ements, as required by siness policy that includes “Performance Indicators” national law. Minimum noemployee contract details section, at the end of this tice periods can be found in addition to the general Report. in corporate policies and reference legislation. 7 For 2015, the gender breakdown is not available for Russia and France 2017 Sustainability Report 3.1.1 Development and training Perfume Holding offers People development, which safety and process quality/ 25 equal employment opporis one of the top priorities Good Management Practitunities to all employees of the company, starts from ces (GMP) topics. based on professional quathe hiring of new joiners In particular, regarding the 3. Creating value for people and society lifications and capabilities, and proceeds throughout production site, each emwithout any form of discritheir entire careers. In fact, ployee is regularly updamination. The selection, new employees are introted on the environmental recruitment, remuneration duced to the company’s and safety activities and and career development culture and main policies initiatives thanks to an plans are based exclusively through an induction proinformative booklet. In on merit and professional gram, which is usually held addition, each employee skills, without any discrimiin Parma. Yearly training receives training on the nation regarding political activities are designed to above-mentioned themes or religious beliefs, memstrengthen professional through specific courses orbership of unions, race, skills, improve interpersoganized either internally or language, gender, age, nal relationships and estaexternally. working timetable, family blish a positive working Each year, a training plan is status or role within the environment. prepared, in order to meet company, in compliance requirements and deadliwith the current and releMorris Profumi monitors nes on environmental, ocvant legislations and emthe training hours related cupational safety and quaployment contract. to environment, health and lity/GMP processes. In 2017, Morris Profumi organized and delivered 24 courses on environmental and safety issues, for a total of 587 hours of training: 58% of which attended by women and 42% by men. This difference is attributable to the larger number of women in the company. On average, each employee attended 4.1 hours of training throughout the year, in particular, 3.2 h/person for women and 7.0 24 courses h/person for men, this difference being due to the fact 587 training hours that men attended fewer, but longer courses. In addition, in 2017, 523 hours of training on quality/GMP process were carried out (473 hours to women and 50 to men). Promoting high quality working conditions Morris Profumi is also ement with local public ployees who do not own active in enhancing the transportation to provide a vehicle and enhance wellbeing of its emploa shared and free bus for employee safety during yees as well as their its employees. This solucommuting. In addition, work-life balance. To this tion aims at increasing the the company provides a end, at the productive awareness of environmensalary bonus for parents site in Parma, the comtal practices, provide tranto cover part of preschopany reached an agresportation options to emol fees. 26 3.1.2 Health & Safety at work Morris Profumi works hard All the potential risks8 An updated to spread a culture of safefaced by the comEnvironmental, ty, by raising awareness of pany are constanSafety 3. Creating value for people and society risks, promoting a respontly monitored, and and Social Responsibility sible behavior and endefour security auPolicy has been avoring to preserve occudits are carried out drafted pational health & safety. on a yearly basis, in The Group works toward a accordance with Model “Zero injuries” target. 231. The company periodi2017, two injuries were cally schedules dedicated recorded at the production Among the preventative meetings with all manusite in Parma, which lead to actions put in place by the facturing departments and 35 lost days (strong declicompany, is the implemendifferent area managers to ne with respect to the pretation of a safety manadiscuss possible business vious year, when 4 injuries gement model following issues and collect sugcaused 123 lost days). the UNI-INAIL guidelines. gestions on occupational The injuries recorded in The management system health and safety, envi2017 were classified as includes a business policy, ronment and quality maminor and did not strongly training plans and other nunagement. impact the health of the merous procedures (such as employees or workers innon-compliance.manageMorris Profumi activities, volved. More detailed data ment, emergency manageeven though related to a on health and safety indiment, periodic monitoring productive environment, cators are reported in the of all plant facilities, compresent low risks of ha“performance indicators” munications management, zards, resulting in a low section, at the end of this etc.). number of accidents. In Report. 3.2 Supporting the local community 22.5 tons of products Perfume Holding holds ditheir activities. donated rect, responsible and longto charity term relationships with In 2017, the Group the community in which it donated around 22.5 Italian non-profit organizaoperates. The company has tons of products (e.g. tion, focusing on research been engaged in charitable body wash, etc.) to several against cancer. activities with local orgaassociations that needed Moreover, in 2017, the Pronizations for several years, them and provided financurement division of Morris usually donating products cial support to LILT associaProfumi engaged Emc2, to volunteering association (Lega Italiana per la a local Social Cooperative tions, in order to support Lotta contro i Tumori), an Enterprise, for the produc8 At Morris Profumi S.p.A, the productive site, the main risks include: fire risk, explosion hazard, chemical risk, biomechanical overload risk due to repetitive work and manual handling of loads. 2017 Sustainability Report 27 tion of some Christmas precation and removal, socioParma, such as the “Festisents. Emc2 activities aim educational and social care val Verdi” festival and sport at promoting the recruitservices. events (e.g. “Giocampus” ment and the integration Moreover, in 2017 the summer camp); into work of disadvantaGroup was involved in se3. Creating value for people and society ged and disabled workers. veral other initiatives sup•Lthe company participaThe cooperative, holding porting local communities, ted in educational projects ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and such as: (“alternanza scuola-lavoOHSAS 18001 certifications, ro”) hosting students for mainly operates in ecolo•Lthe Group sponsored cultemporary internships. gical, maintenance, relotural events for the city of 3.3 Value creation The added value represents ting to the development ted by the business’ manathe wealth produced by of its community and key gement. Perfume Holding which is stakeholders including emdistributed to its stakeholployees, suppliers, capital During 2017, the value ders. Data related to the providers and the Public generated by Perfume creation and distribution of Administration. The added Holding amounts to € economic value provides value is calculated throu68,292,000. It is mainly dian indication of how the gh a reclassification of the stributed towards suppliers company creates value for consolidated income staand employees and is broits own development, whitement and highlights the ken down as follows: le simultaneously contribueconomic effects generaEconomic value distributed in 2017 13+84+12A 1,7% capital providers 0,3% Public Administration 0,1% community employees 13,5% suppliers 84,3% 28 The consciousness that audit, which renewed the impacts and implement the long-term success of “silver medal” certification. precautionary and correctia company also depends ve measures to reduce such on the ability to plan and According to the top manaimpacts. make decisions aiming to gement vision of reaching 4. Respecting the environment embed sustainable practithe perfect balance betweGiven the attention that ces throughout the value en natural resource conthe Group poses on envichain is the reason why sumption and long-term ronmental and social matPerfume Holding has been economic growth while ters, a high level of comcommitted to respecting ensuring high quality life mitment is also dedicated the environment for many standards to present and to the implementation of years. future generations, in 2016 specific training and deBy periodically measuring the Group implemented velopment programs for and monitoring its envian Environmental, Safety employees, to the establironmental performance, and Social Responsibility shment of virtuous collabothe Group reinforces the Policy. The main objectirations, to the scrupulous commitment to its staves of the policy include measurement of a set of keholders. reducing pollution and enenvironmental indicators Such commitment is resuring compliance with enand the communication flected in concrete actions, vironmental regulation. In to all employees on each such as the UNI EN ISO accordance with ISO 14001, achievements and pro14001:2004 certified Enthe Group monitors and asgress. vironmental Management sesses environmental risks System implemented by and opportunities in order For what concerns the the parent company Morris to yearly set operational 2017 reporting year there Profumi S.p.A. since 2007. guidelines and quantitative were no verified cases of In March 2018, the certifitargets. non-compliance with encation was aligned to the vironmental regulations or new reference standard ISO In addition, starting from standards and the same 14001:2015. In addition, 2016, the Group calculaholds for the previous year. during 2017, Morris Protes its Carbon Footprint fumi updated its Ecovadis to periodically monitor its 4.1 Energy and Emissions Morris Profumi recognizes of electricity purchased consumption derives from its responsibility in reducing from the national grid, heating and cooling proits contribution to global cliused to power the offices cesses, which are therefore mate change phenomena. and production plants, and mainly influenced by exterFor this reason, even thouof the use of natural gas, nal weather conditions and gh the energy intensity of which is limited to heating seasonal phenomena. its production processes is purposes. The overall enerrelatively low, the Group’s gy demand is only slightly The total energy conparent Company is engacorrelated to the actual sumption registered for ged in monthly monitoring production volumes: the 2017 amounts to 5,272 the energy consumption of energy audit conducted in GJ, showing a slight increits plants and offices. The 2015, confirmed that the ase as compared to 2016 total consumption consists vast majority of the yearly (+1,5%). 2017 Sustainability Report 29 The Group set targets in orof existing ones. among employees: this is der to achieve energy conNew initiatives were impleachieved through the provisumption reduction and all mented in 2017, in addition sion of specific training and of its activities are aligned to the initiatives described development programs. to meet such goals. in the 2016 Sustainability 4. Respecting the environment Several initiatives have also Report, such as the replaThe trend of energy conbeen introduced to consicement of about 70 neon sumption within the orgastently work towards these lights in the production unit nization across the last thgoals, and can be divided and the replacement of the ree years, divided by fuel into two categories. high consuming external type, is represented in TaThe first consists in inlighting system, both with ble 2. The consumption of vestments aiming at enLED solutions. natural gas shows a 6,4% hancing the energy effiThe second category focuincrease from 2016 to ciency of buildings and ses on the development of 2017, while the demand of plants and includes the inthe Group’s human capital electricity shows a decreastallation of innovative meby increasing social and se of 3.6%. asures or the improvement environmental awareness Energy consumption Fuel type 2017 2016 2015 Natural gas 2,830 2,660 2,572 Electricity 2,442 2,534 2,553 Total 5,272 5,194 5,125 Table 2: Energy consumption within the organization by fuel type [GJ], Morris Profumi S.p.A. Total greenhouse gas (GHG) •LScope 1: direct GHG emis•LScope 2: indirect GHG emissions in 2017, reported sions from installations owemissions from energy in Table 3, amounted to ned or controlled by Morris consumption, that is, GHG 405.1 tCO2, showing a decreProfumi S.p.A. (natural gas emissions from electricity, ase with respect to the prefor heating purposes) and heat and steam imported vious year of about 1 %. This in 2017 amounted to 150.7 and consumed by Morris value is comprehensive of tCO2. Profumi S.p.A. (in this case Scope 1 and Scope 2 emisonly electricity) and in 2017 sions, defined as follows: amounted to 254.4 tCO2eq. Emissions Scope 2017 2016 2015 Scope 1 150.7 145.6 140.8 Scope 2 254.4 263.9 266.0 Total 405.1 409.5 406.8 Table 3: Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions [tCO2], Morris Profumi S.p.A. 30 Starting from 2017, Morris In 2013, the entire proshuttle), another initiative Profumi S.p.A. also moduction site was thermally introduced to reduce CO2 nitors GHG emissions deinsulated, this significantly emissions deriving from riving from its car fleet. reduced natural gas debusiness activities. Emissions are calculated mand for heating purpo4. Respecting the environment multiplying the actual dises and electricity demand In order to ensure emisstance travelled by comfor cooling, CO2 emissions sions minimization and pany cars throughout the decreased accordingly. In compliance with standards year (km) by their averaaddition, Morris Profuand regulations, Morris Proge emission factors (gCO2/ mi S.p.A. reached its 30% fumi also monitors emiskm), resulting in an overall target of commuting trips sions of Nitrogen oxides amount of 54.4 tCO2 for with collective means of (NOx) and Volatile Organic 2017 reporting year. transportation (company Compounds (VOCs). 4.2 Water purposes and for the fire 2017. Despite the prompt system. detection of anomalous Morris Profumi has its hewater withdrawal and readquarters in Parma, wheTotal water withdrawal in storative intervention, the re water for the manufac2017 amounted to 5,772 company estimates a leak turing facilities and the m3, showing a 29% increof about 850-900 m3, offices is mainly sourced ase with respect to 2016. which can justify the nofrom public aqueducts. The main reason of this inticeable increase in water A minor amount of water crease is a leak in the waconsumption values. is also needed for irrigation ter well system occurred in Water consumption Source [m3] 2017 2016 2015 Groundwater 2,891 1,005 568 Municipal water 2,881 3,457 3,371 supplies Total 5,772 4,462 3,939 Table 4: Water withdrawal by source [m3], Morris Profumi S.p.A. In 2017, Morris Profumi direspect to 2016, there was hand, this is partly due to scharged 2,792 m3 of waa 14.7% decrease in wathe effort that is constantly ter. This amount is mainly ter discharge value, this is dedicated to careful water due to sanitation water partly justified by the drop usage and to employees’ usage and, only a small in production volumes that sensitivity. portion, to production acPerfume Holding expeAll volumes of water ditivities. It excludes water rienced during the reporscharged are treated in an used for irrigation purpoting period (the value of owned and authorized wases, estimated to be of water discharge per unit ter purification plant before about 1,950-2,000 m3 in of product decreased of being emitted into a surfathe reporting period. With about 2.5%). On the other ce water body. 2017 Sustainability Report 31 The well-functioning of the mediately investigates the This was done in order to enpurifier is constantly monicause of the anomaly and sure efficient monitoring of tored and the quality of the intervenes by taking corwater quality flows and of powastewater is tested by a rective measures. tential water contamination. qualified external laboraIn addition, over the years, All completed tests confirmed 4. Respecting the environment tory on a bi-weekly basis. the irrigation system has a high quality of the grounPerfume Holding’s efforts been optimized with the dwater streams that feed the to reduce discharges also installation of an automaproduction plant and office include the retrofitting of ted mechanism for water headquarters. sanitation facilities. usage minimization. As concerns water quality, In addition, as a part of In order to improve the Morris Profumi, in 2016, the programs for the deveoverall water resource mabuilt two small wells for lopment among employees nagement, water withdrawater withdrawal to allow on environmental awarewal is regularly monitored the company’s internal exness, the Group promotes on a monthly basis. perts to regularly extract employee education on best If irregular values are desmall samples for testing. practices to reduce water contected, the company imsumption and waste. 4.3 Waste 60.2% of waste Perfume Holding implegenerated is sent to of disposing them, led to a mented a rigorous waste recovery plants noticeable reduction of wamanagement procedure ste from mixed packaging, throughout the entire propaper and wood. ductive plant aiming at reThe total amount of regulating the sorting process used materials in 2017 was according to each waste 35.5 ton, of which: 4.1 ton category. A proper waste from mixed packaging, 2.2 sorting and management ton from paper and paperallows not only for all waremained virtually constant board and 29.2 ton from ste categories to be destiwith respect to the previous wood. Moreover, there was ned to proper recovery and year, the amount of waste a reduction in RAEE and treatment processes, but per ton of product decreaempty drums (CER code also minimizes the portion sed of about 3%. 15.01.10*) collection. of waste sent to landfill and This implies that, among all In 2017, about 33% of paincineration. the factors the variation is per purchased at the heattributable to the reducadquarters was recycled, In 2017, the waste generation in production volumes showing a slight increase ted at the Group’s headquaris predominant. with respect to 2016, and ters in Parma amounted to On the other hand, also the around 67% held Ecolabel 208,595 ton, showing a re-use practices recently and FSC certifications. 15% decrease with respect put in place by the company Furthermore, the total pato 2016, where all waste contributed to the result. per consumption decreacategories amounts decreIn fact, returning wooden sed, with respect to the ased proportionally. While pallets, paper packaging diprevious year, of 22%, the repartition among difvisions and partitions to the achieving the target the ferent disposal methods suppliers for re-use, instead company set to 2020. 32 Disposal 2017 Waste 2016 2015 method HazardNonHazardNonHazardNonTotal Total Total ous hazardous ous hazardous ous hazardous 4. Respecting the environment Recovery (energy 4.55 120.9 125.5 7.8 144.2 152.0 4.1 119.2 123.3 included) Incineration 46.0 46.0 55.7 55.7 50.4 50.4 Landfill 36.1 36.1 33.8 33.8 34.8 34.8 Preliminary 1 0.01 1 1.5 2.4 2.9 1.4 0.01 1.4 deposit Total 5.55 203.1 208.6 9.3 236.1 245.4 5.5 204.5 209.9 Table 5: Waste production by type and disposal method [t], Morris Profumi S.p.A. Morris Profumi installed, by Perfume Holding has de4.4 Materials the headquarters’ canteen, veloped a procedure to alconsumption an automatic water dispenlocate unsold products to ser. This led to a drastic retailers that have had high Table 6 represents the reduction of plastic water demand for those products. trend, during the last three bottle usage by the emploWhen this is not possible, years, of the raw material yees, estimated in about the products are re-colvolumes used by Morris 33,000 units per year, corlected at the production Profumi. responding to 510 kg per plant and donated to chaOf course, the amount of year. Another initiative rity. sourced raw materials is diput in place aiming at waAccording to this initiative, rectly proportional with the ste production minimizaat least 50% of such unproduction volumes, and tion is the one concerning sold products are eligible shows a coherent decreaproducts that every year, for charities. In 2017, 22.5 se on the observed period. despite their impeccable tons of waste was avoided Overall, the drop from 2016 conditions, remain unsold. as a result of this approach. to 2017 amounts to 15.1%. Materials Material 2017 2016 2015 Alcohol 462.0 527.0 543.0 33,000 Essence 76.0 95.0 103.0 bottles Glass 11,910.0 14,578.4 15,962.0 avoided per years Paper and thanks to the wacardboard 3,345.0 3,864.0 3,959.0 ter dispender Plastic 1,932.1 1,836.0 1,450.0 Aluminum 22.4 55.1 24.6 Steel 30.2 32.5 37.8 Table 6: Wood 33.0 37.0 2.4 materials used by weight [ton] Total 17,810.7 20,987.6 22,081.8 2017 Sustainability Report 5.1 Human Resources indicators 33 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender Type of 2017 2016 2015 5. Performance Indicators employment FeFeFecontract Male Total Male Total Male Total male male male Permanent 35 108 143 37 110 147 33 110 143 Temporary Total 35 108 143 37 110 147 33 110 143 Table 7: Total number of employees by employment contract and gender. The breakdown and total value for 2015 do not include data for France and Russia Total number of employees by employment type and gender 2017 2016 2015 Full-time/ Part-time FeFeFeMale Total Male Total Male Total male male male Full-time 34 102 136 36 103 139 32 103 135 Part-time 1 6 7 1 7 8 1 7 8 Total 35 108 143 37 110 147 33 110 143 Table 8: Total number of employees by employment type and gender. The breakdown and total value for 2015 do not include data for France and Russia Total number of employees by employment category and gender 2017 2016 2015 Employment category FeFeFeMale Total Male Total Male Total male male male Senior Man4 4 8 4 2 6 5 1 6 agers Middle Man6 8 14 8 10 18 7 6 13 agers White col17 41 58 17 43 60 12 46 58 lars Blue collars 8 55 63 8 55 63 9 57 66 Total 35 108 143 37 110 147 33 110 143 Table 9: Employees by employment category and gender. The breakdown and total value for 2015 do not include data for France and Russia 34 Employment Total number of employees by employment category and age group 2017 2016 2015 category <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total Senior 3 5 8 3 3 6 3 3 6 Managers 5. Performance Indicators Middle 5 9 14 9 9 18 8 5 13 Managers White 3 41 14 58 5 42 13 60 4 45 9 58 collars Blue 3 40 20 63 4 39 20 63 5 40 21 66 collars Total 6 89 48 143 9 93 45 147 9 96 38 143 Table 10: Employees by employment category and age group. The breakdown and total value for 2015 do not include data for France and Russia Total number of governance bodies’ members by gender and age 2017 2016 2015 Board Mem<30 30-50 >50 Tot <30 30-50 >50 Tot <30 30-50 >50 Tot bers M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F 5 7 5 2 1 2 4 1 2 2 1 2 Table 11: Governance bodies’ members by gender and age group Total number of external workers by employment category a nd gender for Morris Profumi S.p.A. 2017 2016 2015 Employment category FeFeFeMale Total Male Total Male Total male male male Self-employed persons 8 8 12 12 12 12 Workers hired through external 5 7 12 5 9 14 5 6 11 agencies Total 13 7 20 17 9 26 17 6 23 Table 12: Number of external workers by employment category and gender Employee hiring and turnover rate by gender for Morris Profumi S.p.A. 2017 2016 2015 Rate and percentage FeFeFeMale Total Male Total Male Total male male male Hiring rate 20% 3% 7% 24% 7% 12% 34% 14% 19% Turnover rate 26% 6% 10% 11% 5% 7% 19% 25% 24%* Table 13: Employee hiring and turnover rate by gender. The turnover rate in 2015 is due to an internal company restructuring, which was managed in agreement with trade unions 2017 Sustainability Report Employee hiring and turnover rate by age group for Morris Profumi S.p.A. Rate and 2017 2016 2015 35 percentage <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total Hiring rate 17% 6% 8% 7% 44% 12% 4% 12% 44% 16% 19% 19% Turnover 5. Performance Indicators 33% 10% 8% 10% 22% 8% 2% 7% 0% 19% 42% 24%* rate Table 14: Employee hiring and turnover rate by age group for Morris Profumi S.p.A.. The turnover rate in 2015 is due to an internal company restructuring, which was managed in agreement with trade unions Average hours of training by employment category and gender for Morris Profumi S.p.A. 2017 2016 2015 Average Tot Men* WoWoWoTotal Tot Men* men Total Tot Men* men Total hours hours avg men avg avg hours avg avg avg hours avg avg avg Senior 18 0.5 4.0 2.3 28 4.7 4.7 11 2.8 2.8 Managers Middle 76 8.7 3.0 5.4 68 8.5 3.8 45 4.0 2.8 3.5 Managers White 280 5.4 4.6 4.8 843 16.0 9.5 14.1 216 7.4 2.8 3.8 collars Blue 213 14.3 2.0 3.4 165 4.0 2.1 2.6 408 20.3 3.9 6.2 collars Total 587 7.2 3.1 4.1 1,104 10.1 5.0 7.5 680 9.7 3.4 4.9 Table 15: Average hours of training by employment category and gender for Morris Profumi S.p.A.. The value for average hours of training for men is higher because of their participation in fewer, longer courses compared to women 5.2 Health and safety indicators Health and safety indicators by employees and external workers for Morris Profumi S.p.A. 2017 2016 2015 Number and rate External External External Employees Employees Employees workers workers workers Injuries 1 1 3 1 Occupational disease rate Work-related fatalities Absentee days 966 n.a. 741 n.a. Absentee rate 2.6% n.a. 2.1% n.a. Injury Rate 0.9 8.4 2.8 3.7 Lost Day 0.02 1.3 0.36 0.6 Rate* Table 16: Health and safety indicators by employees and external workers for Morris Profumi S.p.A. In 2015 no injuries or occupational diseases were recorded *Lost day rate calculated as follows: For Employees: number of lost days/number of hours scheduled to be worked*1.000 For External workers: number of lost days /number of worked hours*1.000 36 This 2017 Sustainability ding” and for this reason company and subsidiaries Report represents our com“Perfume Holding” and consolidated on a line-bymitment towards a tran“the Group” are used interline basis), with the excepsparent and structured rechangeably in this Report, tion of the data related to porting process, developed both referring to Morris training and health and by the Group for the benefit Profumi Group. The Group’s safety indicators, which re6. Note on Methodology of its stakeholders. It suplogo has not changed. The fers only to Morris Profumi plements the information reference “Morris Profumi S.p.A. Data included in secregarding sustainability diS.p.A.” solely refers to the tion 5 “Performance indicasclosed in the 2017 Annual parent company. tors” refer to Morris Profumi Report, providing details on S.p.A, the Group’s sustainability The reported information performance and industry and data refer to 2017 (from • for environmental data, trends, and giving the pro1st January 2017 to 31st the reporting scope refers per attention to the expecDecember 2017), unless to Morris Profumi S.p.A. tations of all stakeholders otherwise noted. Any data who, either directly or indireferring to previous years The Group’s headquarters rectly, are interested in the is presented for comparaare in Strada Maretto 13, activities of the Group. tive purposes only, so as Roncopascolo (Parma). The to allow an assessment of scope of reporting is consiThe document is prepared the evolution of the Group’s stent with the description in accordance with the “GRI performance over time. reported above with the Sustainability Reporting Where the data comes from exception of some data exStandards” issued in 2016 estimates, it is flagged acplicitly indicated in the text. by the GRI – Global Reporcordingly. The performance ting Initiative. The breadth indicators were collected on and detail with which the an annual basis and the reissues in the Sustainability porting frequency is annual. Calculation criteria Report are covered reflect The scope of the reported the materiality analysis cardata differs depending on Several operating deried out according to the the topic at stake, as folpartments of the Group methodology described in lows: have been actively involthe paragraph “Approaved in the process of data ching sustainability”. • the operating and finangathering and report drafThe level of adherence to cial data refers to the Group ting, in order to shape the GRI Reporting Standards (parent company and subthe Report. The ultimate is “In accordance – Core opsidiaries consolidated on a objectives of the Group are, tion”. line-by-line basis) and are through the elaboration of extracted from the Annual the Sustainability Report, Report as at 31st December to further strengthen the Scope of reporting 2017; reporting system and to enhance the accuracy and reThe Group is commercially • for human resources inforliability of the information known as “Perfume Holmation, the reporting scope and data provided. refers to the Group (parent As for the calculation criteria: 2017 Sustainability Report 37 • The Injury Rate is calcuFor the emission caused lated as the ratio between by the use of natural gas, the total number of injurithe emission factor used es leading to an absence of was taken from the table more than 1 day (excluded of national standard pathe one in which the injurameters (valid for the 6. Note on Methodology ry happened) and the total calculation of emissions number of hours worked, from 1st January, 2017 multiplied by 200,000. to 31st December, 2017) published by the Italian • The Lost Day Rate is calMinistry for the Enviculated as the ratio betweronment and Protection en the total number of lost of the Territory and the days (due to injuries and Sea; occupational diseases) and For the indirect emisthe total number of hours sions derived from the scheduled to be worked, consumption of electrimultiplied by 1,000 (for city purchased from the external workers, the ratio national electricity grid, was calculated using the the emission factor was hours worked, as the intaken from Terna’s information about the hours ternational comparisons scheduled to be worked is on Enerdata data 2015 not available). data. • The Absentee Rate is calFor further information culated as the ratio betweabout this Sustainability en the total number of days Report, please contact: lost due to absenteeism and the total days scheduMorris Profumi S.p.A. led to be worked. Strada Maretto 13 403126 Roncopascolo (PR) • The Occupational Disease Italy Rate is calculated as the raTel: + 39 0521 662111 tio between the frequency e-mail: of occupational diseases info@perfumeholding.com and the total number of hours worked. • Direct (scope 1) and indirect energy emissions (scope 2) have been calculated as follows: 38 The following table presents the correlation between the material topics for the Group and GRI Standard aspects and the explanation of the material topics and their boundaries. Boundary GRI Material Perfume # Standard Explanation Where the Topic Holding’s Aspect impact occurs involvement Customer Creating and selling high Product quality Perfume HolDirect; Indirect 1 health and quality, long-lasting, safe boundaries and correlation with GRI Standards and safety ding; Suppliers contribution safety and sustainable products 7. Explanation of the material topics and its Promotion of a good Corporate Governance, inspired by the highest Anti Perfume HolDirect; Indirect 2 Business ethics corruption standards related to ding; Suppliers contribution ethics, integrity and compliance to laws and regulations Human Respect, promotion and Perfume HolDirect; Indirect 3 Human rights rights protection of human ding; Suppliers contribution assessment rights Implementation of a structured system that allows to identify, evaGovernance Perfume HolDirect contri4 and risks n.a. luate and manage risks ding bution from an economic, social and environmental point of view Involvement and support Community Local of local communities Perfume HolDirect contri5 involvement communities through activities and ding bution initiatives Complying with laws and Occupational regulations concerning Health and Perfume HolDirect contri6 safety health and security, prevention, ding bution safety hygiene and health in the workplace Management of customer Perfume HolCustomer privacy and ability to buCustomer ding; DistriDirect; Indirect 7 satisfaction and privacy ild customer relationships butors and contribution privacy that are long-lasting and franchising based on trust Promotion of gender and Diversity and Diversity and non-gender diversity Perfume HolDirect contri8 equal opportuequal through non-discriminading bution nity opportunity tion policies and practices Effluents and Effluents and Promotion of an efficient Perfume HolDirect contri9 waste waste waste management policy ding bution 2017 Sustainability Report 39 Promotion of sustainable Perfume HolDirect contri10 Water Water water management ding bution Promotion of energy efficiency policies and Energy and Energy; Perfume HolDirect; Indirect 11 emissions Emissions contribution to climate ding contribution change mitigation and adaptation boundaries and correlation with GRI Standards Economic perEconomic Creation and distribution Perfume HolDirect contri12 formance performance of economic value ding bution 7. Explanation of the material topics and its Supplier Selecting suppliers, colenvilaborators and business ronmental partners in accordance to Responsible Perfume HolDirect contri13 purchasing assessment; their environmental and ding bution Supplier social performance and social through fair and transpaassessment rent processes Involvement of key Stakeholder Perfume HolDirect contri14 engagement n.a. stakeholders in decisionding bution making processes Use of safe and sustainaMaterials and Perfume HolDirect; Indirect 15 packaging Materials ble materials, including ding; Suppliers contribution responsible packaging Research and devePerfume HolResearch and lopment activities in Direct; Indirect 16 development n.a. order to improve product ding; Schools contribution and Universities quality Presence of the organizaMarket prePerfume HolDirect contri17 sence n.a. tion at the national and ding bution international level Providing accessible and Marketing and Marketing adequate information Perfume HolDirect contri18 product labeland labelling on the composition and ding bution ling impacts of products Offering training and Training and development programs Perfume HolDirect contri19 Human capital education to strengthen employee ding bution skills Promotion and safeguard Perfume HolDirect contri20 Animal welfare n.a. of animal welfare ding bution Attention to the environmental impact of logistics through the Perfume HolDirect; Indirect 21 Logistics n.a. selection of suppliers and ding; Suppliers contribution the designing of distribution channels 40 The following table presents the correlation between the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and the GRI Disclosures covered in this Report, which represents a Communication on Progress (COP), i.e. a document that communicates to Perfume Holding’s stakeholders its progress in applying the 10 Principles to its core business. Category UN Global Compact Principle GRI Standard Disclosure 8. Correlation between UN Global Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 412-1, 103-2, Human Rights human rights Business should make sure they are not 414-1 complicit in human rights abuses Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of 102-41, 402-1 Compact and GRI Standards the right to collective bargaining Businesses should uphold the elimination of n.a. all forms of forced and compulsory labor Labor Businesses should uphold the effective n.a. abolition of child labor Businesses should uphold the elimination of 102-8, 401-1, 405-1, discrimination in respect of employment and 406-1 occupation Businesses should support a precautionary 302-1, 303-1, 305-1, approach to environmental challenges 305-2, 305-7 302-1, 303-1, 305-1, Businesses should undertake initiatives to 305-2, 306-1, 306-2, promote greater environmental Environment 301-1, 307-1, 308-1, responsibility 103-2 Businesses should encourage the development and the fusion of environmentally n.a. friendly technologies Businesses should work again corruption in Anti-corruption 102-16, 205-3 all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2017 Sustainability Report 41 The following table presents the GRI Disclosures covered by this Report according to the option “In Accordance-core”, as prescribed by the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 of the Global Reporting Initiative. For each Disclosure, a brief description is provided and the paragraph of the 2017 Sustainability Report in which the information can be 9. GRI Standards – Content Index found. A specific comment is provided for Disclosures that have not been covered, or have only been partially covered. Disclosure Description Paragraph/Notes GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Organizational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 1.3 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 (Note on Methodology); 1.3 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 1.3 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 1.3 GRI 102-6 Markets served 1.3 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 1.1; 3.1 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 3.1; 5 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 2.1 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 6 (Note on supply chain Methodology) GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 1.3.1 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 1.2; 6.2 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 1.2; 6.2 (Note on Methodology) Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chairman Letter GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 1.3.1; 3.1.2 Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 1.3.1 behavior Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure 1.3.1 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 1.2 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 3.1 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 1.2 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 1.2 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 1.2 Reporting practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 6 (Note on statements Methodology) GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 1.2; 6 (Note on Methodology) 42 Disclosure Description Paragraph/Notes GRI 102-47 List of material topics 1.2; 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 6 (Note on 9. GRI Standards – Content Index Methodology) GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-50 Reporting period 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 6 (Note on Standards Methodology) GRI 102-55 GRI content index 6.3 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured. TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS ECONOMIC Material aspect – Economic performance GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.3 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 3.3 Material aspect –Anti-corruption GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 1.3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 1.3.1 taken ENVIRONMENTAL Material aspect – Materials GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.4 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 4.4 The Group is committed to extending the reporting on data on materials used Material aspect Energy GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 4.1 2017 Sustainability Report Disclosure Material aspect – Water Description Paragraph/Notes 43 GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the 9. GRI Standards – Content Index management approach GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 4.2 Material aspect – Emissions GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 4.1 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 4.1 Material aspect – Effluents and waste GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 4.2 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 4.3 Aspect – Environmental compliance GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and No significant regulations episodes in 2017 Material aspect – Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 308-1 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 2.2 chain and actions taken SOCIAL Aspect – Employment GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 3.1; 5 Aspect – Labor/management relations GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 3.1 changes Material aspect – Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 3.1.2; 5 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Disclosure Description Paragraph/Notes Material aspect – Training and education GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1.1 44 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 3.1.1; 5 Material aspect – Diversity and equal opportunities GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1 9. GRI Standards – Content Index 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 3.1; 1.3.1; 5 Aspect – Non-discrimination GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 1.3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 1.3.1 taken Material aspect – Human rights assessment GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 1.3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 1.3.1 rights reviews or impact assessments Material aspect – Local communities GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 3.2; 3.3 impact assessments, and development programs Aspect – Supplier social assessment GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 414-1 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 2.2 actions taken Material aspect – Customer health and safety GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.3 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 2.3 product and service categories GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 2.3 health and safety impacts of products and services Material aspect – Customer privacy GRI 103-1; 103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.7 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 2.7 customer privacy and losses of customer data Material aspect – Marketing and labeling GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 6 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 417-1 Requirements of product and service information 6 and labeling
