2017 Communication on Progress LUCOBIT AG 23.01.2018 Brühler Str. 60 c/o Basell Polyolefine GmbH – B100 D-50389 Wesseling Time Period: February 2017 to February 2018 Statement of the CEO I am pleased to confirm that LUCOBIT AG continuously complies with the United Nations 10 Global Compact Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and anticorruption. In this annual progress report, we confirm again our efforts to integrate the Global Conduct Principles as they apply to our business strategy, business culture and daily operations. I am pleased to inform you that LUCOBIT AG implemented a new lawand regulatory database (VISTRA) system successfully and thus conforms to the highest respective legal standards. Our R&D-Team implemented and abides to the highest laboratory safety standards in conformance to international standards at our new R&D center in Wesseling. LUCOBIT AG was recertified for abiding to the upgraded ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 standards. In addition, we were recertified for ISO 50001 standard as well. The new position of a ‘Compliance Officer’ was fully implemented and the respective person trained in this function. In addition, we are proud to report that since the founding of LUCOBIT AG in 2000, there was no reportable incident or accident. Sincerely Robert M. Riegler Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Policy, Objectives and Assessment At LUCOBIT AG, we adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any country or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated abductions etc. Implementation At LUCOBIT AG, we abide by all Human Rights policies. These include e.g. policies with respect to work, stress, pregnancy, illness, health etc. We have volunteer groups consisting of both management and staff, regularly and continuously verifying the adherence to these policies. Measurement of outcomes In the past year, 2017, LUCOBIT AG has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Labor Policy, Objectives and Assessment LUCOBIT AG supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization engaged in forced or child labor. Every LUCOBIT AG employees were issued an employment contract which clearly states the terms and conditions including payment and overtime arrangements. LUCOBIT AG is going to obtain a safe-work-environment certification according to ILO standards. There is a strong focus within the company to ensure best possible work environment and conditions for our employees. Implementation In the last few years, LUCOBIT AG focused on improving labor conditions especially in the areas of production, leading to an Integrated Management System which includes all aspects regarding Quality, Environment, Health, and Safety, e.g. a risk assessment procedure which is a mandatory, detailed risk assessment tool covering all business areas . LUCOBIT AG has fully integrated the lawand regulatory database to ensure highest adherence to local and international legal standards. Measurement of Results LUCOBIT AG is continuously audited internally and externally on its progress with respect to its QHSE certification. Also, LUCOBIT AG registers all accidents and 'non-reportable -accidents', ensuring a stronger focus on possible problem areas. As a direct consequence, there were no incidents of these types during the certification period. Environment LUCOBIT AG has an environmental and energy policy and is certified to ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 50001. The main products of LUCOBIT AG are issued with an EPD (environmental product declaration). A recertification is in progress. Implementation LUCOBIT AG fulfills the strong environmental requirements of German and European Authorities. LUCOBIT AG has implemented an Energy Team to obtain ISO 50001 certification to promote environmental and energy focusing initiatives. One realized objective is the omission of regulated and/or toxic solvents in daily laboratory operations where possible. Measurement of Results LUCOBIT AG monitors continuously the consumption of different types of solvents. Replacing regulated with benign ones ensures reduced exposure to toxic chemicals as well as reducing toxic waste issues thus alleviating costs and environmental pressures. Anti-Corruption Policy, Objectives and Assessment LUCOBIT AG will not participate in corruption, bribery or extortion. LUCOBIT AG supports the UN Convention against Corruption and we will not cooperate with organizations that engage or are known to engage in any form of corruption. Implementation The Financial Director is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within LUCOBIT AG. Measurement of Results LUCOBIT AG has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events of corruption or bribery. To ensure that no corruption takes place, LUCOBIT AG has implemented a zero-tolerance policy.
