Report 2017 A FOREST OF OPPORTUNITIES 2 | Fibria 2017 Report Photo: Araquém Alcântara About the Report T his publication presents, in an abridged version, Fibria’s results, achievements and practices throughout 2017. From the very beginning, starting at the message from company leaders, a significant highlight is given to the company’s strategic vision for the double challenge posed by climate change and the development of a new paradigm of sustainable development based on a lowcarbon economy. The digital edition — full version and main support of Fibria’s 2017 Report — also gives access to attached documents and to an Indicators Center that graphically presents the company’s key performance indicators. For events subsequent to 2017, see page 78 of the Report. Visit our online report: www.fibria.com.br/r2017 Fibria 2017 Report | 3 4 | Fibria 2017 Report Photo: Araquém Alcântara Family farmer Jocileia Sena Santos. Caravelas (Bahia state) Summary 6 MAIN HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 8 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 10 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 12 WE ARE FIBRIA 13 About Fibria 16 Our Culture 18 Strategy 27 Governance 30 OUR RELATIONS 31 Employee Relations 36 Community Relations 42 Government, Organizations and Forums 44 Supplier Relations 47 Customer Relations 49 Shareholder and Investor Relations 50 OUR PRODUCTION PROCESSES 51  esearch & Development R 55 Forest Management 60 Industrial Management 64 OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 65 Economic Management 70 EXTERNAL READERS 74 STATEMENT 78 EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO 2017 78 F ibria and Suzano Shareholder Agreement 79 Material Fact 82 CREDITS Fibria 2017 Report | 5 Main highlights of the year 656,000 HECTARES of planted forests 1.092 MILLION 374,000 HECTARES of environmental preservation HECTARES and conservation areas of forests 61,000 HECTARES for other uses (ex. roads) Fibria’s Pulp End Use 49% Tissue 35% Printing and 16% Specialty Paper Writing Papers 5.642 Net Revenue: MILLION TONS of pulp BRL 1.093 BILLION produced 6.212* EBITDA: MILLION TONS of pulp sold BRL 4.952 BILLION * Includes contract with Klabin. 6 | Fibria 2017 Report Photo: Marcio Schimming Exports to 35 3 COMMERCIAL OFFICES • Lustenau (Austria) 4 INDUSTRIAL UNITS* • Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) COUNTRIES • Hong Kong (China) • Jacareí (São Paulo state) • Miami (USA) • Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) • 50% Veracel (Bahia state) * In Brazil 6 12 4 CUSTOMER UNITED EUROPE 2 SATISFACTION: STATES ASIA DISTRIBUTION CENTERS 80 % 18,344 5,009 OWN 13,335 PERMANENT EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES OUTSOURCED WORKERS SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATIONS INDICES • Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) • Dow Jones Sustainability • Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) Emerging Markets Index (DJSI Emerging Markets) •C erflor/Programme for the Endorsement of Forest • Índice de Sustentabilidade Certification (PEFC) Empresarial (ISE Corporate Sustainability Index) — B3 • ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 Fibria 2017 Report | 7 Message from the CEO HARVEST YEAR I n 2017, we had one of our most successful harvests. We managed to reconcile cost austerity with assertive investments linked to the vision of the future. Even though it was a challenging Movement, which brought an innovative approach to the risk of sexual abuse or exploitation of children in high traffic areas. As a Fibria initiative, the city of Três Lagoas mobilized to build a citizenship year for Brazil, Fibria was prepared and network in order to address the strong enough to achieve good results problem and train representatives of the despite the political-economic scenario. government departments and boards. We started our second production line in I also would like to emphasize the Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state), challenges we faced in logistics. I am not inaugurated before the planned date afraid to talk about the fact that some and below the estimated cost, a goal things have gone wrong as long as we that reflects the company’s competitive learn from and evolve through those position. The new mill has the most mistakes. It was clear to us that logistics modern technology in the world in our would be a focal point for an export industry and brings advances to the company operating in the central region of industry of the future, which will be the country. We anticipated the operation digitization and artificial intelligence. of the mill, managed to deliver a production volume and sales above our expectations, We learned a lot from this expansion. but at first, the logistics did not go One such learning is that without open smoothly. Thanks to a competent team, we dialogue and alliance we would never managed to get around the situation, ship have completed the construction with all of our production, and reach the end of good results. We work together with the year with good results. the government, suppliers, and the community to minimize the inevitable The year 2017 was also highlighted by the impacts of the arrival of thousands of progress we made towards building a high workers, unfortunately very common performance culture, a process initiated on large-scale construction sites. In this in 2014. We launched We Are Fibria — context, I’d like to mention the Agente an action that marks the evolution of do Bem (Agent for Good in English) our corporate culture and disseminates BRL 11.739 billion was our net revenue, 22% higher than that of 2016, due to the growth in sales and the increase in prices in dollar. 8 | Fibria 2017 Report Photo: Marcio Schimming company concepts. We know what inspires us: we must be part of the development of transformational solutions for a more just and sustainable society. We are sure that our role does not replace the role of other players, such as the government or organized civil society. On the contrary, we are complementary, partners to these players and not isolated protagonists. In the context of our organizational culture, sustainability is fully tied into our business strategy: it is connected to climate issues, our relationship with our stakeholders, and the consistent financial results we are expected to deliver. I end with an equally important topic: diversity. We created our institutional position with the support of the professionals who are part of the Diversity and Inclusion Commission. We believe in the creative and innovative capacity of Marcelo Castelli diversity. Fibria’s vitality depends upon it. In Fibria CEO this sense, as an example, we can say that we have advanced in the gender issue, but we are still falling short of what is expected. There is still work to be done regarding In 2017, we managed racial equality in management positions. It is to reconcile cost austerity a journey, and we are taking the first steps. with assertive investments If I could summarize the year 2017 in a few linked to the vision of words, I would say that it is in periods of crisis and difficulty that we sustain what is the future. most relevant. We took care of the business and of the people and never failed to invest in our environmental and social performance. As they say: when luck knocked on the door, it found us busy at work. WATCH Castelli’s testimonial on the most relevant Marcelo Castelli issues for Fibria in 2017 in our online report Fibria CEO (www.ﬁbria.com.br/r2017) Fibria 2017 Report | 9 Message from the Chairman FIBRIA IN EVOLUTION W e delivered on our promise. For Fibria, this is the message we take from 2017. I would like to emphasize two points from the Board of Director’s point of view. The first Innovation in biotechnology reveals enormous opportunities is the quality of the execution of our new for us to formulate production line in Três Lagoas — a BRL 7.3 materials that meet new billion project, in which all quality and safety demands from society for procedures were followed, and production goals were met remarkably well. a low-carbon economy. The second highlight has to do with Corporate Governance, with the end challenges, such as those focused on of a cycle of the Board’s Sustainability developing innovation, human rights, Committee. The Committee’s first and diversity. composition was very important to engaging relationships, building This does not mean that we will shift credibility, and transforming situations our focus from the communities. The inherited by Fibria at its birth — such as Committee will continue to track the tense and misguided social relationships company’s performance on this front, with indigenous peoples, quilombolas, as well as the issues related to climate and landless workers’ movements. Now, change, an important point for our in 2017, the Committee itself understood business. After all, we are committed that it was important to look toward new to and engaged in the concept of Photo: Marcio Schimming José Luciano Penido Chairman of the Board of Directors 10 | Fibria 2017 Report shared value, which aims to improve a of comfort that must have low impact company’s competitiveness by solving on the environment. I see Fibria in a social and environmental challenges fortunate and unique position: it is a at scale. Creating shared value is a company that has gained enough scale to management strategy developed by deal with the risks and, at the same time, Michael Porter and Mark Kramer, capture opportunities from this transition. professors of Harvard Business School. In 2017, the consulting company I end my message by mentioning an FSG, created by Porter and Kramer, important challenge that we still have demonstrated the application of this to face in the forestry sector. We need concept in several initiatives led by Fibria. to be more and more transparent with society for the public opinion to perceive On another front, innovation in the importance of planted forests for our biotechnology reveals enormous quality of life and even for the survival opportunities for us to formulate materials of life on our planet. Planted forests that meet new societal demands, with a integrated into the landscape significantly much friendlier ecological footprint than contribute to the protection of the springs mineral or fossil-fuel products. This new and the interconnectivity of native forests, low-carbon economy protects native preserving biodiversity. forests, since it is no longer necessary to rely on these native forests to extract the Society has not yet realized that our wood that can be produced in forests industry can be part of the solution planted for this purpose. to climate change. We’re doing our homework. Fibria is committed to With the new technologies, we are restoring 40,000 hectares of native advancing towards turning our pulp mills forests by 2025. In addition, we plant six into biorefineries of wood, expanding our eucalyptus trees per second, 190 million product portfolio, interacting with the each year. This story must be told to the aerospace, automotive, food, cosmetics, world to show people the importance of textile, and civil construction industries. the forests we plant. This is a challenge It will be the evolution of an apparently for both Fibria and the industry. traditional and classic industry, to make use of technology in advanced products José Luciano Penido that are suitable to modern life — a life Chairman of the Board of Directors WATCH Penido’s testimonial 7.3 on the most relevant billion issues for Fibria in 2017 in our online report BRL was invested in the expansion of the second production line in Três (www.fibria.com.br/r2017) Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) Fibria 2017 Report | 11 We are Fibria 12 | Fibria 2017 Report ABOUT FIBRIA Fibria is a Brazilian company that cultivates planted forests as a source for the sustainable development of new products. It is committed to continuously improving processes and relationships with people and recognizes its role in society, supported by the partnership with its stakeholders. This partnership is strongly anchored in open dialogue and building together. For all these reasons, the company believes that it should be part of the solution for a more just and sustainable society. W e are present in 261 municipalities across the country and export to 35 countries. With a production capacity of 7.25 million tons of pulp per year, we operate three industrial units — in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state), Jacareí (São Paulo state), and Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) — and the Veracel mill in Eunápolis, in the state of Bahia, where we operate jointly with Stora Enso. In partnership with Cenibra, we also operate Portocel in Espírito Santo — the only Brazilian port specialized in shipment of pulp. Our activities toward developing new materials and products are carried out at two research centers in Brazil — in Aracruz and Jacareí — and by Fibria Innovations, our laboratory located in Burnaby, Canada, dedicated to researching and developing applications for lignin. 5.642 million Fabio Diniz Do Nascimento, area operator – Recovery tons of pulp and Utilities, in Três Lagoas produced in 2017 (Mato Grosso do Sul state). Photo: Marcio Schimming Fibria 2017 Report | 13 We are Fibria On other technological fronts, we work Fibria’s forestry activities are based on with foreign companies, such as North renewable plantations and cover 1,092 American Ensyn (in which we have a million hectares of forests, of which 12.1% stake), researching new renewable 656,000 hectares are planted forests; fuels obtained from biomass. With the 374,000 hectares are environmental Finnish startup Spinnova, in which we have preservation and conservation areas; an 18% stake, we focus on developing and 61,000 hectares are intended for low-cost and environmentally sustainable other uses. technologies to produce raw materials for the textile industry. Fibria also has The pulp we produce, with diverse a minority stake of 8.3% in CelluForce, specifications, is raw material for the a Canadian company that is a world manufacture of paper and other materials leader in the commercial production of used in education, healthcare, hygiene, nanocrystalline cellulose (NCC). and cleaning products. PRODUCTION1 — 2017 SALES BY END USE — 2017 thousand tons (t) Total: 5,642 16% Specialty Jacareí 1,042 Papers Três Lagoas 1,822 49% Tissues Aracruz 2,227 35% 50% Veracel 551 Printing and Writing 1 Rounded numbers. Photo: Marcio Schimming SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE — 2017 29.08% BNDESPar 41.35% Market (free float) 29.42% Votorantim S.A. 0.01% Board of Directors, Fiscal Council, and Executive Board 0.14% Treasury Tereza Cristina Rodrigues Machado, assistant at the Nursery, in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state). 14 | Fibria 2017 Report Photo: Marcio Schimming Loading in the mill. Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) SALES BREAKDOWN BY NET REVENUE BY REGION — 2017 20% 32% 39% NORTH EUROPE AMERICA ASIA 9% LATIN AMERICA Fibria 2017 Report | 15 We are Fibria OUR CULTURE WE ARE FIBRIA In 2017, Fibria made ENGAGE TO CHANGE important progress in We Are Fibria combines results from the culture building a high-performance discussion started in 2014 and the brand culture. In April, we launched management project, in place since 2016. We Are Fibria — a movement Throughout the process, Fibria promoted the that marks the evolution of engagement of its employees — in particular of the company’s corporate the leaders — in discussing changes and defining culture and disseminates the concepts adopted. company concepts. INSPIRATION AND PURPOSE Our purpose expresses the core of our business — the planted forest, a renewable What drives and inspires us? What is our natural resource that, through economic reason for being? Based on these questions transformation and technology, offers vital and reflecting on what has guided inputs to society. Fibria since its inception, we defined our inspiration and our purpose in 2017. Placing the planted forest at the core of our business and defending this thesis is These concepts reflect how we want to a challenge that Fibria embraces before present ourselves to the world: more than academia, the industry, and consumers. After speaking about goals and objectives, we all, there isn’t a consensus on the concept of want to share what motivates us to work planted forests and we understand that it is every day and inspires us collectively. possible to engage the industry in this relevant and vital discussion for the forestry business. INSPIRATION PURPOSE Companies should be part of the To cultivate planted forests construction of transformational as a source of life, creation of solutions for a more just and shared value, and the well-being sustainable society. of people. 16 | Fibria 2017 Report In 2017, we also presented our Desired Attributes — traits and characteristics DESIRED MANAGEMENT ATTRIBUTES BELIEFS by which we hope to be recognized by our Acting Responsibly Alliance stakeholders. We also Agility Excellence revised the Management Building Together Human Potential Beliefs, which express how Competitive Innovation Open Dialogue we do things at Fibria and Customer Focus Pragmatism guide our way of thinking Systemic Vision Sense of Ownership and acting every day. DIVERSITY FIBRIA’S POSITION STATEMENT ON DIVERSITY Fibria cultivates diversity by appreciating differences and promoting opportunities with a culture based on meritocracy, recognizing that people are unique, and together create the best results for everyone. Photo: Marcio Schimming TO CULTIVATE DIVERSITY In mid-2017, Fibria launched its Position Statement on Diversity. The initiative reflects the work carried out by the Diversity and Inclusion Commission, created at the end of 2016. Our intention is not only to encourage tolerance towards diversity, but also to promote effective inclusion. We know that this work is still in the beginning and that many challenges still lie ahead. With this, in 2017 we recorded an increase in the percentage Marcelly Florêncio, research assistant of black and pardo employees in the at Pretop Fibria’s partner company, organization, from 29 to 35%. in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Fibria 2017 Report | 17 We are Fibria BREAKDOWN BY MINORITY GROUPS 2015 2016 2017 Women 15% 15% 14% Pardos* and Blacks 28% 29% 35% Employees 50 and older 15% 16% 14% People with Disabilities 4% 4% 3% * In Brazil, Pardo is an ethnic/skin color category used by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) in the Brazilian censuses. The term “pardo” is a complex one, more commonly used to refer to Brazilians of mixed ethnic ancestries. They are typically a mixture of white Brazilian, Afro-Brazilian and/or Native Brazilian. QUEST FOR EQUALITY We want people to have the opportunity to compete on equal terms. Simple, timely changes are being made in internal processes so that Fibria may become a more diverse company and promote equality. One of the changes is to make job recruitment and selection posting more gender neutral, in order to open opportunities to participate in processes regardless of their gender or whether or not they have a disability. STRATEGY F ibria ended 2017 with many accomplishments, but also with a great challenge in strategic terms. The financial and market gains brought about by the operation of the new pulp strategic technological lines of research in which we chose to invest. To meet this challenge, more than ready products, we offer customers joint development agreements for new applications. production line in Três Lagoas will give us better conditions to look ahead and In 2017, we made progress on this analyze future opportunities. Options may joint development trail with our lines include organic growth of its historical of research for new businesses and business (pulp) or the diversification of its products. Some of these projects may product portfolio using innovative ideas reach maturity and be presented to and advanced technologies applied to the company’s Board of Directors planted forests. in the near future for evaluation and possible investment decisions — On another front, we took on the great a decisive step towards expanding challenge of creating higher value-added Fibria’s presence in developing a products for our customers with the low-carbon global economy. 18 | Fibria 2017 Report FIBRIA’S STRATEGIC PILLARS OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Seek maximum efficiency with reduced costs in industrial and forestry operations. This includes projects related to mechanized harvests, reduction of the asset base (forests), adoption of global best practices in waste reuse and maintenance of operational stability, as well as reduction of negative externalities generated by the operations. GROWTH Growing organically, through consolidations and commercial contracts, and having competitive costs are factors that determine the success of a business operating in an increasingly competitive global market. Therefore, expansion depends on a consolidated forest base and preparation for new businesses. DIVERSIFICATION Work to diversify the business and offer solutions that move away from the concept of commodities, whether in the area of pulp, biorefinery, in new business relationship models, or real estate development. NEW BUSINESSES To develop new products and services, Fibria uses its own structure NEW PRODUCTS AND of laboratories and teams of APPLICATIONS STUDIED BY FIBRIA: scientists and technicians, and seeks to make partnerships or acquisitions Bio-oil that facilitate access to innovative MicroFibrillated Cellulose (MFC) technologies. Next, learn about NanoCrystalline Cellulose (NCC) some of these lines of research and Cellulose for biocomposites their advancements in 2017. Lignin Fibria 2017 Report | 19 We are Fibria BIO-OIL Bio-oil is liquid wood — vaporized without the presence of oxygen at temperatures above 500 degrees and condensed. It can be refined, like oil, and can replace fossil fuels that are more harmful to the environment. Fibria and The bio-oil developed by the US-based company Ensyn (in which Fibria/Ensyn is almost 5 we have a 12.1% interest) are jointly TIMES LESS developing a project already in advanced POLLUTING, stages to produce and market bio-oil in terms of CO2 emissions, on a commercial scale — a clean and than its fossil fuel equivalent. renewable fuel. In 2017, we performed industrial testing of bio-oil processing at refineries and continued to fine-tune the product. MICROFIBRILLATED CELLULOSE (MFC) In 2017, Fibria’s pilot plant in Aracruz began operation to produce MicroFibrillated Cellulose (MFC). Throughout the year, Fibria tested, together with customers, new applications for the material. MFC — a product made by refining pulp through mechanical treatment — can be used to manufacture specialty papers, diapers with greater absorption power, cement with reduced setting time, and differentiated cosmetics. WOOD THAT TURNS INTO CLOTHES One of the most promising applications of microfibrillated cellulose is the textile industry, in which the product will be used as an input in the production of yarn to make fabrics and clothing. Fibria has been exploring this path: In 2017, Fibria became a shareholder (with an 18% stake) in Spinnova, a startup in Finland that develops extremely innovative technologies in this field. Research from the startup opens routes for the manufacture of fabrics from wood, with the potential to compete with cotton and viscose (the latter is already made from cellulose), consuming only a fraction of the water and chemicals used in the traditional textile industry. 20 | Fibria 2017 Report At the back, Mario Luiz Costa, laboratory research technician, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Marcio Schimming NANOCRYSTALLINE CELLULOSE (NCC) PULP IN PLACE OF PLASTICS Fibria also collaborates to develop new Fibria is experimenting with the products with the Canadian company use of pulp to replace up to 30% of CelluForce, a global leader in the production the plastics used to produce composite of NanoCrystalline Cellulose (NCC) — a materials. The most feasible results material composed of nanocrystals, point to a partial replacement of applied in the following industries: oil and polyethylene and polypropylene resins. gas, plastics and composites, cosmetics, In this line of research, which gained paints and coatings, among others. With a momentum in 2017, Fibria works partnership established since 2016 — when with partner companies to develop Fibria acquired an 8.3% stake in CelluForce materials and test the technology. — samples of the material were received in 2017 for joint testing with customers. LIGNIN Lignin is the “glue” that holds together the fibers of the trees — in pulp production, it is waste burned as fuel to produce energy. Fibria researches new products derived from lignin. Among the various applications being studied by Fibria, the most mature is the use of lignin as a resin in the production of wood panels instead of fossil materials. In 2017, industrial tests of this application were carried out in partnership with potential customers. Fibria has a technology center in Canada — Fibria Innovations — to research applications for lignin. Fibria Innovations is the result of Fibria’s acquisition, in 2015, of a Canadian company specializing in the study of this material. Fibria 2017 Report | 21 We are Fibria Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Marcio Schimming LONG-TERM GOALS These are the set of commitments that will guide Fibria’s operations until 2025. Adopted in 2011, with the support of the Board of Directors and the Sustainability Committee, these goals are based on the company’s strategic pillars and priority aspects. Through these commitments, we want to ensure the consolidation of our strategy and the sustainability of our business. Fibria’s long-term goals are not static, they may evolve or include new commitments — an example is the goals adopted in 2016 to reduce water consumption in our operations. The following are the long-term goals and results for 2017. OPTIMIZE THE USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES SDG 1 2 8 9 12 15 GOAL: Reduce by one third the amount of land needed for pulp production 2017 Result: 11.8 tons of pulp per hectare per year 12.1 2020 GOAL2 (potential new clones effectively 11.8 2017 recommended for commercial plantations) Fibria is working to increase productivity ADT1/Ha/year per hectare of its planted forests by using 10.0 15.0 2011 2025 GOAL superior genetic material and improved forestry techniques. 1 Ton of air-dried pulp. 2 Goals are not annual, but rather every five years. 22 | Fibria 2017 Report CONTRIBUTE TO MITIGATION OF THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT SDG 8 9 11 12 13 15 GOAL: Double carbon absorption from the atmosphere* 2017 Result: Net sequestration of approximately 6.5 million tCO2eq. 6.5 2017 6.5 By increasing the area of Planted Forests, 2017 GOAL Million Conservation Areas and recovery of tCO2eq/year degraded areas, Fibria seeks to increase 5.5 11.1 2011 2025 GOAL net sequestration of carbon. * Net annual sequestration of carbon from the atmosphere is defined by the difference between total sequestration of planted and native forests and direct and indirect carbon emissions from forestry, industrial, and logistics operations throughout the pulp production cycle, from our nurseries to our customers. PROTECT BIODIVERSITY SDG 6 8 9 13 15 GOAL: Promote the environmental restoration of 40,000 hectares of owned areas between 2012 and 2025* 2017 Result: 24.2 24.8 2017 GOAL 24,800 hectares recovered 2017 between 2012 e 2017 By planting native forest species and stimulating Thousand and conducting the natural regeneration of native Hectares species, the company protects local biodiversity. 0 40 2012 2025 GOAL * T his goal does not consider Fibria’s support to recovery projects in third-party areas, developed through agreements with other entities. INCREASE ECO-EFFICIENCY SDG 9 12 GOAL: Reduce by 91% the volume of industrial solid waste disposed of in owned or third-party landfills. 2017 Result: 51.1 57.5 2017 2017 GOAL 51.1% reduction in the destination of solid waste to landfills compared with 2011. Increased eco-efficiency provides numerous benefits, such as reduction in the use of industrial landfills. % 0 91 2011 2025 GOAL Fibria 2017 Report | 23 We are Fibria STRENGTHEN INTERACTION BETWEEN COMPANY AND SOCIETY SDG 1 2 10 11 15 GOAL: Achieve 80% approval from neighboring communities* Resultado em 2016: 70.6 70.6 2016 2016 GOAL Average approval of 70.6% (Survey conducted every three years to measure the approval rate, the most recent survey was in 2016.) The insertion of the community into the company’s value chain creates an environment conducive to % 50 80 local development. 2011 2025 GOAL * Approval rate measured through surveys conducted every three years. GOAL: Help communities make self-sustaining 70% of income-generation projects supported by the company 2017 Result: 23.6 23.6% of the projects are 23.6 2017 2017 GOAL considered self-sustaining. The expansion of the Rural Land Development Program (PDRT) model is one of the ways % 5 70 to achieve this goal. 2011 2025 GOAL Photo: Marcio Schimming From left to right, Carlos Eduardo Scardua, lead technician in field research, Rodolfo Araujo Loos, Ecophysiology researcher, and, Almir Rogério da Silva, technician in field research, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) 24 | Fibria 2017 Report OPTIMIZE WATER MANAGEMENT SDG 6 12 13 15 The objective is divided into forestry, nursery, and industry fronts. FORESTS GOAL: Manage water in micro-watersheds in Fibria’s forests and disseminate technical knowledge on the subject to our neighbors in critical watersheds 2017 Result: • Based on physical, social, and water characteristics, three watersheds were selected to be monitored. • Established a strategic environmental monitoring plan. • Defined monitoring indicators to evaluate the effect of management on the watersheds in partnership with experts from the Luiz de Queiroz School of Agriculture (Esalq/USP). Based on the monitoring of water use in the forests, Fibria intends to establish quantitative goals and then mitigate possible conflicts related to overlapping use of water. NURSERIES GOAL: Reduce by 17% the specific consumption of water withdrawal per seedling produced (liters/seedling produced). 2017 Result: 14.7 14.7% reduction in water consumption 2017 in nurseries per seedling produced. Improvement in 2017 was mainly due to the increase in seedling production. % The benefits of this goal are less water abstraction 0 17 from natural sources, reduced environmental 2011 2025 GOAL impacts, and greater efficiency in production. INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS GOAL: Reduce by 17% the consumption of water withdrawal per ton of pulp produced (m3 of water/ton of pulp) 2017 Result: 4.8% reduction in industrial water 4.8 2017 consumption per ton of pulp produced. Reduced withdrawal of water from natural sources and smaller volume of effluents and environmental % impacts are some of the expected results with the 0 17 establishment of this goal. 2011 2025 GOAL Fibria 2017 Report | 25 We are Fibria SHORT-TERM GOALS 2016 GOAL RESULTS 2017 GOAL A comprehensive diagnostic of the current situation of stakeholder relations was made, by three consulting firms. Based on the results, Update and evaluate the current four large workshops were carried out with the scenario of relations with critical participation of representatives from the strategic and strategic stakeholders in the areas of the company. Each workshop covered states of Espírito Santo and Bahia. a different subject (indigenous, quilombolas, Goal Identify, update, and revalidate MST — Landless Rural Workers Movement —, reached existing risks and conflicts, aligning and employment) and had representatives from internal drivers and reviewing each of these communities. They discussed the the strategies of the areas of the situation of the relationships, current problems, company involved. and defined a position for each of these issues envisioning the future of these complex relationships. Based on the positions, all strategies were reviewed. The work began in 2016. After that, we had to stop for political reasons, and then continued in 2017 and, for the first time, we are talking with CONAQ (National Quilombola Confederation), to jointly find solutions to the quilombola territory issue in the northern region Start a comprehensive dialogue with of Espírito Santo state. the community and government Goal officials about the quilombola land reached This dialogue also made it possible for Fibria issue in Espírito Santo state. to approach communities with a history of conflict (20 quilombola communities that in the past did not dialogue with Fibria). We have a project in place in 17 quilombola communities on the territory and, in 2018, we will be working with all 20. Increase multi-use forest programs We implemented two model systems in the state through agroforestry projects in Goal of São Paulo (Capão Bonito and São José dos the states of São Paulo and Mato reached Campos) and are now conducting the technica Grosso do Sul. and financial analysis. Begin the process to restore Goal Process to restore 2,233 hectares initiated. 1,729 hectares. reached •M  ap ecosystem services relevant to Fibria Map ecosystem services associated operations in Brazil Goal with the company and propose reached quantification and/or monetization. •P  ilot study of valuation of two relevant externalities Application of the shadow price of carbon to Develop the application of our price Goal evaluate the Pentatrem logistics project and for carbon in internal projects. reached the deflector technology that improves the aerodynamics of trucks transporting wood. 26 | Fibria 2017 Report Photo: Marcio Schimming Fibria’s Executive Board. From left to right: Mariangela Bartz (Legal Director), Paulo Silveira (Industrial Director), Aires Galhardo (Director of Operations), Vinícius Nonino (Director of Strategy and New Business), Luiz Fernando Torres Pinto (Director of Human and Organizational Development), Adjarbas Guerra (Director of Governance, Risk and Compliance), Marcelo Castelli (CEO), Malu Pinto e Paiva (Director of Sustainability, Communication and Corporate Relations), Caio Zanardo (Forestry Director), Fernando Bertolucci (Director of Technology and Innovation), Henri Van Keer (Commercial and International Logistics Director), Julio Cesar Cunha (Director of Engineering and Projects), Wellington Giacomin (Director of Logistics, Procurement and IT), and Guilherme Cavalcanti (Director of Finance and Investor Relations). GOVERNANCE F ibria’s corporate governance is conducted by the CEO, who chairs the Executive Board; by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and eight board members responsible for defining strategic guidelines, approving policies, and setting goals; by the Fiscal Council, in charge of overseeing the administration’s actions; and by five Advisory Committees Statutory Audit; Finance; Innovation; People and Remuneration; and Sustainability. Fibria always seeks to be based on good governance: so much so that 100% of operations are evaluated in terms of the risks related to corruption and other compliance risks. Fibria 2017 Report | 27 We are Fibria Photo: Marcio Schimming Fibria’s Board of Directors. From left to right: Carlos Augusto Lira Aguiar, Alexandre Gonçalves Silva, José Luciano Penido, Raul Calfat, João Carvalho de Miranda, Marcos Barbosa Pinto, Paulo Fernando Fleury da Silva e Souza, João Henrique Batista de Souza Schmidt, Ernesto Lozardo CHANGES IN 2017 Fibria’s Board of Directors held elections full member Ernesto Lozardo and last year. BNDESPar replaced Board his alternate Leonardo Mandelblatt de Member Eduardo Rath Fingerl, who Lima Figueiredo. remained on the Innovation Committee as an independent member, by the new In 2017, Fibria’s Board of Directors member Paulo Fernando Fleury da Silva convened 12 times. The Board and the e Souza, who joined the Innovation advisory Committees also made visits Committee. The other members of the to the company’s environmental and Board of Directors were reappointed. social operations and projects, and participated in continuing education Shareholder BNDESPar also appointed programs, with activities that strengthen two members to the Finance Committee: the company’s governance. 28 | Fibria 2017 Report NEW TIMES FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE In its last meeting of the year, In this context, the new Fibria’s Sustainability Committee composition of the Sustainability decided that the time had come Committee will focus on topics to reformulate its composition, in related to Fibria’s future journey, view of the new challenges facing such as innovation, human the company. rights, and diversity. The decision was the recognition The reformulated committee that a cycle is closing in the will also be responsible for Committee’s activity, marked by the preparing the company for need to address the conflicting social opportunities that arise with the relationships that existed when the development and application of company was created, in particular new technologies from planted with indigenous communities, forests an example is the creation quilombolas, and groups fighting for of innovative products and land. In addition, it was necessary to materials that foster the low-carbon clearly express to the stakeholders economy. At the same time, Fibria Fibria’s social and environmental must remain a benchmark in social commitments. investment and environmental asset management strategies. We found that these goals were achieved, for the most part. We In this case, it is worth mentioning will continue to work on engaging the discussions carried out by with communities in an ongoing the Committee and Fibria’s effort toward open dialogue and Technology Center on possible mutually beneficial solutions. We risks in a scenario indicating still need to move forward on the increase in temperature on some issues concerning indigenous Earth, up to 2ºC in the coming and quilombola communities, but years, according to studies by we are prepared to face other the Intergovernmental Panel on challenges as well. Climate Change (IPCC). Fibria 2017 Report | 29 Our Relations 30 | Fibria 2017 Report From left to right, Renata Beatriz Mendes Barbosa Monteiro de Campos Mocchetti, Senior Production System analyst; Cristiane Silva, area operator – Fiber the use rate of the professionals Line; and Milton Ricardo Machado, who participated in Fibria’s Forest Occupational Safety Qualification Program in the coordinator, in Três Lagoas (Mato Três Lagoas region ranged from 87to 89% Grosso do Sul state). Photo: Marcio Schimming Fibria understands its transformative role in society. And part of this is in the company’s relations with its various audiences, among which, the employees. The company has been implementing a series of initiatives aimed at preparing its professionals for a high performance culture. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS T he Human and Organizational Development (DHO Desenvolvimento Humano e Organizacional) area had an important role in the development of the best professionals to work at the second line in Três Lagoas, Mato Grosso do Sul state. The company hired people preferably from the local municipality or from nearby regions, which contributed not only to economic growth, but also to the social and human development of the location, by investing in the professional qualification of its members. Fibria 2017 Report | 31 Our Relations HEALTH AND SAFETY Fibria has managed to reduce the number In order to increase safety management, in of accidents in its operations year after 2017 we began a safety culture diagnostic year. Since 2011, considering the rate of using as a guide the “Hearts and Minds” frequency of reportable accidents, the methodology from the Shell Institute to number was reduced by 49.5% for the map and assess leadership and operational total group of approximately 21,000 own behavior from an occupational health and professionals and outsourced workers. safety (OSH) standpoint. Unfortunately, this reduction was not The diagnostic was initiated by the Aracruz enough to prevent us from avoiding a industrial unit and extended to Jacareí; the fatal accident in 2017, which occurred in Três Lagoas unit will be evaluated in 2018. an emergency logistics operation for the The work focuses on qualitative aspects transportation of pulp from Três Lagoas. The in OHS management and should result destination of this operation, which is not in an action plan focused on correcting part of our logistics routine, was the port undesirable behaviors. of Santos, and was necessary due to the temporary interruption of railroad activities. Photo: Marcio Schimming Diogo Belmiro de Paiva, at the wood chip production, in Capão Bonito (São Paulo state) 32 | Fibria 2017 Report Seated, Marcos Viana dos Santos, operator of the Recovery Panel and, standing, Humberto Frasson da Silva, operator of the Causticizing Panel, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Marcio Schimming WORLD RECORD IN SAFETY In the construction of the new pulp production line in Três Lagoas, the final index reached by the Horizon 2 Project was 6.38 reportable accidents per million man-hours (MHW). This index is lower than the average of the indicator registered in the OSHA-USA benchmark for similar projects in the United States of America, which places Fibria as the best benchmark in safety indicators for projects of this size and characteristic. Despite this result, the company understands that the safety challenges are still not over, — as long as there is a fatal or crippling accident, we will fall short of what is expected. For this reason, we will continue to invest in our processes and in the awareness of our team regarding the value of safety and therefore, of life, at Três Lagoas and in all our operations, as we comment below. CONSOLIDATED FOREST — Accidents per million km driven in wood transport 2013 1.11 2014 0.84 2015 0.70 2016 0.52 2017 0.45 Fibria 2017 Report | 33 Our Relations OUTSOURCING At the end of 2017, just over 5,000 own employees In 2017, a total of 512 and 13,000 outsourced workers worked at Fibria, hired according to labor legislation by companies operating mainly in the forestry operation, chosen by the company in FIBRIA rigorous selection processes. PROFESSIONALS (100% of the In order to overcome the challenges of worker engagement eligible audience) and motivation in work safety matters and other aspects, underwent the Fibria makes no distinction between its own employees annual assessment and outsourced workers. Any accident with our outsourced by the Executive workers is considered a company accident and handled in Performance the same way in terms of investigation and accountability — Management even affecting the performance goals of all managers. Committee. Fibria believes that outsourcing is a good alternative when it doesn’t result in precarious work and is consistent with the laws of the country. Therefore, labor-intensive suppliers in the company’s operations are monitored concerning the diligent fulfillment of their ancillary obligations. Additionally, we maintain ongoing dialogue with the authorities in order to contribute our opinion and experience to this aspect. DIRECT JOBS 2015 2016 2017 Own jobs 3,929 4,224 5,009 Permanent outsourced workers 12,809 13,654 13,335 Total 16,738 17,878 18,344 34 | Fibria 2017 Report Fibria’s team of executives at the 2017 Leadership Meeting Photo: Marcio Schimming DEVELOPMENT ROUTES The Development Routes are part of a interviews and in-depth surveys were program that Fibria has had in place over carried out with managers and employees the last two years to prepare people to who have already had or presently hold fill critical positions, with a high impact critical positions and have had the best on the business, for which it is difficult performance in that position. to find qualified candidates on the market. What makes it different from In 2017, we worked on putting together conventional programs is its emphasis Industrial Development Routes, geared on training experiences that streamline toward the company’s industrial readiness of the professionals. operations. At the same time, we made progress in implementing the Forest The person chosen to join the program Development Routes, a pioneering follows an individual development plan program launched in 2016 for employees that seeks to offer experiences that linked to Fibria’s forestry operation. we deem most important for the best People assessed under the program took performance in the proposed position. steps in their careers and took on new In order to design the training routes, positions in 2017. Fibria invested BRL 7.38 million IN TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT in 2017 (including all its operations and units) Fibria 2017 Report | 35 Our Relations Philharmonic Lira Imaculada Conceição. Caravelas (Bahia state) Photo: Araquém Alcântara COMMUNITY RELATIONS F ibria seeks transparent dialogue with its stakeholders and the communities that are affected in some way by its forestry, industrial, and logistics operations. We work to social impact. We believe that the well-being and prosperity of our neighbors is important to coexist without conflict and will contribute to creating a more favorable environment for the mitigate the possible negative impacts company’s growth. generated by our activities; we assess risks and solutions in order to, whenever In this way, 2017 was a year of possible, take preventive action to achievements. We managed BRL 52.8 avoid problems, and listen carefully to million in social investment, allocated grievances and complaints. according to our social performance strategy in the communities considered In the same way, we seek to create impacted by our activities. shared value with the populations that live around our operations through Some of our engagement processes and programs and actions toward large-scale social projects are highlighted next. 36 | Fibria 2017 Report CLOSER TO THE QUILOMBOLAS COMMUNITIES In 2017, we made important progress in the relationship, which we have had for years, with the quilombola communities in the vicinity of our forests in the northern region of Espírito Santo. Eight new communities joined Fibria’s programs, bringing the number of quilombola communities that are partners of projects to 17, out of 20 in total. The remaining three communities will receive investments from Fibria in 2018. THE STIMULUS FROM PDRT The Rural Land Development Program (PDRT) is one of the most significant projectsand with the greatest impact led by Fibria. The program contributes to increasing the income of more than 3,000 families in the states of Bahia, Espírito Santo, Mato Grosso do Sul and São Paulo. Launched in 2012, the PDRT trains family farmers and operates in three fronts: technical assistance to production and stimulus to use low cost technologies, reducing environmental impact; management of associations and networks; and incentive and guidance to gain access to public policies that increase the possibilities for marketing the products. The average increase in income of participants in 2017 was BRL 1,505.00 per month. Photo: Marcio Schimming Sergio Antônio Ferreira, PDRT producer, in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state). Fibria 2017 Report | 37 Our Relations FROM CAMPGROUND TO SETTLEMENT By the end of 2017, project Assentamentos Sustentáveis (Sustainable Settlements, in English) — which Fibria has in place with the Landless Rural Workers Movement (MST, in Portuguese) in Southern Bahia — had 320 families that had already transitioned from “campground to settlement.” In other words, they had left the tents where they were camped to settle in houses on the lots where they will live. Fibria still faces challenge in its relations with the movement in the region of Aracruz (Espírito Santo state). Negotiations are in progress, and 2018 will be a decisive year for us to achieve, with the Aracruz community, the same level of process and relationship as those achieved today in Bahia. Photo: Araquém Alcântara Family farmer Vanete Carvalho Pereira Vieira. Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) 38 | Fibria 2017 Report INDIGENOUS CULTURE The relationship with the indigenous populations in the areas where Fibria operates is developed by an interdisciplinary team formed by anthropologists and indigenists Our goal is to enable a healthy relationship and support the sustainability of Nearly 760 indigenous lands that are close to Fibria areas. In the state of Espírito Santo, Fibria has in place FAMILIES, the Tupiniquim and Guarani Sustainability Program distributed in (PSTG), serving nearly 760 families with the purpose of 12 villages, conducting integrated and long-term actions that will of which 152 allow the Tupiniquim and Guarani people to restore participate the environmental conditions necessary to resume in social and their social and cultural practices, affirm their ethnic environmental identity, and develop sustainable economic activities. projects. In 2017, this relationship evolved to the signing of a notarized agreement between Fibria and representatives from the 12 indigenous villages, which sets out the roles and responsibilities for both sides. In this document, the indigenous people promise not to block roads or take any type of action that could interrupt or damage Fibria’s operations in Aracruz. In the municipality of Brasilândia (Mato Grosso do Sul state), Fibria has in place the sustainability program called PSO (Programa de Sustentabilidade Ofaié) benefitting nearly 30 indigenous families. The Ofaié live on a reserve after their land was flooded by the Porto Primavera dam, in 1998. The action plan of the PSO makes available to the communities resources for appreciation of the culture and handicrafts of the Ofaié village to foster the family subsistence agriculture. Fibria 2017 Report | 39 Our Relations SOCIAL PERFORMANCE In 2017, we reached the mark of 7,500 families participating in our income generation programs, while expanding their territorial base — in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, for example, we operate in eight municipalities and serve 100% of the localities we deem as a priority. In that same state, actions associated with our industrial investment leave important legacies for the communities. This is the case of a Social Credit program concentrated in the municipalities where Fibria operates, which invested BRL 11.7 million in local infrastructure work for the population and in dental care and youth and adult education programs. The funds invested come from a BNDES financing line linked to the project of the second production line in Três Lagoas. Photo: Marcio Schimming On the left, dentist Karimy K. Goya Tano; and on the right, oral health assistant Irgleidssa da Silva Peixoto Project “Sorriso Saudável”, in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state). 40 | Fibria 2017 Report AGENTE DO BEM Another initiative associated with the expansion project in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul that yielded results in 2017 was the Agente do Bem (Agent for Good, in English) movement, instated in 2016. The movement brought an innovative approach to the mitigation of child sexual abuse or exploitation in large construction sites. With Fibria’s initiative, the city of Três Lagoas mobilized to build a citizenship network to face the risk in a transparent and participatory way, as well as to improve the preparation of the public agents who work in the front line. After a year and a half, Agente do Bem became a movement shared by the whole community, with the intention of contributing to Três Lagoas becoming a model city in protecting children and adolescents from all violence, especially sexual violence. Fibria and Childhood, a non-governmental organization, which specializes in the topic and is a partner in the operation of the program, developed a strategy emphasizing on citizenship education, which sought a positive and welcoming way of approaching this sensitive topic on the construction site. PUBLIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROGRAM Through the Public Management Support Program (PAGP — Programa de Apoio à Gestão Pública), initiated three years ago, Fibria assisted the municipality in creating the Três Lagoas Sustainable Action Plan, which was adopted by city officials (with a mandate from 2017 to 2020) as a government platform. THE PAGP IN TRÊS LAGOAS AND BRASILÂNDIA 27-month project 140,000 people impacted 6,500 followers on social networks 1,060 people interviewed in Três Lagoas 600 people consulted to produce the Três Lagoas plan 320 people in training and workshops 70 technicians and specialists involved 50 institutions involved 31 events held Fibria 2017 Report | 41 Our Relations GOVERNMENT, ORGANIZATIONS, AND FORUM RELATIONS F ibria participates in formulation of public policies and in the discussion of regulatory frameworks that bring legal security to the sustainable development of In 2017, we participated as a stakeholder in the construction of the new national biofuel policy, RenovaBio — an important milestone in this process. Issues related to regulating businesses and society. During this and promoting bioproducts and public process, the company is concerned policies on bioproducts, with promoting a healthy politicalin general terms, will be fundamental institutional environment, always to transform the current pulp mills reinforced by willingness to dialogue into biorefineries, as contemplated and a transparent attitude. in our vision for the future. Photo: Marcio Schimming Carina Yoshiko De Sant Anna Felizardo, at the Technology Center in Jacareí (São Paulo state) 42 | Fibria 2017 Report CREATING AN INSTITUTIONAL RECORD In 2017, Fibria initiated the compilation of structured records of the meetings, and of meetings of company representatives with government agents in order to build a history of institutional relationships. This initiative is foreseen in the Government Agent Relations Guide, which we launched in 2016, which describes Fibria’s standards for conducting relationships with political authorities, in addition to the guidelines established in the company’s Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy. NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL FORUMS Fibria strengthens its dialogue and partnerships with governments, companies, NGOs, and universities by actively participating in forums and working groups, in Brazil and abroad, which a focus on aspects related to sustainable management of forests. Below are some examples of the company’s commitments and of the dialogues in which the company is involved: Annual Inventory of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Brazil Climate, Forests, and Agriculture Coalition Environmental Paper Company Index (EPCI) Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Global Compact Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Fibria 2017 Report | 43 Our Relations SUPPLIER RELATIONS I n order to integrate long-term supply chain strategy with sustainability principles, Fibria launched in 2017 the Sustainable Procurement Program. The objective is to reach 2020 with a Thus, it is necessary that the Program is not limited to a look from inside the company. To design it, in partnership with the Sustainability area, we invited representatives of 11 of Fibria Procurement area recognized by the suppliers. Chosen based on social market and our stakeholders as innovative and environmental criteria and their and responsible for generating economic, strategic relevance to the business, they social, and environmental value. It is participated in the entire process for only possible to embark in this path with creating the program. qualified suppliers creating a value chain that favors sustainability. Photo: Araquém Alcântara Adeilson Caetano Cardoso, Aldeci Blandino dos Santos, Antonio Blandino and Maxsuel Salustiano Blandino, of the Cooperative of Rural Workers and Farmers of the Quilombola Community of Córrego de São Domingos (Espírito Santo state) 44 | Fibria 2017 Report Among the Top 20 RELATIONSHIP Fibria suppliers, GUIDE considering the In 2017, the main deliverable of the Program volume of business, was to create, along with our suppliers, a nearly 80 Relationship Guide that goes beyond the % code of conduct already adopted by the company. The Fibria and Suppliers Relationship Guide, launched mid-year, expresses Fibria’s have had a expectations and commitments regarding relationship with its supply chain, seeking not only to align the company for practices, but also to identify opportunities to over 20 years. evolve and become more sustainable. TWO-WAY COMMITMENTS The Fibria and Suppliers Relationship expectations about the work and Guide is based on the belief that a set operations of its partners — who must of best practices such as developing comply with local legislation, adhere suppliers, ensuring transparency in to best market practices whenever actions, consolidating values, and possible, and work toward engaging fostering joint initiatives — ultimately those practices in their own chains. mobilizes a business strategy to put In the other direction, the Guide also into practice the creation of shared captures the expectations of the partners value with society. The document toward Fibria, brought by the group was created together with suppliers of 11 suppliers who participated in which allows for a two-way approach: its development and others that in one direction, it spells out Fibria’s responded a survey. For its initiative to make management of procurement more sustainable, Fibria received, in 2017, the ECO Award from Amcham Brazil (American Chamber of Commerce Brazil), for the Sustainability case in the Supply Chain, which details the Sustainable Procurement Program. Other examples covered in the same case are the Prodfor supplier development programs in Espírito Santo state, and of supplier training (PQF) in Mato Grosso do Sul state, and the Sustainability & Compliance Working Group created for the Horizonte 2 project, also in Mato Grosso do Sul state. Fibria 2017 Report | 45 Our Relations Photo: Marcio Schimming Alexsandra Oliveira Barbosa, Laboratory Analysis I technician, in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state). SUSTAINABILITY & COMPLIANCE WG IN TRÊS LAGOAS Fibria introduced, on its own initiative, The Working Group mapped risks in a new element in the Critical Analysis of three areas — Social Risks, which include the (ACP) methodology, used to monitor labor, operating risks, and impacts on the progress of project Horizonte 2, in the communities; Environmental Risks, construction of the new production line in including waste disposal, biodiversity, Três Lagoas. A Sustainability & Compliance energy, emissions, and water; and Working Group included 80 suppliers Compliance Risks, such as image and and representatives of Fibria who were reputation, regulatory, integrity, and responsible for handling these issues in anti-corruption laws. the project’s day-to-day routine and in the quarterly Critical Analysis meetings. 46 | Fibria 2017 Report CUSTOMER RELATIONS A ttention to Customer Focus is one of Fibria’s attributes. In 2017, we advanced in this journey through actions, initiatives, and projects that involved several areas, based on the surveys conducted with our customers at the end of 2016. Seeking Customer Focus implies a different way of working with the companies that buy our products: there is no longer a single point of contact between a Fibria’s sales professional and our customer’s purchasing employee. The contacts between members of the two teams multiply and become more comprehensive and diverse; the change becomes qualitative as well as quantitative, and facilitates the development of joint projects that represent value for both companies. In 2017, we advanced in this direction by creating the Corporate Quality Management, which reports directly to the Industrial Department. In this way, the aspect of quality began to be handled with a higher level of responsibility. REVOLVING MARKET MOVING MARKET Pulp sales (in million tons) The growth in global demand for pulp in 2017 was supported by better macroeconomic conditions in all regions and the good performance of the paper market throughout 59.614 61.711 the year, factors that resulted in low availability of the product on the market and a consistent rise in prices. This turnaround in the market found Fibria in 5.504 6.212 a more than favorable situation to cater to the growing demand. Fibria’s second production line in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) 2016 2017 began to operate ahead of schedule and World maintained a learning curve that is much Fibria (+Klabin) higher than programmed. As a result, it was possible to offer the market larger volumes of Source: PPPC and Fibria production before plan. Fibria 2017 Report | 47 Our Relations Photo: Marcio Schimming Dilmo Florêncio, controller of port operations, in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) EXPORTING PARTNERSHIP Since May 2016, Fibria has been responsible for selling the pulp produced by Klabin on the global market. The contract between the two companies has a four-year term. In 2016, Fibria sold 478,000 tons of the Klabin product with the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), (FSC-C102372) certification; in 2017, the first full year of the partnership, volume reached 809,000 tons. THE STRENGTH OF ASIA In 2017, for the first time the volume sold to Asia surpassed the volume bought by Europe. In the year, the sales volume for the European market was relatively stable and remained around 2 million tons, while Asia — led by the large Chinese market — advanced to 2.3 million tons. 48 | Fibria 2017 Report SHAREHOLDER AND INVESTOR RELATIONS F or Fibria, 2017 was a year of major accomplishments. The strong growth in demand led to an uninterrupted sequence of increases in the price of pulp, which reached the end of the year at USD 979 per ton in Europe, according to the reference price for the commodity. For our part, we delivered the second production line of Três Lagoas ahead of schedule, below budget and above the learning curve. What has this provided in financial terms? Two points can be highlighted:  ur market valuation has grown stronger: Standard & Poor’s (S&P) changed O its outlook from negative to stable, eliminating the risk of loss of investment grade; Fitch, which also rates the company’s investment grade credit rating, has shifted its outlook from stable to positive. At the end of 2017, Fibria’s BBBrating was confirmed by both credit rating agencies. T oday we have the lowest cost of funding in the sector and we have carried out the largest investment project in Latin America with significantly leverage lower than expected. What does this mean for the immediate future? A great increase in the company’s financial sustainability, which generates more cash and drives its deleveraging. At the same time, we seek to consolidate our social and environmental sustainability, something that is beginning to be recognized by the market as a set of indicators as important as the economic front to evaluate the future prospects of a project. GREEN BOND In January 2017, Fibria issued its first green bonds in the amount of USD 700 million. These bonds are used to finance investments related to environmental sustainability, including maintaining planted forests, conserving native forests, and eco-efficiency projects related to water, renewable energy, and waste. In September, Fibria received for this offering, the GlobalCapital Sustainable and Responsible Capital Markets Award, granted by GlobalCapital, one of the leading international publications on capital markets. Fibria 2017 Report | 49 Our Production Processes 50 | Fibria 2017 Report In our production chain, and in the research and development networks we created, we always seek competitive innovation — one of Fibria’s Desired Attributes. We innovate, always based on the planted forest, to open new possibilities for business and products. We also want to differentiate our more traditional merchandise, pulp, and go beyond the concept of commodity. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT W e are a forest products company. We have a proven track record of excellence in pulp manufacturing, but this is not enough: we seek to capture the best value from the innovation applied to our planted forests, developing other products. For this purpose, scientific research and the development of new technologies are essential tools. We have scientific and technological research in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state), Jacareí (São Paulo state), Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) and Burnaby, Canada, as well as an experimental field network covering all our units. We invested 0.57% of the company’s net revenue in innovation — in 2017, a total of BRL 67 million was invested in research Paula Borges and innovation projects. Mishima, at the Technology Center in Jacareí (São Paulo state) Photo: Marcio Schimming Fibria 2017 Report | 51 Our Production Processes Photo: Marcio Schimming Joelma Aparecida dos Santos Damiao, at the Technology Center in Jacareí (São Paulo state) RESEARCH IS IMPERATIVE All Fibria units have a Technology Center: we rely on 48 scientists in the company as well as on qualified technical professionals dedicated to research and innovation. At each of the locations, we seek to emphasize specific processes and products, namely: A  racruz — dedicated to J acareí — focused on forest developing pulp and its biotechnology, houses the production process; research biorefinery laboratory, where on soils, plant nutrition and Fibria develops lines of research forest protection, pests and for creating products from diseases. It also has a laboratory planted forests: lignin, biowhere natural enemies of oil, microfibrillated cellulose, the organisms that attack nanocrystalline cellulose, and eucalyptus are raised. biocomposites. It also conducts research on soils, plant nutrition, and forest protection. 52 | Fibria 2017 Report Photo: Marcio Schimming Mayara Martins Aparecido, at the Technology Center in Jacareí (São Paulo state)  rês Lagoas — research on forest T B  urnaby (Fibria Innovations) — management and protection, and a company owned by Fibria, located classical genetic improvement of in Canada, in the Vancouver region. eucalyptus are conducted here. We Its laboratory develops innovative can highlight the forest ecophysiology products and applications for lignin studies, with the largest private — one of the components of wood, network monitoring the effect of alongside pulp. climate on the growth of eucalyptus, the cerrado, and pastures. Fibria 2017 Report | 53 Our Production Processes FIBRIA INSIGHT — IN THE FIELD OF THE STARTUPS In August 2017, we launched our open development of the technologies proposed innovation platform, Fibria Insight (the challenge foresees the contribution (www.fibriainsight.com.br) — a of company resources to the projects, in connection with startups, research various modalities of investment): centers, universities and entrepreneurs from Brazil and the world. Through this C  TNano, associated with the Federal platform, we gain access to ideas and University of Minas Gerais (UFMG): innovations that can be developed jointly. proposes the use of microfibrillated cellulose in a special paint that The platform works through challenges conducts electricity, with several and two topics were successfully launched potential applications. in 2017. The first topic challenged candidates to present innovative uses and  anomix, also in association with N applications for microfibrillated cellulose UFMG: from pulp, it proposed a blister a differentiated variety of the material, paper for pharmaceutical packaging researched by Fibria; the second topic did that offers advantages such as a greater the same in search of better packaging protection barrier and cost lower than solutions for the bales of pulp, today that of aluminum. held tightly with a metal wire. In all, 46 candidates participated in the challenges.  ellugam, in association with the C At the end of a process that included Federal University of Pelotas: brought immersion in the company of 15 of the a packaging solution in a new format candidates, the following projects were for bales of pulp, which uses chosen to continue, with Fibria, in the nanocellulose as ‘glue’. At the end of 2017 Fibria had a platform of proprietary technology with: 334 patents six of which were developed 25 cultivars (record of plants modified during that year through classical improvement), one more than in 2016 54 | Fibria 2017 Report Photo: Marcio Schimming Forest mosaic in Capão Bonito (São Paulo state) FOREST MANAGEMENT P lanted forests are the starting point of Fibria’s production chain. The wood they produce provides raw material for pulp, fuel for generating electricity and, increasingly, inputs for developing new products and applications originating from forests. Fibria is involved in the production of wood on 656,000 hectares of planted eucalyptus forests in 261 municipalities in the states of Espírito Santo, Bahia, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Rio Grande do Sul. In these operations, Fibria combines the techniques of modern forest management to a constant willingness to innovate in management, processes, and technology. The following are some innovative forestry technology projects that were implemented or that yielded results in 2017. Fibria 2017 Report | 55 Our Production Processes AUTOMATED NURSERY The start of operations of the second production line The positive experience with in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) in August the nursery in Três Lagoas does 2017 represented an increase of almost 2 million not necessarily mean that the tons of pulp per year to our production capacity. In company will deploy the same order to cover the new demand for wood, Fibria technology in all its seedling built an automated seedling nursery in that unit to production units. In Helvécia, strengthen production in its forests in the region. south of the state of Bahia — where Fibria is one of the main This is an innovative project on a global scale employers —, the automation and the first dedicated to eucalyptus seedlings. of the nursery would require By applying state-of-the-art automation, the new a workforce with a different nursery represents a major advance in technology profile than the one existing at and production for Fibria’s forestry operation — the location and would reduce as important as the new Três Lagoas production the current number of job line for the industrial base. positions. Fibria understands its transforming role in the With robotic operation and new design concepts, community where it operates the facility can produce up to 43 million seedlings and will continue working with per year and has become the company’s largest a business model that allows — greatly exceeds the nurseries in Capão Bonito for different types of operation (São Paulo state) and Helvécia (Bahia state), each in its nurseries. producing 30 million seedlings annually. Photo: Marcio Schimming Automated nursery in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) 56 | Fibria 2017 Report Mosaic in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) PLANTED FORESTS AND CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change has a direct impact on the productivity of Photo: Marcio Schimming Fibria’s forests. For this reason, Climate Change is part of the company’s strategy, and a number of initiatives such as monitoring, action plans, risk management, budgets, and business plans are undertaken to mitigate impacts on our forestry operations. BIG DATA IN FORESTS Fibria innovated in 2017 by applying predictive analytics tools and Big Data to its wood production processes The purpose of the project was to optimize regrowth, a management regime that uses the natural sprouting of the tree after harvesting to give rise to a new forest. The results suggest that it is possible to achieve a 6.7 to 14.2% increase in forest productivity through changes to selection criteria of the areas and an improved forest management process. It is estimated that, in five years, the innovations should yield a return of nearly BRL 9.4 million. Fibria 2017 Report | 57 Our Production Processes FORESTRY LOGISTICS In order to efficiently move all wood necessary for the second mill in Três Lagoas, important investments were made in logistics: the start of operation of the pentatrem and the installation of new equipment in the mill’s wood unloading yard, described below. Photo: Cine Prudente Pentatrem in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) Pentatrem — This truck with G  antry cranes — Once at the five hitched trailers is capable of mill, the wood needs to be hauling 69% more wood in a unloaded and transferred to the single trip than its predecessor, the chopping lines. In 2017, high tritrem (with three trailers). The capacity machines installed under model contributes to reducing CO2 gantries entered into operation emissions (by 20%) and transport for this purpose (trucks enter a operating costs between forests gantry, under the machine and the mill, and to mitigating the that will unload the wood). impacts on the region’s highways The new arrangement — the pentatrem travels on Fibria’s streamlines unloading and internal roads, without interfering improves the rate of supply to in the regular traffic of highways. picking lines, with a gain in To this end, the company built a productivity of up to 45% in the tunnel under highway BR-158, Três Lagoas woodyard. Thus, strengthening the sustainability the mill is guaranteed to work of its local logistics operation. without shutdown or loss of pulp By the end of 2017, a total of production because of stockout 15 pentatrem units were already in the wood chipping lines. operating in Três Lagoas. 58 | Fibria 2017 Report WOOD BY SEA Another important investment in logistics haul the same load of wood that would improved supply of wood at the Aracruz unit require one hundred tritem trucks for in the state of Espírito Santo: the installation transportation or nearly 550 truck trips of large port cranes, imported from Finland per month. It is a process that adds at a cost of BRL 54.4 million, at the Barra do benefits to the environment and greater Riacho (Espírito Santo state) and Caravelas safety on the roads (about 25% of (Bahia state) Marine Terminals. The cranes Fibria’s wood transport is by sea). With — two in each port — load and unload the the new cranes, barge loading and ocean barges that transport wood by sea unloading time fell from 12 to 6.5 hours, from Fibria’s forests in Bahia state to Aracruz. and the volume of wood hauled by sea will increase from 2.3 million to 2.7 million m3 This operation removes heavy truck traffic per year, also reducing CO2 emissions in from local highways: each barge can the operation. FOREST FIRES Fire is an ever threatening risk to Fibria’s forests, which span over more than one million hectares in seven Brazilian states. In In 2017, there was a order to reduce response time to fire alarms, in 2017, a total of 50 towers were installed in the units of Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do 94% reduction in areas affected by forest Sul state) and Aracruz (Espírito Santo state). fires in the states of Espírito In 2018, coverage of the surveillance area Santo and Bahia, compared will be expanded to the Capão Bonito unit with 2015. (São Paulo state). CERTIFICATIONS Fibria complies with all standards and certifications applicable to the forestry industry. They are: NBR ISO 9001, NBR ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 — implemented at the Santos Port Terminal (T13, T14, T15, and T32) —, Forest Management Principles and Criteria — FSC-STD-01-001 (Forest Stewardship Council®), FSC® international standard. Fibria 2017 Report | 59 Our Production Processes INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT I n 2017, Fibria produced 5.6 million tons of pulp at its three plants in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state), Jacareí (São Paulo state), and Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state). This volume also takes into account the Veracel (Bahia state) production of 1.1 million tons, half of which (551,000 tons) belongs to Fibria. Veracel is a joint venture between Fibria and Stora Enso. In August, the second line of the Três Lagoas unit began operation — an investment of BRL 7.3 billion, making the mill the world’s largest pulp mill and increased Fibria’s total production capacity from 5.3 million tons/year to 7.25 million tons/year. Photo: Marcio Schimming Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) 60 | Fibria 2017 Report BETTER THAN EXPECTED When it entered into operations on performance forecasts — the so-called August 23, 2017, the second line of learning curve of a new facility — with Três Lagoas was three weeks ahead indices of production, quality, chemical of the announced schedule. Since consumption, and energy generation then, it has been meeting all initial higher than expected. At the end of 2017, pulp production in the new Três This initial performance Lagoas mill had above the curve resulted already reached in a volume produced of 88% of the GOAL 559,000 tons, expected to 36.5% higher than be reached by the production May 2018. estimated for 2017. Photo: Marcio Schimming BACK ON TRACK The year 2017 was also marked by the recovery of the stability of the industrial operations at the three Fibria units. This index, which indicates a plant’s ability to maintain a steady performance pace without peaks and valleys in production volumes, had dropped. In 2017, a substantial rise was recorded, signaling a return to the levels of operational stability historically maintained by the company. Jacareí (São Paulo state) Fibria 2017 Report | 61 Our Production Processes ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND WASTE Using less fuel is great for both the company and the planet; generating less waste is in line with Fibria’s long-term goal of reducing by 91% the disposal of solid waste in industrial or third-party landfills by 2025. To BETWEEN 93% AND this end, we are working to reduce our generation of 95% OF FIBRIA’S ENERGY solid waste from 60.7 kg per ton of pulp produced (base MATRIX COMES FROM year 2011) to only 5 kg per ton in 2025. RENEWABLE NATURAL RESOURCES. One project alone, which began in October 2017 at the Jacareí unit in the state of São Paulo, allows for both reductions: drying biological sludge, a waste stream from the pulp production process, and using the resulting dry sludge as fuel in the unit’s biomass boiler for generation of electricity. It is estimated that, each month, the project can convert around 4,200 tons of biological sludge into 800 tons of dry sludge to be burned. The investment is BRL 25 million. IN TRÊS LAGOAS (MATO GROSSO DO SUL STATE), A SIMILAR STRATEGY HAS A DIFFERENT EXECUTION. NEARLY 2,500 T/MONTH OF THE BIOLOGICAL SLUDGE GENERATED IN THE TREATMENT OF EFFLUENTS FROM THE PRODUCTION LINES ARE ALSO USED AS FUEL IN THE BIOMASS BOILER. HOWEVER, SINCE IT IS A NEXT-GENERATION BOILER, THE BIOLOGICAL SLUDGE DOES NOT NEED TO BE DRIED AND CAN BE BURNED IN ITS ORIGINAL STATE. Photo: Marcio Schimming Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) 62 | Fibria 2017 Report Pulp in Portocel, Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Marcio Schimming PULP LOGISTICS The start of operations of the second that would be caused in the communities line of Três Lagoas in 2017 created major throughout the path. challenges for the operation of Fibria’s pulp logistics, which organizes handling, The solution combines road and railway storage, and transportation of the modes. The pulp from the new mill is finished product between the mills loaded onto trucks and transported to and the ports of shipment for export. the Intermodal Terminal of Aparecida A study concluded that the port of do Taboado, 170 kilometers from Três Santos was the best alternative as an Lagoas, on the border between Mato outbound port for the pulp from the Grosso do Sul and São Paulo states. new line. However, the more than 900 There, it is loaded onto railcars and kilometers between Três Lagoas and comes, by wide gauge railroad, to the the port in São Paulo posed a particular Port of Santos, from where it is loaded on challenge, in addition to the impacts ships and exported. NEW PORT TERMINAL In the port of Santos, Fibria has TO REINFORCE THE CAPACITY TO TRANSPORT THE the Macuco Terminal (T32) to LARGER PRODUCTION OF PULP IN THE WORLD, handle its pulp loads. Fully rebuilt FIVE VESSELS — OF NEARLY 55,000 TONS EACH by Fibria in two years, the terminal — WERE CONTRACTED FOR THE EXCLUSIVE was delivered at the end of 2017 USE BY FIBRIA, AND ARE BEING BUILT, WITH and is already in operation. DELIVERIES SCHEDULED STARTING IN 2019. Fibria 2017 Report | 63 Our Economic Performance 64 | Fibria 2017 Report The second production line in Três Lagoas, which began operation in August 2017, produced 435,000 tons The new mill in Três of pulp in the fourth Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) accounted for quarter of the year. The result contributed to a total production 80 MWh of all surplus energy generated and of 1.659 million tons marketed in the fourth in the fourth quarter quarter of 2017. of 2017 — an increase of 36% over the fourth quarter of 2016. ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT T he year 2017 was good for Fibria, and may be summarized in several points: significant increase in production, record sales, lower costs, and a significant reduction in leverage. Supported by increased production capacity, as a result of the start-up of the second production line in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state), and by a heated global pulp market, these results reinforced our financial soundness, as evidenced by the improved credit conditions and the investment grade assigned to Fibria by two international rating agencies. Automated nursery in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) Photo: Marcio Schimming Fibria 2017 Report | 65 Our Economic Performance Wood yard in Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Photo: Marcio Schimming HIGHLIGHTS OF 2017 RESULTS Production: Fibria produced 5,642 OUR PRODUCTION CASH COST million tons* of pulp in the year, a IN 2017 HAD A REDUCTION growth of 12% over 2016. In order OF 6% COMPARED WITH THE to reach this result, the second mill PREVIOUS YEAR. SOME FACTORS in Três Lagoas recorded production EXPLAIN THIS IMPROVEMENT: A of 559,000 tons — 17% more MINOR IMPACT OF SCHEDULED than planned for the initial period SHUTDOWNS FOR MAINTENANCE; of operation in 2017, representing BETTER RESULT OBTAINED IN a solid measure of the advance in ENERGY SALES; THE SHORTENING the learning curve of the new line. OF THE AVERAGE RADIUS The operational stability, maintained (SMALLER DISTANCE FROM THE throughout the year by the other FOREST TO THE MILL), AND A production units, also contributed to REDUCTION IN FIXED COSTS. this result. *Includes 50% of Veracel’s pulp production 66 | Fibria 2017 Report  ales: in 2017, we sold 6.212 million tons of pulp, S 13% above the total volume sold in 2016, including the Klabin production sold by Fibria. Sales growth, coupled with higher prices in dollars, resulted in net revenue of BRL 11.739 billion for the year — FIBRIA’S POLICY ESTABLISHES 22% higher than 2016. THAT, AT THE TIME OF INVESTMENT, THE VALUE OF  BITDA and net income: the combination E THE COMPANY’S LEVERAGE of factors such as increased production and INDICATOR MAY REACH A sales, reduced costs, and a favorable price MAXIMUM OF 3.5 TIMES. and exchange environment led Fibria’s adjusted THUS, THE REDUCTION OF EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, THE INDICATOR TO 2.41 depreciation, and amortization) to reach TIMES WHEN THERE ARE BRL 4.952 billion, with a margin of 49% STILL DISBURSEMENTS (in 2016, the result was BRL 3.742 billion. RELATED TO THE SECOND PRODUCTION LINE IN TRÊS The company had a net profit of BRL 1.093 billion LAGOAS IS A DEMONSTRATION in the year (34% below the BRL 1.664 billion OF THE COMPANY’S obtained in 2016, partly due to the accounting DISCIPLINE CONCERNING effect of the exchange rate variation); the free ITS COMMITMENTS. cash flow was BRL 2.025 billion. The result allowed management to propose dividends to shareholders of BRL 258 million. Leverage: the increase in EBITDA in 2017 led to a rapid decline in the ratio between net debt and EBITDA in dollars — that is, the company’s financial leverage (the capacity, measured in 12 months, Fibria ended the that it has to pay its debts with the generation of year with cash at BRL 6.968 operating cash). This indicator dropped from 3.30 times in the last quarter of 2016 to 2.41 times in the last quarter of 2017. billion IN THE FINAL THREE MONTHS OF 2017, FIBRIA SOLD THE LARGEST VOLUME EVER MARKETED IN A QUARTER IN THE COMPANY’S HISTORY: 1.897 MILLION TONS OF PULP, 20% MORE THAN THE SAME PERIOD IN 2016. NET REVENUE IN THE PERIOD, OF BRL 4.047 BILLION, WAS 60% HIGHER THAN IN THE FINAL QUARTER OF 2016. Fibria 2017 Report | 67 Our Economic Performance Photo: Araquém Alcântara LONGER AND LESS EXPENSIVE DEBT Following the issue of our first green bond This financial strategy, supported by other in January 2017, debt securities in the operations, such as the first-time issue amount of USD 700 million to finance of Agribusiness Receivables Certificates projects to maintain planted forests, (CRA — Certificados de Recebíveis do conserve protected forests, and restore Agronegócio), will allow the average term degraded areas, Fibria carried out a new of the company’s debt to be extended by issue on the global market. This time, one year, maintaining a low average cost. conventional securities in the amount of In this way, we will be able to accelerate USD 600 million, maturing in seven years our deleveraging, supporting a financial and a coupon of 4% per year. soundness that will allow us great flexibility in capital allocation in the near future. MAIN FINANCIAL INDICATORS 2015 2016 2017 Net revenue from sales (BRL million) 10,081 9,615 11,739 Net income (BRL million) 357 1,664 1,093 Assets (BRL million) 29,434 34,440 38,693 Net equity (BRL million) 12,815 13,818 14,650 EBITDA (BRL million) 5,337 3,742 4,952 Net Debt /EBITDA UDM (USD) 1.78 3.30 2.41 Pulp production (thousand tons) 5,185 5,021 5,642 Pulp sales (thousand tons) 5,118 5,504 6,212 Market cap (BRL billion) 28.7 17.7 26.5 Production cash cost (BRL/ton) 618 680 637 Price of shares — FIBR3 (BRL) 51.9 31.9 47.9 68 | Fibria 2017 Report VALUE ADDED STATEMENT 2015 2016 2017 CONSOLIDATED (IN THOUSAND REAIS) Revenues Gross sales of products and services (less returns) 10,281,877 9,838,796 12,006,228 Write-back (provision) for deterioration of credits receivable 1,645 470 325 Revenue associated with the construction of own assets and other 1,719,194 2,689,336 3,191,739 12,002,716 12,528,602 15,198,292 Inputs acquired from third parties Cost of products and services sold (includes raw materials) (4,819,669) (7,201,273) (8,449,466) Materials, energy, third-party services, and other (533,212) (579,661) (647,354) (5,352,881) (7,780,934) (9,096,820) Gross value added 6,649,835 4,747,668 6,101,472 Withholdings Depreciation, amortization, and depletion (1,827,097) (1,922,741) (2,149,305) Depletion of wood from partnership operations (65,141) (60,702) (55,692) (1,892,238) (1,983,443) (2,204,997) Net value added 4,757,597 2,764,225 3,896,475 Value added received in transfer Results of equity accounting 393 (751) 49 Financial revenue and active exchange variations 1,701,679 4,351,159 2,249,931 Deferred income tax and social insurance contribution 1,202,172 0 2,904,244 4,350,408 2,249,980 Total value added for distribution 7,661,841 7,114,633 6,146,455 Value added distribution People and payroll charges 727,641 752,912 880,530 Direct remuneration 565,250 563,390 655,748 Benefits 133,627 156,561 185,657 Government Severance Indemnity Fund (FGTS) 28,764 32,961 39,125 Taxes, fees and contributions 1,051,439 1,798,405 952,455 Federal 899,655 1,634,163 750,794 State 115,740 123,394 155,073 Municipal 36,044 40,848 46,588 Accrued interest, passive exchange variation and leases 5,525,776 2,899,700 3,220,126 Dividends 81,269 393,026 257,750 Retained profit (loss in the period) 260,916 1,261,822 827,515 Interests of noncontrolling shareholders 14,800 8,768 8,079 Value added distributed 7,661,841 7,114,633 6,146,455 Fibria 2017 Report | 69 External Readers A LOOK AT FIBRIA’S 2017 REPORT By Paulo Durval Branco T o readers, there is no doubt that Fibria’s 2017 Report portrays a journey. Not only of the past year and the most recent fiscal periods, but also of the consolidation of a management system that seeks, on a daily basis, to be more and more in tune with the profound transition of our production and consumption PAULO DURVAL BRANCO methods. This is clear not only in its is Vice Coordinator of the Center for compliance with the principles of Sustainability Studies (GVces) of the good reporting, such as materiality, Getulio Vargas Foundation’s School of Business Administration (FGV EAESP), clarity, and comparability, but also in where he leads projects in the areas of how it addresses social and strategy and sustainability management, environmental aspects, ranging from stakeholder engagement, sustainable value compliance with regulations to the chains, innovation and entrepreneurship, internationalization of companies, among strategic choice of business models that others. He is also a founding partner of embrace the challenges of sustainability Ekobé, one of the first Brazilian consultancies as actual opportunities to create value specializing in corporate sustainability, where for the company, its stakeholders, and he contributed to the integration of principles and practices of sustainable development society in general. into the strategy of several national and multinational organizations, as well as into Recognized nationally and internationally the value chain of several industry sectors. for its size, strategic outlook, and Paulo, who holds an MBA degree in Business Administration from the Pontifical Catholic operational excellence, Fibria has University of Rio de Janeiro, is a professor of demonstrated a significant ability to use the Professional Masters in Competitiveness its current commodity-based business Management, with emphasis on Sustainability platform, which is pulp, not only to and Master in Sustainability Management, both from FGV-EAESP. consolidate its license to operate, but also to go beyond, creating products and markets for the new economy. 70 | Fibria 2017 Report Regarding the license to operate, which Perhaps inspired by the idea of creative is ultimately assigned by the company’s destruction, a term coined by economist stakeholders, in 2017, Fibria carried Joseph Schumpeter regarding replacing out several initiatives that caught my outdated models with other more attention. These included: i) the start-up innovative arrangements, in its 2017 of the second production line at the unit report, Fibria presents some initiatives in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state), that point to new products and markets whose project and execution, even with and deserve to be hailed with enthusiasm. 8,700 employees during the peak of the The first initiative refers to developing project, adopted noteworthy practices in solutions and products in the field of managing the impacts that large projects biotechnology, based on the experience normally cause in the regions where they acquired through management and are implemented; ii) the launch of We exploitation of planted forests. Navigating are Fibria, which translates into a among renewable fuels from biomass movement marking the evolution of and revolutionary biomaterials, Fibria’s the company’s corporate culture, corporate venturing and open innovation expressed in an inspiration and a purpose actions are undoubtedly paving the way that are both daring and inspiring; for a portfolio compatible with a lowiii) the launch of its position statement carbon economy. The second initiative on Diversity, which is accompanied by a of this nature that I would like to set of actions aimed toward recognizing highlight is the pilot project for valuating and valuing differences in gender, externalities, which explores one of the race, sexual orientation, and disability; knowledge frontiers on sustainability, iv) the launch of the Sustainable which is the measurement and valuation Procurement Program, which was of aspects related to natural capital conceived with the participation of and ecosystem services, core elements supplier representatives and seeks to for the operation and continuity of a contribute to the Company’s Procurement company that is intimately connected to area being recognized by the market the inventory of natural resource and the and stakeholders as an innovative area flows of nature. Finally, I would like to that induces economic, social, and point out the efforts undertaken, environmental value in the value chain; on several national and international and v) the company’s first green bond multi-stakeholder forums, to create a issue, USD 700 million in green bonds, business-friendly institutional environment which will be used to finance investments aligned with the quest for effectively related to clean and renewable energy sustainable development. and to reduce emissions of contaminants and consumption of water, energy, Looking ahead, I would like to highlight and raw materials. three elements that I hope and expect Fibria 2017 Report | 71 External Readers to see covered in future reports. One is the greater connection and contextualization of Fibria’s performance indicators with respect to the reality of the regions, countries, and societies where it operates. Much like what we have begun to see regarding water resources, in terms of the watersheds where the company has operations. This would undoubtedly further differentiate the interesting Indicators Center that have been part of the company’s reports for several years. Another element I would like to see included is a broader and more detailed account of the portfolio diversification process PAULO NASSAR based on innovations in the field of Professor at ECA-USP and Managing Director at Aberje biotechnology. This would not only inspire other companies, but it may Holder of a PhD and Master’s degrees from the School of Communications also point the way for a country and Arts of the University of São Paulo like Brazil, where biodiversity (ECA-USP) and Post-Doctor degree is a passport to the future. The from Libera Università di Lingue e last element I would like to see Comunicazione (IULM) in Milan, Italy. He is the coordinator of the is that I believe companies such Novas Narrativas Study Group (GENN as Fibria should boldly build new ECA-USP) and Professor at the School metrics that, in fact, contribute to of Communications and Arts of the incorporating natural capital into University of São Paulo (ECA-USP). Managing Director of Aberje, Associação economic-financial decisions. If Brasileira de Comunicação Empresarial for the companies from the old (Brazilian Association of Corporate economy this will mean substantial Communications). loss of value or even cost them their survival, for those that are creatively destroying themselves, it will certainly mean a transition to an economy that takes into account people and the ability to support the planet. 72 | Fibria 2017 Report AN HONEST TALE SPEEDS BEST, BEING PLAINLY TOLD. William Shakespeare, Richard III, Act IV. By Paulo Nassar F ibria’s 2017 Sustainability Report, which emphasizes shared value and social issues, is written in a straightforward manner and may be summarized in one word: realism. when caring for the environment. As such, it demonstrated the company’s willingness to integrate with communities instead of living in conflict. In other words, it can be said that the Report deals with the sense of corporate Why make this distinction? reputation of a company in the pulp and paper sector. It demonstrates that, in For three main reasons. Firstly, because it addition to wishing to be recognized for is written in a Socratic style, in the form seeking balance and healthy relationships of questions and answers, thus managing with communities, it seeks to be unique to speak equally of achievements and in terms preserving the environment. And impasses emphasizing achievements this uniqueness means recognizing that without minimizing the impasses. It sustainability is everything; it is a process goes beyond the self-congratulatory that communicates stability, thereby formula, valuing teamwork and a vision yielding an honest report where even of the future as well as the company’s information on impasses is valued. achievements during one of the most difficult years in Brazilian history. It is a modern stability code in tune with how fast information flows. Secondly, because it went beyond Recognizing difficulties, it values reporting profits in order to address achievements and shared value that social issues, such as fighting sexual is nothing other than the positive exploitation of children and adolescents influence the company has on society. at those places where the company has These are the lines of a broad argument its roots. And it was not just that. It that makes the 2017 Sustainability forged alliances with the communities in Report a comprehensive document for order to address issues of gender, race, communication that shows sustainability and social exclusion, always recognizing as a practical and visible policy from all difficulties. This way, it gave corporate angles. It aims not only to be transparent, responsibility a new dimension and range, but also to show the willingness to creating new paradigms. carry out actions. It is evident, when the messages of the Report are decoded, Finally, it concentrated on the complexity that company and community can a company that plants forests must face operate and evolve together. Fibria 2017 Report | 73 Statement The assurance conducted by Bureau Veritas Certification was carried out for the complete version of the report, published on the website www.fibria.com/r2017. This abridged version contains information from the complete version, but was not itself submitted to specific assurance. ASSURANCE STATEMENT – BUREAU VERITAS INTRODUCTION METHODOLOGY Bureau Veritas Certification Brazil (‘Bureau The Assurance covered the following Veritas’) was engaged by FibriaCelulose activities: S.A. (‘Fibria’) to conduct an independent assessment of its Annual Report 1. Interviews with the personnel (hereinafter referred to as the Report). responsible for material issues and involved in the Report content; This assessment was conducted by a multidisciplinary staff with expertise in 2. T raceability of data published, non-financial data. searching itssourcesand the reliability of management systems involved; SCOPE OF WORK The scope of this verification 3. V erification of performance data encompassed the Standard and related to the principles that ensure Principles1 of the Global Reporting the quality of the information, InitiativeTMGRI for Sustainability Reports, pursuant to the GRI Standards; for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. 4. O n-site visits to Fibria’s Units at Aracruz (Espírito Santo State), Jacareí FIBRIA´S AND BUREAU VERITAS (São Paulo State), Três Lagoas (Mato RESPONSIBILITIES Grosso do Sul State) and the Central The collection, calculation and Administration office located in the presentation of the data published city of São Paulo; in the report are Fibria’s management sole responsibility. Bureau Veritas 5. A nalysis of Fibria’s stakeholder is responsible for providing an engagement activities; and independent opinion to the Stakeholders, pursuant to the scope of work defined 6. E valuation of the method used to in this declaration. define material issues included in 1 Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Completeness, Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Periodicity, Clarity, and Reliability 74 | Fibria 2017 Report the Report, taking into account the limitations as to the identification of sustainability context and the scope mistakes and omissions. of the information published. TECHNICAL OPINION The level of verification adopted F ibria presents the Report based was Reasonable, according to the on 13 material issues defined in a requirements of the ISAE 3000 materiality study from 2016. It is Standard2, which were incorporated to our understanding that the themes the internal assessment protocols of resulting from the study allow to Bureau Veritas. present the impact of Fibria’s activities in a balanced manner. LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS Excluded from the scope of this work F ibria’s Report comprehends a complete was any assessment of information version in electronic media, and a related to: summarized version in hard copy, which emphasizes the narrative and  ctivities outside the defined A the performance data associated with assessment period; the material issues. In addition to that, the Report has an online Indicators S tatements of position (expressions Center that contains data and more of opinion, beliefs, goals, or future deepened details of the performance of intentions) on the part of Fibria; the company. Both are available on the website that features the Report 2017 E conomic and financial information (www.fibria.com.br/2017). Additionally, contained in this Report which has Fibria created infographics that represent been taken from financial statements the processes of the company. verified by independent financial auditors; It was verified that the presentation of data about the indicator “Significant Inventory of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Investments Agreements and Contracts emissions, verified by Bureau Veritas in containing human rights clauses or that a different scope of work. underwent human right screening – 4123” has addressed the contracts of project With regard to the verification principles “Horizonte 2”, so that a complete result of Accuracy and Reliability of Data, was obtained for the indicator; we clarify that our scope was limited to the data related to the material W  ith respect to the impacts of the issues as shown in the section “About forest stewardship in the communities, the Report”. The verification process we evidenced an improvement in has, given the Reasonable level, some information about the measures 2 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 – Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Fibria 2017 Report | 75 Statement that were taken and the methods for RECOMMENDATIONS monitoring the impacts applied by Fibria demonstrates in the Report an Fibria. The community engagement important growth of the Asian market process named “Operational Dialogue” that, for the first time, exceeded the was properly disclosed in the Report; European and North American market in pulp volume purchased from the T he Report updates information on company. We recommend Fibria to the expansion project Horizonte 2, disclose information regarding the with emphasis on operational and implementation of its sustainability safety performance. We evidenced that strategy in the Asian market. operational, environmental and social data were incorporated to Fibria´s routine indicators; CONCLUSION  e evidenced important initiatives W Based on the Assurance that was regarding pulp and wood transportation, performed, the evidence we had access seeking decrease of traditional road to, and according to the scope of work transport, in line with the company´s defined in this statement, in our opinion: sustainability policy; T he data and information disclosed F ibria continues to present the in the Report adhere to the GRI-G4 indicators associated with the quality and content principles; Long Term Targets (up to 2025), providing the baseline and T he data and information disclosed in performance data of 2017; the Report are accurate and free from material errors; T he Report provides a satisfactory account of expectations that were T he Report provides balanced generated in the previous Report. information regarding Fibria´s The presentation of the achievements economical, social and environmental against targets published in 2017, performance, based on material aspects enables the reader to analyze the and identified significant impacts, evolution of Fibria in the management following the GRI methodology; of the commitments made; T he Report adheres to the quality and W  e noticed that the recommendations content principles of the GRI Standards made in our previous Statement were for Sustainability Reports and meets the dealt with by Fibria. criteria of the Comprehensive option. 76 | Fibria 2017 Report DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE AND IMPARTIALITY Bureau Veritas Certification is an independent professional services firm specializing in Quality, Health, Safety, Socialand Environmental Management, with more than185 years’ experience in independent assessment. Bureau Veritas has a quality management system that is certified by a third party, according to which policies and documented procedures are maintained for the compliance with ethic, professional and legal requirements. The assessment team has no links with Fibria and the assessment is performed independently. Bureau Veritas implemented and follows a Code of Ethics throughout its business, in order to assure that its staff preserve high ethical, integrity, objectivity, confidentiality and competence/ professional attitude standards in the performance of their activities.At the end of the assessment, a detailed report was drawn up, ensuring traceability of the process. This Report is kept as a Bureau Veritas management system record. CONTACT Bureau Veritas Certification is available for further clarification on www.bureauveritascertification.com.br/faleconosco.asp or by telephone (55 11) 2655-9000. São Paulo, Brazil, March 2018. Alexander Vervuurt Lead Auditor; Assurance Sustainability Reports (ASR) Bureau Veritas Certification – Brazil Fibria 2017 Report | 77 Aracruz (ES) Photo: Marcio Schimming Events subsequent to 2017 FIBRIA AND SUZANO SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT On March 15, 2018, Fibria’s controlling shareholders — Votorantim S.A. and BNDESPar (BNDES Participações S.A.) — entered into an agreement with Suzano Holding S.A. and with the other controlling shareholders of Suzano Papel e Celulose S.A. to merge Fibria and Suzano by means of a corporate restructuring. Together, Fibria and Suzano will form the largest Brazilian agribusiness company. This event represents the strengthening of the pulp industry and the forest-based sector in Brazil. Until the operation is consolidated — which depends on approval from the regulatory agencies — Fibria and Suzano will not undergo any change in the conduct of their activities and will continue to operate independently. To learn more about the agreement, read the following Material Fact. 78 | Fibria 2017 Report MATERIAL FACT FIBRIA CELULOSE S.A. a publicly held company CNPJ/MF Nº. 60.643.228/0001-21 NIRE 35.300.022.807 | Código CVM n. 12793 Fibria S.A. (“Fibria” or “Company”) (B3: be submitted together with the appraisal FIBR3 | NYSE: FBR) discloses, in compliance reports and other relevant documents to with the provisions of paragraph 4 of the Boards of Directors of the Companies article 157 of Law No. 6,404/76, as and signed by their administrations, as amended (“Lei das S.A.” [Corporations well as, opportunely, to voting by the Act]) and of CVM Instruction No. 358, Extraordinary General Meetings of both of January 3, 2002, to its shareholders, Companies. to the market in general and to other stakeholders that it received from its I. C  ORPORATE RESTRUCTURING controlling shareholders Votorantim AND FINANCIAL BASIS OF THE S.A. and BNDES Participações S.A. — OPERATION BNDESPAR (jointly, “Fibria’s Controlling Shareholders”), the following statement: Pursuant to Commitment, a corporate restructuring of the Companies shall be “On March 15, 2018, Fibria’s Controlling submitted to the shareholders, resulting Shareholders, Suzano Holding S.A. and in: (a) the ownership, by Suzano, of all the other controlling shareholders of shares issued by Fibria; and (b) in the Suzano Papel e Celulose S.A. (jointly, receipt by Fibria’s shareholders, for each “Suzano’s Controlling Shareholders”), of the common shares issued by Fibria, with the consent of Suzano Papel e of (i) BRL 52.50 (fifty-two reais and fifty Celulose S.A. (“Suzano” and, jointly cents), adjusted according to the variation with Fibria, “Companies”), signed a of CDI from March 16, 2018 to the date of Voting Commitment and Assumption effective payment, to be made in a single of Obligations, by which Suzano’s payment on the date of consolidation Controlling Shareholders and Fibria’s of Operation (“Cash Portion”), and (ii) Controlling Shareholders agreed 0.4611 (zero point four, six, one, one) to exercise their votes to merge common share issued by Suzano, adjusted the operations and shareholding as mentioned below (“Exchange Ratio”), bases of Suzano and the Company to be delivered also on the date of (“Commitment”), by means of a consolidation of Operation. corporate restructuring (“Operation”). In addition to the adjustment according The terms and conditions of Operation, to the variation of CDI, as indicated briefly described below, will be included above, the Cash Portion will be adjusted in the Record and Justification of Merger based on dividends, interest on of Shares and of Company (“Record”), to shareholders’ equity and other proceeds Fibria 2017 Report | 79 reported by the Companies, as of the II. C  ONDITIONS PRECEDENT OF present date, except for Suzano’s and OPERATION Fibria’s mandatory minimum dividends The consolidation of Operation is already disclosed to the market. The subject to the fulfillment of usual Exchange Ratio will be proportionally conditions precedent for this type of adjusted for eventual splits, reverse splits operation, including approval from and bonuses of the shares issued by certain competition authorities in Suzano and Fibria. Brazil and abroad. Holders of American Depositary III. E  XCLUSIVITY AND PROHIBITION Receipts (“ADRs”) backed by shares ON TRANSFER OF SHARES issued by Fibria will be entitled to Pursuant to the terms of Commitment, receive ADRs from Suzano, subject to Fibria’s Controlling Shareholders may not the same Exchange Ratio. To this end, trade or otherwise enter into agreements Suzano will take measures to obtain with any third party for the purpose of (i) the registration of Operation (or conducting any business equal or similar to its exemption, as applicable) at the Operation or that could affect or prevent the Securities and Exchange Commission implementation of Operation. Additionally, in the United States, and (ii) the during the term of Commitment, Suzano’s listing of Suzano’s ADRs in the same Controlling Shareholders and Fibria’s listing segment at the New York Stock Controlling Shareholders agreed not to sell Exchange in which Fibria’s ADRs are or otherwise dispose of their shares issued currently listed. by Suzano or Fibria, as the case may be. Once Operation is consolidated, the IV. FIBRIA ACCESSION shares and the ADRs issued by Fibria Within 15 days as of this date, Fibria’s will no longer be traded at B3 S.A. Board of Directors shall decide on the — Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão, or at the accession to Commitment and on its NYSE, respectively. Under the terms consent to the terms of Operation. of Commitment, in the event that any restrictions imposed by competition V. A CCESS TO INFORMATION authorities in Brazil and/or abroad AND DOCUMENTS become excessively onerous, Suzano Commitment and its attachments will be shall be entitled not to proceed with available to Company’s shareholders, as Operation, upon payment by Suzano of this date, at its headquarters, at the to Fibria of a fine in the amount of Company’s Investor Relations website BRL 750,000,000.00 (seven hundred (www.fibria.com.br/ir), and at the websites and fifty million reais). The fine may be of Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (Brazilian assessed to certain other non-completion Securities and Exchange Commission) conditions of Operation, as expressly (www.cvm.gov.br) and of B3 S.A. — provided for in Commitment. Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão (www.b3.com.br). 80 | Fibria 2017 Report Additional disclosures of information to the market will be made in a timely manner under current legislation, including those required by CVM Instruction No. 565, of June 15, 2015. Finally, the Company informs that Operation will entitle Fibria’s dissident shareholders to withdraw. Details on the exercise of the right of withdrawal, including the redemption amount, will be communicated to the market in due time. Until the date of consolidation of Operation, Companies will not undergo any changes in the conduction of their businesses, and will continue to operate independently. São Paulo, March 16, 2018. FIBRIA CELULOSE S.A. Guilherme Perboyre Cavalcanti Director of Finance and Investor Relations Photo: Marcio Schimming Portocel, Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) Fibria 2017 Report | 81 Seedling Nursery. Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) Cred its Photo: Marcio Schimming CONTACT For questions and suggestions, please contacta us via email comunicacaofibria@fibria.com.br EDITION Bianca Conde Bruna Tomasuolo Cristiano Oliveira Geraldo Magella Raquel Botinha COORDINATION, TEXT AND EDITORIAL DESIGN EDITORIAL COMMISSION Quintal 22 Adailson Goncalves Pinheiro Andresa Garcia de Barros GRI CONSULTING Alber Almeida Avesso Sustentabilidade Arvelino Cassaro Bianca Conde GRAPHIC DESIGN Cristiano Oliveira AND LAYOUT Ellen Kazuko Utiama Suzuki Adesign Fausto Camargo Fernando Brait INFOGRAPHICS Geraldo Magella Adesign João Carlos Augusti Felix Reiners Leonardo Genofre Luis Eduardo Sabbado PHOTOGRAPHY Luiz Carlos Nascimento Araquém Alcântara Maria Luiza Pinto e Paiva Márcio Schimming Patrícia Lombardi Ricardo Teles Persia Christina Machado Fibria Image Bank Raquel Botinha Ricardo Tresso Marcolino VIDEO Robert Cardoso Sartório Paulo Baroukh Roberto Penteado Rodolfo Araujo Loos ENGLISH VERSION Umberto Cinque Gotcha! Idiomas COVER PHOTOS • Mayara Martins Aparecido, at the Technology Center in Jacareí (São Paulo state) – Photo: Marcio Schimming • Clarice Da Silva Santos, assistant at the Nursery, in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul state) – Photo: Marcio Schimming • Pulp in Portocel, Aracruz (Espírito Santo state) – Photo: Marcio Schimming • Valmir Florentino Paulo, participant of the PDRT in Nova Viçosa (Bahia state) – Photo: Araquém Alcântara • Jefferson Moraes da Cruz, planting seedlings, in Capão Bonito (São Paulo state) – Photo: Marcio Schimming BACK COVER PHOTO • Vitor Morais Galvão Bueno Trigueirinho, environmental analyst at Fibria – Photo: Araquém Alcântara 82 | Fibria 2017 Report report: www.fibria.com.br/r2017 investor relations: fibria.infoinvest.com.br facebook: fb.com/fibriabrasil/ linkedin: linkedin.com/company/fibria www.fibria.com.br twitter: @fibria_brasil youtube: youtube.com/fibriacelulose
