S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 S-OIL GOOD OIL About This Report Contents Reporting Scope S-OIL has published annual Sustainability Report S-OIL Sustainability Report since 2008. This report covers the Company’s ac2017 tivities at the Head Office in Seoul, Onsan Refinery in Ulsan, terminals, and sales offices in Korea from January 1 through December 31, 2017. All performance indicators and related data cover four-year trends, from 2014 to 2017, and material managerial changes partially cover 2018, which is the year the report is published. Data that is subject to frequent changes, such as information on human resources, was reported as of December 31, the last day of each fiscal year, with footnotes provided in special cases. Financial data was drawn in compliance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Reporting Guidelines This report adopted GRI Standards (Core option) and added annotations when applying the Company’s own management standards. Assurance The reliability of this report was verified based on the AA1000AS(2008) and ISAE3000 International Assurance Standards by an independent and objective assurance institution. The assurance statement can be found in the appendix of this report. Communication with Stakeholders Sustainability management at S-OIL starts from communication with stakeholders. To this end, this report is organized around C.E.O. (Customers, Employees, Owners & Other Stakeholders) for communication with stakeholders. The Company conducted a wide range of stakeholder surveys, interviews and meetings to identify their concerns and expectations 04 and to introduce its management policies as presentIntroduction ed by the top management. Additional Information & Inquiries 04 CEO’s Greetings This report and additional information on S-OIL’s 06 Corporate Profile sustainability management can be accessed via its website (www.s-oil.com). Please contact the Sustain08 Sustainability Management Scheme ability Management Team (82-2-3772-5238, sustain10 Message of Top Management ability@s-oil.com) for additional information or inqui14 Value Creation ry regarding this report. 16 Stakeholder Engagement 17 Materiality Test 18 Stakeholder Interviews 20 SPECIAL REPORT 22 Business Fundamental 22 Corporate Governance 24 Compliance Management 26 Ethics Management / Human Rights Protection 28 Risk Management 30 Customers 32 Realization of Customer Satisfaction 35 Product Quality Assurance 38 Marketing Communication 40 Protection of Customers’ Personal Information / Fair Competition in Market 42 Overseas Marketing 44 Employees 46  R Management / H Fair Evaluation & Compensation 48 Talent Cultivation 50 C  orporate Culture / Labor-Management Relations 53 Industrial Safety & Health Management 56 Owners & Other Stakeholders 58 Investment in New Projects 60 Improvement of Operational Efficiency 63 Financial Soundness / Transparent Disclosure of Management Information 66 Management of Sustainability in Supply Chain 69 Environment Management 74 Response to Climate Change 76 Social Contribution Activities 79 Contribution to Local Communities Performance Review 82 Key Sustainability Management Performances Appendix 92 Independent Assurance Statement 94 GRI Content Index / UNGC Index / UN SDGs 99 Accolades & Recognitions / Association Memberships S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 CEO’s Greetings Dear valued stakeholders of S-OIL, On the occasion of publishing the Sustainability Report 2017, I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to all stakeholders for your invariable support and trust in S-OIL. S-OIL is committed in creating well-balanced economic, environmental and social values that are consistent with our stakeholders’ expectation and to being a contributor to the sustainable growth of the national economy and society at large. 4 Introduciton In 2017, we achieved highest net income after tax of KRW 1,249 billion in our history on the back of proactive responses to the changing business environment and stable operation of production facilities First of all, S-OIL achieved highest level of corporate governance and management transparency through strict compliance and ethics management. We maintained sound financial structure and credit rating through innovative cost saving initiatives, a feat we achieved despite the large-scale financing. We successfully completed SUPER Project (S-OIL Upgrading Project of Existing Refinery), which was aimed at making our existing businesses more competitive, and significantly increased profitability. We improved the Company’s safety culture to world-class level through systematic safety, health and environmental management, and preemptive prevention and inspection activities. And, we continuously cut down on GHG emissions with Company-wide energy saving initiatives. Also, we successfully managed various business risks through robust Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) programs. Our efforts were duly recognized by others. S-OIL was selected as Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Company for eight consecutive years. We topped all listed companies in environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings by Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS). We achieved an all-time-high retail light oil market share in the domestic market and widened stable sales foundation in export markets by furthering partnership with key customers and building a stronger presence in strategic markets. Internally, we continued to drive innovation in the Company’s HR system towards welldesigned career development of our workforce and future talent development. We also promoted work & life balance underpinned by pioneering HR programs and work process improvement as part of driving change in the corporate culture. In addition, we strived to spread the value of sharing by carrying out differentiated CSR programs unique in S-OIL and preserving the ecosystem. I am pleased to share with you that we are making a smooth progress on the Residue Upgrading Complex & Olefin Downstream Complex Project (RUC/ODC Project), which is the largest investment ever in the history of S-OIL. We delivered mechanical completion in the first half of this year and we are now putting Company-wide efforts towards successful commercial operation scheduled in the second half of 2018. Above all, we declared Vision 2025 to become “the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific, with excellence in operations, strategic investment, and human talent” to ensure the Company’s sustainable growth after successful completion of RUC/ODC Project. We accordingly defined Strategic Targets, Core Values, Strategic Objectives and Investment Roadmap to deliver the vision. S-OIL will not settle for past glories. We will constantly push ourselves to turn Vision 2025 into a reality by internalizing and representing S-OIL’s core values that guided the Company towards successful strategies and investments in the past. We will also put in best efforts to meet our social responsibilities as a trusted corporate citizen and deliver sustainable growth together with stakeholders. As we look to the future, I look forward to your warmhearted support and guidance. Thank you very much. Othman Al-Ghamdi Representative Director and CEO 5 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Profile S-OIL is committed to fulfilling its responsibility as a good corporate citizen and living up to the needs and expectations of diverse stakeholders. Business sites Head Office in Seoul: Marketing, finance, general services, etc. Onsan Refinery: Production & shipping No. of employees 3,316 12 product terminals/depots: Product storage & shipping 3 District Biz HQs, 22 domestic & 4 overseas offices: Product sales persons Affiliated companies S-International Ltd.: A 100%-owned crude oil trading broker Total assets 15 S-OIL Total Lubricants Co., Ltd.: A lubricant production/sales JV with 50%+1 share (with France’s TOTAL) KRW trillion North East Chemicals Co., Ltd.: A 100%-owned liquid chemicals handling & storing company Fuel Business Since commercial operation of the 90,000 barrels/day No. 1 CDU in 1980, S-OIL has grown into a large oil refining Products company with a production capacity of 669,000 barrels/day through two major capacity expansions. In addition, the •gasoline Company operates light oil desulfurizing facilities and gasoline manufacturing facilities. •premium gasoline The Company proactively responded to the growing demand for light oil products and the toughening environmen•diesel tal regulations worldwide by operating Bunker-C Cracking Center (BCC), which is large-scale upgrading facilities •kerosene capable of converting products into light oil and low sulfur products, ahead of others from mid-1990s. Converting •aviation bunker-C into light oil, the BCC is hailed as a game changer in the history of Korea’s refining industry as it transgasoline formed the refining industry from one known as a simple manufacturing industry to an export-oriented industry •LPG creating high value. It is state-of-the-art unit that significantly enhanced S-OIL’s production capacity at a relatively •fuel low price, which enabled the Company to optimize all production facilities, produce greater volume of high value oil(bunker-A, products and position itself as one of the leading refiners in the industry. bunker-C, LSFO) In the past, the oil refining industry was generally perceived to meet domestic demand only but that wasn’t the •asphalt case for S-OIL. From early on, the Company focused on exploring overseas markets and today the Company plays an important role as the light oil supply hub across Asia Pacific based on world-class BCC. S-OIL started to export environment-friendly and high-value Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel (ULSD) with sulfur content of less than 50 ppm for the first time in Korea in 2001. From 2005, the Company started to export Ultra Low Sulfur Gasoline (ULSG) with less than 10 ppm sulfur. Currently, it exports high quality environment-friendly oil products to Asia, U.S., Europe, and Oceania, thus generating added value in overseas markets. 6 Introduciton Lube Business S-OIL made an aggressive investment into the capital-intensive, technology-intensive premium lube base oil business at the time of establishment in 1976. Through the investment, the Company succeeded in localizing premium Products lube base oil that had entirely relied on import and positioned itself as the lube base oil market leader in Korea •Group I base oil and beyond. The Company has 44,700 barrels/day of production capacity at No. 1 LBO Plant (Group I and Group II •Group II base oil base oil) and No. 2 LBO Plant (Very High VI Group III base oil). S-OIL is the only company which has a full line-up of •Group III base oil Group I/II/III base oil products in Korea and is positioned as one of the world-class manufacturers supplying high quality base oils across the world from Asia to U.S. and Europe. Since 1989 when the Company launched lubricant business, S-OIL has reinvented itself by solidifying its market-leading position through constant changes and progress. Flexibly responding to the market needs, S-OIL diversified its product base oil portfolio, which includes premium brand “S-OIL 7” and more economic brands represented by “Dragon” and “S-OIL 7 Eco”. The Company is in charge of overseas sales of lubricants while sales in the domestic market are carried out by S-OIL Total Lubricant Co., Ltd., a JV set up in 2008 with TOTAL Raffinage Marketing S.A. Petrochemical Business S-OIL, committed to delivering products of added values, diversified its business portfolio in 1991 when it commercialized the Naphtha Reforming Plant and BTX production facilities. In 1997, the Company constructed Xylene Products Center, the largest single location unit, with an annual production capacity of 700,000 tons, ushering in the petro•benzene chemical business. In 1997, the Company also started producing 200,000 tons/year of propylene from the Residue •toluene Fluidized Catalytic Cracking unit (RFCC), thereby further extending its petrochemical business and building the •xylene foundation to secure competitive edge in the petrochemical downstream. •para-xylene •propylene In 2011, S-OIL built No. 2 Aromatic Complex, which includes Aromizer facilities that produce petrochemical feedstock BTX by reforming naphtha, and No. 2 Xylene Center, which produces para-xylene used as raw material for synthetic fibers. The operation of No. 2 Aromatic Complex more than doubled the Company’s production capacity to 600,000 tons/year of benzene and 1.83 million tons/year of para-xylene, which armed S-OIL with world-class competitive edge across fuel, lube base oil and petrochemical businesses. The successful completion of the RUC/ODC Project in 2018 will lay the groundwork to realize the Company’s Vision 2025 of becoming the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific, along with its business expansion in the petrochemical downstream business to PP, PO, etc. Production Capacity & Sales Revenue Fuel Business Lube Business Petrochemical Business KRW 16.4 trillion KRW 1.6 trillion KRW 2.9 trillion Sales Revenue in 2017 •Crude distillation 669,000 B/D •Bunker-C Cracking 150,000 B/D •Group III base oil 31,000 B/D •Group II base oil 8,600 B/D •Para-xylene 1,830,000 tons/ year •Benzene 600,000 tons/year KRW20.9 trillion •Group I base oil 5,100 B/D •Bunker-C Desulfurization •Propylene 200,000 tons/year 109,000 B/D •Diesel & Kerosene Desulfurization 120,000 B/D 7 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Introduciton Sustainability Management Scheme Sustainability management at S-OIL starts from understanding the expectations of what we call C.E.O. --Customers, Employees, and Owners & Other Stakeholders. By correctly understanding what they expect of S-OIL and what the Company has to do to meet their expectations, the Company is making a concerted effort to maximize their economic, environmental, and social values, with their expectations reflected in its management policies. In doing so, S-OIL strives to achieve its Vision 2025 of becoming the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific. Vision 2025 C Customers The most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific, with excellence in operations, E Employees strategic investment, and human talent O Owners & Other Stakeholders Strategic Target Company-wide goals that measure success in achieving the vision Core Value “S-OIL EPICS” Excellence Common value that guide We thirst to learn, adapt, and evolve constantly to surpass expectations and our decision and action deliver nothing but the best quality, service, and profitability to customers, under all circumstances employees, and owners. Passion Strategic Objective We aspire with a burning desire to aim higher than ever before to achieve our dream, fueled by boundless energy, strong motivation, and a can-do spirit. Top management’s high priority agenda Integrity that best support the achievement of We never compromise on our commitment to honesty, fairness, and the vision highest moral and ethical standards embracing them as essential values to our ultimate success. Collaboration Investment Roadmap We work together as a team to keep raising the bar of success by sharing knowledge, opportunities and best practices. Potential investment items to realize growth Sharing We share our success with the communities where we live and work as a C.E.O. responsible and model corporate citizen. 8 9 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Introduciton Message of Top Management The most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific S-OIL is striving to maximize C.E.O.’s economic, environmental, and social values, with their expectations reflected in management policies, and thus achieve Vision 2025 of becoming the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific. Bong-Soo Park President and Head of Operations Yul Ryu President and Head of Corporate Strategy & Services Young-Il Cho Executive Vice President and CFO Jong-Bum Ahn Executive Vice President and Sung-Woo Park Senior Vice President and Head of International Marketing Head of Legal & Compliance HQ 10 11 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 We thirst to learn, adapt, and evolve constantly to surpass We share our success with the communities where we live and expectations and deliver the best quality, service, and work as a responsible and model corporate citizen. profitability to customers, employees, and owners. Bong-Soo Park Yul Ryu President and Head of Operations President and Head of Corporate Strategy & Services S-OIL is proceeding with the RUC/ODC Project, the largest scale investS-OIL is pushing ahead with the enhancement of business portfolio by the ment since its foundation, by concentrating all its resources and capabilcontinuous enhancement of the refining business, the globalization of lube ities towards its success and we are putting efforts for their successful business, the expansion of the petrochemical business, and the developcommercial operations in the second half of this year. This project will enment of R&C-based new energy businesses according to its innovative and able us to expand our capability of producing high value-added products differentiated investment roadmap, which will realize Vision 2025 and lead and to diversify our business portfolio by adding the olefin downstream its sustainable growth. Furthermore, we plan to further enhance our comsector to existing refining business, lube business, and petrochemical petitiveness by leveraging the core technology of the 4th Industrial Revobusinesses. By so doing, we will become equipped with a more balanced lution such as big data. business portfolio through the improvement of profitability and stability. In the new business environment, human resources are the driving forces In addition, the Company makes an effort to achieve the industry-leading that enable us to promote new businesses for S-OIL’s sustainable growth. operational efficiency by reducing manufacturing costs around the clock, The Company is making efforts to build a work environment that respects and by implementing various profit improvement activities such as rampthe diversity of employees and maximizes their motivation so that they can ing up the production of high value-added products and improving energy initiate new innovation by exerting creativity and autonomy. Along with this, efficiency. we are also cultivating future talents that will lead the diverse business areas of the Company through the establishment of a new HR system. In Through active and preemptive safety management and environment addition, we are taking the initiatives to boost work efficiency, and thereby management systems, the Company is managing safety, health, and the improving employees’ work & life balance. environment according to stricter criteria than laws and regulations and we are responding systematically to the tightening of related legislation. We are also identifying the various expectations of stakeholders through Furthermore, through continuous investment and training, we are making smooth communication in order to practice sharing, one of our core valour best effort to create a safe and eco-friendly workplace by achieving the ues, and to fulfil our social responsibility. We are carrying out systematic world-best safety, health, and environmental management levels. and differentiated CSR activities to help them as a practical contributor and are planning to support CSV activities that promote social value toThe Company is concentrating its all resources and capabilities to boost gether beyond existing CSR activities. customer satisfaction by supplying the best products and services stably. We identify customers’ anticipations through vigorous communication with Meanwhile, we are maintaining objectivity and fairness for all business them and reflect such preemptively in our business activities. Along with partners based on the highest level of transparent and sound corporate this, we support the enhancement of the competitiveness of service stagovernance, and striving for the win-win growth with them with trust. tions and filling stations, which are our contact points with customers, and pursue win-win growth by further consolidation of our cooperation with Going forward, we will share our success with the communities where we them. live and work as a responsible and model corporate citizen. Going forward, we will thirst to learn, adapt, and evolve constantly to surpass expectations and deliver the best quality, service, and profitability to customers, employees, and owners. 12 Introduciton We work together as a team to keep We aspire with a burning desire to aim We never compromise on our raising the bar of success by sharing higher than ever before to achieve our commitment to honesty, fairness, and knowledge, opportunities and best dream, fueled by boundless energy, the highest moral and ethical standards practices. strong motivation, and a can-do spirit. embracing them as essential values to our ultimate success. Young-Il Cho Jong-Bum Ahn Sung-Woo Park Executive Vice President and CFO Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President and Head of International Marketing Head of Legal & Compliance HQ S-OIL is maintaining a sound and stable finanS-OIL focused on pioneering overseas markets S-OIL is endeavoring to establish a sound and cial structure through world-class effective fiproactively right from the beginning of its fountransparent governance structure and fulfill the nancial management and optimal financing in dation and transformed the domestic refining expectations of various stakeholders by ensurthe face of the rapidly changing business enviindustry, which had been regarded as a simple ing that checks and cooperation procedures are ronment, and is maximizing our corporate value manufacturing and domestic industry, into a carried out harmoniously in its management by harnessing limited resources effectively. high value-added export industry, thereby conactivities through the diversity and expertise of tributing to the national economy and society’s its board of directors and specialized commitWe have achieved outstanding feats by maksustainable growth. tees. ing preemptive investments ahead of our rival companies based on our stable financial strucWe are continuously carrying out creative marDirectors with the best expertise and fairness ture. Moreover, we have maintained our healthy keting activities grounded upon best quality decide on important management activities financial structure and credit ratings through and price competitiveness secured by making independently and objectively, and supervise unflagging efforts, while creating record-high investments in upgraded facilities ahead of our major business activities. The CEO and officers profits despite massive financing due to the competitors. On the strength of this, we export embody vision management and responsible RUC/ODC Project, the largest-ever investment more than 50% of our production every year management by exploring new growth engines since our foundation. and are growing into the most competitive and based on progressive entrepreneurship in the admired energy & chemical company in the rapidly changing business environment. By doIn addition, we have protected the profits of all Asia Pacific region. ing so, the Company is continuously creating stakeholders including our investors, through economic, social, and environmental values balanced profit distribution, faithfully paying In addition, the Company is continuously widand maximizing its corporate value. taxes, and transparent and accurate disclosure ening our stable marketing base by expandof business information by reflecting our stakeing its partnerships with key customers in Also, the Company is putting its highest priority holders’ expectations. By so doing, we are conoverseas markets, reinforcing its position in on compliance and ethics management to grow tributing to the national economy. strategic markets, and vigorously pioneering into the most competitive and admired energy new markets. Along with this, we are further and chemical company in the Asia Pacific reThe Company has built and operated a systembeefing up our leadership in the global market gion grounded upon integrity, one of its core atic risk management system in order to conthrough cooperation with Saudi Aramco, our values, and putting every effort into making the tinuously create its economic, social, and envilargest shareholder and the world’s largest oil value take root as its unique corporate culture. ronmental values by responding preemptively company. Driven by the CEO’s strong determination, we to countless potential risks and to satisfy its practice compliance management through an stakeholders. Also, through exhaustive internal In particular, the Company will establish a baloperation of the advanced compliance manageauditing of our independent audit organization, anced business portfolio in the refining, lube, ment system so that all employees familiarize we have improved management transparency and petrochemical areas by successfully comthemselves with legislature related to the Comand laid the foundation for sustainable growth. pleting the RUC/ODC Project, which will kick pany and our own in-house regulations and apoff commercial operations in the second half of ply them naturally in the course of performing Going forward, all S-OIL employees will strive this year, and will further expand our exports to daily duties. Furthermore, we are strengthening to meet investor expectations by committing overseas markets. Also, this project will enable an ethics management through a systematic themselves to creating profits while at the same us to respond preemptively to the International ethics management system comprised of three time endeavoring to achieve sustainable growth Maritime Organization’s sulfur content tightaxes: the Ethics Code, the Ethics Committee, by world-best corporate governance structure, ening requirement in marine oil, effective from and ethics management trainings. transparent management, and ethics manage2020. ment. Going forward, we will aim to achieve the ultiGoing forward, we will aspire with a burning mate success by never compromising on our desire to aim higher than ever before to achieve commitment to honesty, fairness, and complyour dream, fueled by boundless energy, strong ing with the highest moral and ethical stanmotivation, and a can-do spirit. dards. 13 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Introduciton Value Creation Inspired by the challenging spirits and passion for creativity, S-OIL creates economic values with its stable supply of quality fuel and raw materials to transportation, power generation, and petrochemical industries. The Company shares the values with diverse stakeholders to contribute to growth of the national economy and society. 1 Crude Oil 2 PRODUCTION 3 TRANSPORTATION (thousand barrels) (thousand barrels) (KRW in million) Fuel products Lube products Petrochemical products Logistics cost 241,019 210,055 14,060 20,726 357,985 6 ECONOMIC VALUE SHARED 5 ECONOMIC VALUE 4 MARKETING & SALES (KRW in million) CREATED (KRW in million) Employees Partners Local communities Environment Market share for domestic retail Share of overseas personnel expense Procurement Social contribution Environmental investment light oil products exports 637,569 18,783,141 11,865 15,640 2,376,918 22.2 % 57.6 % 14 15 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Stakeholder S-OIL has established various stakeholder engagement channels tailored to each group’s characteristics to better identify their needs and expectations. The Company then developed and Engagement implemented action plans that are aligned with its strategic directions and objectives in order to fulfill these expectations. The Company ensures that deliverables from implementing action plans are fully reflected in business activities through review and analysis. •Voice of customer (VOC) system Su •Customer satisfaction survey pp ly •Customer monitoring group of •Customer suggestion system od n ic io pr at •Call center uc un ts m •Bonus card website & app. & Co m •Marketing contest se rv •Presentation to support ices service stations •Public hearing •Visit to service stations •Seminars & conferences •Service station magazine •Information exchange meeting •In-house magazine •Response to surveys •Champions Club •Honors Club Individual customers •E-Biz , ns & s Go io s ve at on rn st ti e sta s & me ic r M nt rv ing le ed , N Se fil Dea ia G G O LP Cu s Corporate customers Ow Local communities •Public hearing & seminar tome •Strategic cooperation meeting a •Customer appreciation day St •Conference rs n er •Visit to the Refinery •Dinners with customers s & Other •Activities in associations •Brochure •Sunshine Sharing CSR activities s •Visit to customers •Evaluation by external institutions ke ye e •Workshop h old plo ers Em s pp Em Su pl lie oy rs ee •Meetings with the CEO •Ethics •Technical exchange meeting •Top management’s help desk Shareholders & visit to production sites •Safety workshop •CompanyInvestors •Employee satisfaction •Support for training & wide business education on safety & health survey information session •Education on waste •Grievance Handling •In-house magazine treatment •General shareholders’ Committee •Intranet •E-procurement system meeting •Monthly employee •HR Webzine •Visit to contractors •Consultation by telephone meeting & e-mail •Labor-management t •Presentation, conference & Council em en uc t meeting for IR •Employee suggestion an od •Meeting with analysts system ag Pr m ion •Disclosure on the website HR •Visit to financial institutions •Meeting for credit rating Capital operation 16 Introduciton Materiality Test In the Sustainability Report, S-OIL covers economic, environmental, and social issues from the perspectives of C.E.O. based on the Company’s sustainability management system as well as global reporting guidelines. To this end, the Company conducted materiality test by engaging internal and external stakeholders and identified 27 key issues with a significant influence on its sustainability management activities. Materiality Test Process STEP1 STEP2 STEP3 Identify sustainability management Evaluate stakeholders’ interest and concerns Select key issues (top management issues (create an issue pool) (stakeholder survey) review and materiality matrix analysis) •Benchmark global sustainability •Survey contents: Key sustainability issues with •Invite top management’s participation in initiatives and the industry at home significant impact on the Company and stakeholders the materiality test through a review of and abroad, media research (743 news among 29 issues in the pool selected issues articles covering the Company by 10 •Period: 7 days (Jan. 24 ~ Jan. 30, 2018) •Perform materiality matrix analysis and major Korean daily newspapers in •Target: 3,005 stakeholders including customers, select 27 key issues 2017), and customer feedback received employees, investors, suppliers and local communities via VOC (3,580 cases in 2017) •Respondents: 583 persons (response rate: 19.4%, •Pool of 29 issues 267 customers, 201 employees, 115 owners & other stakeholders) •Survey method: Corporate groupware system and e-mail, etc. Materiality Matrix Key Issues Reporting Scope Stakeholders Page Customers C 1. Realization of customer satisfaction S-OIL internal/ external Customers 32 E  mployees 14 2. P  roduct quality assurance in the S-OIL internal Customers, 35  wners & O 21 distribution stage Government other stakeholders 25 3. Reinforcement of R&D 11 4. Enhancement of marketing activities Customers 38 22 5. Protection of customers’ personal S-OIL internal/ Customers, 40 5 7 information external Government 24 9 23 6. Fair marketing activities 10 7. Prevention of activities against fair 13 competition 27 26 8. Enhancement of overseas marketing S-OIL internal Customers 42 activities 19 E 9. HR management S-OIL internal Employees 46 1 16 4 10. Fair evaluation & compensation 11. Talent cultivation 48 6 2 12. Healthy corporate culture 50 20 13. H armonized labor-management relations 14. Industrial safety & health S-OIL internal/ Employees, 53 15 management external Suppliers, Local communities, Government O 15. Investments in new projects S-OIL internal Employees, 58 Stakeholder Concren 12 Shareholders 3 16. Operational efficiency improvement 60 & investors 17. Establishment of financial soundness S-OIL internal/ Customers, 63 18. Transparent disclosure of external Employees, management information Shareholders & investors, Suppliers, Local communities, 18 Government 19. Management of sustainability in Suppliers 66 8 supply chain 20. Fair selection of suppliers 21. E nhancement of environmental manS-OIL internal Employees, 69 17 agement system Local 22. Management of pollutants Communities, Government 23. Management of environmental impact 24. Economic impact of climate change S-OIL internal/ Customers, 74 external Shareholders & investors, Suppliers, Local communities, Government 25. Social contribution activities Customers, 76 26. T  reatment of grievances of local Employees, Local 79 communities communities, Government 27. E  conomic development of local Business Impact communities 17 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Stakeholder Interviews What kind of efforts do you think S-OIL has to make to become a beloved company? 1 Seok-Chan Oh, Site Manager of Maxerve (Building management service provider) 2 Min-Seok Kim, Member of GOODOIL Friends 1 2 1 As a successful building management service provider, Max2 It is difficult, if not impossible, for a business to satisfy all, but erve has built valuable relationships with many clients, but we are it becomes quite clear if we target a certain area. For a business always impressed with S-OIL as we can see how it tries to equally wishing to be loved by its stakeholders, it should create profits and fairly treat contractors’ employees wherever possible. S-OIL consistently; launch quality products at an affordable price for employees speak to us in good manners even when they have greater customer satisfaction; and pursue continuous growth in complaints, which make us feel respected and appreciated by our market value, reasonable dividend payout and transparent manbusiness partner. agement to live up to the investors’ expectations. Although what S-OIL is doing is already more than good enough, It is a daunting task to achieve all of these at the same time, but a little more effort can go a long way toward becoming a beloved I’m sure that if a business aims to make changes in one segment company. For example, Family Day that comes every other week after another, I believe it will bring about satisfaction and affection was not sufficiently communicated at first, and night shift workers from the Company’s owner, employees and customers alike. and people dropping by for a meal had to waste the trip because the cafeteria was closed. The Company cafeteria is primarily for S-OIL remains in the black at least, according to its financial S-OIL employees but, in often cases, it is frequented by contracstatements. That is why I think it’s time to turn its eyes to sattor’s employees and locals. It would be good if S-OIL could take isfying employees, customers and investors. The Company may care of such small things as well. start the effort by identifying areas where employee satisfaction and the Company’s management direction diverge and reduce the gap based on social consensus. The benefit of the effort may take such different forms as greater fringe benefits, more flexible work hours and wider employment opportunities. Of course, premium quality oil at an affordable price is always a pleasant surprise for customers. We go to a service station to buy gasoline or diesel to power our car, meaning our choice is practically over the minute we pull the car in. Still, I hope S-OIL can win customers over and make us fall in love with the Company’s products that boasts quality higher than other brands and attractive prices. 18 Introduciton S-OIL has engaged stakeholders through a variety of communication channels, and has conducted interviews before the publication of the Sustainability Report to heed stakeholders’ views on the Company’s sustainability management. Following is the excerpt from several interviewees. What is the single most important In which areas do you think attribute S-OIL needs to be a S-OIL has made progress as a lasting company? corporate citizen? Why is it? 3M  in-Yong Kim, Deputy MGR of S-OIL 4 Hey-Kyung Lee, GM of Korea National Association of Child Welfare 3 4 3 Many people believe the reason for a company’s existence is to 4 When I think of S-OIL, the first thing that comes to mind is its make more profit. However, if a company sets its eyes on surviving friendly image. This could probably be because my organization and thriving for a long period of time, it should build a high levhappens to be located right next to S-OIL, but I often get to see el of trust with its stakeholders, including customers, employees what S-OIL does as a corporate citizen, such as providing drinks and shareholders. To this end, the Company should internalize its to passers-by and establishing GOODOIL as the brand’s image, core values so that all members of the organization can embody and this makes me think that S-OIL always puts customer conthe values in their behaviors. Knowing this, S-OIL manifested the venience first. leadership’s commitment to the core values in the vision declaration ceremony in 2017. The Company also shares core value visual Furthermore, the Company first came to the Korea National Assoitems, such as video clips and office supplies, to encourage its ciation of Child Welfare, not the other way around, asking us what members to reflect the values in their day-to-day work. they can do for children and adolescents in welfare facilities. In partnership with the Association, S-OIL has launched a fellowship I believe, with the Company-wide effort, S-OIL will be able to enprogram, offering scholarship for college students who would othsure the core values are represented by the members in their erwise have to drop out for financial reasons as they left their fabehaviors and decisions, rather than being reduced to an empty cilities because of age limit. The Company also provides financial catchphrase. assistance to culture and arts programs intended to provide emotional and psychological support for children in welfare facilities, and helps high school students acquire diverse licenses, thereby develop their self-reliance. The program is designed to provide the recipients with a stable assistance for at least three years, rather than one-off support. In light of this, I see S-OIL as being professional, compassionate, and responsible with its social contribution programs. I could also feel that a harmonious existence together with the society is incorporated in the Company’s management, which I believe makes GOODOIL much friendlier. 19 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Special Report RUC/ODC Project Through years of meticulous examination into the strategic directions S-OIL has executed Project Implementation Status (unit: %) target Progress rate Residue Upgrading Complex & Olefin Downstream Complex Project (RUC/ODC Project) 100 92 94 since 2015 by investing about KRW 4.8 trillion, the largest investment in its history. The Company achieved mechanical completion in the first half of 2018 by making timely progress in design, procurement and construction. It is now preparing for commercial oper31 35 ation in the second half the year following commissioning of each process. Successful execution of the RUC/ODC Project will enable the Company to secure new future growth 5 6 engines and build a balanced business portfolio across fuel, lube and petrochemical ar2015 2016 2017 2018 eas. S-OIL expects it will bring the Company a step closer to attaining Vision 2025 aimed at becoming the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific, Resources Utilized for Construction with excellence in operations, strategic investment, and human talent. Total no. of resources 4.5 million man-days With the successful completion of the RUC/ODC Project, S-OIL will demonstrate its unrivaled competence to convert residue oil into high value-added products such as gasoline, Max. no. of resources per day thereby bolstering profitability of the fuel business. This project will also allow the Compaapprox. 17,000 persons ny to produce high value-added petrochemical products including polypropylene (PP) and propylene oxide (PO), which will ensure higher profitability and stable business diversification. PP is used in a wide variety of applications, including automotive bumpers, and PO Materials & Equipment Utilized for is the basic raw material of polyurethane that goes in the interior material of automobiles, Construction electronic products, and insulators. Through the RUC/ODC Project, S-OIL also expects to Concrete Piping be able to grow its desulfurization capacity at an opportune time when the International 449,000 ㎥ 4.8 million Dia-inch Maritime Organization (IMO) intends to significantly strengthen global sulfur content on Steel Cabling 110,000 ton marine fuel starting 2020. 8,200 km Equipment & Device 2,900 sets Area 1 HS-FCC Area (High Severity Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit) •HS-FCC, ERU, BEU, Utility & Offsite Production Capacity 76,000 B/D Products Gasoline, Propylene, Ethylene, LCO Area 2 RHDS Area (Residue Hydro-Desulfurization unit) •RHDS, SRU/TGTU, ARU/SWS, Utility & Offsite Production Capacity 63,000 B/D 20 Introduciton Area 3 Alkylation Area (Alkylation unit) •Alkylation, C4 Isomerization, SAR, Utility Production Capacity 14,450 B/D Products Alkylate ODC Area (Propylene oxide/polypropylene unit) •PO, PP, MTBE, Utility & Offsite Production Capacity P  P 405,000 ton/year, PO 300,000 ton/year Products Polypropylene, Propylene oxide, MTBE Area 4 Detailed design and drawing were completed in view of the optimal facility stability and operational efficiency, and S-OIL procured major materials and selected competitive vendors through a transparent and fair procurement process. Construction processes were performed efficiently by tapping into as many skilled construction resources and safety experts as possible and implementing rigorous quality control as well as safety management that enabled the Company to achieve a near-zero defect rate. For each process, the Company puts in place operation trainings by process designed to help increase the capabilities of operators. The three-year RUC/ODC Project used a total of 449,000㎥ of concrete, 110,000 tons of steel, 2,900 sets of equipment & device, 4.8 million dia-inch of piping and 8,200 km of cabling, and also mobilized a total of 4.5 million man-days, which reached as many as 17,000 construction workers a day at peak time. . In 2017, S-OIL signed a long-term contract with Malaysia’s Petronas for cost reduction and stable supply of LNG to be used for the Company’s plant operations and as feedstock for hydrogen production. Going forward, the Company plans to expand its business portfolio into olefin downstream through new investments in general-purpose resins such as polyethylene and further strengthening the competitiveness of high value-added products. Making inroads into the petrochemical downstream with PP and PO, the Company expects to fortify its technologies and market competitiveness in petrochemical business and achieve Interconnecting greater profitability as well as balanced business portfolio. To this end, & Revamping (Construction the Company has done olefin downstream market research and sein the existing Refinery) lected promising products based on their marketability and investment •Revamping existing facilities, attractiveness. For the selected products, the Company will follow up Interconnecting and Tie-in with an investment feasibility study by weighing such factors as techArea 5 nologies, economic viability and synergies with the existing Refinery. 21 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate A sound and transparent corporate governance is the cornerstone for corporate sustainable growth. It is also the bedrock of ensuring corporate transparency and productivity improvement and is a key to gaining Governance trust from diverse stakeholders and elevating corporate value. S-OIL has established a transparent and sound corporate governance structure and a trusting relationship with stakeholders through organizing the Board of Directors (BOD) and sub-committees with diversity and rich expertise and ensuring an appropriate level of checks and balances in their activities. Balance between Diversity and Independence of BOD S-OIL nominates director candidates with diversity including nationality, race, gender, etc. and expertise to ensure S-OIL’s Corporate that various stakeholders’ interests are duly represented and mutual complementation among directors can be Governance maintained in accordance with ready-made internal procedures. They are officially appointed as directors at the Rating in 2017 shareholders’ meeting. Also thoroughly vetted and carefully considered for director candidate selection are the (Korea Corporate Governance capability and capacity to work as part of an independent and objective BOD, as well as their management vision, Service) leadership, expert knowledge, and career experiences. Further, to ensure the independence of the BOD, a candidate is also screened for factors that may be material to that director’s ability to be independent. Thus, whether he/she is working or has been working for the Company for the past five years, whether he/she is engaging or has been engaging in any audit or consulting service for the Company, and whether he/she has any material relationship or transaction with the Company are comprehensively taken into consideration. For outside directors, A+ in particular, the Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Committee (ODCRC) directly recommends the most suitable candidates to the general shareholders’ meeting, after evaluating the candidates in accordance with internal standards to confirm that they have no vested interest in the Company or any other reasons for disqualification. The BOD, newly launched in March 2018, consists of directors with professionalism in the fields of engineering, management, trade, accounting, energy, administration, and politics. Having served in various fields, such as the government, international organizations, academia, and industry, they will significantly contribute to enhancing the expertise and independence of the BOD. BOD Composition (as of March 23, 2018) Category Name Position & Duty Career Service Term Inside Othman Al-Ghamdi RD & CEO Former CEO of Aramco Asia Korea Limited Sep. 5, 2016 ~ Director Former operation manager of Saudi Aramco Ras Tanura Refinery Non-standing A.M. Al-Judaimi Senior Vice President of Saudi Aramco Mar. 23, 2018 ~ Director Former director of Saudi Aramco Northern Area Oil Operations Former manager of Saudi Aramco Berri Gas Plant, Shaybah Producing, Ras Tanura Producing, Gas Ventures Development, Rabigh Project Execution Dept. S.A. Al-Hadrami Member of the CC, Officer of Saudi Aramco Mar. 20, 2015 ~ Member of the ODCRC Former manager of Saudi Aramco Product Sales & Marketing Former staff of Saudi Aramco Cash Management & Investment in Treasury, JV Development & Coordination, Product Sales & Marketing Former staff of Saudi Consolidated Electric Company S.M. Al-Hereagi Officer of Saudi Aramco Mar. 18, 2016 ~ Former managing director of Saudi Petroleum Overseas Limited Former auditor head of Saudi Aramco Treasury Advisory & Treasury Services Dept. I.Q. Al-Buainain President of Aramco Trading Company Mar. 23, 2018 ~ Former director of Saudi Aramco Asia JV Dept. Mar. 20, 2015 ~ Former manager of Saudi Aramco International JV Portfolio Mar. 18, 2016 Mar. 19, 2008 ~ Mar. 19, 2010 Outside C.S. Kim Chairman of the BOD Former Deputy Secretary General of World Trade Organization Mar. 20, 2015 ~ Director Former Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy S.W. Lee Chairman of the ODCRC Former executive committee member of International Ski Federation Mar. 20, 2015 ~ Former Chairman of SsangYong Oil Refining Co. Y.A. Al-Zaid Chairman of the BAC, Former Ambassador of Saudi Arabia to China, Former project manager of Jiddah Oil Refinery Mar. 18, 2016 ~ Member of the ODCRC Former chemical engineer of Jiddah Oil Refinery S.W. Hong Chairman of the CC, Former Minister of Knowledge Economy Mar. 20, 2015 ~ Member of the BAC I.T. Hwang Member of the BAC, Professor of Business College at Chungang University Mar. 23, 2018 ~ Member of the CC Former Chairman of Korean Accounting Association M.N. Shinn Member of the BAC, Former CEO of Doosan Fuel Cell Mar. 23, 2018 ~ (Female) Member of the CC, Former CEO of Fuel Cell Power Member of the ODCRC Former researcher of Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology 22 * The BOD is based on the one-tier Board system in accordance with the domestic law. Business Fundamental Balance between Checks and Cooperation Average BOD Meeting Participation Rate in 2017 S-OIL establishes sound and transparent corporate governance led by the BOD and sub-committees ensuring checks and cooperation. The BOD members are individually 92.4 % appointed to serve a one-year term at the general shareholders’ meeting and a majority of directors are appointed as outside directors who have been verified for independence according to the Company’s principle. An independent outside director has been serving the role of BOD chairman since 2015, and all members except for the CEO who is an inside Independency Policy of Outside Directors director are non-standing directors. This allows the BOD to objectively and independentTo help the BOD conduct independent and ly oversee and check the management activities and performances of the CEO and the objective decision-making for the protection of Company, and thereby ensures that decisions are made in a way that maximizes the value the rights of shareholders and investors, S-OIL appoints outside directors who satisfy the of stakeholders including shareholders. The Company makes sure that the BOD meeting following independency policy (disqualification participation rate of each director stays over 75% annually barring exceptional circumreasons). Existing outside directors also stances so that checks and cooperation, one of the key BOD functions, can be achieved lose their posts when they cannot meet the independency policy. through active participation of the directors. In addition, the Board Audit Committee (BAC) 1. Directors, executive officers and employees comprised only of outside directors evaluates the general matters relating to the Comwho are engaged in the Company, or directors, auditors, executive officers pany’s management activities and the operational status of the Internal Accounting Manand employees who have engaged in the agement System (IAMS) and gets reports on internal audit performance. The Company Company within the last five years; bans its outside directors and non-standing directors from serving as directors of two or 2.The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants, in cases more companies in addition to the Company, and all outside directors and non-standing where the largest shareholder is a natural directors fulfil this requirement. person; 3. Directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of a corporation, in cases where Enhancement of Expertise of BOD the largest shareholder is the corporation; To enhance the expertise of the BOD, S-OIL regularly conducts a briefing session to sup4.The spouses, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants of directors, auditors, and port the BOD’s decision-making, including the overall contents such as changes in the executive officers who have engaged in management environment, business strategies, risk factors, and management measures. the Company or a parent company and a subsidiary of the Company within the last Also the Company submits a monthly report to directors on economic, social, and environthree years; mental issues that may affect the Company’s sustainability. The BOD regularly visits the 5.Directors, auditors, executive officers and Onsan Refinery and project sites to stay abreast of the major pending issues on site. In ademployees who are engaged in a parent company and a subsidiary of the Company dition, the Company has three sub-committees in support of the BOD’s independence and within the last five years; efficient decision-making: the BAC, the Compensation Committee (CC), and the ODCRC. 6. Directors, auditors, executive officers and Also, the Management Committee (MC) contributes to enhancing the Company’s sustainemployees of a corporation in an important interest such as a business relationship with able growth by pre-analyzing critical issues on social, economic, and environmental fronts the Company as follows; to ensure the BOD’s reasonable decision-making on annual and long-term management ① The Company’s important customers, suppliers and related persons; plans, budget, and labor policy. In addition, the BOD evaluates its activities and reviews its ② A corporation that concludes an advisory performance every year. agreement such as legal advice, management consultation, etc. with the Company or top managements of the Executives’ Responsible Management Company; S-OIL grants compensation to management according to the degree of the achievement ③A  corporate that contracts a private service agreement with the Company or top of shortand long-term targets, which have been set objectively, so that all executives, managements of the Company; including the CEO, can exert their utmost effort to protect shareholder values and to fulfil ④ An accounting firm that has been the the Company’s role as a corporate citizen. According to the resolution of the CC comprised auditor of the Company within the last three years; of directors, excluding inside directors, to ensure the independence and fairness of deci⑤ A non-profit organization and related sion on executive compensation levels, the Company sets the compensation levels of all persons that receives important donations executives, including the CEO, by taking into account the achievement of the short-term from the Company, etc. 7. Directors, auditors, executive officers and management targets consisting of ROIC and EBITDA and the 3-year midand long-term employees of another company for which targets consisting of the 3-year Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of S-OIL stock directors, executive officers and employees of the Company serve as directors and prices relative to the KOSPI 200 Energy & Chemicals Index. executive officers; and 8. A person who is determined to undermine the independence of the BOD due to other interests with the Company or who is otherwise unable to faithfully perform his/ her duties as an outside director 23 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Compliance In tandem with the higher social demand for industrial safety, environment, anti-corruption, and fair trade, relevant laws and regulations are on the rise, together with increasingly stringent punishment and civil Management penalties for violations. In addition, businesses wishing to make inroads into overseas markets are expected to fully comply with global standards in terms of anti-corruption, and fair trade etc. It is, therefore, critical to comply with domestic and global laws and regulations as well as corporate policies for a company to sustain growth. In order to become a global major energy and chemical company built on the corporate core value of integrity, compliance management is considered a top priority by S-OIL and is fully implemented by its employees. The Company operates a system to ensure that all employees understand and comply with laws and regulations in their everyday work. Compliance Management as Corporate Culture Led by the top management’s strong commitment to compliance management and emViolation of Anti-Graft Act (2016~2017) ployees’ active engagement to practice it in their daily work, S-OIL has embedded compliance management into its corporate culture. All employees are regularizing compliance 0 activities by examining whether a task meets compliance standards before undertaking the job and conducting self-assessment on legal issues. The Company actively supports cases compliance activities through provision of real time legal updates on new and amended laws and regulations, training sessions on important legal matters, and regular compliance monitoring. Compliance activities are reported to the top management on a regular basis. Furthermore, the Company enhances employees’ awareness of compliance by distributing compliance newsletters, sending out compliance trends led by global corporations, and providing various compliance programs such as compliance campaigns. The Company further reinforces compliance management through in-depth analysis of laws and regulations, guidelines, and, customized education. 12 Compliance Activities 1. Regular Inspection 5. Legal Information Meeting 9. Compliance Guide Update 2. Priority Management 6. CEO Legal Update 10. Compliance Training 3. Frequent/Special Monitoring 7. Management Report 11. Compliance Campaign 4. Legal Update 8. Profile Update 12. Compliance Newsletter Comprehensive Compliance Activities in Relation to Anti-Graft Act In order to fully comply with the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act (the Anti-Graft Act), S-OIL conducts comprehensive compliance activities, such as educating its employees on how to comply with this Act while performing their duties. Through these activities, the Company was able to achieve strict compliance management in terms of anti-corruption and anti-bribery. •Training on the Ant-Graft Act for employees •Publication and distribution of guidelines on Anti-Graft Act compliance •Checklist-based self-assessment on Anti-Graft Act compliance •Monitoring of self-assessment results on Anti-Graft compliance •Publication and distribution of the “Do’s & Don’ts” on Anti-Graft Act compliance •Operation of standard articles and pledge on Anti-Graft Act compliance 24 Business Fundamental S-OIL’s Compliance System hailed as Best Practice S-OIL’s systematized compliance system has been recognized by external parties as good practice in terms of compliance management and has become the system to benchmark for many companies at home and abroad. In 2018, the Company will do its best to enhance its compliance system operation so that it may be continuously benchmarked as an excellent operational system. •Hansol Group’s benchmarking for its compliance system implementation •CJ Group’s benchmarking for its compliance system implementation •Best compliance management practice sharing with Saudi Aramco Appropriate Response to Major Legal Disputes S-OIL is faithfully complying with relevant laws at home and abroad, focusing not only on prevention of potential legal disputes but also on maintaining trust with stakeholders through appropriate responses against actual occurrences of disputes. In 2017, the Company was once again able to confirm it sound compliance management by successfully winning a damage suit in which the plaintiffs claimed that there was price collusion of regular oil products. Back in 2007, Korea Fair Trade Commission had launched an investigation of oil refiners into allegations of colluding with one another to manipulate the prices of diesel for automobiles during which approximately 500 truck drivers filed a suit for compensation against refiners. However, not only did the court rule that S-OIL did not take part in collusive acts, as the Company fully explained and clarified its non-involvement in the collusion, all the plaintiffs dropped the case against the Company, ending the damage lawsuit which had been stretched into the year 2017. The lawsuits between the said plaintiffs and other refiners are still undergoing as of now. As such, the Company has made concerted efforts to establish compliance management and prevent possibilities of disputes which led to strong relationships with stakeholders based on trust, without any serious civil or criminal cases throughout 2017. Compliance Monitoring System S-OIL introduced the compliance monitoring system to help employees understand corporate regulations and abide by them in their daily work, thereby minimizing work confusion Violation of Internal Regulations found by Compliance Monitoring (2015~2017) and risks arising from negligence. Every quarter, the Company conducts compliance monitoring against 120 checklists on 37 regulations. The results are reflected in the performance assessment of team leaders and the heads of Divisions to encourage employees’ voluntary compliance with in-house regulations. In 2017, there was zero violation identi0 cases fied through the compliance monitoring. Compliance Training 25 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Ethics For a business to thrive long-term and generate high economic values, profitable and sustainable growth must be achieved by addressing incorrect practices or cost structures according to ethical standards. As Management / such, ethics management is not philanthropic responsibility but an obligation that a company must obHuman Rights serve, and is the key management principle that all members of the company, from the management to the Protection employees, have to put into practice. At S-OIL, ethics management consists of three organically connected pillars: Code of Business Ethics and Conduct; Ethics Committee; and Training on ethics management. In addition, as a member of the UN Global Compact, the Company is committed to protecting employees, suppliers, local residents, and stakeholders in accordance with its independent set of human rights policies established after the principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights and labor. Methodical Ethics Management System language between employees. The Company took disciplinary acCode of Business Ethics and Conduct (Ethics Code) S-OIL’s tion against six employees according to internal regulations and Ethics Code consists of two parts: the Code of Business Ethics procedures, shared the details with the entire Company, and gave stipulates attitudes toward customers, business partners, sharetraining to officers and employees in sales offices to prevent the holders, and investors as well as responsibilities to employees, recurrence of similar events. The Ethics Committee reports activisociety and the community; and the Code of Conduct defines basic ties to the CEO and the BAC on a regular basis, while disclosing its ethics for employees, prohibition of conflict of interests, prohibiactivities to our stakeholders through the S-OIL Ethics Managetion of bribery/entertainment/convenience, and reporting process ment website. Starting February 2018, the Company implemented of violations. The Company’s suppliers, subsidiaries and joint venthe ethics management evaluation program where employees, tures are required to abide by the Ethics Code. Suppliers, in parservice stations, LPG filling stations, corporate customers and ticular, must sign and submit the Ethics Code Pledge to register suppliers are asked to evaluate the Company’s ethics manageas vender companies. If the Company’s suppliers are found to be ment that encompasses ethical leadership, respect for employinvolved in legal violations or unethical acts, they may either be ees, customers, suppliers, abuse of dominant position, fairness in excluded from the partners’ list or face disadvantage. The Combusiness dealings, and any experience with corruption. The Company updates the Ethics Code on a regular basis by reflecting the pany makes sure the evaluation results are reflected in corporate changing social standards on ethics and reviewing ethics regupolicies to further strengthen its ethics management. lations of leading global companies. In 2017, through reinforcing the Ethics Code Pledge system where every employee pledges Training on Ethics Management S-OIL offers training on ethto comply with the Company’s ethics policy, S-OIL now requires ics management tailored for different positions and job functions employees to disclose personal information concerned with any to raise employees’ ethical awareness in their day-to-day work material conflict of interest and to submit the pledge every three while inviting outside experts for special lectures. In 2017, eight years instead of a one-off submission when they join the Company. courses on ethics management were offered, and all employIn order to encourage employees to report ethics management ees completed the company-wide ethics management training violations, the Company has also strengthened the whistleblower given by an outside expert to raise employees’ understanding of protection system, opened an anonymous reporting channel, and the Anti-Graft Act. Also, the Company offered case-based marintroduced a leniency program for confessors. keter training for sales offices that have a high chance of committing an ethics violation due to frequent encounters with busiEthics Committee S-OIL operates the Ethics Committee conness partners. The Company holds ethics management training sisting of the Legal & Compliance HQ Head, the HR Div. Head, sessions for employees of suppliers and affiliated companies to the Corporate Planning Div. Head and the Controller. They are aphelp understand the basic principles of ethics regulations, therepointed by the CEO after being screened by the BAC for eligibility. by raising the quality of ethics management across the supply The Ethics Committee is responsible for supervising ethics manchain. Moreover, the Company operates self-assessment system agement activities, establishing ethics regulations and programs, of ethics management to help raise awareness of ethics among and elevating ethics awareness in the organization. If stakeholdemployees. In 2017, the Company added five new assessment criers of employees with the highest chances of conflict of interests teria to the system, reflecting key concepts of the Anti-Graft Act. make a transaction with S-OIL, the Ethics Committee must review it to prevent violation of ethics regulations. In 2017, there were three ethics regulation violation cases involving financial affairs ※E  thics Management Help Desk Tel : 82-2-3772-5231 Fax : 82-2-3772-5239 between an employee and a business partner and inappropriate e-mail : ethics@s-oil.com Website : ethics.s-oil.com 26 Business Fundamental Human Rights Protection related to work & life balance, power harassment, safety, and perS-OIL shares its human rights policy with suppliers and stakesonal information were found from own business. Risks related holders as per the internal process while identifying potential risk to working condition, safety and health were found from 31 supgroups and issues by conducting assessment on a regular basis. pliers. As a measure to mitigate the found risks, the Company inRisk factors identified in the assessment are addressed and then troduced the PC Off system for employees and upgraded program followed up with monitoring to prevent the recurrence of simito prevent information leakage through personal PC. Discipline of lar cases. The assessment result of suppliers, in particular, is power harassment was strengthened and the prevention training considered when evaluating supplier qualifications. In 2017, the was implemented. The Company also helped 31 suppliers improve Company conducted a full-scale human rights inspection on key safety and health. stakeholders affected by its business activities. As a result, risks Human Rights Policies S-OIL shall respect human rights norms described in the Universal 4. (Forced and child labor) We shall not engage in forced labor against Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business the will of employees and not receive any labor in connection with and Human Rights, the UN Global Compact’s principles of human employees' liability. we shall not directly employ children under rights and labor, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the ILO compulsory education age or under the age of 15. Also, we shall respect Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the laws and protect all basic rights such as education, rest, health, nutrition, and regulations of the country in which the Company has entered, etc. hygiene, freedom from violence and exploitation of children. Therefore, the Company shall seek to protect the human rights of all 5. (Discrimination) We shall prohibit discrimination based on race, communities affected by its business activities, as well as its business color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, and provides equal sites, and contribute to substantial improvements. To this end, the opportunity and treatment. Company shall adhere to the following 8 human rights principles. In addition, suppliers of products or services, direct invested companies, 6. (Personal information protection) We shall use personal information and business partners should also share the Company's human rights only for the purpose of obtaining. We shall continuously check to policy and participate in the protection and improvement of the human prevent leakage of personal information to the outside and strengthen rights of the community in accordance with the 8 principles. management system. 1. (Working condition) We shall respect and treat its employees with 7. (Human rights of local communities) We shall prevent negative impacts dignity, and provide over legal standards working conditions such as on the human rights of local communities based on respect for the wages, working hours, and breaks. We shall grant the right to freedom culture of them. We shall contribute to improving the quality of life of of association and collective bargaining, and not take unfair treatment local residents by supporting economic, social and cultural development. for this reason. 8. (Human rights survey) We shall systematically monitor potential human 2. (Safety & health) We shall provide workers with a safe working rights risk groups and issues. If risks are found, we shall take immediate environment and continuously enhances the safety and health remedial actions and prevent similar cases from recurring. We shall management system. We shall minimize the safety and health impacts continuously upgrade its human rights management system to prevent of production processes or products and services provided by us. human rights issues from occurring throughout the supply chain. 3. (Harassment) We shall protect all stakeholders, including employees, business partners, and local residents, from exposure to any kind of harassment that violates human dignity. Human rights inspection procedure Establishment of annual Conduction of human rights Establishment of Implementation of human rights inspection plan inspection improvement plan improvement plan 7 areas including working Target: the Company, JVs, Establish an improvement Performance check after conditions, safety & health, suppliers, etc. plan for all identified human improvement harassment, etc. rights risks Through the Ethics Code, S-OIL strictly bans employees to use its whether it has been implemented appropriately. Also, the Comorganization, manpower, and assets for the purpose of providing pany strictly controls the occurrence of unethical acts that could political funds or for political purposes. In addition, the Company arise in the process of establishing and implementing the CSR acaims to create social and environmental values as a corporate cittivity plan. There has been no donation to non-profit foundations izen through its CSR activities and stringently prohibits any activity nor procurement for political purposes and the Company will conof a political nature that goes astray from their inherent purpose tinue to ensure that money will be spent on only procurement and or activity that could cause any negative effect on society. To this CSR activities related to their intrinsic nature and that additional end, the Company organized an independent and objective Donaexpenses will not be spent to exercise any political pressure. tion Committee comprised of executives from various organizations, reviews an overall CSR activity plan every year, and monitors 27 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 In a fast-paced business environment, factors affecting a company’s operation become increasingly diverse Risk and complicated, and uncertainties keep mounting. As such, a systematic risk management has emerged Management as an essential tool for any business to overcome countless potential risks that threaten its survival and achieve sustainable growth. S-OIL has established and implemented an efficient risk management system to proactively respond to potential risks, generate economic, social, and environmental values, and grow together with investors and stakeholders. What’s more, the Company’s rigorous internal auditing promotes transparency in its business and addresses improper practices and inefficient cost structures, thus laying the foundation for sustainable growth. Enhancement of Risk Management System S-OIL has established and has been operating a highly-advanced risk management system so as to respond to all risk factors that could arise in the course of its business in a more efficient and timely manner. Employees at the Company conduct optimized risk response activities through risk management systems including Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) for company-wide risk management; Emergency Control Program (ECP) for swift and efficient response to emergencies; Early Warning System (EWS) for enhanced risk monitoring and prevention; and Internal Accounting Management System (IAMS) for effective internal control of the organizations and their work performance. Risk Management Governance S-OIL has in place an integrated risk management governance system where all employees from the top management down to ground-level employees are given risk management responsibilities to ensure such activities are performed organically at the corporate level through various risk management programs. Aimed at ensuring risk management activities are fully aligned with the Company’s strategic management principle, the ERM Committee composed of the top management including the CEO sets the general directions for risk management and supervises company-wide risk management status on a regular basis. Matters requiring attention and priority are reported to the BOD when necessary and reflected in the Company’s strategic risk management policies. Company-wide Management of Major Risks S-OIL systematically manages the process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and addressing major risks through operating ERM, thus ensuring that risks do not translate into real dangers which stand in the way of achieving management goals. To this end, key risk indicators for each major risk are monitored for risk prevention and timely response as per the risk response manuals. Risk prevention and mitigation activities are then reported to the ERM Committee, which selects major risk issues every year depending on their priority amid a fast changing environment and supervises their management status throughout the year. ECP for Optimized Risk Response S-OIL has implemented the ECP aimed at taking a swift, well-coordinated response to minimize personnel and property damage in the event of an unpredicted emergency. The Company has also installed the Emergency Control Center (ECC) in all major business sites including the Head Office. Furthermore, by periodically conducting company-wide emergency drills and regional emergency drills, the Company improves its risk response capability. In 2017, the Company revisited and revamped its contingency plan for emergency situations at terminals outside the Refinery. Such efforts on multiple fronts enabled efficient coordination and risk response through activating the ECC when an actual emergency situation occurred. EWS for Timely Risk Response S-OIL’s EWS ensures a prompt response to a variety of risks related to work by monitoring risk-generating factors in real time. Every department reviews and responds to abnormal signals regarding their respective work domain in a swift manner as per the pre-defined EWS monitoring scenario, taking early action to prevent the aggravation of risks. 28 Business Fundamental Effective Internal Control though IAMS With the purpose of assuring the reliability of financial information, S-OIL examines its internal control process and conducts the evaluation of internal control on a half-year basis by operating the IAMS. The Company updated the internal control items that govern the roles and responsibilities of each organization at the corporate level, and streamlined the internal control assessment by developing new assessment items and deleting the ones whose relevance decreased. As such, the Company makes continuous improvement to the IAMS in order to secure the reliability of its financial information and effectiveness of work execution. Operation of Efficient Internal Audit System S-OIL has an independent audit organization under the control of the BAC to guarantee the independence and expertise of internal audits. The Company enhances transparency and corporate value by conducting a thorough internal audit of accounting and business in general. The audit organization, based on the auditors’ extensive experience and in-depth understanding of business operations, concentrates its auditing capabilities on sustaining a sound internal control system and addressing inefficiency in work processes and cost structures. In 2017, in relation to the Anti-Graft Act, the audit organization recommended the process to handle congratulation, condolence and entertainment expenses be improved through self-checking. The regulations and process for receiving reports was revamped as well to ensure reports are directly sent to the General Auditor and that the identity of informants and details of reports are strictly protected. Furthermore, an audit recommendation was made whereby a system should be implemented for the integrated and systematized management of know-how and deliverables from the large projects the Company has been undertaking, thereby boosting the Company’s intellectual property management capability. Auditors carry out regular monitoring of the ongoing RUC/ODC Project, which is scheduled to be completed in 2018, contributing to the success of the large-scale Project. In 2017, periodic on-site inspections have been conducted for the project, making audit observations on the need for improvement of the procurement bidding price review process and the technology assessment criteria. By conducting regular monitoring activities across the project, the Company makes continued efforts to prevent and mitigate risks associated with safety, investment cost, project schedule, and compliance. The Company actively helps auditors to improve individual competency through attending various training courses and to obtain certificates while introducing the professional software Audit Command Language (ACL) for in-depth data analysis. S-OIL strives to raise corporate value through the objective and independent operation of the BAC and the audit organization, the establishment of an effective audit system equivalent to that of leading global corporations, and the execution of audits centered around process improvement. In recognition of such effort, the Company earned the prestigious Best Audit Award from the Korea Listed Companies Association in 2012 and 2015. Emergency Control Center 29 C S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Customers S-OIL strives to deliver customer satisfaction with utmost product quality and reasonable price and to focus on building trust with customers through various communication activities carefully designed based on customer needs. The Company continues to sharpen its overseas marketing capabilities by exploring new markets and enhancing strategic partnerships with key customers abroad. Key Issues Report Subject Aspect Major Stakeholders •Realization of customer satisfaction C1 R  ealization of Customer •Marketing & Labeling •C  ustomers Satisfaction (S-OIL internal/external) •Product quality assurance in the C2  roduct Quality P •Customer Health & Safety •C  ustomers distribution stage Assurance (S-OIL internal) •Government •Reinforcement of R&D •Enhancement of marketing activities C3 M  arketing •Marketing & Labeling •C  ustomers Communication (S-OIL internal) •Protection of customers’ personal C4  rotection of P •Anti-competitive Behavior, •C  ustomers information Customers’ Personal Customer Privacy •G  overnment •Fair marketing activities Information / Fair (S-OIL internal/external) •Prevention of activities against fair Competition in Market competition •Enhancement of overseas marketing C5 Overseas Marketing •Marketing & Labeling •C  ustomers activities (S-OIL internal) 30 Customers Environmental Quality Evaluation on Automotive Fuels Market Share for Domestic 22.2 Retail Light Oil Products % 57.6 Share of Overseas Exports % 31 C S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 1 Realization Why is This Important? of Customer Today, as customer needs diversify and competition intensifies, customer-oriented management has become a key principle of sustainable growth for businesses. Amid rising Satisfaction consumer demands for quality services and products, in particular, companies are putting in greater efforts to maximize consumer benefits. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Maximization of •Implementation of reasonable •Implementation of reasonable •Implementation of reasonable consumer benefits product pricing product pricing product pricing •Market share for service stations: •Market share for service stations: •Market share for service stations: over 18.5% 18.3% over 18.8% (over 19.7% by 2020) •Market share for domestic retail •Market share for domestic retail •Market share for domestic retail light light oil products: over 21.7% light oil products: 22.2% oil products: over 22.3% (over 23.0% by 2020) Swift and accurate •Handling of VOCs within •Time spent on VOC handling: 0.7 •Handling of VOCs within handling of customer designated window: 2 business business day for inquiries, 2.6 designated window: 2 business complaints days for inquiries, 5 business days business days for complaints days for inquiries, 5 business days for complaints for complaints Reinforcement of •Ratio of service stations with •Ratio of service stations with low •Ratio of service stations with high competitiveness low service quality by customer service quality: 21% service quality: over 63% of service and LPG evaluation: under 15% Ratio of service stations with high filling stations * service quality: 59% •Ratio of service stations with high •Ratio of service stations with high •Ratio of service stations with high hygiene by customer evaluation: hygiene: 77% hygiene: over 80% over 60% * Midto long-term target: phased operation of Total Service Training System for service and LPG filling stations service integration (~2020), service standardization (~2025), service ‘premiumization’ (~2030) Our Response S-OIL concentrates its capabilities on enhancing consumer benefits and satisfaction with products of top quality and reasonable prices. The Company is proactive in communicating with customers to identify their needs and reflecting them in its business activities. The Company also pursues shared growth with service and LPG filling stations, its key customers and main customer contact channels, by helping them enhance competitiveness and by solidifying cooperative relations. Reasonable Product Pricing S-OIL makes various efforts to resolve consumers’ suspicions related to product prices and maximize consumer benefits by applying a reasonable and competitive pricing policy. Implementing an independent product pricing system that takes into consideration factors that affect domestic oil product prices such as fluctuations in international oil prices, F/X and domestic market conditions, the Company is leading the domestic pricing with fair and reasonable policy. Although consumers rarely feel the instant impact of lower crude oil price first hand due to high taxes and the lagging structure, the Company’s Price Operation Committee convenes every day and sets standard prices of gasoline, diesel, and kerosene in the domestic market. Furthermore, the Company operates a competitive reward membership program where customers can earn the most value for their purchase, while bringing 32 Customers various customized offerings to Bonus Card members based on Timely and Accurate Handling of Customer Complaints Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system. The Company In a bid to strengthen customer communication, S-OIL has estabalso made available a wide range of discounts on fuel purchases lished an integrated VOC system, through which it handles and through continuous expansion of strategic alliances with most of analyzes all customer feedback received via various channels inthe domestic credit card companies. In particular, the Company cluding customer center, Company website, ARS and SNS in an launched a freight reward card that offers some of the best fuel integrated and systematic manner. The time for VOC handling is purchase rewards in the industry, in an attempt to help alleviate set by VOC type and reflected in KPI for swift handling. Also, the the burden of heavy fuel-consuming tank truck drivers In 2017, a Company performs satisfaction surveys on VOC handling and feed menu dedicated for tank truck drivers was added to S-OIL Mobile the result back to the VOC handling procedure for continuous imPoint Mall, making it much easier for them to use accumulated provement of the system. The handling status is notified to cuspoints. tomers via call, SMS, and e-mails. The Company also runs VOC Awareness Program, an incentive system to recognize customers National Customer Satisfaction Index (unit: points) who raised constructive VOC and employees who handled VOCs 2015 2016 2017 in an efficient manner. The Company interacts with a prosumer 75 74 74 group called GOODOIL Friends to collect valuable opinions and incorporate them in its two-way communication with customers, while operating an SNS-based one-on-one communication channel from 2017. The Company taps into the big data collected in the integrated VOC operation system to identify patterns in customer complaints, while continuing the customer complaints response program called “See You Again Call” where the Company selects Improvement of Consumer Convenience certain service and LPG filling stations each month to share tips As stagnant demand for fuel products, increasing market unceron how to prevent customer complaints that are categorized by tainties, and intensifying competition among suppliers aggravate complaint type. Additionally, the Company attempts to find out sales conditions, S-OIL strives to enhance customer convenience customers’ negative experiences that they did not directly file with and boost its domestic market share on many fronts. For example, the Company through the “Hidden VOC” program by visiting serefforts focus on improving customer experience with the Compavices stations, LPG filling stations, and business partners, which ny’s service and products and securing a reliable source of demand contributes to addressing customer complaints before they arise. by expanding sales network with service stations, LPG filling stations, and direct sales offices. Despite the downward trend in the number of service stations across the country, the Company is the VOC Handling Performance Time Spent on VOC Handling in (unit: cases) 2017 (unit: business days) only refiner in Korea that has increased the number of service sta2015 2016 2017 * D esignated window: 2 business days for tions, thanks to proactive efforts to secure a stable sales network, inquiries, 5 business days for complaints 462,336 thereby minimize inconvenience for customers. The Company also 2.6 387,624 carries out differentiated programs and engages in creative brand 355,632 marketing activities to boost sales, while actively explores new business opportunities. As a result, the Company captured 22.2% of domestic market share for retail light oil products in 2017, which is a new record for the Company. 0.7 Market share for service stations (unit: %) Inquiry VOC Complaint VOC 2015 2016 2017 21.1 21.8 22.2 17.8 18.3 17.2 Market share for S/Ss Market share for domestic retail light oil products Service Station 33 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Competitiveness Enhancement of Service and LPG Filling Stations Revenue Diversification through DevelS-OIL is committed to supporting service and LPG filling stations, the Company’s key cusoping Non-Oil Business With the profittomers and main customer contact channels, to enhance their competitiveness through ability of service and LPG filling stations various on-site programs and proactive communication. S-OIL’s effort has earned the on continued downward trend caused by Company first place in the most recommended service stations list by customers for two intensifying price competition, S-OIL has consecutive years from 2016 to 2017, selected by Korea Management Association Consultdeveloped competitive non-oil businessing based on customer surveys. es which service and LPG filling stations can adopt to diversify their revenue portGOODOIL Etiquette & Clean Up Campaign S-OIL launched the GOODOIL Etiquette and folio. The Company has introduced nonClean Up Campaign in 2016 to address service attitude and restroom hygiene, two most store and small-budget non-oil business common reasons for not revisiting the same service or LPG filling stations from a conitems such as car supplies sales, brokersumer awareness survey, and make their experience more pleasant. Throughout 2017, all age business, and bottled water sales to employees of the Company visited service and LPG filling stations more than 2,000 times service and LPG filling stations. And the to provide core services to customers and keep the areas clean as part of the Smile Day Company is also providing them quality activities. GOODOIL Etiquette with U campaign where a customer and service staff greet PB products such as urea solution and each other with a smile has been received well by customers as it lays out a vision that ethanol washer fluid at competitive pricevery little act of kindness helps build a brighter society. es. In 2017, the Company launched a car wash franchise service, which has the Field Management System Operation In order to improve service quality at service and strongest relevance for service and LPG LPG filling stations to meet rising customer expectations, S-OIL is operating YES Team filling stations, in order to increase their for field training, Encouragement Team to share knowhow on S/S staff management and profit and competitiveness with a premiencourage them, and Monitoring Team to inspect and coach service. In 2017, the Company um and standardized car wash service. further enhanced supporting activities such as the reinforcement of training on responding to customer complaints to minimize customer inconvenience. Awarding for Service and LPG Filling Stations In a bid to build and strengthAcademy for Management Capability Enhancement S-OIL provides a wide range of en long-term cooperative ties with serwell-thought-out supporting programs, such as onand off-line courses, consulting by vice and LPG filling stations that are core in-house consultants, and the GOODOIL Family Magazine to help service and LPG filling customers and an essential component stations strengthen management capabilities. Training for service station owners and onof domestic sales network, S-OIL selects site training are offered by District Biz HQs and sales offices respectively. GOODOIL Family stations that achieved remarkable perforMagazine delivers up-to-date information on management, relevant law and regulations, mance in terms of service, facility manpolicies, and the Company’s major marketing activities and support programs. agement, sales volume, and profitability, and awards S-OIL Champions Club every year. The award promotes competition in good faith and sharing of good practices among service and LPG stations, thereby contributing to improvement in management capabilities. Support for Promotional Events S-OIL launches various promotions and supports purchase of bottled water, wet tissue, and other promotional goods according to the yearly promotion plan that takes into account seasonal factors and feedback from stations. The Company implements differentiated promotions customized to different regions as part of the effort to build competitiveness. S-OIL Champions Club Award Ceremony 34 C Customers 2 Product Quality Why is This Important? Assurance Faced with environmental regulations spreading across the world and ever-rising consumer expectations for quality services and products, business activities to protect consumer interests and minimize impact on the environment and consumer safety by delivering eco-friendly products with superior quality have become a key competitive edge. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Operation of the quality •Migration to ISO 9001:2015 •Acquisition of migration to ISO •Renewal of ISO 9001 certification management system certification 9001:2015 certification Enhancement of •D  evelopment of new products •Development of 3 fuel oil products •Development of new products R&D capabilities (3 fuel oil products) •Introduction of the latest analysis •Introduction of 131 analysis •Introduction of the latest analysis equipment & technology equipment equipment & technology •Reinforcement of joint researches •Completion of 3 joint researches •Reinforcement of joint researches with external institutions (4 cases) and 3 ongoing joint projects with external institutions (7 cases) Production of high-quality •Introduction of new processes & •Ongoing work to introduce Alkylation •Introduction of new processes & eco-friendly products process improvement & RFCC processes process improvement •Zero shipping of sub-quality products •Zero shipping of sub-quality products •Zero shipping of sub-quality products Improvement of quality •Strengthening of quality inspection •Quality inspection on 13,817 service •Strengthening of quality inspection competitiveness on service & LPG filling stations & LPG filling stations on stations & LPG filling stations •Lowest detection rate of abnormal •Detection rate of abnormal •Lowest detection rate of abnormal products products: 1.6% (Average of products domestic refiners: 1.9%) •Expansion of the Trustworthy •1,765 Trustworthy Service Stations •Expansion of the Trustworthy Service Stations (81%) Service Stations: over 87% (over 90% by 2019) Our Response S-OIL operates quality management system in observance with ISO 9001 international standard, producing quality products which meet customers’ expectations. The system is adopted across the board at the Company in R&D, high-quality eco-friendly product development, and quality control in the distribution phase, with the goal to provide consumers with products of top quality in a stable manner while minimize impact on the environment and safety. Enhancement of R&D capabilities S-OIL continues to invest in R&D activities aimed at improving product quality and advancing production facilities to build on the technology the Company has already developed. In pursuit of sustainable growth, the Company also works with prestigious colleges and research institutes in many R&D projects such as high value-added production technology based on by-products from petrochemical products, benzene removal technology, BTX conversion technology, new desulfurization technology, CO2 utilization technology, high-efficiency eco-friendly fuel oil development, and more. 35 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 New Product Development S-OIL holds domestic patents on Production of High-quality Eco-friendly Products long-life gasoline engine oil and long-life diesel engine oil of imS-OIL has won the highest grade for its gasoline and diesel in the proved fuel efficiency that were developed jointly with the Hyundenvironmental quality evaluation. The Company’s kerosene also ai-Kia Automotive Group Namyang R&D Center. S-OIL continues obtained the Eco-Labeling certification in 1994 for the first time to engage in joint R&D projects, developing engine oil as well as among Korean refiners, and has maintained the certification ever auto transmission engine oil. The Company also develops hydrausince. lic oil and other types of industrial oils to meet varying consumer Environmental Quality Evaluation on Automotive Fuels (2015~2017) needs. Technology Support through Pilot Plants Having succeeded in Gasoline/Diesel operating a high pressure pilot plant, which produces clean lube base oil, and another bunker-c desulfurization pilot plant, S-OIL possesses the most advanced research facilities and experience Introduction of New Processes Going beyond passive response in refining process. Efficient operation of the pilot plants enables to environmental regulations, S-OIL is proactive in introducing us to continue technical support for optimum catalyst selection new processes as well as revamping and upgrading them to develand improvement of production yield and quality. Ongoing joint op and supply more efficient eco-friendly products with premium research projects with external research organizations help the quality. For example, the diesel dewaxing process was introduced Company sharpen its R&D capabilities. The Company’s sophisto innovatively improve the stability of diesel performance even ticated facilities contribute to improving production process and at low temperature in winter. Moreover, the Company upgraded catalyst assessment. As a result, the Company has raised profitits lube base oil production process, which dramatically reduced ability as well as minimized impact on the environment and conemission of a hazardous chemical substance Poly Aromatsumer safety by manufacturing the entire products as light oil or ic Hydrocarbon (PAH) and allowed the Company to supply more ultra-low sulfur products. eco-friendly and safer lube base oil to the market. The additional introduction of alkylation and RFCC process allowed even better Introduction of Latest Analysis Equipment and Skill S-OIL has quality of gasoline as well. introduced the latest analysis equipment and skill to ensure stable quality management and customer trust. Reliability of analysis is Prevention of Market Distribution of inferior Products S-OIL’s secured by regularly calibrating analysis equipment through certireal-time quality monitoring system detects in advance any facfied third party institutes as well as in-house verification programs. tor that can have negative effects on product quality throughout The Company also conducts training programs to help improve its the entire production process from purchase of raw materials to analysis ability, thereby securing quality analysis capabilities and market distribution, which ensures supply of only those that satiscontributing to production efficiency. Moreover, the Company parfy quality standards to customers. Furthermore, regular commuticipates in inter-laboratory comparison test at local and internanication is held between the production and sales organizations tional hosted by authorized agencies such as ASTM and K-Petro to produce products that meet customer requirements, and the every year, which contributes to securing analysis reliability, verifyCompany periodically participates in inter-laboratory comparison ing analysis methods, and further improving the accuracy of analtest to maintain and enhance precision of analyses. ysis. In particular, channeling its efforts to the successful execution of the RUC/ODC Project, the largest ever project in the history of the Company, S-OIL is striving to secure the optimum analysis equipment and skill for the PP & PO quality analysis. 36 Customers Enhancement of Quality Management in Market Distribution Process S-OIL always pays full attention to systematic product quality management in the entire market distribution process, as well as in the production process, with the aim of preventing pollution or quality degradation of products at service and LPG filling stations and ensuring customers’ rights to purchase products with specified quality and quantity. As a result, the Company’s diesel was selected as the best customer value product for two consecutive years by winning top marks in the diesel category of 2017 The PROUD Consumer Survey hosted by Korea Management Association Consulting (KMAC). Strict Inspection on Product Quality of Service and LPG Filling Stations While makInspection on Product Quality and Facilities of Service & LPG Filling Stations in 2017 ing efforts to produce and supply quality products, S-OIL is also working to strengthen quality assurance activities to preclude contamination or quality degradation of products Quality inspection in the market distribution process and ensure customers’ rights to purchase products 13,817 stations with specified quality and quantity. Quality inspection on service and LPG filling stations is conducted, which is guided by the Inspection Team dedicated to quality inspection and Facility inspection the Management Team responsible for prevention activities. Diverse possible means are 2,140 stations tried to ensure efficient quality control such as injecting specific markers, running onsite handy analyzers, abnormal symptom monitoring system, itinerant training ion quality assurance by quality manager, and checking dealer information. The Company runs the Product Quality Tracking IT System which integrates product distribution and quality information encompassing the Onsan Refinery, service stations, and customers to trace back distribution routes. In addition, the Company puts efforts to provide customers with the best quality products and apply strictest penalties to service and LPG filling stations found to sell fake oil, including de-branding. Trustworthy Service Station S-OIL operates Trustworthy Service Station program where Trustworthy Service Stations (unit: places) the Company guarantees products sold at trustworthy service stations according to quality 2015 2016 2017 and quantity specifications, in an effort to build an environment for customers to easily 1,765 1,552 (81%) purchase high-quality products. At least six quality inspections and one quantity specifica(73%) tion inspection a year are prerequisite to maintaining the qualification as the Trustworthy 1,257 (61%) Service Station. The Company also puts up signs to let customers know that they are purchasing from a Trustworthy Service Station, and promptly provide information on the quality of the products they purchase using the alarm notification feature of social network service KakaoTalk. The Company will continue to bring on board more service stations in order to deliver greater value to more customers and protect their right to know. Trustworthy Service Station 37 C S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? 3 Marketing Customer-oriented management has become an essential strategy for corporate survival Communication due to diversified customer needs. Amid intensifying competition, businesses today are required to make the best efforts to elevate their brand value and corporate image in a way that gives real benefits to customers by proactively communicating with customers and meeting their expectations. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Improvement of brand •Improvement of brand value •Production of a creative •Improvement of brand competitiveness through differentiated advertising advertisement campaign that value through differentiated campaigns delivers the message of empathy & advertisement campaigns compassion (Ad TOM 60%, 20 million SNS searches) •Implementation of various •Launch of diverse GOODOIL Family •Enhancement of awareness of and character marketing programs programs such as animated films, affinity for the GOODOIL Family character stores, GOODOIL Land, GOODOIL trees •Differentiated sports & culture •Brand exposure and corporate image •Improvement of corporate image events improvement by sponsoring golf and customer loyalty by sponsoring tournament & culture events diverse sports & culture events •Enhancement of service station •Expanded customer engagement •Enhancement of marketing marketing through effective through popular sweepstakes activities for service stations promotion through systematic promotion Improvement of positive •Advertisement on corporate •Creation of corporate image that •Advertisement on corporate corporate image image that builds empathy and fulfills social responsibility (Bronze image that builds empathy and communicates with customers award in the print ad category at the communicates with customers 2017 Korea Advertising Awards) Our Response S-OIL has long overcome its inherent limitations of being a late comer in the refining industry and a standalone company unaffiliated with a large conglomerate, and is now growing into a trusted corporation that is contributing to the development of the national economy and society. This was possible due to the diverse and creative marketing and communication activities that were undertaken to deliver best quality products, as well as active interaction with customers. Acknowledged for such efforts, the Company received the grand award in the brand management category at the 2017 Best Management Award of Korea for two consecutive years, and ranked 43rd on the list of 2017 Best Korea Brands 50 selected by Interbrand Korea, which highlighted the Company’s strong brand value. Brand Marketing as a Medium for Customer Communication Advertisement campaigns for rediscovering lost dreams During 2017, S-OIL released a TV advertisement campaign under the theme “good oil takes us to good places,” portraying the lives of people with dreams and delivering messages of hope to those who are enduring each day with their dreams forgotten and lost. After long discussions and deliberations, the Company created a commercial song “Perfect Day” to sing about hope, running towards the best day of our lives without giving up because of failures or obstacles that we face. The song, coupled with beautiful video images, touched the hearts of people around us who needed consolation and support, which resonated with customers and helped the Company earn a positive brand image. The advertisement recorded more than 20 million views on a SNS channel, resulting in the top of mind awareness of 60%, which is an unprecedentedly high record among Korean refiners. 38 Customers their satisfaction. As part of this, in 2017, the Company held the Top of Mind Awareness in TV Advertising in 2017 GOODOIL Family Giveaway Event at service and LPG filling sta60% tions across the country twice, through which customers received diverse free gifts such as GOODOIL characters and daily supplies. The Company also opened a mobile point shopping mall to help its Bonus Card members easily use their bonus points, and added to the shopping mall daily supplies, such as mineral water, wet tissue and others high in demand by consumers, thereby enhancing customer satisfaction. 6.3% Creation of a Friendly Company Image that Fulfills Social S-OIL Average of domestic Responsibility competitors S-Oil is making concerted efforts to build an image as a friendly company that fulfills social responsibility and interacts with variDifferentiated GOODOIL Character Marketing S-OIL has proous stakeholders, based on creative and unique corporate image actively utilized the GOODOIL character symbolizing good oil for advertisements. Not only is the Company running public interest diverse marketing activities at service and LPG filling stations, campaigns on the front page of major daily newspapers, it is also events and promotions as well as advertisement campaigns in orstriving to deliver useful information to various stakeholders on a der to get in closer touch with customers and more closely relate timely basis to promote broader interaction. In 2017, the Company to them. The three-dimensional animated film of GOODOIL Family launched a safety campaign in which GOODOIL promoted everyday characters the Company produced in 2017 caught on, adding to safety in a fun and easy-to-understand manner. Also, the Compathe intimacy with consumers, and led to even closer communicany provided updated information on each region through service tion with them via SNS channels. Taking into account customers’ and LPG filling stations located across the country, which was met opinions and suggestions, the Company launched 42 GOODOIL with a lot of interest and enthusiasm by customers. In 2018, the characters and opened character shops in Seoul and Ulsan where Company introduced campaigns related to health on front page visitors could directly take a look at and purchase the characters. newspaper advertisements. Innovative printed advertisements Other activities included installing a large GOODOIL Family flower that illustrate the activities of For Heroes and For Environment, garden in the International Horticulture Goyang Korea and hostthe flagship CSR of S-OIL, were created to consistently bolster ing GOODOIL Family Home Party at COEX, Seoul, thereby offering the Company’s social responsibility. A printed advertisement was customers more chances to meet GOODOIL characters and learn made as a find hidden objects game in 2017, a creative and unique more about the brand. approach that won the praise of many stakeholders, winning us bronze award at the 2017 Korea Advertising Awards under printed Differentiated Sports & Cultural Marketing Activities S-OIL’s advertisements. Apart from conventional methods of advertising, support for diverse sports and cultural events boosts its brand’s the Company has erected a huge panel against the external walls dynamic, friendly yet prestigious image. The Company has been of the Head Office which conveys written messages of hope and hosting the KLPGA S-OIL Championship since 2007 and sponconsolation and strengthens cultural as well as emotional bond soring the S-OIL Championship Pro-Am to offer premium service with the local community. and exclusive values to customers. In 2017, the Company engaged in creative and comprehensive sport marketing activities using GOODIL Family characters, including outdoor advertising and promotions at Sajik Baseball Park in Busan, home to the Lotte Giants professional baseball team. To strengthen ties with customers and provide them with greater cultural benefits, the Company also organizes events such as Culture Date and S-OIL Cinema Date. In particular, the Company invite Bonus Card customers and partner dealers to special cultural events giving them a good chance to enjoy high-quality cultural performances. Effective Promotional Activities S-OIL engages in a variety of promotional activities to provide substantial benefits to customers who visit its affiliated service and LPG filling stations and increase KLPGA S-OIL Championship 39 C S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? The recent increase in the personal information leakage accidents calls on businesses 4 Protection of to strengthen their information security levels, as such accident causes not only psychoCustomers’ Personal logical and physical damages to customers but also economic losses to companies such Information / Fair as reliability deterioration and financial compensation. The domestic oil market being an oligopolistic market by a few with a huge impact on consumer price, it naturally draws a lot Competition in of attention from both consumers and the government. Hence, fair and free competition in Market the market is becoming an increasingly critical issue for sustainable growth of a company. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Information protection •Maintenance of Information •Maintenance of ISMS •Renewal of ISMS certification enhancement Security Management System certification (ISMS) certification •Maintenance of Personal •Maintenance of PIMS •Renewal of PIMS certification Information Management System certification (PIMS) certification Promotion of fair •Establishment of a fair trade •Implementation of training on fair •Establishment of a fair trade competition in the culture trade once culture market •Periodic and ad-hoc voluntary •Periodic and ad-hoc voluntary •Periodic and ad-hoc voluntary inspections on fair trade inspections on fair trade inspections on fair trade •Use of written contracts based on •Reflection of the Fair Franchise •Use of written contracts based on fair trade Transaction Act fair trade and continuous check Our Response S-OIL preemptively responds to the increasingly stringent Personal Information Protection Act and the Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network, and establishes and implements the systematic information protection policy for the Company’s critical information and personal information of all stakeholders including customers. In recognition of its privacy protection efforts, the Company became the first Korean refiner to obtain certification on Information Security Management System (ISMS) and Personal Information Management System (PIMS) from the government in 2015. With the strong commitment for compliance management from the Company’s top management, the Company is also committed to adhering to fair competition principles and protecting consumer interests. ISMS-based Critical Corporate Information Protection Managerial Area At S-OIL, Information Security Committee chaired by the Chief Security Officer (CSO) reviews the Company’s major information security policies and action plans, tracks progress, and pushes forward efforts to raise information security awareness. To that end, the information security training is provided to all employees, and the newly added online training program in 2017 also serves the goal of enhancing the employees’ awareness on information security. In order to stay ahead of evolving hacking technologies, the Company makes continued efforts to sharpen its counter cyber-attack capabilities by acquiring latest security technologies and closely cooperating with information security companies. 40 Customers Technical Area All IT systems at S-OIL are safely operated as per Fair Competition in the Market the internal security standards and addressed for security weakTraining on Fair Trade Boosted by the top management’s strong nesses through periodic hacking simulations and security patch commitment to reinforcing compliance management, especially in updates. In addition, the centralized storage, analysis, and monrelation to fair trade laws, S-OIL published a compliance manual itoring of IT system logs allow the Company to be more proactive and must-follow guidelines “Dos & Don’ts” that employees need in preventing likely and predictable attacks. For efficient response to adhere to when conducting sales activities. The Company also to Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) and unknown malware, in holds a fair trade training session by inviting an external lecturparticular, the Company has introduced the APT attack prevener every year to raise employees’ awareness on compliance with tion device and a security solution that detects abnormal activities relevant laws. In particular, the Company holds training sessions on user computers, respectively. Other mobile service security tailored to the needs of sales force on site, helping staff at Dissolutions in operation include Mobile Device Management, Mobile trict Biz HQ and Sales Offices to better understand and abide by Application Management, and Mobile Content Management solufair trade practices. Thanks to these Violation of Fair Trade Law tions. continued efforts, the Company has (2012~2017) recorded zero violation of fair trade Physical Area S-OIL’s major IT systems are located in a data cenlaws since 2012, and its commitment 0 cases ter equipped with one of Korea’s best security solutions, thereby to fair trade is firmly entrenched in being safely protected from physical intrusions from outside. its corporate culture. PIMS-based Systematic Personal Information Protection Self-assessment on Fair Trade through Compliance System Minimum Retention of Customers’ Personal Information In full S-OIL conducts self-assessments periodically and randomly to compliance with the Act on the Protection of Personal Informacheck any violations of fair trade laws in business operations by tion and to minimize personal information leakage risk, S-OIL decapitalizing on its compliance system. In addition, the Company letes sensitive personal information such as resident registration actively assists employees’ compliance with fair trade laws by pronumber from the Company’s customer DB. In addition, IT Secuviding real-time legal updates on latest legislation and revisions rity Team is accountable for making continuous improvement to on relevant laws and regulations, conducting training sessions on the work process in a way that minimizes handling of personal major legal requirements, and regularly monitoring its fair trade information.The Team also monitors how personal information is law compliance. accessed, stored, and altered in real time. Use of Written Contracts Based on Fair Trade S-OIL has in place Encryption of Personal Information and Access Control through and utilizes a standardized written contract that reflects the recNetwork Segregation At S-OIL, customer information is safely ommendations from the Fair Trade Commission with regards to managed. The Company ensures personal information is stored entering into contracts with business partners. Moreover, in full after encryption, control access to such information through the compliance with the Fair Franchise Transaction Act which came personal information access control system, and systematically into effect in December 2016, the Company has reflected mandamonitor access history accordingly. The Company effectively limits tory terms and conditions of trade in its written contract. personal data access by allowing access rights only to IT system managers and certain teams requiring personal data access. Furthermore, access can only be made through the Virtual Desktop Infrastructure system that separates Internet and business networks or the Server Based Computing system that blocks Internet connectivity, minimizing the potential risk of customer information leakage. Additionally, system access authorization is exclusively granted after password and One Time Password (OTP) are Training on Fair Trade entered. Personal Information Protection Training S-OIL provides all employees as well as those from contractors who handle customer personal information with periodic privacy protection training at least twice a year as well as other online training programs. 41 C S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? 5 Overseas With an aim to achieve profitable and sustainable growth, S-OIL has preemptively venMarketing tured into overseas markets from the beginning stage of its business. The Company now generates more than 50% of its revenues from overseas. As such, marketing capabilities in overseas markets are identified as core competiveness for the Company to secure sustainable growth. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Enhancement of •Improvement of customer relations •Expansion of strategic partnerships in •Build customer relations overseas marketing strategic markets by product types capabilities •Identification of new customers •Acceleration of new customer •Explore new customers (in preparation for increased development with focus on end users  production capacity) •Securing of stable source of demand  for new products through aggressive  premarketing •Closer business collaboration with •Closer business collaboration •Reinforce business collaboration Saudi Aramco with Saudi Aramco on fuel & with Saudi Aramco petrochemical Businesses Improvement of •Expansion of exports to growing •Expansion of exports to growing •Expand exports to growing markets export profitability markets markets including Southeast Asia •Identification of opportunities to •Profitability improvement by seizing •Identify opportunities to further boost further bolster profitability arbitrage chances in/outside the profitability region * Mid-to-long-term target: Establishment of a second domestic market for fuel business in strategic markets overseas, Enhancement of the global market leading position in lube business, Securing of a leading business position in Asian petrochemical product market Our Response Status of Exports S-OIL has been at the forefront of expanding into overseas markets and contributing to the national economy and in 2017 social development by transforming the refining industry from a simple manufacturing industry for the domestic Domestic sales Exports market into a high value-added export industry. The Company is exporting more than 50% of its products abroad on the back of excellent quality and competitiveness, developing into the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in the Asia Pacific. Fuel products (53.3%) Overseas Marketing for Fuel Business Armed with production capabilities for high value-added products secured through preemptive investment, S-OIL was an early mover to expand into Australia and other major overseas markets ahead of its competitors, conseLube quentially building a strong customer base and brand awareness. The Company is responding flexibly to strengthproducts (81.2%) ened product specification requirements in those markets and meeting diverse customer demands by improving export operation capabilities and logistics system. Such efforts have enabled the Company to grow into a major oil provider across the Asia Pacific. In order to respond to the increasing competition in core markets, the Company Petro established direct sales agreements and strategic partnerships with major clients, aiming to obtain stable sales chemical products networks. The Company is making consistent effort to boost sustainable sales capabilities, and it plans to acquire (68.4%) local sales networks in core strategic markets in a bid to create a major market base second to Korea. In addition, the Company is continuously strengthening its influence in overseas markets through reinforced business collaboration with Saudi Aramco, which is its major shareholder, and affiliate companies. The Company plans 42 Customers to utilize the high value-added light oil products that will see inOverseas Marketing for Petrochemical Business creased production with the completion of the RUC/ODC Project S-OIL conducts marketing activities optimized for each market during the first half of 2018, to promote sales in strategic markets based on good understanding of the aromatic industry, which and expand its sales base into potential markets such as the Unitshows different characteristics between major markets for each ed States. product. As for para-xylene, which is portraying steady growth based on increasing demand for polyester downstream spurred Overseas Marketing for Lube Business by the global economic recovery, the Company is concentrating S-OIL is achieving high operating income through stable sales of on securing a stable sales outlets and profitability by acquiring the entire production stock of lube base oil by employing markethigh-value customers and expanding transactions. The Company ing strategies tailored to each market. The Company is also achas employed this strategy for para-xylene mainly because polytively utilizing its lube base oil production capacity, which ranks ester demand is maintaining high growth, despite the fact that 2nd place in the world based on single location. After years of efheightened competition is expected with increasing production forts to improve profitability, in 2017, the Company accomplished from competitors. In particular, the Company is expanding direct a noteworthy feat of signing a long-term business agreement with sales to major customers in China by fostering far-sighted relationclients in Japan and China, which are two of the largest premium ship built on trust, and exploring new opportunities by venturing lube base oil markets in Asia. Reinforced efforts are being made to into new markets. Furthermore, the Company is duly responding develop core growth engines for the lubricant business through the to market demand by enlarging the para-xylene external sourcing operation of the TS&D Center. The Company’s lubricant business business with Saudi Aramco, cementing its position as the market is cementing its position in the market on top of positive response leader. Meanwhile for benzene, the Company is concerting efforts from home and abroad for S-OIL SEVEN, which is a high-end luin further pushing into China, the largest benzene importer, and at bricant brand. During 2017, the Company significantly expanded the same time nurturing long-term partnerships with customers the lubricant logistics center to enhance efficiency of inventory in the United States, where steady import is anticipated with cost management and reinforced local marketing activities by particcompetitiveness in benzene downstream business, in preparation ipating in overseas exhibitions and holding dealer conferences. As for the possibility of increasing self-sufficiency of benzene in Chia result, the Company is exporting lubricant products to around 40 na. With regard to propylene, the Company is consistently attractcountries including China, which is a major strategic market, and ing key end-users in China, which is a market showing the highest achieved over 20% of increased sales performances compared to demand growth on the globe, and establishing long-term relationlast year. In line with the increasing global demand for premium ship to further expand its overseas sales channel. The Company lube base oil, the Company plans to consistently boost producis directly supplying products to Chinese end-users to maintain tion capabilities for lube base oil products by grade and secure a stable sales activities that do not fluctuate by market conditions strong client base on the back of thorough quality management with rock-solid and enduring partnerships. In addition, the Comand stable production capacity. As for the lubricant business, pany is concentrating efforts on fostering a stable logistics base aggressive marketing activities will be conducted to consolidate and acquiring new customers at home and abroad for olefin downthe Company’s standing in overseas markets while promoting its stream products such as PP and PO, which will be produced from synergy with the lube base oil business. In particular, the TS&D the RUC/ODC Project with its full operations during the 2nd half of Center will be actively capitalized to strengthen the core compe2018. As illustrated above, the Company is actively consolidating tence across the lubricant market, which will in turn contribute to its position across overseas markets by preemptively respondsolidifying S-OIL’s status as the leading lubricant company on the ing to the rapidly evolving petrochemical market environment, global stage. and is committed to staying at the frontier as a market leader. Event for Overseas Customers 43 E S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Employees S-OIL’s performance-oriented corporate culture is further entrenched due to its reasonable HR system. The Company ensures transparency and fairness in its recruitment and evaluation process and provides employees with various training programs to cultivate core resources to drive its growth forward. The Company also offers an array of benefit programs to employees through its advanced compensation and benefit systems to promote a healthy work & life balance. Key Issues Report Subject Aspect Major Stakeholders •HR management E1 H  R Management / •Employment, Training & •E  mployees •Fair evaluation & compensation Fair Evaluation & Education, Diversity & Compensation Equal Opportunity, Non-discrimination, Child Labor, Forced or Compulsory Labor (S-OIL internal) •Talent cultivation E2 Talent Cultivation •Training & Education •E  mployees (S-OIL internal) •Healthy corporate culture E3 C  orporate Culture / •Economic Performance,  mployees •E •Harmonized labor-management Labor-management Labor/Management Relations, relations Relations Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining (S-OIL internal) •Industrial safety & health E4 I ndustrial Safety & •Occupational Health & Safety •Employees management Health Management (S-OIL internal/external) •Suppliers •Local Communities •Government 44 Employees 8.1 DNV Safety Culture Score points 241 New Employment persons 17.8 Average Days of Used Annual Leave days 45 E S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? 1 H  R Management A performance-oriented corporate culture is a prerequisite for sustainable development. / Fair Evaluation The importance of an HR system cannot be underestimated as it ensures that employees & Compensation are recruited on their own merits, not based on the area or school they are from, that they are trained in a systemized manner, and that they are recognized and rewarded based on the fair evaluation of their performance. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Enhancement of HR •Securing talented employees •Recruitment of 241 persons •Securing talented employees management through fair recruitment procedures through fair recruitment procedures Reinforcement of •Enhancement of the performance•Improvement of evaluation •Enhancement of the performanceperformance-based based evaluation system systems based evaluation system corporate culture through •Enhancement of the performance•Enhancement of the performance•Enhancement of the performancereasonable & fair HR based compensation system based compensation system based compensation system management systems Our Response S-OIL pursues the diversity of its employees and strives to create a corporate culture where every employee unleashes their full potential and contributes to corporate growth through innovation. Securing Talented Employees through Fair Recruitment Procedures S-OIL strives to secure diverse, talented resources by implementing a fair recruitment process that rules out any discriminatory factors such as gender, age, region, academic background, or disability. The Company is also proactive in hiring socially marginalized groups such as disabled people and non-regular workers. The channels through which the Company reaches and attracts talented resources who also share its core values are extended to campus recruiting, internship, and scholarship support programs. The Company does not require potentially discriminatory information from applicants for the screening process and adopts a blind interview system in an effort to ensure that all applicants are evaluated solely on their competence and qualifications, not on specifications. The Company’s transparent and fair recruitment process is a driving force for sustainable growth amid the current business environment of increasingly fierce competition. Employment Status by Job (unit: persons) Employment by Workplace (unit: persons) Employment by Age (unit: persons) Officers Administrative staff Head Office Refinery 50 or above 30~50 Under 30 Production staff District Biz HQ Terminal 773 (23.3%) 39 (1.2%) 692 (20.9%) 3,316 3,316 2,195 (66.2%) 3,316 1,443 (43.5%) 1,896 (57.2%) persons persons 268 (8.1%) persons 1,834 (55.3%) 728 (21.9%) 80 (2.4%) 46 Employees Performance-based Evaluation and Compensation No. of Female Managers (manager or higher levels) (unit: persons) Evaluation System Improvement for Individual and Organizational Capacity Build2015 2016 2017 ing S-OIL makes continued efforts to improve its performance evaluation system, which contributes to boosting individual and organizational performance, thereby establishing a performance-oriented corporate culture in the organization. For competence evalua46 tion, the Company revamped the existing simple grading system to make it more effec38 tive and practical in assisting individuals to create career and competence development 27 plans based on their competence evaluation results. While individual employees implement their plans, the Company tracks their progress and manages the results throughout the year. As for performance evaluation, the Company has also upgraded the process to better align organizational and individual goals, letting employees set up individual action plans in line with the organizational goals. The Company closely follows up their progress New Hires and Retirees in 2017 through a phase-by-phase check process and evaluates performance based on specific records, significantly improving the fairness and reliability of the evaluation. New Hires  Retirees 241persons 53 persons Enhancement of Performance-based Compensation System In line with the performance-oriented organizational culture, S-OIL has instituted a performance-based rather than seniority-based reward and compensation program and extended it to include all office workers. The new performance-based pay structure where a wage increase in line with the service period for the same position was scaled down while that from promotion further expanded effectively motivates employees for high performance. In addition, the Company introduced a merit-based system for office workers to differentiate the annual performance reward they receive in accordance with their evaluation results as a way to further encourage them to perform better at work. New Year Mountain Hiking of New Employees Employment by Gender (unit: persons) Employment by Contract Type (unit: persons) Employment by Employment Status (unit: persons) Female Male Officers Regular employees Full-time Part-time Non-regular employees 39 (1.2%) 3,316 244 (7.4%) 3,316 3,316 0 (0%) 3,036 (91.6%) persons 3,072 (92.6%) persons persons 3,316 (100%) 241 (7.2%) 47 E S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? The energy industry is undergoing changes as the comparative advantage determined by 2 T  alent production facilities is disappearing thanks to the heated investment competition and the Cultivation closing of the technology gap. Also, faced with profound challenges including emerging technologies for new and renewable energy, the industry is going through a transition period. In such an environment, it is imperative for companies wishing to remain competitive and profitable to increase operational efficiency and explore new markets and technologies by developing employee competencies. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Various training •Operation of an effective training •Leadership enhancement programs, •Operation of an effective training programs to system S-OIL Academy, Engineer Cultivation system improve employee Program, New Operator Training competence •100% completion of mandatory •97.5% completion of mandatory •100% completion of mandatory training hours training hours training hours •Cultivation of next-generation •Establishment of a frame for •Cultivation of next-generation leaders cultivating next-generation leaders leaders Our Response S-OIL’s competence development model consists of basic competence for all employees, leadership competence for leaders, and job competence for specific job positions. A systematic training program is offered in accordance with employees’ role level (job grade). Operation of Effective Education System Based on annual competence evaluation results, S-OIL provides employees with not only in-house collective training but also various online education courses accessible via mobile devices so that employees can develop their competences anywhere, anytime. Commissioned training is also offered to meet increasing needs for more specialized education. Starting 2016, new Basic Work Skill courses such as understanding of specific production processes, basic finance, and basic work skills are available for general competence building. The Company also operates Learning Cell, an open learning platform for employees who want to share their knowledge and experience while satisfying their own needs for learning. This program allows employees to form study groups on any topic they are interested in to meet for a small group lecture, group learning, or reading discussion. The Global Learning & Communication Center is also in operation to provide targeted support for foreign language learning as part of global competency building. The Company provides employees attending these programs with learning materials and expenses to promote their active interaction and competence development. Systematized Learning Management System S-OIL launched the Learning Management System (LMS) in 2015 and has since been utilizing the system to increase the efficiency of training programs and thus to effectively develop the competence of employees. LMS analyzes the patterns of users who access the system and customizes the main page for individual users. It also features My Classroom for the community learning while allowing users to search a wide variety of video clips and materials for self-driven study. e-learning courses from the LMS are available via both PCs and mobile devices, improving convenience for users. Introduction of the LMS has let employees stay on systematic individual competence development programs and benefit from them while raising the operational efficiency of educational administration for the Company. 48 Employees Leadership Enhancement Program Leader groups such as with existing employees as mentors is also offered to faithfully officers and team leaders play a key role in shaping and guiding manage their training process. organizational goal achievement and making decisions on critical matters. With the aim of cultivating leaders who will lay the Global Communication Skills Training S-OIL looks for its emgroundwork for the successful accomplishment of the Vision 2025, ployees to strengthen their global communication skills to conS-OIL set up a competence modelling and leadership pipeline tinue building success in global markets and operates the Global for different leader groups in 2017. The Company plans to develLearning & Communication Center (GLC) in the Head Office in op various effective leadership programs incorporating problem Seoul and the Refinery in Ulsan. The Center aims to enhance emsolving skills that can be applied to actual situations to accenployees’ capability to communicate and do business with overseas tuate management performance. The Company will also provide business partners and offers not only foreign language coursleader groups with the regular leadership diagnosis and a one-toes on English, Chinese, Japanese and Arabic but also courses one coaching program for continuous monitoring and feedback. to help understand global cultures and business etiquette and manners and speech training. In particular, the GLC operates a S-OIL Academy for Specialized Job Training S-OIL has been well-thought-out curriculum targeting team leaders, new hires running the S-OIL Academy for specialized job training since 2011. and overseas workers catering to specific needs based on their Particularly, the S-OIL Academy for Marketing & Sales is targeting roles. The Center also takes various approaches to training, inthe training of domestic sales professionals with service station cluding group training and one-on-one courses, to make trainoperation, negotiation, and sales skills in a systematic manner, ing more effective and convenient from the users’ perspective. thereby offering courses including actual cases of domestic oil product sales today. As for the S-OIL Academy for Operations Nurturing Next-generation Leaders aimed at sharpening the job competence of engineers and proWith a firm belief that cultivating core talents will drive the Comduction staff, the Company developed an e-learning course for pany’s future success, S-OIL runs a systematic HR development fostering basic job competence in 2016 and introduced the Blendprogram. To nurture the next generation leaders, the Company ed Learning which combined onand off-line job courses. In orselects talented employees with great potential and has them der to establish a stable operational competence for start-up and accumulate diverse experiences through job rotation both in and shut-down for each process and to develop emergency response outside the Company. They also benefit from the Company’s polcapabilities, the Company offers the Operation Training Simulator icy to support MBA studies in Korea or overseas, or to support program. Also, an advanced program has been running to support the Master’s program in science and engineering in IFP School the reskilling and upskilling of manager-level engineers or above. in France. Fully aware of the importance of female leadership to Leadership courses are offered to foremen as well. the organization, the Company also focuses on developing diverse female leader cultivation programs. These advanced training proECP for Engineer Competence Enhancement S-OIL has been grams will produce core talents who can lead the Company to a conducting Engineer Cultivation Program (ECP) since 2015 to supsustainable future. port the systematic training of engineers. Under this program, engineers draw up the Customized Personal Training Program relatTraining Hours per Employee in 2017  ed to individual functions and career path every year based on the (unit: hour) job function training database Pool of Refinery Training Courses 52 and interviews with their supervisors. The training outcomes and 42 Mandatory Training records are systematically tracked through the LMS. In addition to 51 Hours Completion Rate the ECP, the Intensive Overseas Training Program is operated so 97.5 % as to cultivate engineers with a global mindset and competency. Male Female Average Intensive Training for New Operators For the successful implementation of the RUC/ODC Project, S-OIL offers to new operators a six-week American Petroleum Institute (API) course, basic job training on production processes and facilities, and safety training. Once this training is complete, new operators are assigned to a team and take the 20-week Job Task Standard (JTS) course. During this period, intensive training including self-learning on basic jobs and monthly evaluation on training results are carried out to help them learn diverse skills needed for their future jobs. One-on-one mentoring service where new hires are teamed up Global Learning & Communication Center 49 E S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? 3 C  orporate Work efficiency growth has long been a primary focus for companies. Higher work efficiency is translated into higher productivity and greater value, and ultimately, greater benefit to all Culture / Laborstakeholders including customers and shareholders. A corporate culture to encourage creative Management and strategic ideas and pursue efficient work processes enables employees to strike a healthy Relations work & life balance. And a harmonized labor-management relationship is a driving force of ensuring corporate sustainable growth as well. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Internalization of core •Awareness raising for core values •Vision declaration, HR system •Strengthening & internalization of values incorporation, Promotion of visual the capability to practice core values items of each organization Promotion of •Promotion of communication among •Company-wide management •Promotion of communication among communication organizations presentation, Junior Board, organizations among organizations Communication session for new hires, Dynamic Rookies Program, Communication Promotion Program at District Biz HQs Operation of an •Improvement of the welfare •Operation of the New Pension •Improvement of the welfare benefit industry-leading benefit system in consideration of Program system in consideration of employees’ welfare benefit employees’ needs needs system •Enhancement of employee health •Systematic employee health •S ystematic employee health management management management Enhancement of the •Development of new systems for •Intensive Holiday Program, MRD, •Development of new systems for work & life balance improving the work & life balance Off-duty Day improving the work & life balance Creation of the best •Satisfaction with general affairs •Satisfaction with general affairs •Satisfaction with general affairs work environment service: over 8.7 points service: 8.92 points service: over 8.7 points Establishment of •Zero labor dispute •Zero labor dispute •Zero labor dispute harmonized labormanagement relations Our Response S-OIL has established a productive and healthy corporate culture where swift communication is ensured. The Company operates industry-leading benefit programs that reflect employees’ needs, and makes continued efforts to promote the physical and mental well-being of employees. The Company strives to provide employees with the best work environment to assure higher work efficiency. Furthermore, the Company is committed to laying the groundwork for sustainable development through maintaining a harmonious labor-management relationship. 50 Employees Internalization of Core Values Industry-leading Employee Benefit S-OIL is striving to fulfill Vision 2025 announced in 2017, which is for the Company to Programs become the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific, To provide a workplace where emwith excellence in operations, strategic investment, and human talent. Based on the core ployees can feel deeply engaged values (S-OIL EPICS : Excellence, Passion, Integrity, Collaboration, and Sharing) that conin their work based on financial responstitute the common foundation upon which the Company makes decisions and conducts sibility, S-OIL offers top-tier benefits and business activities regardless of external environmental changes, all officers and emwellness programs. In addition to the baployees are taking on responsibilities and realizing their potential to the fullest in order sic benefits package including four major to achieve the Vision 2025. The Company is concentrating efforts to raise awareness of public insurances and the congratulation the employees on the newly established core values and to apply them to business affairs & condolence program, the Company and decision-making processes. Furthermore, these core values are reflected in the reoffers an array of employee benefit procruitment process of new employees and evaluation criteria of administrative staff, and a grams tailored to the life cycle to ensure corporate image was created based on the core values for selecting and training talented that employees can fully engage in their employees. Various efforts have been undertaken to internalize the core values, such as work as well as satisfy themselves in making the CEO message and cases that demonstrate the core values into video clips terms of housing, health, children’s eduto be shared and used internally as educational material. The Company is committed to cation, and leisure activities. In 2017, the maximizing business ethics and core values by continuously internalizing them through Company opened in-house daycare cenprograms such as workshops designed to strengthen the organization’s core values. ters at its Head Office and Onsan refinery in order to help employees with preHealthy Corporate Culture by Enhancing Communication school children give undivided focus on S-OIL is committed to promoting communication and creating a productive and healthy their work. corporate culture to break down the silo among individuals and teams, which is one of the major causes of low levels of work efficiency. In this regard, surveys on work efficiency and Average Days of Used Annual Leave (unit: days) satisfaction are conducted among all employees and the results are reflected in diverse 2015 2016 2017 activities aimed at bolstering internal communication. In addition, the Company holds a 17.8 Company-wide presentation on business status twice every year where the top manage16.3 15.7 ment including the CEO explains its operating performance, outlook, critical business issues and a Q&A session. The Company also encourages diverse team building activities aimed at expanding communication. Going forward, the Company will make a concerted effort to boost not only vertical communication between leaders and their members but also horizontal communication among individuals or organizations through various programs such as Junior Board, communication sessions for new hires, Dynamic Rookies Program, and Communication Promotion Program at District Biz HQs. Employee Engagement through Support for Work & Life Balance Believing that employees who strike a balance between work and life can feel more engaged and absorbed in their work more creatively and passionately, S-OIL continues to beef up its policies beyond the social expectations and legal requirements to ensure sufficient relaxation from work and chances to have quality family time for employees. As part of this, the Company runs the Intensive Holiday Program to assure two-week vacations and the Off-duty Day Program. In addition, the Monthly Refreshment Day (MRD) allows employees to take leave every other month, encouraging them to take six days of leave for a total of at least 24 days off a year. The Company provides condominiums across Junior Board the nation available for reservation for employees going on a vacation. Employees are also free to check in at hotels and resorts in popular tourist destinations in the summer and winter months. More than 50% of employees visit those recreational facilities every year. In 2018, the Company is going to implement the PC OFF campaign across the Company to get employees to leave work on time, in a continued effort to further improve employee work & life balance with a more systematic and practical approach. 51 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 New Pension Program Given that Korea’s average life expectancy is rising fastest in the Collaborative Labor-Management world while most people cannot afford a reliable retirement plan, S-OIL pays full attention Relations to ensuring a stable life for employees after retirement. In this regard, in 2015, the ComS-OIL’s labor-management relationship pany introduced the New Pension Program, a matching grant scheme where the Company has set an example in the industry as pitches in for employees’ post-retirement resources. Currently, 99% of total employees there has not been a single labor dispute have subscribed to the program. The Company will continue to upgrade the operation of for the past 36 years since establishment the New Pension Program by seeking methods to increase employees’ satisfaction with of the labor union in 1980. This resulted this program. The New Pension Program is anticipated to help employees ease their unfrom mutual trust and cooperation becertainty over their future while assuring that their life after retirement will be stable. tween the labor union and the Company. They respect union activities and take In-house Daycare Center To actively respond to the government policy that calls for a heed of the voices of union members balance between work and family and to help employees fully engage themselves both in as well as comply with relevant regulathe workplace and at home, S-OIL established a daycare center in the Head Office and the tions. The labor and management have Refinery. The operation of the daycare center has significantly boosted the satisfaction of been collaborating in elevating corporate employees amid the shortage of low-cost public daycare centers and widespread mistrust competitiveness, improving the quality of on private daycare centers. It has helped alleviate the employees’ burden of childcare employees’ lives, and fulfilling corporate and contributed to promoting a healthy organizational culture which strikes a balance besocial responsibility through a variety of tween work and family. In particular, the Company has entrusted operations to the Puruni communication channels including the Childcare Foundation, which is one of the best childcare institutes in Korea with proven Labor-Management Council, the Indusprofessional expertise and operational capabilities, offering an excellent child-rearing trial Safety & Health Committee, and joint environment for the employees’ offspring. The daycare center provides comprehensive workshops as well as wage negotiations educational programs that meet the interest and demand of children according to their and collective bargaining. The contents of age and development stage, and facilitates close communication between the institute, labor-management negotiations are disparents, and the Company. closed to all employees immediately. Employee Health Management S-OIL operates health clinics manned by professional Satisfaction with General Affairs Service in nurses at all times to swiftly respond to emergencies that may arise during work hours 2017 as well as take care of employees’ health in normal times, and nursery rooms for expectant and breastfeeding mothers at the Head Office and the Refinery. Starting from 2017, the Company provides ergonomic office furniture to make the workplace fit for new 8.92 points and expectant mothers. The Company also commissions prestigious medical institutes for annual medical check-ups and runs a fitness center at the Head Office and the Refinery. In addition, the Company carries out health campaigns periodically for employees while ensuring a quick and convenient recovery from disease by providing medical subsidies and a medical leave of absence. Mental stability as well as physical health is critical for full employee engagement. To that end, the Company runs the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), a comprehensive consultation service where outside professionals provide tips on personal problems and job-triggered stress, interpersonal relations at work, family relations, child care and more. Providing Best-in-Class Work Environment S-OIL provides employees with the best-in-class work environment by creating an optimized workplace and serving swift business support. The Company runs a Creative Lounge in the Head Office for self-development and relaxation of employees and has installed a variety of spaces dedicated to supporting external projects, which contribute to enhancing business efficiency. Moreover, the main auditorium at the Head Office is offered to employees for a wedding event of themselves or their children. In 2018, the Company intends to put into practice various workplace improvement ideas, including LED light replacement, AV/VC device upgrade in meeting rooms, and comfortable office furniture procurement, with the aim of assuring best-in-class work environment. S-OIL Family Sports Day 52 E Employees Why is This Important? 4 Industrial Safety Industrial accidents not only cause personnel loss in the workforce and compromised productivity but also lead to enormous social costs. In response, the government has placed & Health the safety of the people at the top of its administrative agenda and stiffened onsite investiManagement gations and punishment for safety violations to control industrial accidents at the government level. Therefore, safety, health and environment (SHE) management is a prerequisite for securing sustainable growth for society as well as corporations. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Establishment of •DNV safety culture score: over 8.1 •DNV safety culture score: 8.1 points •DNV safety culture score: over 8.1 a world-best safety culture points (World Class) points (World Class) Accomplishment of •Lost-time injury rate (LTIR): under 0.10 •Lost-time injury rate (LTIR) 0.00 •Lost-time injury rate (LTIR): under 0.08 zero accidents •Zero safety & environmental accidents •One fire •Zero safety & environmental accidents Our Response Maintaining safety is the most basic obligation needed to protect employees and their family, and an indispensable prerequisite for S-OIL to secure sustainable growth. Going beyond the existing safety framework of minimizing accidents and complying with safety regulations, the Company has established safety standards that far exceed legal requirements. Based on the top management’s commitment to safety and its high standard of safety culture, the Company is striving to create one of the safest workplaces in the world. In addition, the Company has laid out a company-wide goal of building the world’s best safety culture and maintaining zero accident workplaces. To this end, the Company is conducting various measures such as providing safety education to employees and contractors, and supporting the safety management of contractors on the back of the management’s dedicated effort to prioritize safety. Furthermore, the Company holds regular drills to minimize the damage that can be inflicted on the Company and the local community in the face of unpredictable emergencies such as earthquake, fire, explosion and leakage. In particular, an accident scenario was developed for the RUC/ODC Project site along with thorough training sessions, illustrating the Company’s commitment to create a safe workplace. As a result of such efforts, the Company received the grand award under SHE for the Aramco JV Excellence in 2017, which is granted to companies which has posted the best performance among the affiliates of Saudi Aramco. In addition, the Company received the highest grade of A for three consecutive years in contractor safety cooperation program held by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. World-best Safety Culture S-OIL is engaged in a variety of activities to enhance its safety culture, such as by operating an IT-based management system that utilizes the check list in accordance with the toughened SHE regulations. The Safety Keeper program was introduced in 2017 to improve the safety-related capabilities of individuals and promote daily compliance of regulations and procedures. A wide range of safety activities were carried out to encourage the employees to voluntarily practice safety with the goal of a safety action plan established. Regular meetings of the company-wide Safety Management Committee are held to devise safety policies and support safety inspection for the Head Office, the Refinery and terminals, and to strengthen the Company’s safety capacity through active communication and sharing of accident cases. In addition, safety education tailored to 15 different positions and job functions is provided to reinforce the employees’ safety capabilities and awareness. Due to such preemptive safety-related investment and preventive measures for industrial accidents, the safety culture score for the Refinery and terminals rose to 8.1 points in 2017, evidencing the Company’s world class safety culture. 53 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Continuous Reinforcement of Safety Management System DNV Safety Culture Score in 2017 To promote effective safety management, S-OIL is consistently reviewing and improving the safety management system. In line with such effort, the Company upgraded the existing SHE system into a new version in 2017. The Company keeps track of the safety indi8.1 points cators for employees and contractors on a real-time basis, and monitors near miss accidents and Behavior Based Safety (BBS) to better detect signs of accidents in advance and * A n index to evaluate the level of corporate safety culture prevent them. As a strong correlation exists between near misses and major accidents, in a quantitative manner created by DNV GL (0~10 points. the Company has in place an incentive system for discovering near miss accidents to idenWorld Class: over 8.1 points; Leading Edge: 6~8 points; Extended 4.1~6.0 points) tify and share cases between employees, aiming to prevent potential risks. Also, a Process Safety Management (PSM) Dashboard was introduced to inspect in real-time whether the Company is complying with the 12 PSM elements required under the Occupational Safety Process Safety Events in 2017 and Health Act. With the understanding that even the smallest change can have a major impact on the safe operation of facilities, a systemized mechanism is in place to prevent 0 cases per million hours the move to the following process if the former process is not entirely completed. Occupational Illness (2015~2017) S-OIL Occupational Injury Rate (unit: %) Contractors Occupational Injury Rate (unit: %) 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 S-OIL, Contractors 0.28 0 persons 0.25 0.19 0.18 0.10 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.07 0.05 0.03 0.00 LTIR TRIR LTIR TRIR * LTIR (Lost-time Injury Rate) means lost-time injuries while the meaning of TRIR (Total Recordable Injury Rate) extends to minor accidents without lost-time injuries. Development of Emergency Response Capability Emergency Control Program (ECP) Initial response is critical to prevent an accident from escalating into a major disaster. Recognizing this, S-OIL has established the ECP, one of the company-wide integrated risk management systems. In case of an accident, the ECP ensures that the Company takes preemptive measures in a swift manner by supporting real-time communication, thus minimizing damage to the company and local communities. The key feature of the ECP is the Emergency Control Center (ECC), which convenes an emergency meeting if an unlikely accident ever occurs and shares site information via a video conference system to control the situation. The ECC is activated from the Head Office and the site simultaneously. The command vehicle dispatched to the site transmits accident status to the ECC in real time, and ECC makes immediate decisions based on the live feed to control the site from remote. 54 Employees Company-wide Simulated Emergency Response Drill At S-OIL, company-wide simulated emergency response drills were conducted in accordance with a ready-made scenario or in an unannounced manner with the aim of evaluating and enhancing the organization’s emergency response capabilities. Starting 2016, the Company added company-wide earthquake and evacuation drills in response to the growing concern that the Korean Peninsula is no longer safe from earthquakes. In 2017, the Company evaluated seismic evaluation of the existing Refinery facilities and buildings on 14 selected sample sites, Company-wide Simulated Emergency Response Drill and confirmed all of them met the regulatory requirements for seismic performance. The Company also took immediate actions at some facilities requiring retrofitting due to their decrepitude, thereby making the facilities more earthquake resistant. The Company conducted emergency response drills and fire suppression tabletop exercises at least six times every year to enhance in-house first responders’ capabilities and to ensure a coordinated response with relevant external organizations in the event of fire, explosion or leakage. For the ongoing the RUC/ODC Project as well, the Company has developed a fire suppression scenarios for major facilities in the project site and trained relevant staff in Safety Culture Campaign advance, in an effort to effectively respond to any emergency situations. Support for Safety Management of Contractors S-OIL engages in various activities such as technical supports aimed at helping contractors reinforce their safety management capabilities. The Company launched the contractor safety cooperation program with its contractors even before the increasingly stringent regulations came into force, holding companies more accountable for a safety accident at its contractors as well. As of 2017, all 34 on-site contractors have been participating Joint Safety Inspection with Contractors in the program to ensure safety in the workplace under the shared goal of having a zero accident workplace. Besides convening for regular safety meetings and carrying out joint inspections, the Company also engages not only in promoting the mentoring program among contractors and joint safety campaigns but also in offering special lectures on safety culture and education on risk assessment. The Company provides consulting support for contractors to obtain the Occupational Safety and Health Management System (KOSHA 18001) certification and KRAS Risk Assessment certification. All 34 contractors acquired the certifications as of 2017. The Company’s continued support for its contractors on safety management has resulted in the Company earning A-Grade from the Ministry of Employment and Labor in the evaluation of contractor safety cooperation programs for three consecutive years (2015-2017). Safety Training in 2017 S-OIL Contractors No. of training No. of participants No. of training No. of participants 656 times 41,806 persons 342 times 15,487 persons 55 O S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 OwNers & Other Stakeholders With the aim of securing the core competencies for sustainable growth, S-OIL has been making investments, including the RUC/ODC Project, based on a stable financial structure. The Company is also proactive in transparently and accurately disclosing management information to protect stakeholders’ interest as well as pursuing shared growth with its suppliers based on mutual trust. The Company is not only joining the global efforts to tackle climate change through analyzing associated risks and opportunities, and incorporating them into management decisions but also carrying out differentiated environmental management activities. The Company’s social contribution is in line with its management strategies in order to pursue co-prosperity with local communities. Key Issues Report Subject Aspect Major Stakeholders •Investments in new projects O1 Investments in New •Economic Performance •E  mployees Projects (S-OIL internal) •S  hareholders & Investors •Operational efficiency improvement O2 Improvement of •Economic Performance, •E  mployees Operational Efficiency Materials, Energy •S  hareholders & Investors (S-OIL internal) •Establishment of financial soundness O3 Financial Soundness / •Economic Performance •Customers •Transparent disclosure of management Transparent Disclosure (S-OIL internal/external) •Employees information of Management •Shareholders & investors Information •S  uppliers •Local communities •Government •Management of sustainability O4 Management of •Supplier Environmental •Suppliers in supply chain Sustainability Assessment, Supplier Social •Fair selection of suppliers in Supply Chain Assessment (S-OIL internal/external) •Enhancement of environmental O5 E  nvironment •Water, Emissions, Effluents •E  mployees management system Management & Waste, Environmental •L  ocal communities •Management of pollutants Compliance •G  overnment •Management of environmental impact (S-OIL internal) •Economic impact of climate change O6 R esponse to Climate •Economic Performance, •Customers Change Energy, Emission •S  hareholders & investors (S-OIL internal/external) •S  uppliers •Local communities •G  overnment •Social contribution activities O7 Social Contribution •Indirect Economic Impacts, •Customers Activities Biodiversity, Local •E  mployees Communities •Local communities (S-OIL internal/external) •Government •Treatment of grievances of local O8 C ontribution to Local •Indirect Economic Impacts, •C  ustomers communities Communities Procurement Practices, Local •E  mployees •Economic development of local communities Communities •Local communities (S-OIL internal/external) •Government 56 Owners & Other Stakeholders 15.6 Environmental Investment KRW billion 205 Profitability Improvement Results KRW billion 24,593 Volunteer Work Hours by Employees hours 57 O S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? 1 Investment in Amid growing uncertainties in the business environment such as global economic slowNew Projects down and intensifying competition among refiners, it has become imperative for businesses to have a long-term growth strategy and core competencies for sustainable growth. As such, investment in new businesses through the strategy for stable business diversification is a core driving force to secure future growth engines. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Successful completion •Target rate of completion 92% •Actual rate of completion 94% •Target rate of completion 100% of the RUC/ODC Project Reinforcement of fuel •Securing top-notch industry •Record-high domestic market share •Securing top-notch industry business competitiveness in terms of facilities, for retail light oil products (22.2%) competitiveness in terms of facilities, operation and marketing •Expansion of strategic partnerships operation and marketing in overseas markets Expansion of •Reinforcing technological •Completion of the TS&D Center •Reinforcing technological petrochemical competitiveness of petrochemical competitiveness of the petrochemical •Hiring of many talented R&D business downstream business downstream business resources •Implementation of training programs in collaboration with technology partners Advancement into •Sourcing new venture investment •Review of potential venture •Sourcing new venture investment new energy business opportunities investments where synergies can be opportunities areas based on created with existing business areas competencies of fuel, petrochemical and lube Our Response In order to overcome uncertainties in the management environment and to become the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific under the Vision 2025, S-OIL has been implementing the RUC/ ODC Project, the largest-ever project in the history of the Company. The Company is making consistent efforts to unearth future growth engines by reinforcing fuel business, expanding chemical business and venturing into new energy business according to the potential investment roadmap drawn for achieving sustainable growth. By strengthening fuel business, which is the Company’s main area of business, and securing the industry’s top competitiveness in terms of equipment, operation and marketing, the Company is maximizing its profit generating capacity that is necessary for the development of future growth engines. The Company will accelerate the integration of the fuel and chemical businesses and expand into olefin downstream business in order to acquire momentum for the next generation growth. In addition, the Company is concentrating efforts to nurture long-term new growth businesses by advancing into new energy sectors such as gas or renewables based on its competence. As for destinations for venture investment, the Company is reviewing areas that can either create synergistic effect with the existing businesses i.e. fuel, lubricant and petrochemicals, or have significant potential to become the Company’s new growth engine. Starting with indirect investment such as via venture funds, the Company plans to invest in smart factory and other areas that can strengthen its production competitiveness or business that can serve as growth engines like the materials industry. After accumulating investment capabilities and know-hows, the Company will also engage in direct investment. 58 Owners & Other Stakeholders RUC/ODC Project (see Special Report) Through years of meticulous examination into the strategic directions S-OIL has executed Residue Upgrading Complex & Olefin Downstream Complex Project (RUC/ODC Project) since 2015 by investing about KRW 4.8 trillion, the largest investment in its history. The Company achieved mechanical completion in the first half of 2018 by making timely progress in design, procurement and construction. It is now preparing for commercial operation in the second half the year following commissioning of each process. Successful execution of the RUC/ODC Project will enable the Company to secure new future growth engines and build a balanced business portfolio across fuel, lube and petrochemical arPP Premarketing eas. S-OIL expects it will bring the Company a step closer to attaining Vision 2025 aimed at becoming the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific, with excellence in operations, strategic investment, and human talent. In 2017, S-OIL signed a long-term contract with Malaysia’s Petronas for cost reduction and stable supply of LNG to be used for the Company’s plant operations and as feedstock for hydrogen production. Going forward, the Company plans to expand its business portfolio into olefin downstream through new investments in general-purpose resins such as polyethylene and further strengthening the competitiveness of high value-added prodTS&D Center ucts. Making inroads into the petrochemical downstream with PP and PO, the Company expects to fortify its technologies and market competitiveness in petrochemical business and achieve greater profitability as well as balanced business portfolio. To this end, the Company has done olefin downstream market research and selected promising products based on their marketability and investment attractiveness. For the selected products, the Company will follow up with an investment feasibility study by weighing such factors as technologies, economic viability and synergies with the existing Refinery. Augmenting Technical Service Capabilities for Petrochemical Downstream Business In the petrochemical downstream business area that S-OIL is making serious inroads into, reinforcing technical competitiveness and technical service capabilities for customers are key to success, given the fact that a broad spectrum of products are available in the market. Therefore, the Company established the Technical Service & Development Center (TS&D Center) on a site spanning 29,100㎡ in Magok Industrial Complex, Seoul, in 2017. The Chemical Pilot Building and the Lube Test Building are now equipped with state-ofthe-art laboratory equipment and devices after construction completion in 2017. They are expected to contribute to enhancing R&D capabilities for the petrochemical downstream business and the existing lube business, respectively. The Company also gives impetus to implementing systems and processes to sup-port development of quality products and core technologies and to conduct core R&D activities. In parallel, the Company is planning to reinforce competitiveness in the petrochemical downstream business through building a technical document database and providing prospective clients with better technical support. Diverse joint researches with prestigious colleges have been conducted since 2015 with the aim of cultivating talented researchers and securing technological competitiveness. The Company has been developing a variety of training programs starting 2016 in cooperation with major technical partners. Going forward, the TS&D Center will play an even larger role in securing new technologies as well as supporting existing businesses, contributing to exploring new business opportunities and future growth engines. 59 O S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? The supply glut from the expansion of refining and petrochemical facilities around the 2 Improvement world is intensifying competition in the industry. And the low crude oil price trend triggered of Operational by the combination of the 4th Industrial Revolution and the emergence of shale gas has given rise to an uncertain business environment for oil refining companies. Amid volatile Efficiency market conditions, the Company should enhance operation efficiency through variety of profitability improvement activities and proactively respond to the 4th Industrial Revolution in order to upgrade its competitiveness. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Enhancement of •Improvement of profitability through •Completion of the upgrade of •B  asic design reviews for residue competitiveness the SUPER Project aromatic production facilities hydro-desulfurization unit upgrade through diverse •Reviews to improve efficiency of profitability heating furnace in existing plant improvement activities •Profitability improvement target of •Profitability improvement target of •Profitability improvement result of KRW 80.9 billion KRW 205.0 billion KRW 51.9 billion •Encouragement of suggestion system •782 participants with 2,496 valid •Encouragement of suggestion system  suggestions submitted •Execution of 6 energy saving ideas •Completed execution of 26 energy •Execution of 2 energy saving ideas saving ideas Response to the 4th •Realization of Work-Smart through •IT system implementation for the •Realization of Work Smart through IT industrial revolution IT system enhancement polymer business (ERP, SCM, system enhancement Automated Storage Management, Automated Retrieval, etc.) •Establishment of Information Strategy Plan, replacement of obsolete IT infrastructure •Establishment of 4th Industrial •Creation of Big Data Team •Implementation of 4 big data PoCs Revolution dedicated organization •Implementation of 2 big data projects Our Response Faced with the greater volatility in the energy and chemical industry, S-OIL seeks continuous improvement in operational efficiency through engaging in various activities to increase profitability, including ramping up production of high value-added products and saving energy cost. The Company also stays committed to sharpening its competitive edge and creating new values by tapping into big data, which is a core technology of the 4th Industrial Revolution. SUPER Project With the aim of increasing the profitability of existing production facilities, S-OIL implemented the S-OIL Upgrading Project of Existing Refinery (SUPER Project) for Onsan Refinery. The objectives of the project include maximizing the capacity of production facilities, increasing the production of high value-added products, extending facility maintenance cycle, and reducing energy consumption. The project was implemented in three packages considering the construction scope, level of difficulty in revamping by process, maintenance schedule by process, and work efficiency. Through Package-1, the Company upgraded the hydrocracking process, thereby increasing the production capacity of kerosene, diesel, and lube base oil as well as extending its maintenance cycle. Lube upgrading and RFCC upgrading also contributed to expanding the production capacity of lube base oil, gasoline, 60 Owners & Other Stakeholders propylene, and steam, and reducing energy consumption with the extended maintenance Treatment of Crude Oil in 2017 cycle. Package-2 Mild Hydrocracker (MHC) revamping project increased the overall diesel production capacity of the Refinery, upgraded diesel quality, and reduced the use of additives. Through Package-3 Condensate Fractionator Unit (CFU)/Aromatics revamping 241,019 thousand barrels project, the Company expanded annual production capacity of para-xylene and benzene, enhanced operational reliability and crude oil treatment capacity through CFU. The SU* Difficult to calculate renewable materials used. PER Project creates higher profits on investment, with the profitability improvement effect amounting to KRW 230 billion a year. The Company created approximately 150,000 jobs a year during the project period and completed it in a safe and reliable manner with zero accident with strict safety control in place. SUPER Project Implementation Status Category Details Completion Benefit Package-1 HYC Upgrading Nov. 2015 Increase of production capacity of kerosene, diesel, and lube base oil Extension of the maintenance cycle Lube Upgrading Nov. 2016 Increase of production capacity of lube base oil Extension of the maintenance cycle Reduction of energy consumption RFCC Upgrading Nov. 2016 Increase of the production capacity of propylene and gasoline Increase of production capacity of steam Package-2 MHC Revamping Nov. 2016 Increase of production capacity of diesel Improvement of diesel quality Reduction of use of additives Package-3 CFU/Aromatics Revamping Nov. 2015 Increase of production capacity of (Phase 1) para-xylene CFU/Aromatics Revamping May 2017 Diversification of crude oils to be (Phase 2) processed through CFU Increase of production capacity of aromatics Preemptive Investment in Response to Changes in Business Environment Based on close monitoring and forecasting, S-OIL is making strategic investments in preparation for changes in the business environment. In 2017, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) has decided to strengthen the sulfur content of ship fuel oil from 3.5% to 0.5% from 2020. Accordingly, it is anticipated that sales volume of high sulfur fuel oil (HSFO) for ship will decline and prices will drop. The Company is aware of the tightening regulations in advance, and is currently working on the RUC/ODC Project to convert HSFO into high value-added products. Furthermore, the Company is reviewing Residual Hydro Desulfurization unit (RHDS) revamping to increase the processing capacity. The Company’s preemptive investment is expected not only to cope with risks through the reduction of HSFO, but also to generate new profits by increasing the production of light fuel products, which are expected to increase in demand in accordance with the new regulations. MHC Revamping HYC Upgrading RFCC Upgrading 61 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Various Efforts for Profitability Enhancement S-OIL has been making a continued effort to advance its profitability through enhancing Profit Improvement Performance in 2017 operational efficiency by minimizing loss factors throughout the entire processes from import of crude oil to production and market distribution. Major focuses have been on optimizing operational conditions of production facilities, expanding production capacity KRW 204,972 millions of high value-added products, improving flexibility of off-site facilities, optimizing product shipment, and reducing fuel consumption. To this end, the Company sets up a dedicated team to monitor and control the quantification of profitability and diverse relevant indices in a consistent manner. Profitability improvement reward system and the company-wide suggestion system were launched to encourage employees to join the activities. As a result, the Company achieved an estimated profit increase of KRW 205 billion in 2017 in terms of increased production of high value-added products, energy saving, off-site optimization, and product yield improvement. Reduction of Energy Consumption and Efficiency Improvement Realization of Work-Smart by S-OIL has been conducting continuous activities to reduce its energy use by commissionUpgrading IT Systems ing professional consulting agencies and gathering business ideas from in-house engiS-OIL is striving to create a work-smart neers. In 2017, the Company reviewed ideas gathered and put into practice over 20 ideas environment by capitalizing on IT systems for operational enhancement. The introduction of low cost steam from LS-Nikko Copper in order to swiftly and flexibly to respond and Korea Zinc Company located near Onsan Refinery has allowed us to cut production to changes of management surroundcosts and GHG emissions and those companies to create additional profits from selling ings and to conduct work more efficientsurplus steam. The Company will continue to explore new items for shared growth in ly. In 2017 the Company carried out varenergy by cooperating with neighboring suppliers, participating in government-led energy ious tasks including the followings for efficiency policy and pushing to become a refinery with the highest energy efficiency in the the implementation of work-smart: First, Asia Pacific. the Company implemented ERP, SCM and the automated storage management Response to 4th Industrial Revolution and retrieval system for the new polymer S-OIL has selected new value creation through big data, which is a core technology of the business, which supported the successful 4th Industrial Revolution, as one of its strategic goals to accomplish Vision 2025. To this completion of the RUC/ODC Project. The end, a dedicated team to generating value from big data was newly organized in 2017, and Company also developed new initiatives the Company is developing tasks for the analysis and innovation of big data to better supfor existing IT system enhancement and port business reinforcement, operation optimization, cost reduction and improved work new IT technology adoption under a fiveefficiency. In 2018, the Company is conducting feasibility analysis in advance using Proof of year information strategic plan that incorConcept (PoC), in order to derive substantial outcomes from big data. Based on the analyporates its corporate vision. In addition, sis, the Company plans to identify and implement feasible big data projects. With regards the Company replaced outdated IT infrato marketing, the Company is looking into diverse innovative projects to enhance marstructure to improve performance and reketing competitiveness tailored to customers and to establish effective sales strategies. liability. As for the operation of the Refinery, the Company has in place a risk predicting system to minimize the impact of shutdown caused by failures of rotary machines, and is reviewing various projects to improve profitability on the back of increased production efficiency. 62 O Owners & Other Stakeholders 3 F  inancial Soundness Why is This Important? / Transparent Securing financial flexibility and maintaining a stable financial structure that is undisturbed by environmental changes are prerequisites to ensuring sustainable growth of the Disclosure of Company. In addition, transparent management information disclosure helps address inManagement formation imbalance, inform stakeholders of major decisions and changes in financial Information status, and thereby protects the interest of stakeholders. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Maintenance of a stable •Maintenance of excellent credit •Maintenance of domestic ratings at •Maintenance of excellent credit financial structure ratings AA+ & global ratings at BBB ratings Financial resources •Optimized financing for •Financing with competitive methods •Successful financing for for investments in the RUC/ODC Project including corporate bonds the RUC/ODC Project sustainable growth Responsible tax •Responsible tax compliance •Payment of KRW 399,004 million in •Responsible tax compliance compliance corporate tax Balanced gain •Balanced gain sharing •Maintenance of stakeholder-friendly •Balanced gain sharing sharing high payout policy (dividend payout ratio 55%) Transparent disclosure •Zero violation of disclosure •Zero violation of disclosure, •Zero violation of disclosure of management 1 training on disclosure information •Proactive IR activities •8 NDRs, participation in 8 IR •Proactive IR activities conferences Our Response S-OIL ensures efficient financial management and optimized financing as a means to maintain a stable financial structure in a rapidly changing business environment. Through balanced performance sharing, responsible tax compliance, and transparent management information disclosure, the Company strives to protect the interest of stakeholders and contributes to the country’s economy. Establishment of Financial Soundness and Efficient Financial Management In response to the rapidly changing business environment and increased borrowings due to investment for the RUC/ODC Project, S-OIL is minimizing unnecessary loans through periodic cash flow estimation. The Company is also systemically managing risks associated with the redemption of principal and interest by dispersing payment deadlines. Efforts are being undertaken for the Company to maintain a stable financial structure, such as consistent monitoring of major financial indicators that show financial soundness. Furthermore, the Company is actively communicating with credit rating agencies at home and abroad so that its financial flexibility, favorable business prospects, the RUC/ODC Project’s positive impact on various areas and possibility of financial support from Saudi Aramco, its parent company, are duly reflected into the Company’s credit ratings. Internally, the Company is working hard to secure stable financial structure by establishing plans to reduce borrowings, successfully maintaining excellent credit ratings despite pooling large-scale project investments. 63 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Key Financial Indicators in 2017 Responsible Tax Compliance S-OIL regards responsible tax compliance as one of its core responsibilities as a Stability Profitability Growth & Activity (Total liabilities to equity) (Return on equity) (Sales growth) corporate citizen to contribute to the development of the national economy and 120.5 % 18.3 % 28.0 % local communities. The Company ensures full compliance with tax-related laws and regulations, maintain transparent relations with the taxation authorities, and Domestic Credit Ratings Overseas Credit Ratings pays taxes faithfully according to its tax policy. Moreover, detailed tax items such as corporate tax, deferred corporate tax, AA+ Baa2 BBB and the available tax rate are reported on through the independent auditors’ report and disclosed to the public through the Korea Ratings, NICE Investors Service, Moody’s S&P DART system. Korea Investors Service Optimized Financing S-OIL preemptively secured financial resources by signing an agreement on a KRW 1.5 trillion long-term loan for facility construction and a KRW 1.2 trillion stand-by credit line Tax Policy S-OIL adheres to the following tax policies, commitment with nine financial companies including Korea Development Bank during recognizing that contributing to the national late 2015, to support the smooth operation of the RUC/ODC Project for nurturing future economy and social development through sincere tax payment is an important growth engines. This was possible thanks to improved profitability, excellent credit ratresponsibility of corporate citizens. ings, and sound financial structure on the back of strong growth of the industry. Amid 1. T  he Company shall strictly comply such favorable financial standing and active hosting of roadshows, the Company raised with the tax-related policies, laws, and international standards (OECD Guidelines, a total of KRW 1.8 trillion by issuing corporate bonds at competitive interest rates from etc.) of the country or region where the 2015 to 2017. Acknowledged for these accomplishments, the Company received the Best Company operates its business. Bond Issuer award at the 2018 Korea Capital Market League Table Awards sponsored by 2. T  he Company shall not violate tax laws or conduct inappropriate tax accounting the MoneyToday Media Group. Furthermore, the Company has secured KRW 2.2 trillion in activities for the purpose of tax avoidance. available cash as of the end of 2017 by achieving record-high management performance, 3. T  he Company shall not use haven showing immaculate preparations in terms of financing. countries for offshore tax evasion or inappropriate tax reduction. 4. T  he Company shall not engage in any Budget Management for Efficient Resource Allocation transactions related to transferring S-OIL sets and executes its budget in a systematic manner to ensure efficient allocation income between countries by trading transparently and fairly in foreign of fund resources. The Zero Base Budgeting (ZBB) system is in place to avoid waste in the transactions budget and formulate optimized budget that is organically linked with corporate manage5. T  he Company shall apply objective and ment policies and strategies, and a strict review of budget management organizations reasonable transfer prices for transactions with specially related parties. should precede before budget execution. In 2017, the Company focused on minimizing budget spending through cutting costs to support the successful completion of the RUC/ UDC Project. In 2018, the Company is continuing the cost saving efforts at company-wide level to allow those budget items that directly contribute or support profit creation, that are required to maintain the current levels of safety and reliability, or that are essential to business operations. Going forward, systematic and objective budgeting and a more thorough economic analysis for costs and capital expenses will continue to improve the efficiency of resource allocation and budget management. The Best Bond Issuer Award in 2017 64 Owners & Other Stakeholders Balanced Performance Sharing S-OIL pursues a reasonable dividend policy that strikes a balance between internal reEconomic Value Created (unit: KRW in million) serves for investment and the return of profits to shareholders, by taking into considerCategory 2017 ation profits earned, cash flows, and impact on financial structure and credit ratings. In Revenue 20,891,340 2017, the Company determined to pay out 55 percent in dividend, which is higher than the Cost of sales (18,566,739) five-year average payout ratio of 52 percent, considering the record high profit in 2017 and Other income 713,439 sound financial structure. The Company will continue to engage in investments for continOther expenses (367,534) ued growth, such as the RUC/ODC Project, and return profits created to shareholders in pursuit of shared growth of the Company and shareholder value. Depreciation cost (293,588) Economic value created 2,376,918 Dividend Payments (Unit : %) 2015 2016 2017 Economic Value Distributed (unit: KRW in million) 59.8 Stakeholder Item 2017 55.0 Employees Salary & pension 637,569 44.5 Government Taxes & dues 417,799 Local Social contribution 14,140 10.9 communities expenditure 7.3 4.7 5.7 Creditors Interest costs 58,254 3.0 5.1 Shareholders Dividend 1,249,156 & company & reserves Cash dividend payout ratio Cash dividend yield Cash dividend yield Economic value distributed 2,376,918 (Common) (Preferred) Compliance with Disclosure Regulations In order to uplift investor trust and comply with disclosure regulations, S-OIL is proactive Violation of Disclosure Regulations in monitoring enactment and amendment of relevant regulations and offering trainings (2015~2017) so as to prevent omissions of disclosure of items. To this end, the Company distributes a reference material that summarizes new and revised regulations and important matters to respective teams, and conduct relevant trainings on a periodic basis. As a result, the Company was able to transparently announce its management information to sharehold0 cases ers and investors by disclosing 44 items with no violation of disclosure regulations in 2017. In 2018, the Company aims to strengthen relevant training with the aim of raising the awareness of transparent disclosure and continues to share its management information in compliance with regulations. IR Activities to Enhance Corporate Value S-OIL engages in various IR activities to provide shareholders and investors with management information in a transparent manner and enhance corporate value. Every year, the Company surveys analysts about their satisfaction on its IR activities and then incorporates their feedback to better the quality of IR activities. In 2017, the Company focused its IR activities on delivering accurate information on the favorable market environment, optimistic business outlook and its future growth en-gines fueled by the RUC/ODC Project. The Company held non-deal roadshows eight times and participated in eight large-scale IR conferences. In the run-up to the commercial operation of the RUC/ODC Project, in particular, the CEO attended overseas roadshows and showed his confidence in the Company’s future. 65 O S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? 4 M  anagement of Creating a stable supply chain and promoting healthy competition among suppliers are prerequisites for achieving sustainable business growth amid rapid supply chain evolutions. It is also Sustainability in critical to ensure fair and transparent supplier selection procedures for the establishment of a Supply Chain favorable environment where a company and its suppliers can enjoy shared growth based on mutual trust. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Enhancement •Execution rate of regular risk •Execution rate of regular risk survey •Execution rate of regular risk survey of sustainability survey on Suppliers: 100% on Suppliers: 100% on Suppliers: 100% capability in supply chain •Participation rate ESG training •Participation rate ESG training for •Participation rate ESG training for for procurement-related teams procurement-related teams : 100% procurement-related teams : 100% : 100% •One supplier invitation program •One supplier invitation program •Supplier invitation program (Annual) (352 suppliers participated) (participation of 380 suppliers) •Supplier satisfaction evaluation: •supplier satisfaction evaluation •Supplier satisfaction evaluation: over 9.3 points result : 9.37 points (355 suppliers over 9.3 points participated) Enhancement of bidding •Source of 70 new suppliers •Registration of 97 suppliers •Source of 100 new suppliers competence by discovering new suppliers Reinforcement of local •Local purchasing in Ulsan : •Reinforcement of local purchasing in purchasing KRW 196.6 billion (excluding RUC/ Ulsan (KRW 184.7 billion) ODC Project purchasing) Our Response S-OIL strives to open up new business opportunities for co-prosperity with suppliers as well as to minimize risks associated with the supply chain by helping suppliers secure competitiveness. Procurement Process Improvement S-OIL has been improving transparency, objectivity, and fairness in procurement by introducing new systems such as Auto-Invitation Critical Supplier: 25 companies and Blind-Bidding in 2013. Procurement of goods and services is initiated through automatically inviting all suppliers who joined Selection Standards each sourcing group through preliminary reviews of the Sourcing 1. Large quantity of products and services suppliers Group Deliberation Committee (SGDC) in accordance with the Au2. Irreplaceable suppliers to-Invitation procedure. Then main suppliers are selected through 3. Long-term stable suppliers of products the Blind-Bidding procedure guided by automatic quotation bidand services ding of the e-Procurement system. This new procurement process 4. Essential suppliers for operation of main processes enables the selection of suppliers to be more transparent and fair. The Company plans to consistently upgrade its procurement process by activating communication with suppliers. 66 Owners & Other Stakeholders Improvement of the SRM System S-OIL has been operating the Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) system since 2010 with the goal to select suppliers in a fair and transparent manner. The SRM system ensures objectivity and reliability as supplier evaluation is conducted on the basis of the Korea Enterprise Data (KED)’s credit ratings and performance assessment on suppliers. Systematic Supplier Sustainability Management S-OIL established the zero safety and environment accident and the ethics management as the goal of supply chain sustainability management, and systemically manages its supDirection of Supply Chain Sustainability pliers. The Company evaluates not only suppliers’ basic competence such as financial staManagement bility and technological prowess but also their sustainability competence encompassing •Enhancement of fairness and business ethics, conflicts of interest, safety, and the environment. Bidding opportunities transparency in the selection of bidders by systematically improving the supplier are given to only suppliers who pass the evaluation process, and all suppliers are required evaluation process to be reevaluated annually. When there is necessity to conduct an in-depth evaluation due •Procurement of high quality products to risks, etc., the Company conducts in-depth evaluations through the SGDC consisting of at reasonable price through the differentiated selection of suppliers professionals in the fields of compliance, technology, and management. In 2017, a total •Integration of procurement processes & of 314 suppliers were evaluated by the SGDC. In addition, in 2017, the Company visited enhancement of interactive information business sites of 34 suppliers for sustainability risk assessment. Based on the inspection sharing with the suppliers •Enhancement of collaboration with result, the Company supported all the 31 suppliers with sustainability risk for improveoutstanding suppliers ment. Moreover, suppliers of the Company are required to submit and practice a pledge •Provision of adequate information to on complying with its Ethics Code. The Company has invited suppliers for training on its support decision-making for effective purchasing procurement system and Ethics Code and checking their compliance every year since 2013. In 2017, a total of 352 suppliers were invited to this program. Ethics Policy for Suppliers S-OIL’s suppliers shall comply with the S-OIL Supplier Ethics Policy as stated below and shall make efforts to build sustainable supply chains. 1. We comply with international ethics-related 8. We guarantee the freedom of association, regulations as well as anti-corruption and and prohibit any disadvantage from it. anti-bribery regulations as a member of the 9. We comply with labor conditions determined nation and local communities. by labor-related laws and regulations in each 2. We do not carry out any illegal act such as country and region. bid rigging that affects cost estimates. 10. We provide employees and relevant staff 3. We do not provide or promise to give with a safe and healthy work environment, Partnership signed with partner valuables or entertainment to project and take proper action to prevent them from owners. being exposed to potential safety risks. 4. We eliminate discrimination in terms of 11. We comply with environmental laws gender, race, nationality, disability, religion, and regulations, and recognize that and union activity. environmental protection is our basic social 5. We respect business partners and their responsibility. employees, and do not have an impersonal 12. We strive for continuous job creation, and manner. We do not restrain employees’ implement social contribution activities for physical and psychological freedom illegally, the development of local communities and and we do not force people to work against the national economy. their will. 13. We have S-OIL level or higher ethical 6. We comply with the working hour procurement policy for our suppliers. requirement and the minimum wage as determined by labor-related laws and regulations. 7. We prohibit employment of minors under the age of 15, and exclude employees under the age of 18 from work with higher potential health and safety risks. 67 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Procurement of Crude Oil in 2017 (Unit: KRW in millions) Procurement by Item in 2017 (Unit: KRW in millions) 626,124 493,404 13,714,906 KRW 1,167,442 million 47,915 Construction & General Materials Total maintenance service Procurement by Region in 2017 (Unit: KRW in millions) Korea Europe Asia Americas Others 54,053 58,734 99,596 (75 vendors) (46 vendors) 100 (41 vendors) (2 vendors) 954,859 (1,181 vendors) Middle East 100 (2 vendors) Purchase Amount No. of Vendors KRW 1,167,442 million 1,347 *Excluding crude oil & products 68 O Owners & Other Stakeholders Why is This Important? 5 E  nvironment With environmental accidents happening more frequently across the globe, greater expectation and emphasis from the government and local communities are now being placed Management upon companies to promote their environmental stewardship. Especially, systematic management of the environment is all the more important in the oil refining industry as wide-ranging environmental issues are likely to arise concerning the handling, production, transfer and delivery of raw materials and products. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Environmental •120 points •150.6 points •155 point performance evaluation Reduction of •Volume of air pollutant emissions •Reduce the volume of emissions environmental pollutant (SOx, NOx, Dust): 7,601 tones by 30% compared with 2013 (until emissions by systematic 2021) management •31% reduction of benzene emissions •72% reduction of benzene compared with 2009 emissions •Maintain the rate of fugitive •Rate of fugitive emissions 0.08% •Maintain the rate of fugitive emissions under 0.3% emissions under 0.25% (Maintain the emission rate under 0.2% until 2020) Enhancement of •Implementation of at least •2 emergency drills (twice for •Enhancement of emergency response emergency response 2 emergency drills hazardous chemical substances) ability through consistent drills ability to leakage of oils and hazardous chemical •Zero oil spill •Zero oil spill •Zero oil spill substances Compliance with •Zero violation •Zero violation •Zero violation (until 2020) environmental regulations (Fine or above) Registration of chemical •C  heck for changes in chemical •Updated list of chemical •Conduct survey on additional substances to the substances subject to registration substances subject to registration chemical substances subject to government registration (2nd phase, within the expanded scope) •Purchasing, production, and •Purchasing, production, and •Complete registration of chemical submission of registration data submission of registration data substances by due date (1st phase, (partial) June 30 2018) Our Response Based on the strong commitment of the top management for environmental protection and green management, S-OIL is not only duly abiding by environmental laws, which are a prerequisite for sustainable growth, but also implementing eco-friendly policies and consistently making environmental investments. The Company has established a systematic environmental management system, aiming to minimize pollutant discharge and adverse impact on the environment backed by active and preemptive environmental management. Through continuous improvements to processes and environmental facilities, the Company is manufacturing eco-friendly products and maintaining the level of pollutant emissions far below legal requirements, as well as preemptively responding to various environmental regulations. Such green management led by the strong commitment has enabled the Company to achieve remarkable eco-friendly performances that exceed legal or social standards, further contributing to sustainable growth. 69 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Methodical Environmental Management System Environmental Performance Evaluation (unit: points) Environmental Management Strategy and System S-OIL places top priority of its en2015 2016 2017 vironmental policy on preemptive green management. The Company not only produces 150.6 high-quality eco-friendly products by continuously revamping production processes and introducing new technologies, but also secures environmental impact reduction facil113.8 100.0 ities such as desulfurization, denitrification, wastewater treatment, and dust collection facilities. Since 1996, ISO14001 Environmental Management System certification has been adopted to all production processes and terminals step by step, which has enabled the Company to carry out systematic environmental management activities throughout the entire product life cycle. In 2017, the Company successfully migrated its environmental management system to the ISO14001:2015 that specifies far more stringent requirements to identify environmental aspects and risks, establish and implement management plans, set and track effective environmental goals, and qualify personnel. Environmental Accounting in 2017 (unit : KRW in million) Environmental Performance Evaluation System (ISO14031) S-OIL is operating ISO14031 environmental performance evaluation system to ensure environmental invest159,748 ment and performance are objectively evaluated and then the evaluation results are then proactively incorporated in our environmental management activities. The environmental performance evaluation process includes selecting environmental indices, gathering and analyzing environmental data, assessing environmental performance, conducting 37,808 regular reviews and making improvements to help stakeholders and the management 15,640 make decisions. The evaluation results shows we performed better in 2017 compared to the previous year, especially with zero case of environmental regulation violation, Environmental Environmental Environmental costs benefits investments reduction in air and water pollutant emissions, and improved waste recycling rates. Environmental Accounting (EA) System S-OIL has established and been operating an inhouse environmental accounting system in accordance with the government’s guidelines with the aim of objectively judging environmental investments and their ensuing performance as well as practicing the philosophy of environmental management. In 2017, the Company’s environmental investment focused on reducing pollutant emissions, preventing environmental accidents, and improving energy efficiency, such as installing waste heat recollection facilities, revamping boiler fuel gas facilities, setting up TMS digital comEnvironmental Policy S-OIL has established and operates an advanced environmental management system under the principle of preventive green management that prevents environmental hazards and risk factors at every stage of business operation. In addition, the Company complies with the following environmental policies with the cooperation of stakeholders such as customers, suppliers and employees. 1. T  he Company shall comply with the environmental laws and regulations of the region in which the Company operates its business, establish strict internal standards that are above legal standard, and adhere to the standards 2. T  he Company shall minimize the environmental pollutants created in the production processes or business facilities through the improvement of efficiency, etc. and prevent potential environmental accidents. 3. T  he Company shall develop, manufacture and sell highly efficient products that minimize environmental impact on consumers 4. T  he Company shall minimize greenhouse gas emissions from the distribution process through efficient logistics system operation and prevent environmental accidents such as leakage. 5. The Company shall treat wastes safely and environmentally, and improve waste reuse. 6. T  he Company shall consider environmental factors when selecting suppliers and do not receive products and services from suppliers that can cause serious environmental pollution. 7. T  he Company shall improve the environmental performance of affiliated companies such as JVs and subsidiaries, and also consider environmental factors in capital investments such as mergers and acquisitions. 8. T  he Company shall actively support and participate in environmental protection activities such as biodiversity conservation. 70 Owners & Other Stakeholders munications, and installing additional oil detectors. In parallel, the Company continues Air Pollutant Emissions Intensity at Onsan Refinery to develop midand long-term environmental investment items to take the initiative in Legal Limit 2017 environmental management. 180ppm 150ppm Environmental Pollutant Control Air Pollutant Control S-OIL has in place stricter in-house emissions stan84.8 dards than legally required in order to improve the atmospheric environment. 82 Using clean by-product gases and low-sulfur fuel oil as fuel, the Company commits itself 30mg/Sm3 to cutting emissions of SOx. The Company has made continued investment in environmental facilities such as Ultra Low NOx Burner (ULNB) and Selective Catalytic Reduction 2.9 (SCR), and electrical precipitator, which resulted in maintaining a high rate of pollutant SOx NOx Dust control and emissions reduction. In addition, the Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) is in operation to systemically control the fugitive emission of HAPs, which may be produced Air Pollutant Emissions Volume at Onsan during product storage, shipment, and processing, into the air without being filtered by Refinery in 2017 (unit: tons) vents. Since 2015, the Company has expanded the LDAR management threshold from 3,817 3,705 the existing 130,000 to 430,000 points, significantly reducing the leakage rate of HAPs. In 2017, thanks to the continued strict leakage control by production teams, the leakage rate remained only at 0.08% (when the Company’s internal leakage standard of 500 ppm is applied). Meanwhile, the Company is upgrading facilities based on ready-made in-house 7,601 guidelines in response to the Clean Air Conservation Act, which was amended for tightened fugitive emissions of HAPs. The Company has consistently reduced environmental pollutants with the efficient operation of pollution prevention facilities, environmental in79 vestments including renovation of facilities for improved energy efficiency and transition SOx NOx Dust Total into eco-friendly fuel to cut pollutant emissions. In particular, the Company plans to introduce LNG in 2018, which is known as a clean energy fuel, to further contribute to the reduction of air pollutants and fine dust. The Company has full awareness that fine dust Water Pollutant Emissions Intensity at Onsan generated from SOx, NOx, and dust is not only a threat to the health of the public but also Refinery Legal Limit 2017 a severe risk factor that can lead to sweeping regulations not limited to the temporary 40ppm shutdown of factories. Following the establishment of a specific reduction plan (cut fine dust emissions down by 30% by 2022 compared to the level in 2014) by the government in 2017, there are high expectations for the industry to join the effort. Although the Company is currently emitting fine dust that is lower than legal standards, it plans to further install ULNB, which significantly reduces the amount of NOx that cause fine dust, in order to 10ppm 8.5 10ppm minimize the risk to public health and preemptively respond to strengthened regulations. *F ugitive emissions means that substances directly emit into the air not through conventional outlets such as a smokestack 2.6 2.3 or a vent but through devices, piping, seals, valves, etc. BOD COD SS Water Quality Control S-OIL operates waste water treatment plant in a stable manner in order to minimize the impact of its business operation on the nearby sea. The plant Water Consumption, Recycling, & Wastewater treats wastewater using physical, chemical, and biological methods to ensure pollutants Volume at Onsan Refinery in 2017 (unit: thousand tons) are effectively removed. The Tele-Metering System (TMS) transmits data on water quality to administrative agencies in real time in preparation of an emergency. The Company also 21,268 expanded rainfall storage tank capacity for the heavy rainy season and strengthened monitoring of 29 kinds of specific substances harmful to water quality such as Cu, Pb, and As, contributing to improving water quality. 9,161 2,220 Water Water Wastewater consumed recycled generated 71 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Soil Environment Control S-OIL carries out regular checks as well as legally mandatory Waste Generation & Recycling at Onsan inspections to prevent soil pollution in the Refinery and terminal areas, including oil storRefinery in 2017 (unit : tons) age facilities. The Company also continues to improve facilities in a systematic manner by laying pipes on the ground instead of underground. Signing the Voluntary Agreement Generation 25,550 tons Recycling 16,594 tons on Soil Environmental Protection with the Ministry of Environment, the Company conducts not only self-inspections for soil pollution on its terminals and service stations but 16,732 also voluntarily initiates soil restoration activities upon discovering soil pollution. To follow the agreement, the Company conducts legal inspections as necessary to monitor soil 8,818 9,596 pollution while carrying out self-inspections every three years to prevent soil pollution. 6,998 Moreover, the Company’s new and remodeled service stations are built with the concept of Clean Service Station. Clean Service Stations are environmentally-friendly facilities as they prevent leakage of pollutants with double-layered tanks and pipelines. Even if pollutants are leaked, leakage sensors and alarms go off instantly, stopping spread of pollution Generation Recycling Generation Recycling in a swift manner. Designated waste General waste Waste Control S-OIL has strived to reduce waste discharge while increasing the recycling Emissions of Hazardous Chemical rate to create a virtuous circle of eco-friendly resources. The Company has maintained a Substances in 2015 (unit : tons) high rate of waste recycling by strictly practicing separate waste collection. In 2015, the 222 Company participated in the Industrial Sectors’ Declaration for Sustainable Korea 2030, affirming its strong commitment to enhancing the nation’s resources circulation and resources productivity. The Company continues its efforts to discover competitive waste re116 cycling companies, which resulted in a reduced waste disposal and increased recycling in 2017 compared to a year earlier. Other activities for better waste control include upgrading waste control facilities and installing fire detectors and sprinklers for preventing fire accidents and pollutant emissions that may arise in the process of waste storage and S-OIL Average of domestic treatment. competitors Prevention of Hazardous Substance Leakage S-OIL has systematic response procedures to prevent leakage of hazardous chemical substances on land under which faOil Spill (2015~2017) cilities are subject to regular inspection and drills are held to beef up emergency response capabilities. In 2017, the Company installed 27 additional oil detectors in major spots inside the Refinery in order to allow immediate detection of oil spills and en0 cases hance its capability to carry out first-response and contain an oil spill. Moreover, the Company conducts emergency drills against leakage of hazardous chemical substances and oil spills every year. Going forward, the Company plans to develop various scenarios of oil spills and chemical leakage to further enhance the emergency drills. Prevention of Oil Spills S-OIL has in place standard work protocols and procedures for marine oil spill prevention. The Company not only strengthens on-site monitoring but also conducts periodic emergency drills and training. In particular, the Company places its focus on enabling timely response to any crisis or emergency by offering accident prevention training on a quarterly basis based on various marine pollution scenarios. In order to prevent marine oil spills, the Company operates the vetting system which bars vessels that fall short of strict safety standards from entering port facilities. Under the system, all vessels are evaluated on their risk factors and only double-hulled tankers are permitted into the port in order to minimize risk of oil spill resulting from vessel accidents. The ComWastewater treatment plant pany also has a protection system consisting of radar, tidal current measurement, and mooring tension measurement systems as well as the Single Point Mooring (SPM), which is the onshore mooring facilities for VLCCs. In 2017, we continued investment intended to enhance its marine contamination prevention and response capability and installed oil spill detectors to the final discharge outlet on the seafront. 72 Owners & Other Stakeholders Environmental Effect Evaluation and Response to Environmental Regulations Implementation of Environmental Effect Evaluation S-OIL has been recognized as an eco-friendly company that fully complies with the Environmental Impact Assessment Act and pursues corporate growth with consideration into possible environmental impact on neighboring areas. In case of new projects or large-scale construction, the Company commissions professional environmental effect evaluators to adopt pollutant reduction methods in project design and execute periodic measurements of air, water, the ecosystem, and soil quality. The result of environmental effect evaluation is submitted to administrative agencies before the project. What’s more, the Company implements follow-up environmental impact evaluations even during and after the project for the purpose of minimizing any environmental impact from its business. Preemptive Response to Tightening Environmental Regulations S-OIL proactively responds to environmental policies and regulations by adhering to its environmental policy of Preemptive Green Management. As part of this, the Company builds optimized pollution prevention facilities from the initial stage of refinery construction, complies with relevant regulations, and prepares stricter in-house environmental criteria than legal requirements. And daily self-inspection on potential environmental impact is carried out Air Pollutant Inspection and unsatisfactory areas are promptly remediated, solidifying the Company’s autonomous environmental management system. The Company also copes with the government’s environmental policy in a positive manner by reviewing changes in environmental regulations and reflecting them in its management strategies. Particularly, relevant teams convene a monthly meeting to review environmental regulations, report the results to the management, and share those with production teams. Legal Compliance System enables information sharing on revisions to environmental regulations and self-assessments on a periodic basis against the environmental regulations compliance checklist. Compliance status is also checked during internal audits for the purpose of practicing compliances management. There was zero regulation violation identified in any of the 17 external reviews and audits held in 2017. Internal and External Communication S-OIL has established a set of rigorous standards, based on which eco-friendly management is pursued. The Company gathers and analyzes global environmental management trends and changes in relevant regulations at home and abroad through continued communication with various stakeholders including local communities, the government, media and academia, and reflect those data in the company-wide environmental management system. The Company shares its environmental management information with local communities, relevant institutions, and other stakeholders, reflect their opinions to improve its environmental management activities The Company is proactive in participating in diverse environmental events in local communities and supporting small-sized companies for environmental activities, thereby widening relationships with local communities and contributing to their environmental improvement. In recognition of such efforts, the Company received awards in 2017 from the Ulsan Maritime Police and the Ministry of Environment. The Company will continue to make investments for environmental improvement and operate emissions facilities in full compliance of various environmental regulations, while living up to the environmental expectations from the local communities. 73 O S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? With the Paris Agreement whereby UNFCCC members made a pledge on joint responses to 6 Response to climate change at the COP21 officially launched in 2016, the Korean government also pledged to reduce 37% of its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from business-as-usual by 2030. Despite Climate Change the US’s withdrawal from the Agreement, key European countries are more active in taking on the challenge, declaring their plans to ban sales of petrol and diesel cars by 2040. Climate change has become an unavoidable reality. There is thus an urgent need for companies to brace for the global phenomenon as a determinant of their future competitiveness. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Strategic carbon •Mandatory implementation of cost•Implementation completion •Expansion of direct GHG emissions response efficient emissions trading scheme reduction Communication to solidify •Maintenance of external certifications •Maintenance of certifications •Acquisition and renewal of the Company’s position as on carbon management certifications on carbon management an eco-friendly company Our Response S-OIL believes the Paris Agreement will bring more business opportunities to the Company and changing public attitudes regarding climate change will have an enormous effect on its brand value. In response, the Company considers climate change as a pressing issue and proactively participates in global GHG reduction efforts by establishing a midto long-term response strategy and operating an advanced carbon management system. Advancement of the Carbon Management System S-OIL is operating an IT-based carbon inventory system that detects, records, calculates and reports all GHG emissions from the Company’s business activities, with an aim to promote the systematic management of GHG. The government’s revisions to relevant guidelines are immediately reflected in the system, and data accuracy is certified by both internal inspection and external evaluation. Periodic maintenance of the device for measurement and analysis allow the Company to maintain the best practice of GHG monitoring among the industry participants. In order to establish a company-wide cooperative framework for carbon management, top management meeting was held in 2017 to revamp internal procedures and enhance the feasibility of economic evaluation. As a result, the scope of business for which the cost of GHG is calculated has been expanded to encompass all the business areas and investment projects directly and indirectly applicable to GHG emissions. In addition, the Company introduced energy efficiency index in connection with organizational strategy and awarded employees with good suggestions in order to encourage their participation in the efforts for GHG emission reduction and energy consumption. Aiming to duly respond to the emissions trading scheme, the Company has set up comprehensive emissions trading plans by estimating future emissions volume and acquirable emission allowances, based on its midto long-term operation plans and the national reduction roadmap. The Company actively traded GHG emissions at six times during 2017 according to its operation plans, and expects to significantly cut down on GHG emissions with the transition into low-carbon LNG in 2018. GHG Reduction Performance S-OIL was able to reduce 460,000 tons of GHG emissions compared to 2011, when the initial measurement was made, thanks to large-scale environmental investments. Based on the previously built energy monitoring system (ECOS), the Company implemented energy diagnosis to discover items for improvement and applied them to processes, substantially reducing energy use and GHG emissions. In 2017 alone, about 20 projects were 74 Owners & Other Stakeholders conducted to reduce GHG emissions. In particular, the installment of the Mechanical Vapor GHG Emissions in 2017 (unit: thousand tons CO2eq) Recompressor (MVR) at the No. 1 Aromatic Complex led to the reduction of 40,000 tons by recycling surplus heat for processes. Furthermore, the Company is making concerted ef•Scope I : 6,550 forts to cut GHG emissions across the board such as improvements in processes, replaceCO2 •Scope II : 1,103 ment into high efficiency equipment and re-use of waste heat generated from neighboring •Scope III : 30 factories. As a result, the amount of GHG emission per treatment of one barrel of crude oil decreased to 32 kgCO2eq in 2017 compared to 37 kgCO2eq in 2011, achieving a 15% reduction. The Company is also strengthening monitoring on indirect emissions from supply Detailed GHG Emissions in 2017 chains including crude oil procurement and product distribution. As for Saudi Arabia, one (unit: thousand tons CO2eq) CH 4 N2 O CO 2 of the major suppliers of crude oil, the amount of GHG emission per crude oil production is known to be the lowest across the world. 7,642 GHG Reduction Initiatives S-OIL has been raising consumer awareness of carbon reduction and creating a 7,653 public consensus through Eco Campaign since 2012, which captures drivers’ interest with novel ideas every year, including No Idling and Car Diet. The Company obtained 9 3 the Carbon Trust Standard, a global carbon management certification, in 2012 for the Total first time in Korea, and successfully renewed the certification. The Company also joined the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and has been selected as a high performer for four straight years, demonstrating its initiative to take the lead in disclosing carbon footprint information in a transparent manner. Furthermore, as an active member of the Korea Energy Consumption in 2017 (unit: : TJ) Business Council for Sustainable Development (KBCSD), which was launched to promote government-industry cooperation on the formation of government policy to achieve the •Scope I : 79,577 carbon reduction goal and establish sustainable growth initiatives, the Company proposes •Scope II : 23,591 various ideas and takes part in various programs to induce more proactive actions from •Scope III : 400 the industry. Starting 2016, the Company implemented a cogeneration plant project in collaboration with KD Powertech. This project is to generate 16.4 MW of electricity by recycling waste heat from the petrochemical process and to sell it to KEPCO, which conDetailed Energy Consumption in 2017 tributes to reducing GHG by 61,000 tons every year. (unit: : TJ) S  team / heating / cooling Case Study Advancing into the Cogeneration Business and other energy As a global corporate citizen, S-OIL is actively participating in the Climate Action, one of Electricity 76,577 the 17 SDGs officially known as ‘Transforming Our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Fossil fuels Development,’ which was adopted by the UN in 2015. As part of its efforts for evolving into the most competitive and admired energy & chemical company in Asia Pacific, the Company entered the cogeneration business using waste steam to actively support the Climate Action and at the same time create additional profits. In 2016, the Company started commercial operation of a 0.108 21,926 cogeneration plant that uses extra steam (1.1 million Gcal per year) generated from the Onsan Refinery. This project is expected to reduce GHG by 61,000 tons, supply 16.4 MW of electricity, 1,664 which is enough energy to power up more than five times the total households of Onsan-eup, and create KRW10.0 billion in profit per year. The Company will continue to strive to develop Total renewable energy new business models that can create profits as well as solve social issues. Business Diversification to Meet Changes in Demand The global effort to tackle climate change can have an impact on the demand for oil prodSales of Energy in 2017 ucts. Recognizing the importance of proactive response to the global phenomenon, S-OIL has undertaken the RUC/ODC Project, which will allow the Company to convert residue Steam into high value-added petrochemicals. The project is in the preparation phase for commercial operation following the mechanical completion in the first half of 2018. On the 3,016 TJ heels of the successful implementation of the mega-scale project, the Company plans to explore other opportunities to create synergy with existing businesses and foray into new business areas by carefully analyzing the impact of climate change on its business environment and actively investing in associated new technologies. 75 O S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Why is This Important? 7 S  ocial Companies are required to create new values for the community and fulfill their social reContribution sponsibility by conducting strategic social contribution activities. Moreover, those should be guided by a clear set of business strategies and periodically evaluated to ensure sustainability. Activities By doing so, social contribution will be promoted more systematically and attract voluntary participation from all stakeholders. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Promotion of •Execution of social contribution •Execution of For Heroes, For •E xecution of social contribution systematic social activities linked with strategic the Environment, For the Local activities linked with strategic contribution activities directions Community, and For Needy People directions activities •Execution of social contribution •Workshop for stakeholders of •Execution of social contribution activities that reflecting stakeholder Sunshine Sharing Public Service activities reflecting stakeholder opinions Corps Programs opinions •Continuous improvement of social •Training for social contribution •Continuous improvement of social contribution activities workers, Idea contest for Sunshine contribution activities Sharing Volunteer Program Our Response S-OIL strives to fulfill its social responsibilities and practice its core value, sharing. In order to make its social contribution activities more productive and strategically aligned, the Company is proactive in understanding expectations of local communities through diverse communication channels. Then, the Company conducts differentiated social contribution activities in accordance with the three pillars of Impact, Timing, and Beneficiary under the vision statement of Sunshine Sharing. For Local Communities S-OIL carries out a variety of social contribution activities for co-prosperity with Performance in Social Contribution Activities in 2017 (unit : KRW in million) local communities where its worksites are located. 2,260 2,006 Those include promoting the Culture & Arts Sharing KRW Campaign, supporting needy people who live around 1,060 6,147 its terminals and the TS&D Center, operating the GOOmillions 571 DOIL Café, establishing the Ulsan Welfare Foundation, 250 sponsoring cultural events at Taewharu in Ulsan, and support-ing welfare facilities in Ulsan. For Local For the For the For Heroes Others Total Community Environment Needy For the Environment S-OIL is implementing the For Environment activities in order to protect endangered natural treasures and preserve nature and ecosystem diversity for future generations. The Company sponsors the research and protection campaigns of professional organizations dedicated to protecting natural treasures such as otters, red-crowned cranes, spotted barbels and long-horned beetles. Also, the Company runs natural treasure classes for children, operates a university student natural treasure protection corps and organizes various volunteer activities for employees and customers to participate. The Company’s natural treasure protection activities are commended as the first extensive preservation project for endangered species led by a corporation, 76 Owners & Other Stakeholders raising social awareness about the value of ecosystem diversity and its protection. In adGreen Purchasing in 2017 dition, the Company regularly cleans the evergreen forest of Mokdo island, which is a natural monument adjacent to the Refinery, and is expanding green purchasing to further Amount of purchasing contribute to environmental protection. KRW 15,650 million For Needy People No. of products S-OIL is engaged in many programs to help the underprivileged stand on their own feet and contribute to society as healthy citizens. For example, the 31 cases Company grants scholarships to youths living in residential facilities, operates the Sunshine Sharing camp for children suffering from rare diseases, provides learning devices tailored to youths with disabilities, sponsors the Heart-Heart Orchestra for youths with developmental disabilities and supports fuel for cars used by the Food Bank. In addition, the Company provides heating fuel and aides in the recovery of fire damages for low-income families, helps battered female migrants, holds Service Stations’ Sharing N Campaign, supports the participation of the disabled in over-seas marathon races and is involved in a variety of other charity programs for the needy. For Heroes In order to support the righteous people who have dedicated themselves to the well-being of the country and society, S-OIL supports the Hero Firefighters who commit themselves to saving lives despite tough working conditions, Hero Maritime Police Officers who are at the forefront of maritime crime control and sea-rescue operations and Activities of the S-OIL Public Service Corps in Hero Neighbors who selfishly help neighbors in danger with the spirit of sacrifice. These 2017 programs are contributing to building a brighter and healthier society. Also, the Company provides financial aid and tuition fees to the surviving families of firefighters or maritime Number of participants police officers who have died in the line of duty, as well as medical expense support to 2,321 persons those who have been injured during work. Furthermore, firefighters or maritime police officers can participate in healing camps, and the Company selects and awards Hero FireParticipation hours fighter, Hero Maritime Police Officer and Hero Citizen every year. 24,593 hours Sunshine Sharing Public Service Corps. In addition to the four flagship activities, S-OIL has been executing an array of social conSunshine Sharing Campaign in 2017 tribution activities such as delivering Ttokguk (rice soup), Songpyeon (rice cakes), Kimchi, and coal briquettes to low-income families in the local communities where the Company Wage tail-cut contribution operates, since the launch of the Sunshine Sharing Public Service Corps in 2007. The No. of Participants Company’s employees also engage in voluntary donation activities through Sunshine Sharing Campaign, such as wage tail-cut contribution to help children suffering from bil1,882 persons iary atresia and in the 1 person-1 donation account campaign to support children raised 1 person-1 donation account No. of Participants by grandparents. The Company has also founded the S-OIL Science Prodigy and Culture Foundation, spearheading the effort to nurture the gifted and talented in the science and 1,495 persons technology. Awards for Hero Firefighters Delivery of Coal Briquettes Prevention of Endangered Natural Treasures 77 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Social Contribution Activities That Reflect Stakeholder Opinions S-OIL is proactive in developing various social contribution programs, such as a charity program idea contest, that are based on stakeholders’ engagement and relevant to its business, and can bring out a productive and positive effect on society. To this end, the Company conducts social contribution training every year with the aim to encourage employees to voluntarily take part in its social contribution programs. For example, incorporating stakeholder feedback, the Company grants the S-OIL Dream Scholarship to adolescents who should be discharged from residential facilities due to age requirements, helping them continue their studies and grow into responsible members of society. The Company started providing scholarships to college students discharged from facilities in 2016 and expanded the scholarship program in 2017 to cover high school students who live in residential facilities, helping them acquire diverse licenses and developing their self-reliance even after being discharged from the facilities. * More than 18,000 youths live in 700 residential care facilities nationwide, of which about 1,000 persons are discharged from the facilities and just 25% enter universities Business-related CSR strategy S-OIL’s CSR activities maximize social and environmental benefits and create positive results in its business because its CSR strategy has been established in consideration of the nature of its business. The company's CSR activities contribute to creating positive brand values that fulfill its social responsibilities while also promoting sales of products through donations of its products. It is also the result of CSR activities as a medium to form constructive and cooperative relationships with local communities and to convey the company's commitment to environmental protection to stakeholders. S-OIL Marathon Race for the Disabled Sunshine Sharing Camp 78 O Owners & Other Stakeholders 8 C  ontribution Why is This Important? to Local Contributions to local communities in the aspects of economy, society, and the environment have played a critical role in ensuring healthy society as well as corporate sustainability. Therefore, it is Communities necessary to conduct social contribution activities that meet increasing needs of local communities. Our Commitment Commitment Targets in 2017 Performances in 2017 Targets in 2018 Expansion of the base of •1 2 culture & arts performances, •1  2 culture & arts performances, •12 culture & arts performances, local culture and arts 3,300 participants in total 3,230 participants in total 3,300 participants in total (plans to hold 36 performances with 10,000 participants in total from 2018 to 2020) Handling of •Revitalization of local community •K RW 398.9 billion worth of •Revitalization of local community grievances of local and economy purchasing in Ulsan and economy communities •J ob creation for local community •Recruitment of 68 persons in Ulsan •Job creation for local community 150 thousand jobs created by SUPER Project Max. 17 thousand persons hired a day for RUC/ODC Project Our Response S-OIL carries out various social contribution activities for co-prosperity with local communities where worksites are located, such as Ulsan, Mapo and Magok. Some examples are the operation of the Culture & Arts Sharing Campaign and S-OIL Ulsan Welfare Foundation. The Company is committed to revitalizing the regional economy, creating jobs and solving challenges hand-in-hand with the local community based on consistent communication. Expansion of Base for Local Culture and Arts S-OIL supports local cultural events in areas where we do business as a way to build a better quality of life including cultural exposure to local communities and motivate artists. In recognition of its wide-ranging efforts to expand cultural infrastructure for local communities, the Company was awarded the Minister of Culture, Participants in the Sports and Tourism Prize in 2015. Culture & Arts Sharing Campaign in 2017 Supporting Cultural Activities of Local Communities around Head Office Since 2011, S-OIL has been promoting the Culture & Arts Sharing Campaign at its Head office in Mapo, Seoul. As part of this, diverse culture and arts events are held at the auditorium every month, through which local residents enjoy high-quality culture and No. of events art performances for free. The family-oriented performances in a wide range of genres are received very well and enjoyed by more than 3,000 people every year. In a survey of those who participated in the campaign, they attend 12 times two cultural events on average every year, which attests to the fact that the Company is contributing to the growth No. of participants of culture and arts for local communities. In addition, the Company supports Mapo-ferry Salted Shrimp Festival, 3,230 persons which is a traditional cultural event in the Mapo area, serving the role as guardian of local culture. 79 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Support of Cultural Infrastructure in Ulsan S-OIL’s activities for expanding the base of culture and arts have been active in Ulsan as well. The Company established one of Korea’s most prestigious literary awards, the Oh Young-soo Literary Prize, in 1993 in honor of the talented short story writer from the region. Additionally, the Company has been holding the Beautiful Eye Art Festival since 1996, an arts event that mainly invites amateur artists. Furthermore, the Company donated KRW 10 billion, the total budget required for the Taewharu Restoration Project, boosting the pride of Ulsan citizens while giving them access to a comfortable public rest area. This project was completed in 2014 and since then, the Company has supported culture and arts events held at Taewharu. The Company has also sponsored the Taewharu Culture and Arts Academy where local people can take culture classes provided by renowned local artists since 2015. Other events supported by us include the Cheoyong Cultural Festival, the Ulsan Whale Festival, Byeongyeong Seonang Chigi Folk Festival, Ulsan Onggi Expo Ulsan, and Kyungsang Ilbo Awards for Young Writers. Efforts for Handling Grievances of Local Communities Employment in Ulsan in 2017 S-OIL has been expanding purchase of local products and serNew employees graduated vices to invigorate the local economy in the Ulsan area. Particuuniversities in Ulsan larly, in order to help local farmers who are suffering from the opening of the agricultural 68 Persons (28.2%) market, the Company purchases rice and pears produced in local communities around the Refinery and donates them to social contribution activities. The Company also supports farmers adopting the organic farming through growing snails in rice paddles so Local Purchasing in Ulsan in 2017 as to increase the competitiveness of local farm houses and to protect the environment. Moreover, the Company has employed local talent necessary for the RUC/ODC Project, No. of cases contributing to the increase of local job creation. Another major activities aimed at solving 5,085 cases (52.8%) local issues include donations of funds for school development, scholarships, and books to seven elementary, middle, and high schools in Ulsan. The Company also opened the Purchase Amount GOODOIL water drinking fountain in front of its head office in Seoul, an office building in Ulsan, and also a Gangnam branch where anyone can enjoy natural water and tea for KRW 398,937 millions free. The Company will continue to take the lead in solving local grievances and pursuing (34.2%) co-prosperity. Ulsan Taewharu Culture Concert Ulsan Whale Festival Culture & Arts Sharing Campaign 80 Introduciton Performance Review Key Sustainability Management Performances Appendix Independent Assurance Statement GRI Content Index / UNGC Index / UN SDGs Accolades & Recognitions / Association Memberships 81 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Performance Review (Key Sustainability Management Performances) Business Fundamental Corporate Governance Rating (by Korea Corporate Governance Service) Violation of Improper Solicitation & Graft Act (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Rating A+ A A+ A+ No. of violations 0 0 BOD Composition (unit: persons) Violation of Internal Regulations found by Compliance Monitoring (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2015 2016 2017 2018 No. of violations 1 0 0 0 Type Inside 1 1 1 1 * A business dealing with a retired officer/employee which was not submitted to the Ethics Non-standing 4 4 4 4 Committee occurred in 2014. Outside 6 6 6 6 Gender Male 11 11 11 10 Deliberation of Ethics Committee (unit: times, cases) Female 0 0 0 1 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Age 50 or above 10 10 10 11 No. of meetings 19 19 27 18 30~50 1 1 1 0 Deliberation Operation of 26 57 17 16 sales networks Under 30 0 0 0 0 Purchasing 24 25 52 42 Total 11 11 11 11 of goods & services Total 3 5 7 5 No. of Shares (unit: shares) Total 53 87 76 63 Classification Voting rights No. of shares Ratio No. of disciplines due to 0 1 1 3 Common stock 1 vote 112,582,792 96.6% violations of Ethics Code No. of Head Office 0 1 0 2 Preferred stock none 4,021,927 3.4% employees Refinery 0 0 1 4 Total 116,604,719 100.0% disciplined * There are no golden shares issued holding special voting and veto rights. District Biz HQ 0 0 1 0 Terminal 0 0 0 0 Shareholder Structure: based on common shares (unit: shares) Total 0 1 2 6 * Discipline in 2015: 1 case of inappropriate use of language between colleagues Name No. of shares Ratio (pay-cut to 1 person) Aramco Overseas Company B.V. 71,387,560 63.4% Discipline in 2016: 1 case of money transaction between an employee and a partner (pay-cut to 1 person, warning to 1 person) National Pension Service 6,830,669 6.1% Discipline in 2017: 1 case of money borrowing exceeding the reasonably acceptable level (payInstitutional investors & individuals 34,364,563 30.5% cut to 1 person), 2 cases of inappropriate use of language between colleagues (suspension to 2 persons, pay-cut to 1 person, warning to 1 person, reprimand to 1 person) Total 112,582,792 100.0% * A ramco Overseas Company B.V. acquired an additional 28.4% share of the company Ethics Management Training for Employees previously owned by Hanjin Energy in 2015, following its original acquisition of 35% in 1991. (unit: programs, times, persons, hours) Shares held by governmental institutions: none Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Shareholding Status of MC Members (unit: shares) No. of training programs 8 7 7 7 No. of trainings 15 17 12 21 Name Position No. of shares No. of participants 2,973 3,063 3,643 3,947 Othman Al-Ghamdi CEO 2,219 Hours spent on training 4,119 4,470 4,711 4,075 B.S. Park President 10,360 Y. Ryu President 5,940 Y.I. Cho Executive Vice President 15,600 Self-assessment on Ethics Management (unit: persons, points) J.B. Ahn Executive Vice President 9,140 Classification 2015 2016 2017 2018 S.W. Park Senior Vice President 0 No. of participants 2,423 2,492 2,729 3,316 (86%) (86%) (86%) (100%) * A s of the end of 2017, the CEO held the Company’s share worth 47 percent of his annual fixed salary, and the remaining MC members 240 percent of their average salary. Average score 98.8 99.0 99.1 99.5 82 Performance Review Spending in Business Association (unit: KRW in million) Violation of Laws related to Product/service Information & Labeling (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Spending 1,557 1,481 1,558 1,460 No. of violations 0 0 0 0 *T op five business associations in terms of the amount of spending in 2017: Korea Petroleum Association (KRW 1,172 million), Ulsan Chamber of Commerce & Industry (KRW 120 million), Onsan Industrial Complex Association (KRW 85 million), Korea Employers’ Federation (KRW 32 million), Korea Listed Companies Association (KRW 15 million) Spending related to business issues in 2017: Studies on energy policy direction (KRW 98 million), Fine dust cause analysis & improvement plan research (KRW 39 million) C2 Environmental Quality Evaluation on Automotive Fuels (unit: ) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 C01 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H 1H 2H National Customer Satisfaction Index (unit: points) Gasoline 4 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Diesel 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 S-OIL 72 74 74 75 * T he Ministry of Environment has been evaluating ratings of vehicle fuels every six months since 2006 by taking gasoline and diesel samples from terminals and service stations of each refinery which are located in the metropolitan area and commissioning the Korea Institute of Petroleum Management for test. (the highest rating: 5) Domestic Market Share (unit: stations) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Inspection on Product Quality and Facilities of Service Stations & LPG No. of nationwide service 12,366 12,061 11,923 11,836 Filling Stations (unit: stations) stations Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of S-OIL service 2,022 2,070 2,124 2,166 stations (16.4%) (17.2%) (17.8%) (18.3%) Quality inspection 10,666 12,502 14,461 13,817 Market share for retail light 20.7% 21.1% 21.8% 22.2% Facility inspection 1,161 1,612 2,088 2,140 oil product * B ased on service stations in business. (estimated by S-OIL) Trustworthy Service Stations (unit: stations) VOC Handling Performance (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification No. of Trustworthy Service 1,314 1,257 1,552 1,765 2014 2015 2016 2017 Stations (65%) (61%) (73%) (81%) Call counseling 401,985 308,928 271,212 281,148 ARS Self counseling 46,704 116,412 159,084 SNS 1:1 chat counseling 22,104 Violation of Laws related to Health & Safety Impacts of Product/service Total 401,985 355,632 387,624 462,336 (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of violations 0 0 0 0 Complaint VOC Handling Performance (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Bonus card & associated 1,370 964 1,289 1,472 card Promotion & gift card 2,610 467 450 519 C3 Service, transportation, etc. 660 769 991 1,386 Top of Mind Awareness in TV Advertising (unit; %) Quality 196 178 244 202 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total 4,836 2,378 2,974 3,579 S-OIL 51.2 62.9 60.3 60.0 Average of domestic 8.7 6.1 6.1 6.3 competitors Time Spent on VOC Handling (unit: business days) * Based on tracking check result of advertising impact by professional research institutions. Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Inquiry VOC 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 Violation of Laws related to Marketing Communication (unit: cases) Complaint VOC 3.7 2.9 2.4 2.6 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Rate of VOCs closed within 100% 100% 100% 100% designated window No. of violations 0 0 0 0 * D esignated window: 2 business days for inquiries, 5 business days for complaints 83 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 C4 Employment Status by Age (unit: persons) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Violation of Fair Trade Law (unit: cases) 50 or above 333 425 555 692 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 30~50 2,027 1,981 1,949 1,896 No. of violations 0 0 0 0 Under 30 475 496 624 728 * No. of employees aged 55 or above in 2017: 165 persons (5.0%) No. of employees aged under 20 in 2017: None Violation of Laws related to Customers' Personal Information (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employment Status by Gender (unit: persons) No. of violations 0 0 0 0 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Male 2,613 2,670 2,893 3,072 (92.2%) (92.0%) (92.5%) (92.6%) Female 222 232 235 244 (7.8%) (8.0%) (7.5%) (7.4%) C5 No. of managers Male 686 733 783 813 Sales performance (unit: KRW in million) or higher levels Female 26 27 38 46 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Fuel Domestic 9,210,616 6,230,800 5,931,772 7,658,762 products Employment Status by Employment Contract (unit: persons) Export 13,869,523 7,823,408 6,532,451 8,753,580 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sub-total 23,080,139 14,054,208 12,464,223 16,412,342 Officer 39 37 40 39 Lube Domestic 452,299 320,453 264,450 303,644 products Regular Male 2,464 2,561 2,616 2,825 Export 1,519,260 1,019,309 1,049,213 1,311,262 employees Female 187 197 202 211 Sub-total 1,971,559 1,339,762 1,313,663 1,614,906 Sub-total 2,651 2,758 2,818 3,036 PetroDomestic 1,335,609 958,467 888,054 904,474 chemical Non-regular Male 110 72 237 208 Export 2,170,255 1,537,835 1,655,903 1,959,652 employees products Female 35 35 33 33 Sub-total 3,505,864 2,496,302 2,543,957 2,864,126 Sub-total 145 107 270 241 Total Domestic 10,998,524 7,509,720 7,084,276 8,866,880 (38.5%) (42.0%) (43.4%) (42.4%) Export 17,559,038 10,380,552 9,237,567 12,024,494 Employment Status by Employment Type (unit: persons) (61.5%) (58.0%) (56.6%) (57.6%) Sub-total 28,557,562 17,890,272 16,321,843 20,891,374 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Full-time Male 2,613 2,670 2,893 3,072 Female 222 231 234 244 Sub-total 2,835 2,901 3,127 3,316 E1 Part-time Male 0 0 0 0 Female 0 1 1 0 Employment Status by Job (unit: persons) Sub-total 0 1 1 0 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Officer 39 37 40 39 Administrative staff 1,343 1,401 1,423 1,443 Major activities performed by workers not employed by S-OIL (unit: persons) Production staff 1,453 1,464 1,665 1,834 Major work activities 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total 2,835 2,902 3,128 3,316 General office work 52 41 48 46 (dispatch staff) Contract/service 157 150 147 148 (Head office) Employment Status by Workplace (unit: persons) Contract/service (Refinery) 669 752 885 960 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total 878 943 1,080 1,154 Head Office 784 834 752 773 * I t is the same as the employment type disclosure data of the Ministry of Employment and Labor. (As of March every year) Refinery 1,703 1,725 2,032 2,195 Contract/service (Head office): Building management, cleaning, security, driver, District Biz HQ 268 265 265 268 restaurant, IT, call center, etc. Contract/service (Refinery): Repair & maintenance, cleaning, security, crude oil Terminal 80 78 79 80 unloading, restaurants, etc. 84 Performance Review New Employment (unit: persons) Employee Remuneration (unit: KRW in million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total amount paid a year Average remuneration Remuneration of the Type University 42 83 31 22 in remuneration per employee median employee graduates (33.6%) (55.7%) (10.6%) (9.1%) 395,713 121 123 Others 83 66 262 219 * Remuneration of the median employee refers to the pay of the 1,639th employee out of the (66.4%) (44.3%) (89.4%) (90.9%) total of 3,277 people on the payroll. The CEO’s compensation was KRW 743 million, 6.15 times higher than the average Age 50 or above 2 4 11 7 remuneration per employee. (1.6%) (2.7%) (3.8%) (2.9%) 30~50 26 14 26 23 (20.8%) (9.4%) (8.9%) (9.5%) Under 30 97 131 256 211 (77.6%) (87.9%) (87.4%) (87.6%) E2 Gender Male 97 117 272 214 (77.6%) (78.5%) (92.8%) (88.8%) Training Hours per Employee (unit: hours) Female 28 32 21 27 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 (22.4%) (21.5%) (7.2%) (11.2%) Gender Male 43 46 57 52 Total 125 149 293 241 Female 37 36 42 42 *O thers include all forms of employment such as production workers, experienced workers, and non-regular workers, excluding university graduates. Average 42 45 55 51 Retirees (unit: persons) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Training Completion Rate (unit: %) Age 50 or above 41 33 21 16 (50.0%) (40.2%) (31.3%) (30.2%) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 30~50 26 26 19 16 Mandatory training hours 100 99.3 99.3 97.5 (31.7%) (31.7%) (28.4%) (30.2%) completion rate Under 30 15 23 27 21 * A iming at strengthening the effectiveness of training, the company has in place the annual (18.3%) (28.0%) (40.3%) (39.6%) mandatory training hours completion program. (20 hours for Deputy GM, 30 hours for Gender Male 65 60 49 35 MGR, and 40 hours for Assistant MGR & staff) (79.3%) (73.2%) (73.1%) (66.0%) Female 17 22 18 18 (20.7%) (26.8%) (26.9%) (34.0%) Total 82 82 67 53 E3 Employment of the Disabled (unit: persons) Annual Leave (unit: days) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of employees 49 47 48 47 with disabilities (1.7%) (1.6%) (1.5%) (1.4%) Average days of used annual 14.7 15.7 16.3 17.8 leave per employee * Excluded production staffs & RUC/ODC Project organization staffs. Parental Leave (unit: persons) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of Male 1 1 0 1 employees took Satisfaction with General Affair Service (unit: points) Female 13 20 20 18 parental leave Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sub-total 14 21 20 19 Satisfaction score 8.98 8.83 8.71 8.92 No. of employees Male 0 1 0 0 (target: 8.7 points) returned to work Female 7 9 13 10 after parental leave (plan) Sub-total 7 10 13 10 No. of employees Male 0 1 0 0 Labor Union (unit: persons, cases) returned to work Female 7 9 13 9 after parental Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 leave (actual) Sub-total 7 10 13 9 No. of union members 1,448 1,455 1,519 1,748 (100%) (100%) (100%) (90%) (51.8%) (50.8%) (49.2%) (53.3%) No. of employees Male 0 0 1 0 No. of employees covered 2,796 2,865 3,088 3,277 worked for more Female 3 5 9 13 by collective bargaining (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) than one year agreements after parental Sub-total 3 5 10 13 leave (100%) (71%) (100%) (100%) No. of labor disputes 0 0 0 0 85 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 E4 Near Miss (unit: cases) DNV Safety Culture Evaluation (unit: points) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of near misses 697 788 909 990 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 * O f the 990 near misses in 2017, the Company selected and awarded good practices Evaluation score 6.8 7.4 7.9 8.1 where the risk associated with recurrence of the same incident was reduced significantly * DNV Safety Culture Score: An index to evaluate the level of corporate safety culture in a through effective prevention and improvement measures. (a total of 294 cases including quantitative manner created by DNV GL (0~10 points. World Class: over 8.1 points; Leading 16 best practices) Edge: 6~8 points; Extended 4.1~6.0 points) Safety Training (unit: times, persons) No. of Injured Employees and Occupational Injury Rate (unit: persons, %) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 S-OIL No. of trainings 535 560 749 656 S-OIL No. of injured male 0 1 4 0 No. of participants 30,186 31,640 37,447 41,806 No. of injured female 0 0 0 0 Contractors No. of trainings 335 379 580 342 Sub-total 0 1 4 0 No. of participants 9,044 19,168 21,230 15,487 Injury rate 0.00/0.11 0.05/0.10 0.19/0.28 0.00/0.18 * Included commissioned trainings & firefighting drills. (LTIR/TRIR) Contrac-No. of injured male 0 1 1 2 tors No. of injured female 0 0 0 0 Sub-total 0 1 1 2 O1 Injury rate 0.00/0.00 0.09/0.09 0.03/0.07 0.08/0.25 Progress of the RUC/ODC Project (unit: %) (LTIR/TRIR) * Injury rate = No. of injured employees x 200,000/Total work hours. Classification 2015 2016 2017 2018 LTIR (Lost-time Injury Rate) means lost-time injuries while the meaning of TRIR (Total Rate of progress (Target) 6 (5) 35 (31) 94 (92) 100 Recordable Injury Rate) extends to minor accidents without lost-time injuries. Occupational Illness (unit: persons, cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 S-OIL No. of incidents (Male) 0 0 0 0 O2 No. of incidents 0 0 0 0 Treatment of Crude Oil (unit: thousand barrels) (Female) Sub-total 0 0 0 0 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of incidents per 0 0 0 0 Crude oil treatment 227,462 219,680 231,185 241,019 million hours volume Contrac-No. of incidents (Male) 0 0 0 0 tors No. of incidents 0 0 0 0 Production (unit: thousand barrels, KRW in million) (Female) Sub-total 0 0 0 0 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of incidents per 0 0 0 0 Fuel Volume 193,679 185,601 199,631 210,055 million hours products Amount 23,932,890 13,029,020 10,862,778 14,527,496 Lube Volume 13,236 11,810 13,576 14,060 products Process Safety Events (unit: cases per million hours) Amount 1,785,243 921,272 870,560 1,140,721 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 PetroVolume 25,960 25,693 21,298 20,726 chemical Process Safety Events 0.16 0.35 0.10 0.00 Amount 3,964,906 2,455,129 2,321,020 2,681,459 products * The figure in the 2016 Report has been modified as per the API Code. (0.60→0.10) Total Volume 232,875 223,104 234,505 244,841 Amount 29,683,039 16,405,421 14,054,358 18,349,676 Safety Accident (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Profit Improvement Performance (unit: KRW in million) No. of fire accidents 0 1 1 1 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of accidents from 0 0 0 0 violations of regulations Profit Improvement 357,995 190,115 190,499 204,972 86 Performance Review Employee Suggestion Program (unit: cases, persons, KRW in million) Key Financial Indicators (unit: %, multiples) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of suggestions Stability Current ratio 144.3 176.5 165.0 149.0 3,082 2,219 2,816 2,496 received Total liabilities to 109.0 100.4 118.5 120.5 No. of participants 748 838 954 782 equity Estimated profit 17,400 16,500 4,500 411 Borrowings to total 74.2 66.8 73.8 70.8 improvement assets Times interest earned (6.8) 22.8 28.7 23.6 ProfitOperating profit to (1.0) 4.6 9.9 6.6 O3 ability sales Summarized Financial Positions (unit: KRW in million) Net profit to sales (1.0) 3.5 7.4 6.0 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Return on equity (5.9) 11.7 18.9 18.3 Current assets 5,706,292 5,688,480 7,973,051 6,769,402 ProfitSales growth (8.3) (37.4) (8.8) 28.0 ability Non-current assets 4,543,122 5,096,466 5,977,625 8,308,161 Operating profit (179.1) 382.2 97.8 (15.0) growth Total assets 10,249,414 10,784,946 13,950,676 15,077,563 Net profit growth (199.6) 318.0 92.2 3.5 Current liabilities 3,955,145 3,222,157 4,832,781 4,543,391 Total asset growth (14.0) 5.2 29.4 8.1 Non-current liabilities 1,390,052 2,180,898 2,732,648 3,695,073 * Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. Total liabilities 5,345,197 5,403,055 7,565,429 8,238,464 Capital stock 291,512 291,512 291,512 291,512 Capital surplus 379,190 379,190 379,190 379,190 Tax (Unit: KRW in million) Reserves 977,843 977,959 977,313 975,772 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Treasury stocks (1,876) (1,876) (1,876) (1,876) Income Profit before (385,976) 808,529 1,577,365 1,648,160 Retained earnings 3,257,548 3,735,106 4,739,108 5,194,501 statement income tax Corporate tax (97,811) 180,393 370,282 399,004 Total equity 4,904,217 5,381,891 6,385,247 6,839,099 expense Total liabilities and 10,249,414 10,784,946 13,950,676 15,077,563 Tax paid by cash 52,113 375,508 363,199 equity * T he Company has business sites only in Korea where 2017 maximum corporate tax rate is * Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. 24.2% including local taxes. Summarized Income Statement (unit: KRW in million) Credit Ratings Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Credit rating agencies 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenue 28,557,562 17,890,272 16,321,843 20,891,340 Overseas Moody’s Baa2 Baa2 Baa2 Baa2 Cost of sales (28,282,216) (16,438,773) (14,020,892) (18,783,141) S&P BBB BBB BBB BBB Gross profit 275,346 1,451,499 2,300,951 2,108,199 Domestic Korea Ratings AA+ AA+ AA+ AA+ Selling expenses (479,102) (532,845) (576,645) (620,744) NICE Investors AA+ AA+ AA+ AA+ Administrative (85,948) (101,050) (107,417) (112,806) Service expenses Korea Investors AA+ AA+ AA+ AA+ Operating profit (289,704) 817,604 1,616,889 1,374,649 Service Other income 480,780 491,316 495,344 330,250 Other expenses (468,024) (392,871) (475,037) (126,834) Financial income 220,230 145,960 184,999 383,189 Dividend Payments (unit: KRW) Financial expenses (329,258) (253,480) (244,830) (313,094) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Profit before income tax (385,976) 808,529 1,577,365 1,648,160 Total dividends paid 17,559 279,505 721,904 686,978 Corporate tax expense 97,811 (180,393) (370,282) (399,004) (KRW in million) Net profit (288,165) 628,136 1,207,083 1,249,156 Cash dividend payout ratio 44.5% 59.8% 55.0% Other comprehensive (37,214) (22,303) 5,926 8,095 Cash Common 150 2,400 6,200 5,900 income dividends Preferred 175 2,425 6,225 5,925 per share Total comprehensive (325,379) 605,833 1,213,009 1,257,251 income Cash Common 0.3% 3.0% 7.3% 4.7% dividend * B ased on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. Preferred 0.6% 5.1% 10.9% 5.7% yield The above Summarized Income Statement is applicable to domestic business sites only, given that 100% of the company’s revenue is created in Korea. * Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. 87 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Economic Value Created (unit: KRW in million) Procurement: by Region (unit: KRW in million, suppliers) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenue 28,557,562 17,890,272 16,321,843 20,891,340 Amount Korea 438,258 869,764 2,709,144 954,859 Cost of sales (28,197,828) (16,360,959) (13,921,262) (18,566,739) Asia 34,346 94,373 123,967 54,053 Other income 701,010 637,276 680,343 713,439 Middle East 226 168 144 100 Other expenses (746,176) (605,459) (640,774) (367,534) Europe 81,108 88,182 101,477 99,596 Depreciation cost (339,703) (273,191) (286,746) (293,588) America 110,533 64,306 74,123 58,734 Economic value created (25,135) 1,287,939 2,153,404 2,376,918 Others 580 107 4,661 100 * Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. No. of Korea 920 981 1,279 1,181 Suppliers Asia 38 49 65 75 Middle East 4 3 4 2 Europe 36 34 56 41 Economic Value Distributed (unit: KRW in million) America 46 51 50 46 Stakeholder Item 2014 2015 2016 2017 Others 4 1 4 2 Employees Salary & 294,895 421,757 478,906 637,569 Total 1,048 1,119 1,458 1,347 pension * Excluded crude oil & products. Government Tax & dues (82,970) 197,154 388,322 417,799 Local Social 8,458 5,070 22,787 14,140 Regular Risk Survey on Suppliers (Unit: %) communities contribution expenditure Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Creditors Interest costs 42,648 35,822 56,306 58,254 Regular evaluation rate 100 100 100 100 Shareholders Dividend & (288,165) 628,136 1,207,083 1,249,156 (including sustainability risk) & company reserves Economic value distributed (25,135) 1,287,939 2,153,404 2,376,918 ESG Training for Procurement-related Teams (Unit: %) * Based on non-consolidated financial data prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. Social contribution expenditure included only donations on the financial statements. Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Participation rate 100 100 100 100 Suppliers Satisfaction Survey (Unit: points) Violation of Disclosure Regulations (unit: cases) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Satisfaction score 9.52 9.33 9.39 9.37 No. of violations 0 0 0 0 O5 Environmental Performance Evaluation (unit: points) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Evaluation score 100.0 113.8 150.6 * T he Company redefined 2015 as the base year by adopting the ISO 14001:2015 certification and tightening environmental regulations as well as adjusting certain indices. (evaluation score based on the previous criteria: 135.1 points in 2014 / 154.5 points in 2015) O4 Environmental Accounting (unit: KRW in million) Procurement: by Item (unit: KRW in million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Construction & maintenance 310,698 489,784 1,320,550 626,124 Environmental costs 156,553 154,899 151,499 159,748 General service 55,216 79,704 137,137 47,915 Environmental benefits 125,729 119,782 64,373 37,808 Materials 299,137 547,412 1,555,828 493,404 Environmental investments 5,731 12,880 16,148 15,640 Total 665,051 1,116,900 3,013,515 1,167,443 * D etails of 2017 environmental cost: Post-treatment facility operation costs, proactive * E xcluding crude oil & products. prevention activities, etc. There is a difference between above data and the value creation amount at Page 14, which Details of 2017 environmental benefits: Revenue from by-product sales, etc. is the cost of sales in the financial statements. Details of 2017 environmental investments: Investments in environmental facilities, etc. 88 Performance Review Detailed Environmental Investments (unit: KRW in million) Water Consumption, Recycling, & Wastewater Volume at Onsan Refinery (unit: thousand tons) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Air quality, stench, HAPs 678 4,421 7,193 8,094 ClassificaLegal 2014 2015 2016 2017 tion standards Water quality 1,413 1,020 1,045 2,053 Water Municipal 20,518 20,322 20,688 21,268 Support for energy saving 3,347 7,401 1,386 5,276 consumed water supplies technology Fresh surface 0 0 0 0 Soil & others 293 38 6,524 217 water Total 5,731 12,880 16,148 15,640 Fresh ground 0 0 0 0 water * Major investments made in 2017 Air quality, stench, HAPs: HAPs dual seal, sampling system improvement, introduction of Total 20,518 20,322 20,688 21,268 digital TMS, etc. Water recycled 1,759 1,658 1,885 2,220 Water quality: Installation of additional oil detectors, etc. (8.6%) (8.2%) (9.1%) (10.4%) Support for energy saving technology: MVR waste heat recollection facility installation, etc. Soil & others: Replacement of obsolete Hume pipes for preventing soil pollution, etc. Wastewater generated 9,598 9,371 9,584 9,161 Waste Generation & Recycling at Onsan Refinery (unit: tons) Air Pollutant Emissions Intensity at Onsan Refinery Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification Legal standards 2014 2015 2016 2017 Generation Designated 10,966 10,555 8,859 8,818 SOx 180 ppm 76.8 82.0 86.9 82.0 waste NOx 150 ppm 83.9 83.0 82.6 84.8 General waste 14,172 18,508 17,515 16,732 Dust 30mg/S㎥ 2.5 2.6 2.9 2.9 Total 25,138 29,063 26,374 25,550 Recycling Designated 7,129 7,985 6,166 6,998 waste General waste 9,366 11,842 8,564 9,596 Total 16,495 19,827 14,730 16,594 Air Pollutant Emissions Volume at Onsan Refinery (unit: tons) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Emissions of Hazardous Chemical Substances (unit: tons) SOx 4,315 4,273 4,959 3,817 Classification 2013 2014 2015 NOx 3,509 3,354 3,518 3,705 S-OIL 119 97 116 Dust 79 66 71 79 Average of domestic competitors 288 279 222 Total 7,904 7,693 8,547 7,601 *Data for 2016 is not announced by the Ministry of Environment. Violation of Laws related to Environment (unit: cases, KRW in million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 HAPs Leak Rate at Onsan Refinery (unit: %) Fine or over No. of 0 0 0 0 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 violations HAPs Leak Rate 0.40 0.09 0.13 0.08 Amount 0 0 0 0 Penalty No. of 0 0 0 0 (Over $10,000) violations Amount 0 0 0 0 Water Pollutant Emissions Intensity at Onsan Refinery Oil Spill (unit: cases) Classification Legal standards 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 BOD 10 ppm 4.2 3.7 3.8 2.6 No. of oil spill accidents 1 0 0 0 COD 40 ppm 9.8 8.1 8.0 8.5 * T he oil spill in 2014 occurred within artificial barricades due to the chip off of mixer on the underpart of crude oil tanker. There were no environmental pollution and no administraSS 10 ppm 3.0 3.0 2.6 2.3 tive punishment in regard to this. 89 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 O06 Sales of Energy (unit: TJ) GHG Emissions (unit: thousand tons CO2eq) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Steam 1,356 3,016 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scope I 6,406 6,380 6,537 6,550 Scope II 996 986 1,072 1,103 O7 Total 7,402 7,366 7,609 7,653 Performance in Social Contribution Activities (unit: KRW in million) (7,433) (7,396) (7,641) (7,710) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scope III 24 26 28 30 For Local Community 5,278 1,829 1,517 2,006 * Figures in parenthesis mean emissions that include additional items in accordance with the amendment of the Target Management Scheme in 2014. Gaseous waste was included in 2017. For the Environment 170 290 290 250 Currently, Scope III includes only vehicles in the downstream business. For Needy People 724 1,255 3,145 2,260 For Heroes 846 1,130 534 1,060 Detailed GHG Emissions Others 2,651 1,773 1,166 571 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total 9,669 6,277 6,652 6,147 CO2 (thousand tons) 7,391 7,355 7,596 7,642 * Others: Supports for S-OIL Science Prodigy and Culture Foundation, etc. The above performance includes donation as charity and local community contribution CH4 (tons) 140 139 156 142 activities only. When social contribution activities for band identity enhancement and N2O (tons) 27 27 31 28 marketing purposes, community service hours of employees, and management cost are considered, the performance of 2017 amounts to KRW 11,865 million (cash KRW 3,849 million, non-cash asset KRW 6,794 million, community service hours KRW 679 million, management/labor cost KRW 543 million) Detailed GHG Emissions (unit: thousand tons CO2eq) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Green Purchasing (unit: cases, KRW in million) CO2 7,391 7,355 7,596 7,642 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 CH4 3 3 3 3 No. of products 46 59 128 31 N2O 8 8 10 9 Amount of purchasing 5,741 12,890 16,158 15,650 Total 7,402 7,366 7,609 7,653 * I t is CO 2 converted volume considering the Global Warming Potential (GWP) presented by IPCC Guideline in 2006. (GWP: CO 2 =1, CH 4 =21, N 2 O=310) Activities of S-OIL Public Service Corps (unit: persons, hours) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Energy Consumption (unit: TJ) No. of participants 2,313 2,194 2,129 2,321 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Participation hours 28,195 22,947 24,154 24,593 Scope I 75,240 79,673 85,422 76,577 Scope II 21,745 21,816 23,024 23,591 Sunshine Sharing Campaign (unit: persons, KRW in million) Total 96,985 101,489 108,445 100,167 Scope III 336 370 378 400 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Wage tail-cut No. of 1,642 1,669 1,769 1,889 contribution participants Detailed Energy Consumption (unit: TJ) Amount of 95 98 104 170 supports Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 employee No. of 1,428 1,391 1,385 1,495 Fossil fuels 75,240 79,673 85,422 76,577 & 1 donation participants Electricity 19,953 19,297 21,419 21,926 account Amount of 61 57 58 58 Steam / heating / 1,792 2,519 1,604 1,664 supports cooling and other energy Total renewable 0.108 0.108 0.108 0.108 energy O8 Participants in the Culture & Art Sharing Campaign (unit: times, persons) Energy Cost (unit : KRW in million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of events 10 11 12 12 Energy cost 1,628,604 1,072,250 973,994 1,133,442 No. of participants 4,920 3,390 3,330 3,230 90 Performance Review Employment in Ulsan (unit: persons) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 New employees 25 19 87 68 graduated universities (20.0%) (12.8%) (29.7%) (28.2%) in Ulsan Local Purchasing in Ulsan (unit: cases, KRW in million) Classification 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of purchasing 3,760 5,120 5,090 5,085 in Ulsan (53.1%) (55.8%) (55.1%) (52.8%) Amounts General 93,080 203,402 172,746 196,552 of purRUC/ODC 64,131 96,652 640,158 202,386 chasing in Ulsan Total 157,211 300,054 812,904 398,938 (23.9%) (26.5%) (27.0%) (34.2%) * Excluding crude oil & products. 91 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 Independent Assurance Statement To the stakeholders of S-OIL Corporation •Verified the selection of material issues covered and the approThe Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) was asked by S-OIL priateness of the technical content through media research and Corporation to provide independent assurance of the “S-OIL Corbenchmarking analysis. poration 2017 Sustainability Report” (the “Report”) and hereby •Verified the suitability of the contents and any errors in expresprovides the following assurance statement. sion through comparison analysis with other sources. •Verified the basis of Comprehensive data and information and Responsibility and Independence the internal process and system through on-site inspection at S-OIL Corporation is entirely responsible for all information and the headquarters in Seoul. opinions presented in this Report. The Assurer is solely responsible for the assurance statement on the content of the Report. Findings and Conclusion As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither inIt is the verifier’s opinion that the Report reflects S-OIL Corporavolved in the process of preparing this Report nor in any conflicts tion’s sustainability management activity & performance faithfully of interest that may undermine our independence. and fairly. In addition, through this verification process, this verifier judges that S-OIL Corporation’ report meets the GRI Standards Assurance Standards requirements for Core Options, and secured the rational level The Assurer performed assurance in accordance with Type 2 which can be presented by Type 2 assurance level. defined in AA1000AS (2008) including ISAE 3000 of International Universal Standard Disclosures were prepared in full compliance Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). In addition, we with the requirements for Core options while Topic-specific Stanconfirmed compliance with the principles of inclusivity, materiality, dard Disclosures were reviewed in line disclosures of the material and responsiveness, and additionally confirmed whether this retopics identified through the process of determining report conport is suitable for the possible influence from organizations’ actent as follows: tivity & performance based on AA1000APS (2008) verification principles. It indicates that the Report was comprehensively reviewed Material Topic Disclosures Material Topic Disclosures in terms of the effectiveness and reliability of reporting standards Economic 201-1,2,3 Employment 401-1,2 in the assurance. The assurance standards are based on the risk Performance reduction with limitations defined in ISAE 3000 and correspond to Indirect 203-1,2 Labor/ 402-1 the moderate level of assurance defined in AA1000AS (2008). Economic Management Impacts Relations Procurement 204-1 Occupational 403-1,2,3,4 Limitations Practices Health and Safety The Assurer identified the reliability of performance in the Report Anti-competi206-1 Training and 404-2,3 based on the above-mentioned assurance scope and standards as tive Behavior Education follows. The on-site verification was carried out at the headquarEnergy 302-1,3,4,5 Diversity and 405-1 ters in Seoul. The financial data in the Report was verified through Equal Opportunity the financial statements and disclosure information which was Water 303-1,3 Freedom of 407-1 audited by an auditor, while the aggregated data at the corporate Association level are used for the verification of Environmental and Social perand Collective formance. Bargaining The assurer expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility Emissions 305-1,2,3,4,5,7 Local 413-1,2 for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Communities Assurance Statement. Effluents and 306-1,2,3 Supplier Social 414-1,2 Waste Assessment Methodology Environmental 307-1 Customer Health 416-1,2 This assurance was conducted through the following methods: Compliance and Safety •Verified if the requirements for Core options of GRI Standard Supplier 308-1,2 Marketing and 417-1,2,3 Guidelines were fulfilled. Environmental Labeling •Verified the compliance with the principles of the Report conassessment tents and quality based on GRI Standard Guidelines. Customer Privacy 418-1 92 Appendix Inclusivity : Stakeholder Engagement report. S-OIL Corporation is also aggressively disclosing their This verifier confirmed that S-OIL Corporation is promoting comresponse plans through the interviews with the executive team munication activity through the communication channel by interabout individual issues. ested party for conformance to the principles of inclusivity. The same company is establishing a systematic participation system Recommendation by doing major interested parties management in the light of their The Assurer recognizes the diverse efforts and performance made industrial & regional characteristics such as a private client, gas by the Company and suggests the following for the Company's station/charging station/agent, corporate customer, executives & publication of the Report in the future and the improvement of its staff, shareholder/investor , cooperative company, local communisustainability standards: ty, and the government/NGO/the press, etc. In addition, the same company is gathering the interested parties’ opinion by constructThis verifier thinks that there is a need to make it clear where ing the communication channel by taking account of each group’s S-OIL Corporation’s core issues happen among the value chain. characteristics. Particularly, as regards the issues happening outside of S-OIL Corporation, it’s important for the company to disclose manMateriality: Identification and Reporting of Material agement of the issues by promoting what policy & activity. This verification team proposes that S-OIL Corporation should clearly Issues examine the range of the influence over core issues for the time This verifier confirmed that S-OIL Corporation is selecting core isto come. sues through the materiality evaluation process. It was confirmed that the same company selected the core issue areas through the In addition, the same verification team advises that S-OIL Coranalysis process of the interested parties’ influence over decision poration should deduct and continuously manage promotion making as to various sustainability issues, and significance of the tasks, and the key performance indicator (KPI) on the basis of influence of management activity, and give-and-take. This verisustainability management medium and long term strategy, and fication team confirmed that major issues selected through the do communication with the interested parties about the details materiality evaluation process are reflected in their report. of strategy realization through the sustainability report in order to make it possible to promote systematic sustainability manResponsiveness: Organization's Response to Issues agement. This verifier also confirmed that S-OIL Corporation is grasping core issues affecting the interested parties’ performance, mounting sustainability management activity to respond to the core isJun 2018 sues, and giving a proper description of the details thereof in the CEO Kyoo Sung NOH report. In addition, the same verifier confirmed that S-OIL Corporation is faithfully disclosing response activity and performance with focus on sustainability management core issues through the 000-8 1 Dong-soo Yang-ho Lee, Lim Ji-sung, Kim, Director Team Manager Researcher The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is a fully qualified independent assurance agency. It is officially certified by AccountAbility that established AA1000, the international standard for stakeholder engagement and assurance. It has the Assurance Committee with of experienced experts who are qualified for the consultation and assurance of sustainability practice. * AA1000AS(2008): AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is the global assurance standard established by Accountability to provide a comprehensive way of verifying an organization's management, compliance with the principles and reliability of performance data for reporting its sustainability issues. * AA1000APS(2008): AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) is the global assurance principles established Accountability to provide the basis for the AA1000 Assurance Standard. 93 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Option Page Assurance GRI 102: 1. Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization Core Cover General profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Core 6-7 Disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters Core Cover 2016 102-4 Location of operations Core 6-7 102-5 Ownership and legal form Core 6-7 102-6 Markets served Core 6-7 102-7 Scale of the organization Core 6-7 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Core 46-47, 84 102-9 Supply chain Core 66-68, 88 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Core 6-7 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Core 28-29 102-12 External initiatives Core 98 102-13 Membership of associations Core 99 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Core 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-13 3. Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Core 24-27 integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 24-27 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure Core 22-23 102-19 Delegating authority 22-23 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 22-23 topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social 22-23 topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 22-23 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 22-23 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 22-23 102-25 Conflicts of interest 22-23 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and 22-23 strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 22-23 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 22-23 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, 22-23 and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 22-23 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 22-23 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 22-23 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 22-23 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 22-23 102-35 Remuneration policies 22-23 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 22-23 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 22-23 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 85 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 85 94 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Option Page Assurance GRI 102: 5. Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Core 16 General engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Core 85 Disclosures 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Core 16 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Core 16 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Core 17 6. Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Core 6-7 practice 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Core 16-17 102-47 List of material topics Core 17 102-48 Restatements of information Core 2 102-49 Changes in reporting Core 2 102-50 Reporting period Core 2 102-51 Date of most recent report Core 2 102-52 Reporting cycle Core 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Core 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core 92-97 102-55 GRI content index Core 94-97 102-56 External assurance Core 92-93 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Core 17, 30, 32, 35, 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48, 50, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53, 56, 58, 60, 63, 66, 69, 74, 76, 79 GRI 200: Economic GRI Standard Disclosure Option Page Assurance GRI 201: Economic Management approach 50, 58, 60, Performance 2016 63, 74 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 58-62, 88 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate 74-75 change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 50-52 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 46-47 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Management approach 76, 79 Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 76-80 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 79-80 GRI 204: Procurement Management approach 79 Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 79-80 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and proce24-27 dures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 82 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Management approach 40 Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 40-41 practices 95 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 GRI 300: Environmental GRI Standard Disclosure Option Page Assurance GRI 301: Materials 2016 Management approach 60 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 60-62 GRI 302: Energy 2016 Management approach 60, 74 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 90 302-3 Energy intensity 90 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 60-62 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 74-75 GRI 303: Water 2016 Management approach 69 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 69-73 303-3 Water recycled and reused 69-73 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Management approach 76 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 76-78 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 76-78 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Management approach 69, 74 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 90 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 90 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 90 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 90 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 74-75 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air 89 emissions GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Management approach 69 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 89 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 69-73, 89 306-3 Significant spills 89 GRI 307: Environmental Management approach 69 Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 89 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Management approach 66 Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 66-68 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 66-68 GRI 400: Social GRI Standard Disclosure Option Page Assurance GRI 401: Employment 2016 Management approach 46, 50 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 85 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 50-52 temporary or part-time employees GRI 402: Labor/Management Management approach 50 Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 50-52 GRI 403: Occupational Health Management approach 53 and Safety 2016 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health 53-55 and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 86 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 96 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Option Page Assurance GRI 403: Occupational Health 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 86 and Safety 2016 occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade 53-55 unions GRI 404: Training and Education Management approach 46, 48 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 48-49 programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 46-49 development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Management approach 46 Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 46-47, 84 GRI 407: Freedom of Association Management approach 50 and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 50-52 and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 Management approach 46 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 84 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Management approach 46 Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 84 compulsory labor GRI 412: Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 26-27 Assessment 2016 assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 26-27 GRI 413: Local Communities Management approach 76, 79 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 76-80 and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 76-80 local communities GRI 414: Supplier Social Management approach 66 Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 66-68 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 66-68 GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions 26-27 GRI 416: Customer Health Safety Management approach 35 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 35-37 categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts 83 of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Management approach 32, 38, 40 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 42-43 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 83 information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 83 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Management approach 40 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 84 and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic 24-25 Compliance 2016 area 97 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2017 UN Global Compact (UNGC) Index 10 Principles Contents Page Human Principle 1. B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Ethics Management / Human Rights Protection 26-27 Rights proclaimed human rights. O4 Management of Sustainability in Supply Chain 66-68 Principle 2. B  usinesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3. B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Ethics Management / Human Rights Protection 26-27 Standards recognition of the right to collective bargaining. E1 HR Management / Fair Evaluation & Compensation 46-52 E2 Talent Cultivation 66-68 Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and E3 Corporate Culture / Labor-Management Relations compulsory labor. O4 Management of Sustainability in Supply Chain Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Risk Management 28-29 challenges. E4 Industrial Safety & Health Management 53-55 O5 Environment Management 69-80 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater O6 Response to Climate Change environmental responsibility. O7 Social Contribution Activities Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of O8 Contribution to Local Communities environmentally friendly technologies. Anti Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Corporate Governance 22-25 -Corruption extortion and bribery. Compliance Management 40-41 C4 Protection of Customers’ Personal Information / Fair 63-65 Competition in Market O3 F inancial Soundness / Transparent Disclosure of Management Information UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Goals Contents Page 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere O7 Social Contribution Activities 76-78 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable O7 Social Contribution Activities 76-80 agriculture O8 Contribution to Local Communities 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages E3 Corporate Culture / Labor-Management Relations 50-52 O7 Social Contribution Activities 76-80 O8 Contribution to Local Communities 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning E2 Talent Cultivation 48-49 opportunities for all O7 Social Contribution Activities 76-80 O8 Contribution to Local Communities 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls E1 HR Management / Fair Evaluation & Compensation 46-47 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all O6 Response to Climate Change 74-75 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive E1 HR Management / Fair Evaluation & Compensation 46-47 employment and decent work for all O8 Contribution to Local Communities 79-80 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts O6 Response to Climate Change 74-75 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for O5 Environment Management 69-73 sustainable development O7 Social Contribution Activities 76-78 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainO5 Environment Management 69-73 ably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradaO7 Social Contribution Activities 76-78 tion and halt biodiversity loss 98 Accolades & Recognitions Association Memberships Date Accolades & recognitions Awarded by Association Year of joining Ministry of Trade, Industry Korea Petroleum Association 1980 Awarded citations from MOTIE Minister & Ulsan City Mayor 2017.03 and Energy (MOTIE) on Ulsan Chemistry Day Ulsan Metropolitan City Onsan Industrial Complex 1983 Selected as the best product for customers at The 2017 Korea Management Environment Management 2017.07 Association PROUD (High-cetane Diesel) Association Consulting Korea Occupational Safety Onsan Industrial Complex Safety 1986 2017.08 Awarded an appreciation plaque from KOSHA & Health Agency(KOSHA) Management Association Dow Jones Listed on the 2017 DJSI World Index Korea Industrial Safety Association 1988 2017.09 RobecoSAM (Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing Industry) Korea Productivity Center Korea Fire Safety Association 1993 Awarded the Service Merit Medal of Republic of Korea on The Government of the 2017.11 Korea Chemical Management 1997 Fire Prevention Day Republic of Korea Association Selected as the winner of the Grand Prize at the 2017 ESG Korea Corporate 2017.11 Award Governance Service Korea Fair Competition Federation 2001 Awarded Social Contribution Award from Seoul City and Seoul Special Metropolitan 2017.11 Environment Protection Council 2002 Citation by the Seoul Mayor City Selected as the winner of the Bronze Award at the 2017 Korea Federation of Korea Forum for Progress 2005 2017.11 Korea Advertising Awards under printed advertisements Advertising Associations Korea Business Council for 2008 Selected as the best service station at Korea Net Promoter Korea Management 2017.12 Sustainable Development Score (KNPS) Index Association Consulting Selected as the winner of the Management Grand Awards Korea Management Onsan Industrial Complex Hazardous 2008 2017.12 2017 in the Brand Management sector Association Consulting Material Safety Management Council Listed as No.1 on Korea’s Most Admired Companies for Korea Management 2018.01 UN Global Compact 2010 2018 in the refining industry Association Consulting Selected as the “Best Bond Issuer” at the 2018 Korea Korea Council on the Protection of 2011 2018.01 Money Today Media Group Capital Markets thebell League Table Awards Personal Information Head Office S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul, 04196, Korea Onsan Refinery 68, Onsan-ro, Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan, 44995, Korea www.s-oil.com
