Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainable value creation Lundin Petroleum is one of the leading independent oil and gas companies in Europe. With a strategic focus on Norway, our aim is to develop oil and gas resources efficiently and responsibly for a sustainable and low carbon energy future. Global Reporting Our Global Compact Initiative (GRI) commitment Lundin Petroleum’s 2017 Sustainability We support the 10 United Nations Report is the third report in accordance Global Compact Principles on human with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) rights, labour standards, environment G4 Guidelines. and anti-corruption. Extractive Industry United Nations Sustainable Transparency Initiative Development Goals We support and promote EITI’s efforts to We promote the SustainableDevelopment combat corruption. Goals (SDGs) throughout our value chain. This Report constitutes Lundin Petroleum’s disclosure on non-ﬁnancial & diversity information in accordance with the Swedish law implementing the EU Directive 2014 / 95 / EU Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword by the CEO 2 Health and working Our approach to sustainable environment 24 value creation 4 Safe and sustainable work Creating sustainable value 6 practices 26 Focus on organic growth Environment 30 in Norway 7 Biodiversity 32 2017 at a glance 8 Innovation through R&D 2018 guidance 9 projects 33 Value creation phases 10 Respect for human rights 34 Corporate governance 12 Stakeholder engagement 35 Climate change 14 Corporate citizenship 36 Risk management 18 Sustainability data 40 Compliance, anti-corruption GRI index 44 and whistleblowing 21 Tell us what you think 48 Our people 22 2017 Sustainability Highlights Carbon intensity CO2 5.1 CO e kg/boe 2 for Edvard Grieg production & drilling Oil spills 0 recordable oil spills Safe operations 0.47 lost time incident rate Foreword by the CEO 2017 was a transformational year for Lundin Petroleum We are proud to conduct our activities in Norway, a as we decided to spin-off the assets in Malaysia, France country which is recognised internationally for its and the Netherlands into a new company, International stringent HSE policies and regulations, its high labour Petroleum Corporation (IPC), to focus our activities standards and transparency and its pro-active role in in Norway, where we have built a material licence addressing one of the sector’s key challenges, climate portfolio and have had signiﬁcant exploration and change. Not only do we want to meet Norwegian production success. expectations but we also wish to play our part in ensuring the world can continue to meet its energy This is our third Sustainability Report retracing our demands while reducing its carbon footprint. We will performance over the calendar year. In this report we make efforts individually and collectively, collaborating provide information on our sustainability strategy, with peers and other likeminded institutions. We policies and performance in Norway in 2017. believe we can achieve this goal by producing low carbon intensity oil and by actively seeking ways to further reduce carbon emissions, while maintaining high health, safety and labour standards throughout our value chain. 2 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 “ Sustainable value creation means providing oil and gas in a cost effective and energy efficient way Alex Schneiter President and CEO To us sustainable value creation means producing oil In 2017, we pursued our exploration activity in the and gas in a responsible and carbon efﬁcient manner. southern Barents Sea, an area with similar operating In this context, 2017 has been an outstanding year for conditions to other parts of Norway. We remain Lundin Petroleum from a business and sustainability committed to this underexplored area, as we believe perspective. We achieved record high production it will deliver important results in the future and levels with over 86.1 Mboepd produced for the year help contribute to the provision of reliable low at a record low cash operating cost of USD 4.25 per carbon intensity energy. Similarly we will continue to barrel. We were able to reach these results without any explore and strengthen our production capacity in the signiﬁcant incidents. We produced one of the lowest Norwegian Sea and the North Sea. carbon intensity oil, at a level of 5.1 kg CO2 equivalent (CO2e) per barrel of oil produced. In 2016 the world A key element of our success comes from our strong industry average, released in November 2017 was 20 kg corporate culture. We foster entrepreneurship, CO2e per barrel. This demonstrates that it is possible to innovation, openness, trust, honesty and diversity provide “affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern within the Company and openness and transparency energy for all” as per Sustainable Development Goal 7. vis-à-vis our stakeholders. These values are held by all It is done by integrating energy efﬁciency objectives our colleagues who share our belief that everyone can and targets into our strategy, ensuring our assets use make a difference. Our success over the years in ﬁnding the latest equipment and technology available as oil and gas and producing responsibly attests to the well as aligning our operational processes to meet robustness of our corporate culture and the great people our efﬁciency goal. We have further ambitions and working for us. To all of them, I would like to express commitments: through our partnership in the Johan my deep gratitude. Sverdrup ﬁeld, we will further reduce our carbon footprint by powering the facilities with electricity from To conclude I would like to reiterate Lundin Petroleum’s shore. This will represent a carbon emissions reduction support to the Global Compact’s 10 Principles on close to 90 percent compared to power supplied from human rights, labour standards, environment and offshore gas turbines. anti-corruption. We shall continue to promote these principles within our Company and our value chain To avoid accidents to people, the environment or as we strongly believe that sustainability and good assets, we remain as committed as ever to ensure business go hand in hand. high standards of performance of our health, safety, security and environmental (HSE) policies by relying Yours Sincerely, on competent and engaged personnel, trained in our procedures. Alex Schneiter President and CEO Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 3 Our approach to sustainable value creation Focus on Norway In assessing our sustainability framework in relation to Lundin Petroleum became a one country operating company our new operating context, we ascertained that there is no after it spun-off its Dutch, French and Malaysian assets in discrepancy between what is required from a regulatory point April 2017. In this report our sustainability indicators relate of view and how Lundin Petroleum, through its Norwegian to Norway only as our sole operating entity except for people afﬁliate Lundin Norway AS, conducts its activities. However, data, insofar as we have ofﬁce personnel in the Netherlands, in line with our Code of Conduct and related policies, we are Russia, Switzerland and Sweden. Our strategic focus on committed to pro-actively seek to have an overall positive Norway, ranked No 1 by the Natural Resource Governance impact, not only on the people working for us, but on the Institute in 2017, provides us with the unique opportunity wider stakeholder community. To that effect, we address issues to reach our goal: becoming a sustainability leader in our which, though not directly relevant to our immediate impact sector. In this process of transition we have reafﬁrmed the or reach, such as reﬂected in the United Nations Sustainable principles of our Code of Conduct, policies and guidelines Development Goals, are relevant as they constitute global which constitute the backbone of our Corporate Responsibility challenges and opportunities for our mission to provide energy framework. The change in our structure has also led to an the world requires in an energy efﬁcient way. adaptation of our business model to ensure salient and material sustainability issues related to our new operating 2017 priorities and way forward context are addressed. In the course of 2017 we commissioned a third party materiality assessment, which reviewed applicable laws and From a sustainability perspective, Norway can be deﬁned voluntary initiatives, issues raised by civil society in traditional as a leading oil and gas producing country. The main laws and social media, and topics reported on by our peers in governing oil and gas operations, the Petroleum Act, the Norway to ensure we address key stakeholder expectations. Pollution Control Act, the Working Environment Act and the Health Act, are passed by the Parliament. Three ministries have The material issues identiﬁed in the assessment were regulatory authority and oversight over the way in which oil essentially the same as those we had in previous years, namely and gas operations are conducted: the Ministry of Petroleum anti-corruption, environment, health and safety, human rights and Energy, of the Environment and of Labour. Each ministry and labour standards. Other than health and safety, which is delegates some of its regulatory and oversight authority to of utmost relevance to the extractive industry, these issues agencies, respectively the National Petroleum Directorate are covered by the principles of the United Nations Global (NPD), the Norwegian Environment Agency (NEA) and the Compact, which Lundin Petroleum joined in 2010 and has Petroleum Safety Authority (PSA). In addition to enacting reported to since. speciﬁc regulations, these three agencies ensure abidance with the laws and regulations by conducting regular audits on all operating companies. Partners Corporate National/International Requirements Day to Day Compliance Internal Requirements Work Relevant Standards, Specifications, Guidelines 4 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 2018 goals To ensure the material issues thus identiﬁed corresponded to Insist on our sustainable value creation business model, we carried out an internal review taking into consideration sustainability and ethical business issues and our operating context, offshore Norway. Each issue identiﬁed was assessed in relation to our strategic conduct goals, namely organic growth, opportunistic acquisitions and safe and energy efﬁcient operations. We also considered the level of exposure for each issue from an internal and external point of view, looking at our supply chain, including suppliers Uphold of goods and services, such as consultants, drilling services and logistics contractors, engineering services, etc. The results of health and our internal review showed that our corporate responsibility framework continues to be relevant and that issues reported safety on to date remain important, though given our operating context, laws and sytems in place in Norway, our risk exposure is low. That said we identiﬁed climate change and our actions to address global warming as the most salient issue. We Minimise have therefore focused our efforts, from a management and operational perspective, to reinforce our energy efﬁciency environmental efforts. impact In 2017 we decided to transfer management responsibility for HSE issues from the VP Corporate Responsibility to the Chief Operating Ofﬁce, as HSE issues are intrinsically linked to Focus on operations. Placing accountability for HSE within operations entails a more effective decision making process. We revised carbon our Environmental Policy to include speciﬁc objectives, both from a climate and a biodiversity perspective. We also CO2 efficiency developed an environmental strategy in Norway which spells out speciﬁc goals and targets to be achieved in terms of emissions, waste and water management. Promote At an operational level, we revised our processes to ensure that we maintain our production related emissions as low as Sustainable practicable and further minimise our overall footprint through sound water and waste management, achieving clear progress Development on all fronts. Goals “ Sustainable value creation means sustainability is an integral part of our business Christine Batruch Vice President Corporate Responsibility Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 5 Creating sustainable value Lundin Petroleum generates sustainable long-term value in all stages of the upstream oil and gas value chain. We have developed the capacity and competence to take exploration success through to the production phase and we retain our standing in the industry as one of the strongest players to capitalise on further growth. Assets + Operations · Quality assets · Organic growth strategy · Creative mind sets · Development of discoveries · Innovative methods · Production of oil and gas · Cutting edge technology sustainably and in a carbon · Experienced team of professionals efficient manner · Safe and sustainable practices Sustainable Value Creation For all our stakeholders · Shareholders · Employees · Host countries · Local communities · Society 6 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Focus on organic growth in Norway Lundin Petroleum was founded in 2001 and acquired the first assets on the Norwegian Continental Shelf in 2003. Since then it has become one of the largest operated acreage holders in Norway with a strong production growth trajectory. Why Norway? Southern Barents Sea · Significant yet to find resources >16 billion barrels 7.3 billion barrels (1) Southeastern · Ranks in the top 10 worldwide exploration areas Trend · Attractive fiscal and licensing regime Loppa High · World leading governance environment Hammerfest Quality assets Harstad · 6 core areas Norwegian Sea · Material long-standing acreage position in 4.7 billion barrels (1) the North Sea · High impact trends in the southern Barents Sea · New core areas in the Norwegian Sea and the Norway North Sea Frøya High/ Froan Basin North Sea (1) 4.6 billion barrels Oslo Alvheim Area Stavanger Utsira High Area Organic growth strategy Mandal High · Invest in exploration to organically grow our resource base · Grow our existing asset base with a proactive subsurface strategy · Actively pursue new exploration acreage in core areas 1 Estimates from the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 7 2017 at a glance Production Reserves Contingent Resources Mboepd Net MMboe Net MMboe 86 714 726 249 203 59 2016 2017 End End End End 2016 2017 2016 2017 Capital Spend Cash Operating Costs Operating Cash Flow Net MUSD USD/boe MUSD 1,300 6.80 1,530 1,180 4.25 860 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Spin-off of non-Norwegian assets into International Petroleum Corporation At the end of April 2017, Lundin Petroleum completed the spinoff of the assets in Malaysia, France and the Netherlands into the new independent company International Petroleum Corporation (IPC). The transaction resulted in a dividend distribution, through IPC shares, of USD 410 million to Lundin Petroleum’s shareholders. Following the spin-off, Lundin Petroleum has become fully focused on operations on the Norwegian continental shelf, where we see continued great opportunities for further organic growth and development projects. 8 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 2018 guidance Production Capital Spend Cash Operating Costs Mboepd Net MUSD USD/boe 86 1,180 4.25 74–82 1,050 4.15 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Edvard Grieg Exploration & Appraisal Development 75% 250 800 Lundin Petroleum proposes to pay first cash dividend in 2018 After a record setting performance for Lundin Petroleum in 2017, the Board of Directors proposes that a ﬁrst cash dividend be paid after the 2018 AGM. The inaugural cash dividend distribution of SEK 4.00 per share represents an amount equal to approximately USD 165 million and is based on the current number of shares, excluding own shares held by the Company. The dividend is proposed to be paid after the AGM which will be held on 3 May 2018 in Stockholm. Lundin Petroleum anticipates to be able to increase this amount and distribute an annual dividend of at least USD 350 million from next year and is optimistic about the capacity to grow annual dividends further when Johan Sverdrup comes onstream in late 2019. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 9 Value creation phases Finding and developing oil and gas resources Lundin Petroleum seeks to generate sustainable value from exploration to production in Norway. Our vision is to grow a proﬁtable upstream exploration and production company, focused on core areas in a safe and environmentally responsible manner for the long-term beneﬁt of our shareholders and society. Lundin Petroleum is pursuing the following strategy: • Proactively investing in exploration to organically grow its reserve base • Growing its existing asset base with a proactive subsurface strategy to enhance ultimate hydrocarbon recovery • Acquiring new hydrocarbon reserves, resources and exploration acreage • Carrying out safe and energy efﬁcient operations Lundin Petroleum works responsibly with: • Shareholders, to realise and sustain good return on investment and a continuing growth of its asset base • Employees, to provide a safe and rewarding working environment • Host country, owner of the resources, to ﬁnd and produce oil and gas professionally, efﬁciently and responsibly • Local communities, to contribute to local development and sustain the well-being of local communities • Society, to contribute to wealth generation while minimising the impact of our activities on the environment 10 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 2017 activities and highlights Exploration and Revenue appraisal phase $ MUSD 1,997 Lundin Petroleum focuses on building core exploration areas and on assembling integrated operating revenue teams of geoscientists and technical experts that have a creative and visionary approach to ﬁnding oil and gas resources. Cash flow Development $ MUSD 1,530 phase operating cash flow Following exploration and appraisal, the strategy is to convert discoveries into reserves and production. After appraisal and completion of a development plan construction of facilities can start, to which wells and infrastructure are Expenditure $ connected so production can begin. As partner, Lundin Petroleum is involved in the ongoing MUSD 1,178 construction of oil and gas production facilities investments on the giant Johan Sverdrup project. Production Research & phase Development The production phase is deﬁned as everything from extraction and processing to delivering the MUSD 12 oil or gas for sale. Lundin Petroleum signiﬁcantly spending increased its production in 2017, due to the out performance of its Edvard Grieg ﬁeld and the Alvheim ﬁeld in Norway. Lundin Foundation Sales and marketing TUSD 1,160 phase contribution Lundin Petroleum sells and delivers its produced crude oil directly to companies which own their reﬁneries, over 75 percent of which are in North West Europe. The sales and marketing activity within Lundin Petroleum, established for ﬁrst oil from Edvard Grieg, is the last part of the crude oil supply chain. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 11 Corporate governance Guiding principles of corporate governance Lundin Petroleum adheres to principles of corporate Since its creation in 2001, Lundin Petroleum has been guided governance found in both internal and external rules. In by general principles of corporate governance. These general doing so, Lundin Petroleum decreases the risks associated to principles form an integral part of Lundin Petroleum’s business unclear allocation of responsibilities. It is also able to manage model and seek to: its responsibilities clearly as well as to mitigate conﬂicts of interest between its shareholders, management and the Board. • Protect shareholder rights Abiding to corporate governance principles hence builds trust in Lundin Petroleum, which results in increased shareholder • Provide a safe and rewarding working environment to all value. By ensuring the business is conducted in a responsible employees manner, the corporate governance structure ultimately paves • Ensure compliance with applicable laws and best industry the way to increased efﬁciency. practice Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct • Ensure activities are carried out competently and The Board has formulated Lundin Petroleum’s Code of sustainably Conduct, a set of principles directed at giving overall guidance • Sustain the well-being of local communities in areas to employees, contractors and partners on how the Company of operation is to conduct its activities in an economically, socially and environmentally responsible manner. 12 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 “ Sustainable value creation starts with the Board of Directors and runs through the entire Company Ian H. Lundin Chairman of the Board These principles are for the beneﬁt of all stakeholders, Governance structure including shareholders, employees, business partners, host and Lundin Petroleum’s business is to explore for, develop and home governments and local communities. Lundin Petroleum produce oil and gas and to develop other energy resources, as strives to continuously improve its performance and to act laid down in the Articles of Association. The Company aims in accordance with good oilﬁeld practice and high standards to create value for its shareholders through exploration and of corporate citizenship. The Code of Conduct is therefore an organic growth, while operating in a responsible way for the integral part of the Company’s contracting procedure and any beneﬁt of all its stakeholders. To achieve this value creation, violations will be subject to inquiry and appropriate remedial Lundin Petroleum applies a governance structure that favours measures. straightforward decision making processes. It also provides the necessary checks and balances for the control of the activities, In 2017 Lundin Petroleum developed a corporate HSEQ (Health, both operationally and ﬁnancially. Safety, Environmental and Quality) Leadership Charter, which sets out the governance framework as well as operational Sustainability as a core of corporate governance governance for managing the business following high HSEQ By tying the corporate governance framework to its standards. The Charter sets out four core foundation themes: sustainability proﬁle, Lundin Petroleum has managed to leadership, risk and opportunity management, continuous achieve the high goals set out in the sustainability strategy. improvement and implementation. It further details how these themes are to be operationalised. Shareholders Articles of Association Nomination Committee Process Compensation Committee Shareholders’ Meeting Nomination Committee Terms of Reference Statutory Auditor Audit Committee Board of Independent Qualified Internal Audit Directors Reserves Auditor Code of Internal Audit Activity Investment Committee Rules of Procedure CR/HSE Board representative Investment Committee Charter President Code of Conduct and CEO Policies, Procedures, Guidelines and Management System Group management Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 13 Climate change Climate change is one of the biggest global challenges given Lundin Petroleum recognises the tension between the the world’s need to meet global energy demands of the future. important journey toward a low carbon economy and the Affordable and reliable energy is essential for continued social global challenge of providing the world more energy in the and economic development and for reducing poverty in the future. world. The challenge ahead is to create a truly sustainable balance of energy, the environment and the economy. It is our The issue in front of us is to determine where the needed shared responsibility towards society and future generations to energy will come from and who should produce it. Rapid and solve this complex issue. pioneering technological advances are made every day in fuel efﬁciency. Alternative forms of energy, especially renewables, Nearly two years ago, world leaders succeeded in agreeing to are growing exponentially and in time will replace fossil fuels. a comprehensive climate agreement to reduce greenhouse However, despite the progress made, there are many remaining gas emissions in order to mitigate the effects of global climate uncertainties regarding the pace of the transition. Renewable change. The Paris Agreement was a sign that serious measures energy production is still very limited, and although the must be taken. These ambitions have now been translated transition to a low carbon economy has begun, it will take time into practice through National Action Plans, which outline the to transition to a fully renewable energy system. way forward for reducing CO2 emissions and limiting global warming to below 2°C. Until this happens, it is important that we source the world’s limited energy resources in the most efﬁcient and sustainable Meanwhile, the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates way possible. The oil and gas industry must and can produce that global energy demand is going to increase by about low carbon intensity oil and gas. With a large geographical 30 percent by 2040, as energy is required to heat our homes, spread of the world’s oil reserves and new unconventional provide light and power, supply fuel for ground, maritime recovery technologies, which are not environmentally friendly, and aviation transportation and produce mobile phones, it will make a big difference where and how these resources pharmaceuticals and other consumer goods. Today nearly are extracted. Not every barrel of oil produced in the world is 60 percent of the world’s energy is provided by oil and gas, a the same. trend that is most likely to continue for decades to come. “ We produce oil and gas with very low emission intensity at Edvard Grieg and are committed to further reduce our emissions through energy efficiency and improved technology Kari Nielsen Operations Director The actions against climate change will not beneﬁt from The Norwegian government has enacted a number of policy divestment in responsible oil companies that devote signiﬁcant instruments to regulate the oil industry’s carbon dioxide resources to adapting their operations to become more carbon emissions. Carbon taxes have played a fundamental role in efﬁcient and sustainable. On the contrary, it is these companies incentivising emission reductions in Norway, alongside the that must take the responsibility for producing tomorrow’s purchase of carbon emission allowances of the EU emissions energy and should not be seen as a problem but as part of the trading system. Taken together, these regulatory mechanisms solution. constitute the most stringent policy instruments to date in the world. Norway’s zero ﬂaring regime, emission and discharge Lundin Petroleum’s organic growth strategy consists permits, requirement for energy management, the use of of expanding its existing asset base and to develop the best available techniques and the feasibility assessment of world’s limited reserves of fossil fuels in the most efﬁcient power from shore for new developments represent other key and sustainable way possible. Over the years we have measures to help drive carbon emissions reductions. developed systems and processes to integrate climate related considerations into all phases of operations. Today, we produce all our oil in Norway, which is one of the most energy efﬁcient oil and gas producing countries in the world, with carbon emission intensities at half the global average. Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 13: Integrate climate change measures Monitoring campaign on fugitive Reduction of ad-hoc flaring emissions Norway does not allow routine ﬂaring; ad hoc ﬂaring is In 2017 Lundin Norway conducted an inspection of the accepted as a safety precaution in the case of operational process facilities on Edvard Grieg with an infrared (IR) camera interruptions. Lundin Norway adopted a ﬂaring strategy in order to detect and prevent emission leaks. prior to the commencement of production at the Edvard Grieg ﬁeld, which describes its commitment to ad-hoc Fugitive emissions are small amounts of emissions that ﬂaring reduction and stipulates that: are released unintentionally by the operational facilities. • Lundin’s operated facilities shall be designed in such The IR camera can identify small emission seeps that a way that ﬂaring is minimized and excessive gas is would normally be missed by other detection methods. recovered The temperature of the emissions differs from the ambient temperature which makes the emissions visible by the IR • Operation of process facilities and start-up of new camera. The tool pinpoints where the leak is coming from. production wells shall be performed in such a way that Additional emissions measurements are taken to identify the ﬂaring is minimized concentration of emissions in the air by identifying where releases take place we are able to address the problem, make The Edvard Grieg facility is designed with a system for our workplace safer, reduce our greenhouse emissions and possible re-injection of gas into the reservoir, which allows keep costs down. operations to maintain production and avoid ﬂaring as much as feasible, when possibilities for gas export are The detection campaign found low levels of fugitive emissions limited by the pipeline operator. on the Edvard Grieg facility. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 15 Climate change We have been very successful on the Norwegian continental NCS value creation and shelf over recent years. Our most notable discovery is the giant Johan Sverdrup ﬁeld, operated by Statoil, which, within greenhouse gas emissions ﬁve years, will account for a quarter of all Norwegian oil reduction production. Johan Sverdrup is a good example of how we, The Norwegian oil and gas industry has developed a as oil companies, can make a difference. By using the latest roadmap for the Norwegian Continental Shelf (NCS) on technological innovations, adhering to the world’s strictest how to best adapt to a future low carbon society. The environmental protection rules and regulations, and paying roadmap, sets out its greenhouse gas reduction targets the highest carbon emissions tariffs in the industry, we can and is coupled with an action plan articulating the provide the much needed oil at reduced carbon intensity. speciﬁc steps that the oil industry must take to achieve When production starts on Johan Sverdrup in late 2019 the their goals. power required to run the operations on this installation will be delivered primarily by hydropower from shore. This will Goals for 2030: reduce emissions by up to 90 percent compared to the use of gas turbines offshore resulting in a carbon intensity estimated • Maintain safe and proﬁtable production at the at 0.5 kg CO2 per barrel of oil produced. Due to this solution, present level and implement CO2 reduction the expected total carbon emissions reduction for the life of the measures from 2020 to 2030 which correspond ﬁeld is estimated at 19 million tonnes. cumulatively to 2.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year Currently, through our investment in new technologies and improved emissions reductions and management, Lundin Goals for 2050: Petroleum has one of the lowest carbon intensity levels in • Maintain its position as Norway’s most important the industry. Our Edvard Grieg platform emits only 5.1 kg value creator and increase the average recovery CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil produced, almost half of the factor to at least 60 percent Norwegian average and a quarter of world average. This means that we will be able to supply Europe with reliable and carbon The NCS will also remain the world leader for low efﬁcient energy for many years to come. carbon intensity. The sector will develop and adopt technology and solutions that substantially reduce Lundin Petroleum’s business model is based on ﬁnding average CO2 emissions per unit of hydrocarbons innovative and sustainable solutions to continuously improve produced compared with 2030 levels. its performance to remain an energy provider of choice for the climate conscious market. The fact that we can supply Lundin Petroleum is committed to support and play the world with energy that is produced in a carbon efﬁcient, its part in the Norwegian’s industry Roadmap for the responsible and cost effective manner is for us a clear NCS, with clear targets for emission reductions. competitive advantage. Actions to limit climate change and reduce its impacts are essential but will only succeed if designed and implemented in parallel with other important issues, such as the supply of Climate change and sustainability reliable and affordable energy and the continuation of global in the energy sector economic growth. Lundin Petroleum is committed to playing As part of its ongoing efforts to improve its its part in both an informed debate and in the delivery of sustainability performance, Lundin Petroleum’s VP carbon reducing measures. And whilst we recognise we are Corporate Social Responsibility conducted research but a small part of the overall picture we look forward to and published an article on climate change and continuing to work with our partners, investors, governments sustainability in the energy sector in the Journal of and non-governmental organisations to tackle these pressing World Energy Law and Business. The article discusses issues for the beneﬁt of everyone, now and in the future. the concern with climate change and sustainability which emerged in the public debate in the 1970s and how, over the course of the next 40 years progress was achieved on both fronts. This reﬂects the evolution in societal values, where economic development has to take place with due regard to its impacts on people and the environment. Aligning with the SDGs The article can be accessed at: https://academic.oup.com GOAL 12: Responsible consumption and production 16 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Risk management: an integral part of our sustainable business model Today’s business landscape is dynamic, ﬂuid and often Risk management is a process driven by Lundin Petroleum’s characterised by rapid change, regional differences and Board of Directors to encourage foresight, pro-activeness cultural contrasts that lead to signiﬁcant business risks. and informed decision making. Our senior management has responsibility for reviewing and measuring the effectiveness Risk management creates value by enabling management to of risk and opportunity management. Country management make appropriate decisions and deal effectively with potential has the day-to-day responsibility for including risks into the events in our operations and business environment. We management systems and for monitoring their impact. have designed our risk management process to identify and manage the most material risks and uncertainties affecting Lundin Petroleum uses a recognised risk management our business. There are many risks, including those from methodology based on probability, uncertainty and impact a corporate responsibility perspective which our Company to perform quantitative and qualitative risk assessments manages. Identifying and addressing risks and opportunities and prioritise activities and resources. Deﬁnitions are guide individuals to make appropriate business choices. Risk based on standards by the International Association of Oil awareness and quality focus is embedded throughout the and Gas Producers and the Norwegian Petroleum Industry business at all levels. Standards. 18 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 “ Lundin Petroleum places risk responsibility at all levels to continually manage threats and opportunities affecting our business Erin Link Group Risk Manager TIFICAT ID EN ION CONTR OL The main sustainability trends identiﬁed in 2017 were: RING TO Climate change: Climate change could lead to stricter MONI regulation on emissions or imposition of mandatory technology in the areas of Norway where we operate. Major developments in this sphere, such as scientiﬁc information, COP meetings, and the possible implications of the Paris Agreement on our operations are reported on an ongoing basis through weekly, monthly or quarterly reports as well as through presentations to staff, to the Board and since 2009, annual reporting to the CDP. In the face of technological and From a risk perspective, Lundin Petroleum’s activities are regulatory developments stemming from climate change, located in Norway, a country with a robust regulatory Lundin Petroleum has set energy efﬁciency objectives and framework covering our key material sustainability issues targets. We pro-actively disclose operational greenhouse namely environment, health, safety and security, human gas emissions and review our energy efﬁciency in terms of rights, labour standards and anti-corruption. It also has the equipment and processes. These are evaluated at the time of one of the lowest carbon intensity levels in the global oil planning, designing new facilities and on an ongoing basis. and gas industry. Including climate change considerations in operational activities and in the selection of installation Digital evolution: The increased vulnerability of information designs, products and equipment has been a way of reducing to cyber threats or malware attacks enhances the risk to both carbon emissions relative to a business as usual system security potentially affecting people’s data privacy approach in Norway, as well as operational costs. as well as the critical systems related to assets. Companies are becoming increasingly dependent on cutting-edge Nevertheless we continuously consider sustainability in a information technology and digital data. Our information broader context. Each quarter, emerging trends are identiﬁed system controls use mechanisms such as ﬁrewalls, policies from internal and external sources and are reviewed by and procedures, and internal training. management. These trends represent key areas where we would like to raise internal awareness so that the associated Innovation: Due to our exploration activities, we have risks and opportunities can be considered by Lundin reviewed the risk and opportunities related to the Petroleum management. If a trend is identiﬁed as a risk or as availability of new technology and R&D to constantly an opportunity, it is considered at the local level and when embrace scientiﬁc progress and business opportunities, in relevant is included within corporate reporting, carried out particular as it relates to health & safety and environmental on a quarterly basis. protection. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 19 Risk management Stakeholder engagement: Inadequate stakeholder engagement In addition, speciﬁc questions related to the contractors’ and poor communication can affect the reputation of Lundin management system and how they manage corporate Petroleum and impact our ability to identify opportunities responsibility are issued to Tenderers. Responses are reviewed for our business. Lundin Petroleum reviews its activities and evaluated as a part of the technical evaluation. Questions with consideration towards our multiple stakeholders in typically address: our decision making process, including governments and • Contractor’s Policies and Procedures nongovernmental organisations. Lundin Petroleum engages at various levels with stakeholders to ensure alignment with • Management Engagement the Company’s presence and operations. It is also a participant • Control Mechanisms of the UN Global Compact and supports social investments directly and through the Lundin Foundation thereby • Employee familiarisation and training contributing to sustainable development projects and the • Suppliers and subcontractors management United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Regulatory changes: Effects of legislative or regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty and may adversely affect the reputation of Lundin Petroleum. We act in an ethical “Our ability to understand and differentiate our clients manner, consistent with our Code of Conduct, management what risks they face and how they approach them is the systems and applicable national and international regulations. single biggest part of an underwriting process. Nowhere As a corporate citizen, Lundin Petroleum acts preventively to is this more true than for our oil and gas portfolio, manage uncertainties that can lead to disruption. where we share the huge ﬁnancial and reputational risks that companies take on as part of their business; Continuous monitoring of risks and opportunities is an and there is no more demanding political, natural and important part of the risk management process. It involves physical environment to operate in than in the offshore local operational accountability and clear responsibility for acreages of Norway. Despite being a fairly new entrant, continuous identiﬁcation of risks. Lundin Petroleum provides and against a backdrop of highly volatile oil prices, oversight through regular risk reporting which enables the Lundin has time and again demonstrated itself to be review of factors such as: capable of leading the industry in ﬁnding new and economic ways of responsibly building a leading position • Focusing on continual improvement through management here. In our engagement with the risk management systems of Lundin we have learned about how they manage • Identifying new risks and opportunities these responsibilities and the direction, strategy and • Reviewing reported risks and incidents to ensure that culture that has allowed it to achieve what it has in such adequate insurance coverage is in place a short time. Lundin’s founding role in the ‘Barents Sea Exploration Collaboration Project’ epitomises • Maintaining an internal audit plan based on reported risks this attitude; initiatives such as this help build our understanding of the risks we are both taking, giving Risk management in the value chain: contractor us a common footing to insure what we would recently management have thought of as ‘frontier’ operations.” Through its tendering process, Lundin Norway ensures that all invited Contractors are committed to work in accordance Duncan Wilson with Lundin Petroleum’s ethical principles. A Contractor Head of Oil and Gas / QBE European Operations Declaration is issued as a part of the Invitation to Tender and Lloyd’s Underwriters the signed Declaration is a prerequisite tender deliverable. Strategic Risk Operational Risk Financial Risk Risks associated with business Risks arising from operational Risks related to liquidity, ﬁnancial strategy and business environment context market exposure and earning capacity 1. Shareholder value creation 6. Health, safety and environment 11. Market conditions 2. Laws and regulations 7. Security / IT security 12. Liquidity and funding 3. Ethical business conduct 8. Concentration of operations 13. Interest and currency 4. Stakeholder engagement 9. Reserves and resources 14. Financial reporting 5. Climate change 10. Delay of development projects 15. Asset management and cost control 16. Asset retirement 20 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Compliance, anti-corruption Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 16: and whistleblowing Engagement towards anticorruption and human rights Regulatory compliance In addition we participate in a number of initiatives that Complying with laws and regulations that govern the actively promote anti-corruption, such as: industry, is the minimum basis upon which Lundin Petroleum • The United Nations Global Compact conducts business. There have been no cases of corruption and no signiﬁcant ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for non• The United Nations Global Compact Nordic Network compliance, a trend we continuously strive to uphold. • The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Compliance at Lundin Petroleum The EITI’s mission is to combat corruption in all its forms Lundin Petroleum’s Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines act speciﬁcally in the extractive industry. as the formal basis for our anti-corruption actions. We review our internal conduct, but equally address those of our partners, Partnering with the EITI helps us to better understand the array contractors and suppliers. We have formalised this process of risks that need to be managed, allowing us to partake in an through the inclusion of anti-corruption clauses in main industry wide effort to combat corruption in all its forms. contracts and in our Contractor Declaration, which outlines Lundin Petroleum’s expectations in relation to corruption. In In 2017, the EITI had 51 implementing countries, disclosing the event of non-compliance, avenues of action are explored, USD 2.3 trillion of taxes and royalties. This demonstrates the including the possibility of contract termination. In 2017, we sector’s increased transparency of payments. Throughout the included the issue of corruption in our contractor evaluations year, Lundin Petroleum has held regular meetings with in Norway. Through this process, we ensure that we identify the EITI. early in the process the risks of unwanted acts in our value chain. Whistleblowing We encourage people working for us to voice their possible At the end of 2017 a case of possible corruption involving concerns regarding unethical or illegal conduct. the head ofﬁce of one of Lundin’s suppliers was brought to our attention. As part of our due diligence process we Our Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure prompts individuals issued a formal request for information. A prompt response to raise concerns regarding inappropriate behaviour, at any was received from senior management conﬁrming that the time, in an open and direct manner to their line managers case involved a single event not affecting our pre-existing or supervisors. Moreover, concerns can be submitted relationship. anonymously via whistleblowing@lundin.ch. Our commitment to combat corruption In 2017, there were no cases raised through the whistleblowing Lundin Petroleum ensures full compliance with antiprocedure or otherwise. corruption laws and internal rules and processes. Anti-corruption workshops Policy on Gifts and Hospitality In 2017 Lundin Petroleum participated in two workshops Lundin Norway has a Policy on Gifts and Hospitality which organised by SNS in Stockholm for CEOs and sustainability acts as an overriding principle across all business relations managers. EITI’s chairman and Secretary General gave and activities. Employees are expected to act in an unbiased keynote presentations, while Lundin Petroleum’s VP manner while representing the Company. All gifts must Corporate Responsibility described how the Company be registered, and employees must refrain from accepting ensures on an ongoing basis that it does not engage, gifts exceeding the value of 500 NOK. Participation to directly or indirectly, with intent or neglect, in any corrupt social events must also be approved by the responsible line activity. manager. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 21 Our people Lundin Norway was one of the few oil and gas companies Diversity and gender parity to increase its employee base in Norway in 2016 and 2017. Lundin Petroleum values diversity and strives to maintain an It has also decided to invest in the future generation by open and inclusive work environment. A total of 28 different assisting graduates in getting relevant experience through nationalities were included in the employee base in 2017. the establishment of one-year positions within the drilling, Women represented 27 percent of the total workforce and exploration and reservoir development departments. 27 percent of managerial positions. Despite efforts both at the national and company level to improve these rates, it At the end of the year, Lundin Norway had 355 employees, is not always possible to attract and recruit suitable female with a turnover rate of 0.9 percent. Lundin Norway also candidates in our sector. One of the measures the Company employs consultants and contractors who provide services for has put in place to try to increase the percentage of female and on behalf of the Company. More than 40 consultants and employees is to require the inclusion of female candidates a number of contractors were engaged for services related to at the interview stage, when such applications have been Drilling, Field Operations, Field Development and HSEQ. received. At group level, 2017 is reﬂective of Lundin Petroleum’s transitional period. As a result of the spin-off of its nonNorwegian assets, Lundin Petroleum saw a relative decrease in its total number of employees. Excluding loss of staff due to the spin-off, the cumulative group employee turnover rate is below 2 percent. Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 5: Promote gender equality 22 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 “ Offering a stimulating, inclusive and rewarding working environment ensures that Lundin Petroleum continues to successfully retain and attract the very best talent in our industry Sean Reddy Vice President Human Resources and Shared Services Human rights Lundin Petroleum fully complies with the Norwegian Working Environment Act which addresses human rights issues. 411 employees Labour relations We actively engage and promote good employee relations and sound employment practices, offering attractive and safe working conditions. Women 27% Lundin Norway is a member of the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association, (a subsidiary of NHO, the Association of Norwegian Enterprises), an employers association for oil and Employees gas supplier companies, which has in place a framework agreement with afﬁliated unions. Central salary negotiations Men are held every year and the agreements are negotiated with the 73% unions on a bi-annual basis. Norway enjoys freedom of association; with a level of union Women participation of around 50 percent. 27% Managers Men Leadership training 73% In 2017, Lundin Norway established a leadership training program. The purpose of the training is to help Women employees in various leadership positions to tackle 38% challenges related to their existing and upcoming responsibilities. 47 completed this program in 2017 and another 20 will be trained in 2018. In addition, the Board of Company pursued its Top Management Training initiated Directors in 2016 for senior managers. Men 62% Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 8: Ensure decent work Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 23 Health and working environment We are committed to create a safe and healthy workplace for all our Sick Leave employees and contractors at Lundin Norway The health and wellbeing of our people and a good working environment are crucial factors to perform our activities Total sick leave 2.6% safely and efﬁciently. Short term sick leave Health and well-being (less than 8 weeks) 1.4% To promote health and well-being, we work systematically Long term sick leave and proactively to manage psychosocial conditions in the (more than 8 weeks) 1.2% working environment, and to control workers’ exposure to physical and chemical health risk factors. We closely Average sick leave monitor health effects and work related illness for our in Norway 6.4% workforce. For 2017 there were no reported work related illnesses. The Petroleum Safety Authority conducted an audit on Edvard Grieg regarding management of working environment risks and employee participation. The Health authorities also conducted an audit on the management of drinking water, food and medicine supplies. There were no critical ﬁndings but observations have been properly Aligning with the SDGs addressed. GOAL 3: Promote health and well-being Staff survey on working environment Health and working environment survey on Edvard Grieg Based on our values of openness, trust, honesty and diversity we seek to offer a stimulating and inclusive working The most signiﬁcant risk factors for offshore staff are high environment. In order to ascertain whether we have met that noise, ergonomic strain, and exposure to hydrocarbons and objective, in January 2017 Lundin Norway commissioned a chemicals. In 2017, systematic working environment health working environment survey for all employees. 98 percent risk assessments have been performed for all employee responded anonymously to the questionnaire, showing the groups on Edvard Grieg. No major risk issues were identiﬁed. signiﬁcant engagement of our staff. There was a high level of Audiometric screening as well as ergonomic assessments and satisfaction among employees regarding their work situation occupational hygiene monitoring are carried out according to and the current working environment. A summary of the plans. report was presented in a Town Hall meeting while the detailed ﬁndings were discussed at department level leading to improvement plans implemented throughout the year. 24 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 “ The health and safety of everyone working in our operations is our highest priority Nick Walker Chief Operating Officer Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 25 Safe and sustainable work practices Governance Business & Operational Framework Leadership HSE as an integral part of our Code of Conduct, Corporate Strategy CORPORATE business model Charters & & MANAGEMENT Safe and secure operations that protect Corporate Policies Goals people, the environment and our assets are fundamental to our business and therefore command our constant attention. COUNTRY Country Objectives, Our management system is modelled Management Targets MANAGEMENT after relevant ISO standards, including System & Plans ISO 1400 for the environment, 45001 for occupational health and safety and 50001 for energy management. Striving OPERATIVE / Local Plans, Programmes & for continuous improvement, we have Management Detailed operational stringent work processes and procedures FIELD System procedures PERSONNEL and adopt best industry practice to ensure we conduct our business in a responsible and sustainable manner. >> T he 10 Co 10 1 m Assurance, Accountability & m HSEQ Leadership Charter Control & Commitment ts At the end of the year, Lundin Petroleum Incident en developed a corporate HSEQ (Health, Investigation itm Safety, Environmental and Quality) 9 2 Monitoring & Governance Leadership Charter, which sets out Reporting Framework the governance framework as well as operational governance for managing Implementation the business following high HSEQ Leadership standards. The Charter sets out four core 8 3 foundation themes: leadership, risk and Execution of The Core Organisation & opportunity management, continuous Activities & Foundation Competence Management improvement and implementation. It of Change further details how these themes are to Continuous be operationalised. Improvement Risk & Opportunity Management 7 4 Targets & Stakeholders Plans 6 5 Design & Sustainability Integrity 26 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 “ Sustainable activities means integrating corporate responsibility issues at every operational stage Christine Batruch Vice President Corporate Responsibility Safety performance Targets We had no incidents resulting in serious consequences in 2017 We did not meet our target for total recordable injuries (TRIR) and no reportable gas or oil leaks throughout the year. resulting in absence from work or medical treatment in 2017. Efforts to reduce incidents were identiﬁed to reduce the In 2017 we recorded: number of recordable injuries in 2018. • One lost time incident with minor consequence and no We achieved our goal of zero reportable oil and gas leaks. further potential • One high potential incident with no actual consequence Lost Time Incident Rate HSE Performance (employees and contractors) against Targets KPI’s 2017 Target Result 3.0 Serious incident LTIR 1 2.5 frequency 2 0 0.49 2.0 Total Recordable 1.5 Injury Rate 2 2.77 3.41 (per million hours worked) 1.0 Serious oil/gas 0.5 leaks 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 2 Adjusted for IPC spin-off Per million working hours Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 8: Ensure decent work Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 27 Safe and sustainable work practices Major accident prevention Contractor management We are committed to ensure that all our activities, from We ensure contractors follow our ethical requirements exploration to production, are conducted safely, cost and internationally recognised rules and standards on effectively and in accordance with industry best practice. anti-corruption, labour standards, human rights and the environment through a process of evaluation, contractual We believe that a thorough selection of competent people commitments and communications. into our organisation is important for safe and efﬁcient performance. Ensuring that we have the right people at the Our Contractor Declaration ensures that contractors are right place forming multi-skilled teams and ensuring rigorous aware of our Corporate Responsibility requirements and planning with a focus on risk management and accident commit to work accordingly. Furthermore, dedicated prevention are critical to our success. sessions are held to highlight the importance of HSE management and performance of our main contractors Process safety also plays an important part, as it involves and their supply chain. The sessions also cover work managing the integrity of operating systems and processes programmes and safety instructions. to prevent unplanned releases that could result in accidents. We are continuously aiming to strengthen our safety Emergency preparedness culture with competence and training, risk understanding, To ensure our ability to respond effectively to unexpected resilient barriers against accidents and pro-activeness as key events we conduct operational and environmental principles. We had no material process safety incidents in risk analyses, assessments and contingency plans. In 2017. collaboration with other operators and contractors, suitable emergency preparedness resources are made available Security and managed by a competent and trained emergency Lundin Norway has in place an organisation that understands preparedness organisation. continuously evolving security risks. It interacts closely with industry partners and governmental security resources Our emergency preparedness plans are tested on an such as the Norwegian Police Security Service (PST) and the ongoing basis, together with contractors, through regular National Security Government (NSM). emergency response drills conducted at ﬁeld, country and group level. Audits and investigations We use audits as a tool to verify compliance with legal and corporate HSEQ requirements. Annual audit programmes are prepared and regular audits are conducted towards our contractors and internally within each operating entity and at company level. In 2017 a number of third party audits were conducted on our licences and operating assets by the regulators and partners. The purpose of these audits is to identify potential failures or weaknesses in our systems or practices and to highlight potential non-conformances or improvement measures. The Petroleum Safety Authority whose role is to supervise safety, emergency preparedness and the working Safety stand-down offshore due environment in the Norwegian petroleum sector conducted a number of audits on Lundin Norway to ensure that HSE to drilling safety incidents issues are fully addressed by technical, operational and Throughout 2017, Lundin Norway experienced organisational barriers and are maintained in an integrated several ﬁrst aid injuries among personnel working and consistent manner. Issues covered by the audits on our drilling rigs, as a result of slips, trips included drilling in the southern Barents Sea; the working and falls. As a consequence, presentations were environment, IT security and electrical systems at Edvard prepared and conducted on the rigs in order to Grieg; Luno II project follow-up and Lundin Norway’s reinforce to personnel the need to be vigilant adherence to industry standards.In addition the Norwegian when performing their day-to-day work, both with Environment Agency conducted an audit on the Leiv regards to observing and eliminating trip hazards, Eiriksson drilling rig operating in the southern Barents Sea but also with regards to how they move across the and the Health authorities audited the Edvard Grieg facilities. decks. Following the presentations, hazard hunts were performed to identify and eliminate potential While the audits did not result in any critical nonhazards. compliance, we used the ﬁndings to further improve. 28 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability in operational phases Throughout the drilling operations, risk assessments and Job Exploration phase Safety Analyses are frequently conducted. Key operations A holistic approach is taken to manage potential risks by are also covered under a permit to work, to ensure proper evaluating new areas for exploration activity in terms of planning and coordination of simultaneous operations. impact on the environment and society. A good illustration is our approach in the southern Barents Sea. We started to plan Operational phase our entry in 2005, applied for licences, and conducted annual During ﬁeld development, the Edvard Grieg platform design campaigns of seabed surveys from 2007 onwards. We drilled was subject to a detailed quantitative risk assessment (QRA) our ﬁrst well in 2011 and made our ﬁrst major discovery which identiﬁes the risk of major accidents occurring during in 2013 (Gohta). Based on our risk identiﬁcation from sea platform operations. The barriers against major accidents surface to reservoir activities and on our baseline studies we are continuously monitored using Barrier Panel, a dedicated determined that we are able to leave the area with minimal software, which outlines the barrier status of the various areas impact. on Edvard Grieg. Input to the Panel is provided directly from the software organizing the preventive maintenance program Drilling phase and from risk assessments made in Synergi, an incident Risk management is an integral part of the drilling process tracking and management software. as adequate understanding of risks guide decision-making. Risk assessments are an integral part of the planning and With this method, the risk reducing barriers deﬁned in the execution phases, which require close interactions between the QRA can be veriﬁed and the risk of accidents managed. engineering and drilling operation teams together with their dedicated HSE team. Well abandonment and decommissioning Lundin Norway has cessation plans in place for exploration During the design phase, we identify geological hazards, wells in conformity with Norwegian regulations. In 2017, parameters and the desired objectives for our well design and we drilled six exploration and four appraisal wells, all of drilling method. The capabilities and limitations of the drilling which were permanently plugged and abandoned. We have rig are also evaluated in relation to the identiﬁed hazards. decommissioning plans in place for our producing ﬁelds Designs and procedures are developed to ensure robust Edvard Grieg and Brynhild. Such plans also exist for nonoperational systems are in place. operated producing ﬁelds, or ﬁelds with booked reserves or a Plan of Development. Decommissioning plans must The planning of a drilling operation also involves the describe disposal solutions proposed, taking into consideration evaluation of risks inherent to the environment where technical, safety related, environmental and economic aspects, drilling operations take place. Area-speciﬁc meteorological as well as relationships to other users of the sea. Prior to and oceanographical conditions such as wind, weather, decommissioning, an impact assessment is to be carried out. temperature, waves, and data relating to vessel trafﬁc in the No decommissioning activity took place in 2017. vicinity of the planned well site are different aspects that are reviewed. All well designs must comply with external and internal requirements and standards to ensure robust, ﬁt for purpose and safe designs for the full lifecycle of a well. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 29 Environment We are fully committed to minimise risks to the natural It developed the following targets to monitor and reach its environment. goals: • Greenhouse gas emission reduction measures from 2020 to In 2017, Lundin Petroleum revised its environmental policy to 2030 corresponding to 100,000 tonnes annually include the following objectives: • A lifetime operated portfolio carbon intensity below 10 kg • Energy efﬁciency in all its operations CO2 equivalent/boepd • No routine ﬂaring • Oily water discharges < 15 mg/l • No impact on freshwater supply • Lifetime produced water injection regularity > 95% • Meet and strive to exceed applicable environmental laws • Energy loss < 2% and regulations • Waste sorting > 95% • Prepare for future challenges and opportunities through industry collaboration and leadership • Waste recovery > 75% • Raise awareness and promote environmental stewardship Relevant plans and procedures are in place to monitor and of staff, contractors and suppliers reach these goals and targets. In addition, Lundin Norway developed environmental goals applicable for all its operations: • Minimise impact on the natural environment Aligning with the SDGs • Zero non-compliances with permit conditions GOAL 13: • Deliver superior environmental performance Integrate climate change • Prepare for future challenges and opportunities through measures industry collaboration and leadership 30 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 “ The environment is a common good which we all strive to protect Kristin Færøvik Managing Director Lundin Norway Lundin Petroleum’s carbon intensity performance Waste management and reduction In 2017, Lundin Petroleum’s direct greenhouse gas emissions Waste is managed by operations depending on the type of for Edvard Grieg amounted to 283 thousand tonnes CO2e. This waste involved; non-hazardous waste is segregated and sent represents a carbon intensity of 5.1 CO2e kg/boepd, signiﬁcantly to recycling, incineration or disposal sites. Hazardous waste lower than the global industry average of 20 kg CO2e in 2016. is treated according to industry practice before being safely disposed of according to local environmental regulations. Greenhouse Gas The main waste produced is oil-based drill cuttings. This waste Emissions Intensity is handled by the drill ﬂuid supplier in order to ensure optimal reuse and regeneration of the liquids. Drilling ﬂuids are 20 reconditioned and re-used as far as practical. In 2017, more than 75 percent of all oil-based drill cuttings kgCO2 e/boe was reused or returned to the supplier for future operations. 10 Less than 15 percent of the total amount of oil-based drilling Energy management ﬂuid was returned as waste which is separated into solid, nonPower from shore aqueous and aqueous liquids and treated appropriately with a minimal environmental impact. No non-aqueous liquids or solids containing oil are disposed on the NCS. 0 World Norway Edvard Johan Grieg Sverdrup We have throughout 2017 further improved waste Source: NOROG and IOGP for world and Norway data (2016 averages). management practices. Total waste segregation was more Edvard Grieg is 2017 data, Johan Sverdrup full ﬁeld estimate than 95 percent and close to 100 percent on Edvard Grieg. Throughout 2017 we phased out the use of disposable paper Environmental risk management and plastic cups and utensils from the Edvard Grieg platform Through our Company strategy and work processes we work drilling rigs and at our ofﬁces. actively to detect potential environmental hazards, minimise current and potential risks through prevention, correction and Water management implementation of controls. Environmental risk analyses are Water use is an important global issue as water scarcity is a key processes for planning and performing all our activities. growing challenge in many regions. However, as our operations For drilling operations we identify temporal sensitivities take place offshore only, namely in the North Sea, Norwegian throughout the year, in order to identify and avoid operations Sea and southern Barents Sea, they do not use water sources in periods with high environmental sensitivity. from scarce areas. As water used in our drilling and production activities comes from non-critical fresh water sources below the We also focus on technical and operational solutions to reduce seabed, it is not a material issue for the Company. and mitigate inherent risks and implement appropriate mitigating measures. Oil spill contingency plans are tailorAnother aspect of water management is in relation to made for each individual project. discharge to water. Lundin Norway monitors and measures all discharged streams to the marine environment. According to the regulations, discharge streams shall have as low oil concentration as practicable, never exceeding 30ppm on a monthly average. The Company has implemented a long-term Aligning with the SDGs environmental target of less than 15mg oil/l water. Produced water shall primarily be handled through reinjection with a GOAL 6 / 14: lifetime regularity of 95 percent. Manage water effectively and ensure life below water is unharmed Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 31 Biodiversity Natural gas seepage on the southern Barents Sea seabed Since 2007 Lundin Norway has developed an extensive seabed investigation program focusing on seabed We are fully committed to the morphology and its relation to mapped subsurface geology, habitats for different life-forms, geo-hazards preservation of biological diversity, to that might be relevant to future drilling, but also features that can be directly related to petroleum safeguard ecosystems, species and exploration and high-grading deeper hydrocarbon genetic diversity reservoirs. The main study area in this context has been the southern Barents Sea, especially around our We actively participate in acquiring information and current operated exploration licences, where subsurface increasing our understanding of the environments in which prospectivity can be associated to seismically-deﬁned we operate. Baseline and impact studies assess potential shallow gas anomalies as well as sites of potential gas impacts and we map sensitive areas covered by national laws seepage. or international treaties such as the IUCN Protected Areas and the Ramsar Convention to ensure such areas are not negatively To date Lundin Norway has collected several thousand impacted by our activities. Discharges from drilling operations km2 of multi-beam echo-sounder data, high resolution are assessed in terms of the impact on potentially affected interferometric synthetic aperture sonar data, millions natural resources, and mitigating measures are considered and of black and white and colour photographs of the implemented whenever deemed necessary. seaﬂoor, hundreds of drop cores and dozens of biological, For the southern Barents Sea areas we monitor all our activities carbonate crust and physical gas samples. The seaﬂoor with regards to the presence of sensitive bottom-dwelling data collected has yielded important observations about organisms, such as corals, sponges, sea pens and other macro the nature of the seabed such as pockmarks, iceberg fauna. Several tools have been developed to carry out this plough marks, glacial prod marks, carbonate crusts, task, most commonly the Remotely Operated Vehicles (ROV) bacterial mats,past and ongoing gas seepage. Sites of and the Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUV), but recently active gas leakage are characterised by abundant macro we participated in the development of seabed landers for the and micro fauna, as well as extensive occurrence of purpose of monitoring macro-fauna around operated sites. microbial mats on the seaﬂoor. Lundin Norway is a founding member of the Barents Sea As part of our ongoing R&D program we have built Cooperation (BaSEC), which started in 2015. It currently a seaﬂoor Lander, which is equipped with a variety includes 18 oil and gas companies that are collaborating on of sensors to monitor gas seepage rates, temperature, exploration activities in the northernmost frontier exploration pressure, water composition and biologic activity over area of the Norwegian Continental Shelf. Through this a period of one year in order to cover as many temporal cooperation we aim to develop a solid, uniﬁed data base for the scales as possible. Our aim is to better understand the area, share experience and knowledge, and develop innovative periodicity and rates of natural gas leakage as well as the safety measures in a way that beneﬁts both the companies effects on seaﬂoor ecosystems. It also enables us to make and the wider society. BaSEC has produced numerous reports better decisions in terms of the location of a drilling and recommendations, and developed tools, methods and operation in view of potential impact on the biodiversity best practices to be used by operators planning exploration of the area. The Lundin Lander has been successfully activity in the southern Barents Sea region. Along with other deployed in the context of monitoring effects of a drilling industry partners, we also participate in tracking and mapping operation at the Hufsa wellsite in the southern Barents the moulting and foraging movements of key seabird colonies Sea. through the SEATRACK R&D project. We believe our approach of integrating seaﬂoor data with more traditional geophysical tools as well as systematic chemical, physical and biological sampling signiﬁcantly enhances our understanding of the environment and the dynamic processes occurring and controlling present and past petroleum seepage. Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 9: Contribute to innovative and energy efficient industry and infrastructure 32 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Innovation through R&D projects Developing new seismic technology to address imaging issues in the southern Barents Sea Lundin Norway’s geophysicists have contributed to the development of a new technology for seismic data imaging which can be used by the industry worldwide. Our motivation for developing this methodology was seismic imaging problems encountered in the southern Barents Sea. Over the course of the past 3 years we worked with the geoscience company CGG and developed a new acquisition solution named TopSeis™. The originality of TopSeis lies in the location of its seismic sources above the recording streamers. Positioned a few kilometres behind the streamer vessel, the source vessel deploys a number of source arrays with a wide horizontal separation. This conﬁguration offers the advantages of achieving exceptionally high spatial density of seismic records. This new split-spread source-over-cable acquisition method was thoroughly evaluated and tested, taking into consideration all conceivable HSE aspects, operational challenges, comprehensive modelling and assessment of speciﬁc processing challenges. During 2016 the TopSeis solution was ﬁeld tested offshore Gabon and in the North Sea. It demonstrated that TopSeis provides signiﬁcant improvements compared to conventional seismic acquisition. The ﬁrst full scale 1950 km2 TopSeis survey was acquired over the Lundin operated licences on the Loppa High in the southern Barents Sea from July to September 2017. The operation went smoothly with no major technical difﬁculties. Processing of the results of the southern Barents Sea TopSeis data has begun with expected good data quality. TopSeis provides a signiﬁcantly higher resolution image of the subsurface and hence overcomes the inability of conventional methods to image shallow reservoir and geological features, such as faults, channels and stratigraphic pinch-out. By overcoming these shortcomings, TopSeis™ enables exploration and development teams to make critical investment decisions on the basis of higher quality data. “ What I have seen thus far exceeds all expectations. With such detailed images, TopSeis will replace conventional and site survey seismic and will further advance our capability to strategically place future wells Halvor Jahre Exploration Director Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 33 Aligning with the SDGs Respect for GOAL 10: human rights Engage to reduce inequalities and promote transparency UN Guiding Principles on Business Promote human rights through our value chain and Human Rights Although our operations do not reveal any salient human Through its endorsement of the UN Guiding Principles of rights issues, we participate in initiatives that highlight the Business and Human Rights in 2011, the Human Rights relevance of human rights in a business context and value Council shed light on the responsibility of the global business these dialogues. community to respect human rights and provide an avenue for remedy. One of the ways we contribute to the promotion of human rights at a wider industry level is by engaging with partners, Lundin Petroleum endorsed the UN Guiding Principles in 2012 contractors and suppliers. Contracted companies are required and remains committed to respect and promote human rights to comply with Lundin Petroleum’s Contractor Declaration, within its operations and in the wider business community. which includes a commitment to respect human rights. In addition to national and local legislations, we adhere to recognised principles for business and human rights as In 2017 we introduced human rights as a criterion in our embodied in international initiatives. contractor evaluations. Contractors who submit a tender are assessed in terms of their management and performance in Respect human rights in our operations relation to human rights. Contactors may be excluded from the Lundin Petroleum’s sustainable value creation business model tender on that basis. includes ensuring that throughout our operations human rights are respected. It also means being actively attentive to potential risks throughout our supply chain. The human rights’ due diligence process followed in our Sudan operations is guided by Lundin Petroleum’s Human Rights In June 2010, the Swedish International Public Policy and Guidelines. The process entails identifying, assessing Prosecution Ofﬁce commenced an investigation into and determining any potential human rights risks for all alleged complicity in violations of international our activities at each operational stage from exploration, humanitarian law in Sudan during 1997–2003. The to development and production. It sets out preventative or Company has cooperated extensively and proactively mitigating measures in the event of occurrence. with the Prosecution Ofﬁce by providing information regarding its operations in Block 5A in Sudan during As we now only operate in Norway, we face a low risk the relevant time period. Lundin Petroleum continues to environment in relation to human rights. We do not face categorically refute all allegations of wrongdoing by the human rights risks generally associated with the oil and gas Company or any of its representatives. Lundin Petroleum exploration and production sector such as access to land, strongly believes that it was a force for good in Sudan labour conditions and community disputes. Our screenings in and that its activities contributed to the improvement of 2017 showed no violations, potential or actual. the lives of the people of Sudan. Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is an integral part of our business From a broader perspective, there are potential local and model and an essential step to maintain good standing within regional economic beneﬁts due to our activities. We assess the community. these effects and communicate them to our stakeholders. Going forward, the ability to deliver on ripple effects will The Petroleum Act sets out the principle that petroleum become increasingly important as the development of the Far resources on the Norwegian Continental Shelf (NCS) belong to North continues to act as a thriving economic hub. the people of Norway. It is thus our responsibility to conduct our activities in such a way that meets people’s bona ﬁde expectations. Our stakeholder engagement begins with a mapping of stakeholders based on their level of interest and inﬂuence. We engage with them in an open and transparent Regional ripple effects and manner, with the goal to ﬁnd a mutually satisfying outcome. value creation after two years of Our stakeholder engagement is an ongoing process in relation production from the Edvard Grieg to our business as usual activities and is initiated when new field activities are undertaken. In order to assess our impact on the local economy, When planning exploration activities, we engage with the local Lundin Norway commissioned a third party analysis of community. Stakeholders typically range from major suppliers the ripple effects from the development phase of Edvard to local industry vendors, as well as regional politicians or local Grieg during 2012–2018, which includes drilling of NGOs. We discuss with local port authorities, hospitals, airports production and injection wells up to 2018 and operations and relevant hotels about the scope of our work, how long we phase from 2015 to 2017. will be present and the potential impacts from our activity. In parallel, there is a formal consultation process led by the The total employment and value creation effects from authorities which publishes planned oil and gas activities and Edvard Grieg over the years amounts to around 15,450 impact assessments, giving stakeholders the opportunity to full-time positions and over USD 2.3 billion of economic raise their concerns and expectations. impact. The main issues addressed are the possible impact of our activities on the economic development of the region and the means to source locally as much as feasible. We therefore seek to understand how local competence and capacity can contribute to our activities over time, whether for exploration Aligning with the SDGs wells, site surveys, rig moves, ofﬁce presence, supply bases, rig yard stay, or helicopter logistics at different airports along the GOAL 8: coast. Local stakeholders expect to take part in the tendering Contribute to sustainable processes. economic growth Corporate citizenship Addressing societal challenges beyond Lundin Foundation CSR summit our operations The Lundin Foundation provides a CSR capacity building Throughout this report, we have explained the manner in platform for the Lundin Group of Companies. The Lundin which we conduct our activities and the steps taken at different Foundation has created a Business Sustainability Group, to operational stages to integrate ethical, environmental and discuss sustainability issues and to share best practice within social responsibilities in our operating systems. the Group. Bi-monthly teleconferences, webinars and an annual Lundin Group Business Sustainability Summit are held Given the nature and location of our activities in Norway, we for CSR professionals from all levels of the organisation. The may not through our activities have a material impact beyond Foundation has additionally taken the lead in establishing a our immediate sphere of responsibility. We remain committed, communication and documentation sharing platform. Topics however, to be part of the solution to wider societal challenges. include human rights, gender equity, climate and water, This is why we decided to partner with the Lundin Foundation indigenous rights, ESG and ﬁnancing. and to work with other likeminded companies, governmental and civil society organisations to ﬁnd innovative solutions to In 2017, the Lundin Group Business Sustainability Summit key economic, social and environmental challenges. was held in Portugal in October. The summit convened 35 colleagues from eight companies to share best practice Since 2013, Lundin Petroleum has donated over 5 million USD and expertise on how to best advance the sustainability to support Lundin Foundation’s initiatives across Asia and agenda. Representatives from CSR, community relations, Scandinavia. communications and investor relations as well as external subject matter experts were among the participants. The Partnership with the Lundin Foundation summit format included presentations, technical working The Lundin Foundation works in partnerships across the sessions and small working groups. Lundin Group of companies. It also works closely with host governments and local communities to improve In 2017, we identiﬁed projects in Norway and Sweden that: the management of resource development projects. The • Support refugee and migrant populations to improve their Foundation’s objective is to ensure inclusive beneﬁts for professional skills, start or expand businesses and enhance generations to come, and does so by operating across diverse their employability, geographies, home to unique cultural and socio-economic contexts. • Encourage sustainable entrepreneurship and innovation among youth, and • Stimulate entrepreneurship in new energy solutions “The Lundin Group companies have an impressive In November 2017, the United Nations recognised team of professionals working with sustainability the Foundation’s achievements and awarded Lundin activities, and I was struck by the delegates’ expertise Gold (part of the Lundin Group of companies) the and experience. Over the past ﬁve years, we have seen a Global Compact Best Practice Award for Sustainable near exponential increase in the number of institutional Development for a project initiated in Ecuador with the investors that consider ESG issues in their investment support of the Lundin Foundation. decision process. Lundin Petroleum itself has taken big steps forward to enhance and integrate its own ESG strategies. We believe that group level leadership is key to ensuring continued improvement in this ﬁeld, and it is a clear positive that the Lundin Foundation is Aligning with the SDGs taking a central role in guiding, sharing and developing understanding and best practice among the Group GOALS 1 / 4 / 7 / 8 / 9 / 10 / 13 / 17 : companies.” Through various initiatives we contribute to: reduce poverty and inequalities, quality education, Julian Beer clean energy, decent work, innovation, climate Head of ESG Financial Advisory, action and partnerships SEB Large Corporates & Financial Institutions 36 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Work with refugees and migrants Over the course of 2017, 67 refugees secured employment. C/O Business, Malmö, Sweden Hundreds of refugees received assistance towards securing One of the perceived solutions to integrate refugees into the employment through career fairs and networking events. The workforce is to assist them ﬁnding ways to start a business in most promising enterprises pitched to local investors, and their host country. The Lundin Foundation partnered with three went on to raise additional funding. Impact Invest Scandinavia and completed a pilot program called C/O Business, a business accelerator targeted at refugees Arctic Accelerator, Northern Norway who were successful entrepreneurs in their home countries. In 2016, the Lundin Foundation and the Norwegian business This creates unique opportunities for new businesses to emerge incubator Kunnskapsparken (KUPA) introduced a pilot program as well as for employment of refugees. C/O Business provides – Arctic Accelerator – aimed at young entrepreneurs in in-depth support to help entrepreneurs understand the Northern Norway with business ideas in the areas of renewable Swedish business environment, requirements and links to the energy, energy efﬁciency and sustainable utilization of natural business network. resources. The grant by the Swedish Agency for National Growth to Due to the success of the pilot program, the partnership an expanded business incubator program in 2017, attests to decided to continue its support and launched the 2017/18 the achievement of C/O Business’ target to demonstrate an Arctic Accelerator program. 10 small businesses in Troms and innovative model to support employment and integration. Nordland participated in training workshops and 5 have been accepted to the full program of intensive technical assistance C/O Business worked with 14 entrepreneurs in 2017, among and support. The Arctic Accelerator was shortlisted for the Best whom 50 percent female founders leading a range of Accelerator at the 2017 Nordic Start-up Awards. businesses. The ﬁrst round of C/O Business concluded with entrepreneurs pitching to local investors. Three companies Forum for Reforms, Entrepreneurship and succeeded in raising further capital. Sustainability (FORES), Sweden A partnership was launched in 2017 with FORES, a Swedish BOOST Accelerator, Oslo, Norway sustainability think tank to stimulate innovation from the In 2016 a partnership with SoCentral, a recognised leader in private sector in entrepreneurship development. This will social innovation in Norway and the Municipality of Oslo. culminate in 2018 with a workshop, investment pitches and The partnership launched BOOST Refugee, a pilot accelerator networking events with investors, strategic partners and other focused on developing sustainable solutions to improve key players in the ecosystem, focusing on the entrepreneurs employment outcomes for refugees. and their solutions to solving climate and energy related issues with applications and technology for use of renewable energy sources. Corporate citizenship Lundin Petroleum and the UN Sustainable Development Goals Through the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) the United Nations has mapped out a plan to overcome poverty while simultaneously protecting the planet and people living on it. What the SDGs seek to achieve is a measure of social fairness combined with environmental sustainability. This Lundin Petroleum’s SDG Chart call for action concerns us all, as corporate or individual citizens, and it is incumbent upon us to ﬁnd ways in which, individually or collectively, we can play a part in achieving these global goals. This can be done by positively contributing to the achievement of the goals or by avoiding and mitigating potential negative impacts. Operating solely offshore Norway means we do not face the sustainability challenges traditionally associated with oil and gas exploration, such as access to land or community impacts. Despite our favourable operating environment we are aware of and intend, as a corporate citizen, to play a role, whether directly or indirectly in promoting the 17 SDGs. SDG 5 – Gender equality SDG 7 – Affordable and clean energy Non-discriminatory policy; equal pay and opportunities; Driving energy efficiency through Best Available 38% female board members; maternity leave exceeding Technique (BAT); use of power from shore for Johan ILO standards. Sverdrup and Edvard Grieg. SDG 6 – Clean water and sanitation SDG 10 – Reduced inequalities No use of scarce freshwater sources for operations; Promoting gender parity in hiring practices; supporting or ing managing produced water to below regulatory norms. educational youth opportunities. 38 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 SDG 12 – Responsible consumption and production SDG 14 – Life below water Improving resource efficiency in production; ensuring Environmental management systems; tailor-made effective water and waste management; improving supply contingency plans; information acquisition through chain sustainability with contractors. baseline/impact assessments. SDG 13 – Climate action SDG 17 – Partnerships for the goals Promoting energy efficient practices; reduced carbon Lundin Foundation and other institutions addressing intensity; use of renewable resources for own societal challenges covered by the goals. consumption. Renewable energy Entrepreneurship Lundin Petroleum took the following initiatives in 2017 to Entrepreneurship is a core characteristic of our Company reduce its environmental footprint. and we seek to foster entrepreneurship among students by stimulating their creativity and openness to new ideas. It installed 100 solar panels on the roof of its ofﬁce building Building on these themes we hosted an annual student in Geneva. The installation has already produced 35 MWh competition in Norway, encouraging students to come up of clean electricity, corresponding to CO2 emissions savings with new concepts and ideas which might have a potential for of 16 tonnes of this energy was produced by a gas powered future technological solutions. The ultimate goal is to highlight electric plant. At its inauguration, the CEO encouraged staff the importance of creativity as an enabler of new solutions to consider taking similar steps to reduce their environmental and a driver of technological innovation. The winners are then footprint. assisted by company specialists to mature their ideas and are given the opportunity to visit the Edvard Grieg ﬁeld offshore. Another initiative has been to host an Innovation Day at the Geneva Office premises of Lundin Norway at Lysaker, an open day, where Solar Energy Production bold, innovative ideas were presented to a dedicated audience. The presenters in 2017 made new business contacts and 5 matured their ideas. 4 Arts and sports sponsorships In the past few years, Lundin Norway has been one of the main 3 sponsors of the Astrup Fearnley Museum of Contemporary Art. MWh This leading European museum of contemporary art in Oslo 2 recorded an all-time high number of visitors in 2017 due to its quality exhibitions and its importance to the contemporary art 1 scene. The engagement with the Norwegian College of Elite Sports 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec stems from our belief that young sports talents should be able to follow their passion in sports, while receiving the same formal education as everybody else. Waste reduction Through these two sponsorships, we seek to support Lundin Petroleum decided to stop providing staff with innovation and excellence in arts and in sports, values which bottled water opting instead for distilled water fountains. The have contributed to success in our business. number of bottles purchased on an annual basis was 11,140, representing 307 kilogrammes of plastic. The initiative was communicated to staff with an explanatory note and a movie on the major threat posed by plastic bottles to our planet, in particular to our seas and oceans. In parallel, Lundin Norway took the initiative to cease the use of plastic and paper cups on the Edvard Grieg platform, drilling rigs and in its ofﬁces. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 39 Lundin Petroleum sustainability data Health and Safety1 2017 20162 20152 Fatalities Employees 0 0 0 Contractors 0 1 0 Total 0 1 0 Lost time incidents Employees 1 0 1 Contractors 0 2 8 Total 1 2 9 Restricted work incidents Employees 0 0 0 Contractors 0 2 0 Total 0 2 0 Medical treatment incidents Employees 1 2 1 Contractors 5 0 9 Total 6 2 10 Lost time incident rate (million hours worked) Employees 1.30 0 0.78 Contractors 0 1.06 2.08 Total 0.47 0.67 1.76 Total recordable incident rate (million hours worked) Employees 2.61 1.79 1.55 Contractors 3.69 2.66 4.43 Total 3.30 2.34 3.71 Exposure hours Employees 767,609 1,115,738 1,286,396 Contractors 1,355,856 1,881,461 3,841,243 Total 2,123,465 2,997,199 5,127,639 Near misses with high potential 1 3 6 Contractor screening using HSE & CR criteria3 New contractors (%) 100 100 100 40 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Environment 2017 20162 20152 UNPLANNED RELEASES TO SEA OR LAND4 Oil spills Number 0 0 0 3 Vol. (m ) 0 0 0 Chemical spills5 Number 2 2 6 Vol. (m3) 16.38 65.20 59.88 Hydrocarbon leaks Number 0 1 0 Mass (kg) 0 650 0 EMISSIONS Direct GHG (CO2e, tonnes) – CDP Scope 1 265,200 264,000 98,530 Indirect GHG (CO2e, tonnes) – CDP Scope 2 60 2,100 1,735 Other indirect GHG (CO2e, tonnes) – CDP Scope 36 105,000 115,500 143,823 NOX (tonnes) 197 463 499 SOX (tonnes) 5 14 45 Flared hydrocarbons (m3) 13,456,000 37,158,000 19,629,132 Vented hydrocarbons (tonnes)7 Methane 102 243 482.81 nmVOC 52 291 470.19 Energy consumption (MWh) – CDP Scope 1+2 1,008,000 657,900 145,392 Renewable energy consumption (MWh) – CDP Scope 1+2 2,200 6,200 5 8 Group GHG emissions intensity (CO2e, kg/boe) 8.4 8.9 8.5 Edvard Grieg emissions intensity (CO2e, kg/boe) – prod & dev drilling9 5.1 8.5 – WATER Freshwater withdrawal10 Surface water (m3) 22,367 0 0 Ground water (m3) 0 4,899 3,756 Rainwater (m3) 0 0 100 Produced water (m3) 127,163 1,912,608 1,841,535 Disposal of produced water Reinjected water into the reservoir (m3) (Norway) 45,146 847,816 1,026,818 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 35.5 44.3 55.8 3 Injection into disposal wells (m ) (France) 11 0 562,376 562,495 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 0 29.3 30.5 Water sent to terminal onshore through oil production pipeline (m3) 36,184 0 0 Percentage of total water volume sent to terminal onshore (%) 28.5 0 0 Discharge to sea (m3) (Norway)12 45,833 492,914 252,222 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 36.0 25.8 13.7 Hydrocarbons discharged to sea within produced water (m3)13 1.16 8.39 4.2 Total (m3)14 127,163 1,903,106 1,841,535 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 41 Lundin Petroleum sustainability data Environment (continued) 2017 20162 20152 WASTE Drill waste using aqueous drilling ﬂuid (by disposal method) Onshore disposal to controlled sites Drill cuttings (tonnes) 0 0 291 Water based mud (tonnes) 7.23 0 15,856 Offshore disposal with or without pre-treatment Drill cuttings (tonnes) 12,022 10,279 13,128 Water based mud (tonnes) 37,721 31,098 59,561 Drill waste using non-aqueous drilling ﬂuid (by disposal method)15 Onshore disposal to controlled sites Drill cuttings (tonnes) 3,485 3,433 2,049 Oil based mud (tonnes) 2,265 4,000 6,841 Offshore disposal with pre-treatment Drill cuttings (tonnes) 0 1,553 2,863 Oil based mud (tonnes) 0 0 0 People 2017 20162 20152 Employees Total16 411 542 589 Employee turnover (%) 1.18 1.69 6.5 New hire rate (%) 6.35 2.25 2.2 Gender diversity Number of men 298 359 420 Number of women 113 183 169 Women in workforce (%) 25 34 29 Women in management (%) 27 20 20 Women in the Board of Directors (%) 38 38 38 Employees by age groups (%) < 30 years 5 8 8 30–50 years 60 63 60 > 50 years 35 29 32 Incidents of discrimination 0 0 0 Society 2017 20162 20152 Disputes associated with operations 0 0 0 Actual impacts on local communities 0 0 0 Corporate donations (USD) Sustainable investments 103,129 17,500 33,300 Contribution to the Lundin Foundation 1,159,900 569,300 785,200 Total 1,263,029 586,800 818,500 Contributions to initiatives (USD) United Nations Global Compact 10,000 5,000 5,000 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 40,000 35,000 35,000 CDP 2,795 2,760 3,440 Total 52,795 42,760 43,440 42 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Anti-corruption 2017 20162 20152 Communication of anti-corruption policy Board of Directors (%) 100 100 100 Employees (%) 100 100 100 Training on anti-corruption17 Board of Directors (%) 100 100 100 Employees (%) 100 100 87 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption Number of incidents 0 0 0 Impact on employees 0 0 0 Impact on contractor relations 0 0 0 Legal cases 0 0 0 Report to the EITI Norway Norway Norway Compliance 2017 20162 20152 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes Number 0 0 0 Value (USD) 0 0 0 Environmental ﬁnes Number 0 0 0 Value (USD) 0 0 0 Non-monetary sanctions Number 0 0 0 Environmental non-monetary sanctions Number 0 0 0 Production Total Payments to governments (TUSD)18 Taxes Royalties Fees entitlement 2017 Norway -72,909 n/a 14,372 n/a -58,537 1 IOGP deﬁnition and methodology. 2 Pre IPC spin-off. 3 We report on main contractors which are determined based on the scope of work, contract duration, contract value and/or relevant risk factors. 4 As per Norwegian notiﬁcation requirements. 5 The chemical spills consisted of involuntary releases of water based muds to sea, in quantities that did not impact water quality or biodiversity. 6 Scope 3 ﬁgures are preliminary, given that emissions from investments (e.g. Alvheim) are not readily available. 7 Vented hydrocarbons include fugitive emissions for 2016. 8 Gross emissions divided by gross production from operated ﬁelds and development drilling. The apparent increase in intensity compared to 2015 is due to the inclusion of development drilling emissions. 9 Edvard Grieg gross emissions from production operations and development drilling divided by gross production. 10 Quantities of freshwater utilised during onshore operations (France), excluding municipal water consumption for ofﬁces. 11 Post spin-off, France data is no longer applicable. 12 Produced water is only released to sea if the water quality conforms with national regulation. 13 Volume of hydrocarbons discharged within produced water are below the OSPAR Convention’s 30 ppm threshold recommendation. 14 Discrepancy between produced water and disposal of produced water is due to amounts of produced water transported from Edvard Grieg through the oil pipeline to the oil terminal onshore. 15 Prior to any offshore disposal of non-aqueous drilling ﬂuid, drilled cuttings are treated to reduce the amount of residual oil, to ensure that levels are below regulatory deﬁned amounts. 16 Permanent and ﬁxed term employees by end of year paid directly by the Company. 17 Percentage of Board and employees trained through e-learning course 2015–2016. 18 The report on payments to governments with details of payments is available on www.lundin-petroleum.com. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 43 GRI index Lundin Petroleum’s 2016 GRI index, in accordance with the GRI G4 “core” level, provides references to the GRI G4 indicators the Company reports on. Standard Disclosure Description Reference GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and analysis G4–1 Statement from the CEO SR 2–3 Strategy and analysis G4–3 Name of the organisation SR back cover G4–4 Primary brands, products, and services SR 6–7 G4–5 Location of headquarters SR back cover G4–6 Name of countries where the organisation operates SR 2 and 7 G4–7 Ownership and legal form SR back cover G4–8 Markets served SR 6–7 and 11 G4–9 Scale of the reporting organisation AR 46, 61, 75 and 89 G4–10 Number of employees SR 22–23 G4–11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SR 23 G4–12 Description of supply chain SR 5 and 11 G4–13 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period SR 4 G4–14 Precautionary approach or principle SR 34 G4–15 Subscription to externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives SR inside cover G4–16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations SR inside cover Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries G4–17 List of entities included in ﬁnancial statement AR 48 G4–18 Process for deﬁning the report content SR 4–5 G4–19 Material Aspects (referred to as material issues) SR 4–5 G4–20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation SR 4–5 G4–21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation SR 4–5 G4–22 Restatement of information n/a G4–23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods SR 4 Stakeholder engagement G4–24 Stakeholder groups engaged SR 6 and 35 G4–25 Basis for selection of stakeholders SR 11 and 35 G4–26 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 35 G4–27 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement SR 4–5 and 35 Report proﬁle G4–28 Reporting period SR 1 G4–29 Previous reporting date SR 48 G4–30 Reporting cycle SR 2 G4–31 Contact point SR 47 G4–32 GRI option, Content Index, and references SR 44–45 G4–33 External Assurance SR 46 Governance G4–34 Governance structure SR 13 Ethics and integrity G4–56 Code of conduct website SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Economic performance & proﬁtability of operations G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach AR 64–69 G4–EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 53–63 G4–EC7 Positive impacts on local economy and community SR 36–37 G4–EC8 Enhancing skills and knowledge in a geographical region SR 39 G4–OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production AR 19, 49, 53 and 110 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 30–31 G4–EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 41 Water G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 30–31 G4–EN8 Water withdrawal by source SR 41 Biodiversity G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 32 G4–EN11 Operational site in or near protected areas SR 32 G4–EN12 Signiﬁcant impact on biodiversity in protected areas SR 32 44 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Standard Disclosure Description Reference SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (continued) CATEGORY: ECONOMIC (continued) Emissions G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 14–15 G4–EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) SR 41 G4–EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) SR 41 G4–EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) SR 41 G4–EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity SR 41 G4–EN21 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air emissions SR 41 G4–OG6 Volume of ﬂared and vented hydrocarbon SR 41 Compliance G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 21 G4–EN29 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 43 Supplier environmental assessement G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 28 and 30 G4–EN32 New suppliers (referred to as contractor) that were screened using environmental criteria SR 40 Efﬂuents and waste G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 30–31 G4–EN22 Water discharge SR 41 G4–OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water SR 41 G4–EN24 Number and volume of signiﬁcant spills SR 41 G4–OG7 Drilling waste SR 42 Decommissioning G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 29 G4–OG11 Decommissioned sites and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned SR 28 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Employment G4–DMA Generic disclosures on management approach SR 22–23 G4–LA1 Employee hires and turnover SR 42 Occupational health and safety G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 24–27 G4–LA6 Type of injuries and injury rates SR 27 Diversity and equal opportunity G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 22–23 G4–LA12 Diversity in composition of governance bodies and among employees SR 23 and 42 Supplier assessment for labour practices G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 28 G4–LA14 New suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria SR 40 Non-discrimination G4–HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 42 Human rights G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 34 G4–HR9 Human rights reviews or impact assessments SR 34 Local communities G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 35 G4–SO2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities SR 38 G4–OG10 Signiﬁcant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples SR 38 Anti-corruption G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 21 G4–SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 43 G4–SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR 43 Compliance G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 21 G4–SO8 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SR 43 Emergency preparedness G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 28 Asset integrity and process safety G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 6 and 26–28 G4–OG13 Process safety events1 n/a 1 The information is currently unavailable at Group level. AR: Annual Report SR: Sustainability Report Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 45 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To Lundin Petroleum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556610-8055 Introduction We have been engaged by Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Lundin Petroleum’s Sustainability Report for the year 2017, which also constitutes the company’s statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Responsibilities of the Board and management The Board of Directors and the Group management are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on the inside front cover, and are the parts of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the Annual Accounts Act, and the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed. This responsibility includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the Auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed, and to make a statement on the statutory Sustainability Report. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by IAASB and our examination of the statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with RevR 12 Auditor’s report on the statutory Sustainability Report issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Such an engagement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all signiﬁcant matters that might be identiﬁed in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. The audit ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 International Standard on Quality Control and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our procedures are based on the criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and the Group management as described above. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. Conclusions Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and Group management. A statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. Stockholm 26 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Johan Rippe Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability Expert Member of FAR 46 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Forward-looking statements Certain statements made and information contained herein constitute “forward-looking information” (within the meaning of applicable securities legislation). Such statements and information (together, “forward-looking statements”) relate to future events, including the Company’s future performance, business prospects or opportunities. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to estimates of reserves and/or resources, future production levels, future capital expenditures and their allocation to exploration and development activities, future drilling and other exploration and development activities. Ultimate recovery of reserves or resources are based on forecasts of future results, estimates of amounts not yet determinable and assumptions of management. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. Statements concerning proven and probable reserves and resource estimates may also be deemed to constitute forward-looking statements and reﬂect conclusions that are based on certain assumptions that the reserves and resources can be economically exploited. Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, using words or phrases such as “seek”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “continue”, “estimate”, “expect”, “may”, “will”, “project”, “predict”, “potential”, “targeting”, “intend”, “could”, “might”, “should”, “believe” and similar expressions) are not statements of historical fact and may be “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that these expectations and assumptions will prove to be correct and such forward-looking statements should not be relied upon. These statements speak only as on the date of the information and the Company does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable laws. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties relating to, among other things, operational risks (including exploration and development risks), productions costs, availability of drilling equipment, reliance on key personnel, reserve estimates, health, safety and environmental issues, legal risks and regulatory changes, competition, geopolitical risk, and ﬁnancial risks. These risks and uncertainties are described in more detail under the heading “Risks and Risk Management” and elsewhere in the Company’s annual report. Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forwardlooking statements are expressly qualiﬁed by this cautionary statement. Lundin Petroleum References to “Lundin Petroleum” or “the Company” pertain to the corporate group in which Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) (company registration number 556610–8055) is the Parent Company or to Lundin Petroleum AB (publ), depending on the context. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 47 i Stay up to date with Lundin Petroleum’s Tell us what you think news and events by visiting our website We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you www.lundin-petroleum.com might have about this report and our performance. Follow us on social media Please send your feedback to info@lundin.ch Previous sustainability reports are available at www.lundin-petroleum.com Your feedback is valued 48 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2017 Printed by Exakta Print Malmö and Landsten Reklam, Sweden 2018. Exakta Print is FSC® and ISO 14001 certified and is committed to all round excellence in its environmental performance. The paper used for this report contains material sourced from responsibly managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC® and is manufactured by Exakta Print to ISO 14001 international standards. Front cover photograph by Øyvind Sætre Corporate Head Office Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) Hovslagargatan 5 SE-111 48 Stockholm, Sweden T +46-8-440 54 50 F +46-8-440 54 59 E info@lundin.ch W lundin-petroleum.com
