ANNUAL REPORT 2017 In October 2017, Serneke Construction signed a collaboration agreement with Akademiska Hus on a new building for the School of Business, Economics and Law at the University of Gothenburg. The building, of approximately 12,000 square meters, will be a closely collaborative project. The potential order value is estimated at around SEK 350 million. Contents ABOUT SERNEKE.............................................. 2 2017 IN BRIEF..................................................... 4 Development in business areas............... 6 CEO STATEMENT ...........................................10 OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY AND VALUES......................................................16 Financial objectives.......................................17 Strategy for profitable growth................18 Business model................................................19 PLATFORM FOR GROWTH.......................20 VALUE CREATION.......................................... 24 MARKET...............................................................26 Market forces.................................................... 28 SUSTAINABILITY ......................................... 30 Governance and Framework................... 32 A safe work environment........................... 33 A stimulating workplace............................. 34 A sustainable value chain.......................... 36 Major focus on ethics and anti-corruption................................................ 38 A strong community involvement........ 38 Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report............... 39 BUSINESS AREAS..........................................40 Business Area Construction....................40 Business Area Civil Engineering............ 42 Business Area Project Development.....................................................46 Business Area Property Management..................................................... 50 THE SHARE........................................................ 54 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT........ 56 Risks and risk management..................... 59 Corporate governance................................ 62 Multi-year summary.................................... 72 Financial definitions......................................73 Financial reports..............................................76 Notes......................................................................88 Audit Report....................................................113 Annual general meeting........................... 117 The audited Annual Report of Serneke Group AB (publ), 556669-4153, consists of pages 56-112. The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English, and the Swedish is the original version. Sustainability priorities are integrated throughout the Annual Report. About Serneke One of Sweden’s l­argest construction companies Serneke is a construction and project development group with a comprehensive offering in construction, civil engineering, project development and property management. With sales of SEK 5.6 billion, Serneke is one of Sweden’s ten largest construction companies. The operations comprise comprehensive construction and civil engineering MILESTONES services as well as supplementary services within development and management of 2017  Detailed development plan for residential, community and commercial properties and industrial premises. The cus­Karlastaden gains legal force tomers consist primarily of state, municipalities and county councils, as well as state 2016 Serneke’s share listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and municipal property companies, but also private property companies and industrial 2015 Inauguration of Prioritet Serneke Arena and commercial companies. 2014  Establishment in Stockholm through Operations are focused on the three metropolitan areas of Gothenburg (Region West), acquisition of Värmdö Bygg Stockholm (Region East) and Malmö (Region South). The number of employees at the end 2012 Sales of SEK 1 billion reached of 2017 was approximately 1,000. 2011  Wins contract to construct Göteborgs Energi’s new office complex 2010 Opens office i Malmö 2008 Wins contract to construct Vattenfall’s office at Ringhals 2004 Group structure established 2002 Serneke founded INCOME, SEK MILLION GROWTH 2017 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 5,605 41% 1,007 SERNEKE’S INCOME DEVELOPMENT 2003–2017 (SEK MILLION) 6,000 4,500 3,000 Between 2003 and 2017, Serneke’s 1,500 sales increased from SEK 14 million to approximately SEK 5.6 billion, which 0 ­corresponds to an average annual growth rate of approximately 50 percent. 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 2 About Serneke Four business areas in collaboration Serneke’s operations are conducted within enables both a strong customer offering as profitable growth in 2017 and Business the four business areas Construction, Civil well as operational and financial synergies. Area Civil Engineering continued its stable Engineering, Project Development and Most of Sernekes’ income comes from the development with positive earnings. This Property Management. A high level of contracting operations in the Construction creates stability and the right conditions ­collaboration between the business areas and Civil Engineering business areas. Busifor the entire Group. ness Area Construction showed strong and SHARE OF SALES CONSTRUCTION PROJECT DEVELOPMENT PROPERTY MANAGEMENT CIVIL ENGINEERING Business Area Construction Business Area Project DevelBusiness Area Property Business Area Civil Engineering provides comprehensive opment is responsible for the ­Management develops and performs all types of services services in the construction acquisition, development and manages properties for longwithin the excavation and civil industry, ranging from sale of developable land and term capital appreciation. engineering sectors, focusing major construction condevelopment rights, ­primarily In close collaboration with on earthworks, foundations, tracts to smaller maintefor housing, offices and retail Business Area Project Develinfrastructure, electrical grids, nance and repair work. The space. opment, properties are power plants, harbor contracts focus is on larger and more acquired and developed with and concrete works. Customers complex projects. It good potential to increase in mainly consist of municipalities, includes the construction value. The management takes the Swedish Transport Adminisof homes, offices, hospitals, place in wholly owned compatration as well as customers in shopping centers, schools nies or in cooperation with industry and property compaand industrial premises. partners through associated nies. The Business Area works companies. with both the Group as its client and directly with externall customers. 3 2017 in brief 2017 in brief STRENGTHENED POSITIONS WITHIN STRENGTHENED ORGANIZATION CONSTRUCTION AND CIVIL ENGINEERING The recruitment rate of both blue-collar INCOME, SEK MILLION During the year, Serneke continued to and white-collar employees remained high 5,605 strengthen its position in the Construction and Civil Engineering business areas. Growth in the contracting operations during the year. At the end of the year, the Group passed the 1,000-employee milestone. In order to support the business OPERATING PROFIT, SEK MILLION amounted to 52 percent (Construction) operations, staff functions have been 419 and 37 percent (Civil Engineering) during strengthened, while a number of conthe year. The main driving forces were a struction managers and other white-collar large number of new projects in the resiworkers have been recruited. dential, infrastructure and public services OPERATING MARGIN, % segments. At the same time, profitability KARLASTADEN REACHED SEVERAL 7.5 continued to improve, mainly due to more and larger projects in full production with a better operating margin. MILESTONES. The development of Karlastaden took several steps forward in 2017. In June, the ORDER BOOKINGS, SEK MILLION Gothenburg City Council adopted the GROWING ORDER BOOK – AND detailed development plan for the area, 6,400 ­C ONTINUALLY LARGER PROJECTS Demand in the market remained strong during the year. In total, order intake and the plan gained legal force in December. During autumn, excavation and earthworks began at the site where Karlatornet ORDER BACKLOG DECEMBER 31, increased by 16 percent to SEK 6,400 will be built. Interest in apartments in the 2017, SEK MILLION million (5,539). The order backlog as at building remained high, and a total of 454 7,965 year-end amounted to SEK 7,965 million apartments had been sold by the end of (7,041). As at year-end, close to 50 perthe year. During the year, a letter of intent cent of the value of Construction’s order was signed with Nordic Choice Hotels for backlog consisted of projects with an establishing a hotel in the lower part of order value of more than SEK 300 million, Karlatornet. CONTINUED GROWTH and more than 88 percent with an order AND STRENGTHENED value of more than SEK 100 million. 42 NEW DISTRICT OUTSIDE STOCKHOLM ­PROFITABILITY percent of Construction’s customers and In May, Järfälla Municipality decided to Consolidated income for the full 74 percent of Civil Engineering’s customproceed with plans to, together with year 2017 amounted to SEK 5,605 million (3,978), an increase of 41 ers consisted of municipal or governSerneke, develop a whole new district in percent compared with 2016. T­ he ment-owned companies. Veddesta outside Stockholm. The land strongest growth was in Business allocation agreement gives Serneke, for a Area Construction, but other business areas also showed continued INCREASED LEVEL OF COLLABORATION period of three years, exclusive negotiapositive development, both finanCONTRACTS tion rights with the municipality regarding cially and operationally. Business More procurements took place during the transfer and development of the area. Area Civil Engineering turned a loss into profit during the year. year in the form of partnering or collaboOperating profit amounted to SEK ration contracts in which Serneke and the CONTINUED STRONG CONSTRUCTION 419 million (411). Divestment of 50 client develop the project together. For AND CIVIL ENGINEERING MARKET percent in the Karlastaden project during the second quarter of 2016 Serneke, the arrangement results in Activity in the Swedish construction market affects comparative figures. reduced risk and improved conditions for remained high in 2017. The main driving the final product to exceed customer forces included major infrastructure proexpectations in terms of quality and price. jects and continued extensive housing construction. 4 2017 in brief KEY INDICATORS INCOME AND OPERATING PROFIT SEK million 2017 2016 Income 5,605 3,978 6,000 440 Operating profit 419 411 Operating margin, % 7.5 10.3 4,500 330 Earnings per share, SEK, after dilution 13.81 21.22 Equity per share, SEK, after dilution 77.73 62.83 3,000 220 Equity/assets ratio, % 41.3 42.7 Net debt 254 –37 1,500 110 Net debt/equity ratio, % 13.9 –2.5 Order bookings 6,400 5,539 0 13 14 15 16 17 0 Order backlog 7,965 7,041 Income, SEK million Operating profit, SEK million 5 2017 in brief Development in business areas BUSINESS AREA CONSTRUCTION development plan for the area, and in Business Area Construction continued to December the plan gained legal force. MAJOR ASSIGNMENTS IN 2017 grow during the year with stable profitabilInterest in the project remained high dur•C  ontinued work on Karlastaden project ity. Order bookings remained strong, ing the year. In July, a letter of intent was • C onstruction of 195 apartments in Älvsjö­ largely driven by high demand in the houssigned with Nordic Choice Hotels for staden for Familjebostäder ing sector. Other prominent projects durestablishing a hotel in the lower part of • C onstruction of an additional 80 residential ing the year included a contract for the the tower, and a total of 454 apartments properties in the area of ​​Trädgårdsstaden construction of two hotels for Magnolia had been sold by the end of the year. Hestra in Borås Produktion AB and project assignments ­During the year, Serneke and Pareto • C onstruction of a boiler house for a new ­combined heat and power plant for Borås for the School of Business, Economics and divested the jointly owned project comEnergi och Miljö AB Law at the University of Gothenburg. pany that owns the properties that are • Rebuilding road 798 between Esarp and part of the new campus of Mälardalen Genarp in Skåne BUSINESS AREA CIVIL ENGINEERING University in Eskilstuna. The sale resulted • C onstruction of apartments and townhouses for Skandia Real Estate in Sundbyberg Business area Civil Engineering turned a in an underlying property value of approx• C ontract for the construction of 116 tenloss into profit during the year, with good imately SEK 800 million. ant-owner apartments in the Brunnshög area growth in all geographical markets. There of Lunds Kommuns Fastighets AB have been more projects, and they have BUSINESS AREA PROPERTY • C  ontract for the construction of 275 apartbecome bigger and more complex. Among ­M ANAGEMENT ments and preschool in Arlöv for Magnolia ­Produktion AB the more prominent of these is the conMajor events during the year included • C ontract of 183 apartments in Halmstad for struction of a new boiler house for a new additional acquisitions in direct connecHalmstads Fastighets AB (HFAB) combined heat and power plant for Borås tion to Säve flygplats at Hisingen in Goth•C  ollaboration agreement with Akademiska Energi and Miljö AB, excavation, leveling enburg. At the end of the year, Serneke’s Hus on a new building for the School of Busiand groundwork for the construction of total land holdings in the area amounted ness, Economics and Law at the University of Gothenburg. Karlatornet, as well as earthworks and to approximately 3.2 million square • Turnkey contract with Stockholmshem regarddetails for multi-dwelling buildings and meters of developable field. Among the ing the construction of 160 residences in Årsta terraced houses in Upplands Väsby. tenants are CEVT, the Swedish Maritime • C onstruction agreement with HSB regarding Administration, Region Västra Götaland 125 residential property apartments in BUSINESS AREA PROJECT and Svensk Pilotutbildning. The vision is Björkekärr, Gothenburg. ­DEVELOPMENT to continue developing the area into an • S erneke has signed an agreement with ­Magnolia Produktion AB to build two hotels, The Karlastaden project took several experience and logistics center and an one in Halmstad and one in Lund steps forward in 2017. In June, the Gotharea for research and development in the • Contract for a new knowledge and culture center enburg City Council adopted the detailed automotive industry. in Falkenberg for Falkenberg Municipality INCOME OPERATING PROFIT SEK million 2017 2016 SEK million 2017 2016 Business Area Construction 4,919 3,229 Business Area Construction 183 86 Business Area Civil Engineering 623 455 Business Area Civil Engineering 1 –36 Business Area Project Development 212 373 Business Area Project Development 65 334 Business Area Property 51 15 Business Area Property Management 213 37 Group-wide* 127 99 Group-wide* –43 –10 Elimination –327 –193 Total 419 411 Total 5,605 3,978 Net financial items –18 –17 * Group-wide: Other operations are reported under Group activities and Profit before tax 401 394 primarily comprise central companies and Group functions. 6 2017 in brief 7 8 New district in Veddesta Järfälla Municipality decided in 2017 to proceed with the plans to establish, together with Serneke, a brand new district in Veddesta. In addition to housing, schools, retail and hotels, sports facilities including an indoor ski circuit are central part of the plans. The land allocation agreement with Järfälla Municipal Council gives Serneke, for a period of three years, exclusive negotiation rights with the municipality regarding transfer and development of the area. The municipality and Serneke will together develop a detailed development plan. The land allocation agreement stipulates that the parties will work to plan new construction in the neighborhood, including housing, sports facilities, offices, hotels, schools, retail and culture. An indoor ski ­circuit is also included in the letter of intent. The area of land where the new district is planned is located on the western side of the E18 highway, adjacent to the current ­Veddesta Centrum shopping center, with direct access to the future extension of the Stockholm Metro’s blue line. 9 CEO Statement FACTS Name: Ola Serneke Born: 1971 Background: Master of Engineering from Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg. Recruited to Peab after graduation. In 2002, founded Serneke and Fagerberg construction och consulting AB (later SEFA), which in 2014 changed its name to Serneke.Lives in Gothenburg and outside Alingsås. Passionate about sports and cars. 10 CEO Statement Continued growth and strengthened margins How would you summarize 2017? implementation to governance, control “ “It was a good year for Serneke. We see and ­f ollow-up.” We have now completed the continued positive development in all our transition from newcomer to business areas, in terms of both growth Describe the development of the one of Sweden’s ten largest and profitability. Consolidated income for ­contracting operations. construction companies – the year amounted to SEK 5,605 million, “Growth in our contracting operations, capable of competing for the an increase of 41 percent compared with Business Area Construction and Business largest and most complex the previous year. Operating profit Area Civil Engineering, was 52 and 37 per­projects. There are currently increased to SEK 419 million (411). If the cent, respectively, and order bookings no projects we do not have the increase here appears to be more modest, increased by a total of 16 percent. The capacity to carry out. it should be kept in mind that earnings for order backlog amounted to close to SEK 8 2016 were strongly affected by the sale billion at the end of the year, an increase of 50 percent of the Karlastaden project. of approximately 13 percent compared Our financial position is stable, and as at with the same period last year. In line with year-end we had an equity/assets ratio of our strategy, we are also seeing that the 41 percent. projects are getting larger and extend The development during the year over longer periods of time. The proporentails that we are performing in line with tion of projects with an order value of our business plan and our financial tarmore than SEK 300 million has increased gets. Furthermore, this means that we and now accounts for 50 percent of Concontinue to strengthen our position in the struction’s order backlog. market. We have now completed the tranBusiness Area Construction continues, sition from newcomer to one of Sweden’s according to plan, to be the primary ten largest construction companies – engine with strong development in terms capable of competing for the largest and of both sales and earnings. The developmost complex projects. There are curments are mainly driven by continued high rently no projects we do not have the demand in the housing sector but also for capacity to carry out. buildings for public and commercial operLooking at our own organization, we ations. The improvement in profit and have worked significantly with process margin is mainly explained by more and development during the past year. We larger projects in full production with a now have a clear structure for all stages better operating margin. of the value chain, from planning and 11 CEO Statement “ We are now large enough to offer the same security and knowledge as the market leaders, but with more energy, greater involvement and a more modern approach. We have a different view of the ­relationship with clients, customers and society at large. We believe in partnership, collaboration and transparency – to work towards common objectives where everyone has full transparency. Business Area Civil Engineering has develop the area into an experience center Petter Stordalen on this is going to be turned a loss into profit during the year, and development area for various types of very exciting.” which is very exciting. Here we are now motor-related activities. Previously, the entering 2018 with good control and a road network to the airport area has not The contracting and property markets stable organization.” been adequately large, but acquisitions have been very strong in recent years. during the year have given us the opportuHow do you see development in the And in project management and propnity to link the area to major traffic routes, future? erty development? which further increases potential.” “There are ongoing extensive infrastruc“Within Business Area Project Developture projects in all our three main regions, ment, we have more ongoing projects The Karlastaden project took several while the housing shortage remains high. than before. By the end of 2017, the estisteps forward during the year. How The National Board of Housing, Building mated value of the project development would you describe the development? and Planning forecasts a need for portfolio amounted to SEK 1,814 million. “In December 2017, the detailed develop600,000 new homes to be built by 2025. In Business Area Property Management ment plan for the project gained legal In addition, there is also a growing need we still see good rental income from, force. We are looking forward to starting for upgrading the properties built during among other things, Säve flygplats and construction in 2018, while continuing the Million Homes Program years. Prioritet Serneke Arena.” to develop the area for housing, offices, Together, this will drive demand for conretailers, schools, health centers, restaustruction and civil engineering services After further acquisitions, Serneke now rants and other aspects of a vibrant urban for many years to come. Therefore, our owns approximately three million environment. Interest in the project has assessment is that the market will consquare meters of land at Säve flygplats. remained strong from both private individtinue to be strong in the future.” What are the plans for this? uals and commercial players. We had also “The development of Säve flygplats and the sold about 80 percent of the 584 apartHow would a decline in the property surrounding area is one of our largest and ments in Karlatornet as of December 31, market affect Serneke? most exciting projects. The potential is 2017. And during the year we also signed “During the past year, we have seen a enormous. Airline operations and current an agreement with the hotel chain Choice subdued market in a number of niche segtenants will remain, and our vision is to for a 20-year lease. Collaborating with ments, primarily more expensive projects 12 CEO Statement in central Stockholm. All operations are On the property side, our business model common objectives where everyone has associated with risk, but if we look at is about acquiring properties that have full transparency. This perspective also Serneke’s overall risk profile, our assessrental income – and thus generate cash characterizes the organization internally. ment is that we have good control. The flow – but with great development potenWe have a different perspective on issues absolute majority of our income comes tial. The portfolio is today relatively limited related to leadership and development from our contracting operations. The in size and basically unencumbered. And opportunities.” assignments here mainly consist of larger we do not estimate that a decline would and longer projects with customers such affect us in any significant way.” How would you describe Serneke’s as the government, municipalities and ­corporate culture? stable property developers. The project What distinguishes Serneke from “Since our inception, we have been very portfolio also includes a wide range of other players in the construction focused on establishing a culture that is assignments, with both residential and and contracting market? both results-oriented and value-driven – commercial properties, schools and other “We talk about ourselves in terms of being based on our common core values. Entrepublic sector buildings. Our view is that the ‘next-generation’ construction and preneurship and the pursuit of innovative these activities will be significantly property development company. This thinking are essential elements of our affected by a subdued development in entails taking on projects and challenges DNA. If you are committed and see opporthe housing market. in a partly new way. For many years, our tunities, you are more interesting than As for our own project development market has been dominated and characanyone who chooses to walk the beaten operations, the main principle is that we will terized by a few very large players. We are path and focus on problems.” not start building until a large proportion of now large enough to offer the same secuthe project is sold. Our view is that the rity and knowledge as the market leaders, One of the industry’s major challenges demand for good housing in the right locabut with more energy, greater involveis a lack of expertise. Is this an obstacle tion at the right price will remain high in the ment and a more modern approach. We for Serneke’s continued growth? future. Here, it is also important to keep in have a different view of the relationship “The lack of experienced staff is a major mind that the majority of our housing rights with clients, customers and society as a problem for the industry – but so far not were acquired before 2015, when prices whole. We believe in partnership, collabofor us. In 2017 alone, the number of were at a significantly lower level. ration and transparency – to work towards employees increased by approximately 13 CEO Statement 160, of which about half were white-collar size, we have both a responsibility and an “ We will continue to challenge employees. We feel that we have a strong opportunity to make a difference. We the major players, thereby employer brand that enables us to retain want to be involved and contribute to a changing the playing field in existing employees and recruit new ones. better, more inclusive, society and posithe construction market. Employers today must offer something tive urban development – and improve We have come a long way, but more than just a good salary. We believe public health. We are convinced that this there is still a lot left to do. that our corporate culture, based on comapproach is good both for the communimitment, courage, honesty and commuties and the local businesses. We have nity involvement, appeals to young and signed the UN Global Compact and talented employees. We think in new ways adopted its ten principles, which form and give our employees the opportunity to the basis of our sustainability efforts. take the next step in their career journey – In addition to the work with projects, we while taking an active role in the developprovide support and contribute in several ment of society. On a more comprehensive ways, with particular focus on the health level, our ambition is to leave our mark on, and well-being of children and adolesand contribute to, positive social developcents. Goals is our new sponsorship proment – not only for us but for future gengram. Here we have set up clear guideerations as well. In the same way as Karlalines and criteria for the initiatives we tornet and Prioritet Serneke Arena choose to support. We are now involved function as magnets for their respective in a large number of projects. One of the districts, the projects also serve as good more exciting of these is IFK Göteborg’s marketing for us as a group and employer.” project “Plans for the Future”, which involves establishing smaller soccer fields, You passed the 1,000-employee mile“courts”, for both organized and spontastone this year. What are the demands neous activities in vulnerable areas.” on the organization from such rapid growth? What are the future goals? What is the “For us, growth is not a temporary phase next step? but a permanent state. It is in our nature “We have said that we are going to generand we are organized for it. We will conate income of SEK 10 billion in 2020, and tinue to develop and grow. To sit still is not we see no reason to retract that goal. an option for us. Then, of course, the chalOperationally, the goals are also the same lenges of rapid growth must be respected. as before – we will continue to challenge It places significant demands on clear prothe major players, thereby changing the cedures and processes. We have in recent playing field in the construction market. years worked hard to establish operations We have come a long way, but there is still and a culture that supports the developa lot left to do. The ambition is to continue ment and our growth ambitions. We want to grow in the three metropolitan regions, to retain the agility of a small company Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. We while benefiting from the opportunities for also see opportunities for continued economies of scale and synergies that expansion in the rest of Sweden, and come with being a large company.” mainly in the larger cities. In terms of the Construction and Civil Engineering busiYou started the Serneke Goals initiative ness areas, the focus remains on larger during the year. What does that involve and more complex projects. In the Project – and how do you view corporate and Development and Property Management social responsibility? business areas, we will continue to work to “Our business is basically about developdevelop our project and property portfoing cities, towns and communities. lio. Of course, the work with Karlastaden Through our projects and by virtue of our and Säve flygplats will be key parts of this.” 14 CEO Statement 15 Objectives, strategy and values Next generation ­construction company Serneke offers comprehensive and complementary services in construction, civil engineering, project development and property management. We base our approach on the needs of our customers and aim to be perceived as the most dedicated, professional, innovative and dynamic contractor in Sweden. VISION BUSINESS CONCEPT Serneke’s vision is, through profitable growth, to ­challenge Serneke is the next generation contractor. We d ­ emonstrate and develop as a leading contractor in c­ onstruction, civil this by constantly challenging, daring to think differently engineering, project development and property and questioning the current industry conditions we face management. every day. We believe that challengers drive development and that new ways of thinking c­ reate more efficient and innovative solutions. OUR OFFERING We offer the same security and expertise as the market leaders, but with more energy, greater commitment and a more modern approach. We are distinguished by the major social responsibility we take in everything we do. We, together with our customers, want to develop products that are socially sustainable and create added value for society. We want to be at the forefront among our competitors regarding environmental issues, sustainability and innovation, and we want to engage people through construction that promotes sports, health and lifestyle. COMMITMENT SIMPLICITY HONESTY VISIONARY AND AND COURAGE AND DRIVE AND RESPECT SOLUTION-ORIENTED We are more committed to We resolve problems ­closest Only by accepting shortcomWe do not accept questions everything we do. ­Everything to the source, and the fastest ings and weaknesses can we being labeled as problems. can be developed further, route to a solution is always develop, and trust needs to be For us, they are an opportuand we are motivated by im­­ a straight line. We have the earned. We are always honest nity to develop ourselves, proving and thinking in new courage and knowledge to towards ourselves and others. our offering and our organiways. We take pride and make difficult things easy. Regardless of whom we meet, zation. responsibility in what we do. where or how, we always show respect. Mutual respect paves the way for d­ ialogue, cooperation and development. 16 Objectives, strategy and values Financial targets GROWTH 6,000 Serneke’s long-term growth target is to reach income of SEK 10 billion by 2020, primarily through organic growth supplemented with selective acquisitions. 4,500 3,000 1,500 0 13 14 15 16 17 Income, SEK million PROFITABILITY 12 12 The long-term target in the Construction and Civil Engineering business areas is an operating margin of 5 percent. Business Area Project Development strives for 9 9 a return on capital employed of 20 percent and Property Management for a return 6 6 on equity of 20 percent. For the Group as a whole, this represents a long-term ­target of maintaining an operating margin of about 8 percent. 3 3 0 13 14 15 16 17 0 Operating margin, % Objective ≥8% CAPITAL STRUCTURE 50 20 The equity/assets ratio shall exceed 25 ­percent 40 and the liquidity reserve shall amount to the 15 equivalent of 5 percent of income in the last 30 10 twelve-month period. 20 5 10 0 13 14 15 16 17 0 13 14 15 16 17 Equity/assets ratio, % Liquidity reserve from income, % Objective >25% Objective ≥5% DIVIDEND POLICY & PROPOSED DIVIDEND 2017 Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 30 to 50 percent of net profit after tax for the previous financial year. Ahead of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Board of Director’s proposes a dividend of SEK 4 (0). 17 Objectives, strategy and values Strategy for profitable growth Serneke’s overall goal is to continue to grow, in a structured manner with good profitability. The strategy is based on the Group’s common strengths and an understanding of both the surrounding environment and the market. FOCUS ON MAJOR CONSTRUCTION BALANCED INVESTMENTS IN PROSUPPLEMENTARY SELECTIVE PROJECTS IN CONSTRUCTION AND JECTS WITHIN PROJECT MANAGEMENT ­ACQUISITIONS CIVIL ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT Serneke has a clearly defined acquisition The core of Serneke’s operations in the The contracting operations are characterpolicy and a structured strategy for idenfuture will also consist of construction ized by relatively low margins but good tifying, implementing and integrating and civil engineering projects. The overall ability to generate large and stable cash acquisitions. We are continuously evalufocus is on large and more complex proflow. Parts of the cash flow generated in ating potential acquisitions that can supjects where Serneke’s competitive advanthe Construction and Civil engineering plement the existing market offering and tages make the biggest difference. For business areas will be used for investprovide positive synergy effects. Stable Business Area Construction, the strategy ments in property and project developearnings and a similar corporate culture is to continue to grow, while retaining ment. The projects are generally characare among the more critical parameters. focus on profitability. Business Area Civil terized by low risk and have good market Our acquisition strategy aims primarily at Engineering is still under development, prospects. Potential acquisition targets strengthening the position in prioritized and the strategy is to, in a controlled may be either properties developed within regions, gaining access to competent ­manner, follow the development curve the Group with stable cash flow and the employees and continuing to strengthen of Business Area Construction and focus potential for long-term appreciation or the offering in the contracting operations. on gaining larger projects, primarily in the strategic land and property acquisitions foundations and earthworks sector as expected to have potential for future well as road infrastructure. development over time. FOCUS ON METROPOLITAN REGIONS UTILIZING THE STRENGTH OF THE IN SWEDEN ENTIRE GROUP FOR INCREASED Serneke strives to grow and increase its ­PROFITABILITY market position, primarily in the priority Through continuous investments in regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and ­processes, systems and organization, Malmö and their environs. Through a Serneke gradually adapts the organization strong organization and a highly reputafor continued growth while maintaining ble comprehensive offering, the Company good internal control. Having its own estimates that Serneke can grow faster ­skilled workers gives the company the than the Swedish construction market in opportunity to influence implementation general, capturing market share from and maintain control over the execution competitors in construction and civil phase, even when subcontractors are ­engineering. hired in. A large proportion of white-collar workers affords good control of time management, economy and quality-­ assurance throughout the process. 18 Objectives, strategy and values Business model Serneke’s business model is based on synergies between the business property projects – with the opportunity for good returns on invested areas, the acquisition of operational and financial synergies, as well as capital. In addition to our own returns, these investments, in turn, also a weighted balance between risk and opportunity for returns. create assignments for the contracting operations. The core of Serneke’s operations consists of contracting assignments Project development activities aim to complement the Group’s conin construction and civil engineering. The contracting operations are capitracting offering in order to generate higher returns on greater risk tal-efficient, generate good cash flows and are characterized by limited takings and to realize, under the company’s own auspices, the busifinancial risk. Through collaboration and cooperation, the entire process, ness concept of ​​creating better and more sustainable communities. from land allocation to completed construction, can be controlled to Through supplementary expertise within property management, we ensure efficiency in terms of time and expenses, as well as quality. can control the time of sale ourselves, while creating cash flow for the The working capital generated in the construction operations enables Group and working on value development in the longer term. financing of investments in our own, risk-weighted development and Project Property Construction Civil Engineering ­Development Management Contracting Free working capital Project development Income Low capital tied up Requires more equity from Stable high cash flows Higher financial risk external Synergies Limited financial risks Return on capital customers Operating margin, 5% employed 20% Production volume Increased control – Reduced risk Investment opportunities Financing opportunity Operating margin, 8% Balanced risk diversification – Better return 19 platform for growth Stable platform for ­continued growth with good profitability Since its inception in 2002, Serneke has established itself as the innovative ­challenger in the market for construction and civil engineering contracts in Sweden. The work has been based on a clear strategy and resulted in a stable platform that provides good conditions for continued growth with good profitability. 20 platform for growth » A  STRONG POSITION IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY » STABLE PROJECT AND PROPERTY PORTFOLIO IN ­ATTRACTIVE LOCATIONS With sales of SEK 5.6 billion, Serneke is currently one of SweIn addition to the contracting operations, Serneke has a proden’s largest construction and civil engineering companies. In ject and property portfolio with good potential for future 2017, growth in the construction operations was around 50 appreciation. The portfolio consists of risk-weighted projects, percent, while the operating margin increased sharply. The residential and commercial properties in attractive locations. primary driving force behind the increasing p ­ rofitability is a Through efficient processes and experience from previous goal-oriented focus on larger and more ­complex projects, complex projects, combined with knowledge and resources which is reflected in the order book. from its own contracting operations, Serneke is able to control the entire construction process and thereby ensure projects are carried out with good profitability. » S  TRONG MARKET CHARACTERIZED BY STRUCTURALLY CONTINGENT DEMAND » S TRONG POSITIONS IN SWEDEN’S METROPOLITAN REGIONS Serneke currently has a strong market position in the metroContinued extensive housing construction as well as major politan regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. On this investments in infrastructure are expected to contribute to basis, Serneke has established a stable foundation for continhigh activity in the construction and civil engineering market ued expansion and growth. in the future. Investments in housing, commercial buildings and facilities are estimated to reach approximately SEK 533.5 billion in 2018. » A  STRONG BRAND » S TABLE FINANCIAL POSITION A strong corporate culture and a well-known, respected brand Serneke has a strong financial position, sound capital structure are among Serneke’s primary assets. The company culture is and a core business that generates strong cash flows. Altocharacterized by an entrepreneurial spirit and enthusiasm, gether, this allows for continued investments in the operational pride, personal commitment, innovation and cost-efficiency. activities as well as long-term creation of shareholder value. Several large-scale and high-profile projects reinforce the image of Serneke as a responsible and attractive employer that can offer exciting and developmental job opportunities. » M  AJOR OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL SYNERGIES A high level of collaboration between the business areas en­­ ables both a strong customer offering as well as operational and financial synergies. Operationally, close collaboration allows for coordination within, among other things, planning, calculation and project implementation. Financially, the stable cash flows from construction companies enable ongoing investments in the more capital-intensive project development and property management operations. 21 22 Sustainable Karlastaden – A new district is emerging Just about ten minutes from Gothenburg Central Station, you will find Lindholmen and Karlastaden. This is where Serneke is developing a new district with 2,000 apartments (tenant-owner apartments and rental apartments), premises, shops, restaurants, health center and school. The project will consist of 8 blocks with rants and bars as well as a spa and gym a gross area of approximately ​​ 275,000 area. square meters. The district will be built In parallel, the sale of apartments in around Karlatornet, Gothenburg’s first Karlatornet continues. There has been skyscraper with a height of approximately significant interest, and a total of 454 245 meters. apartments had been sold by the end of The area is designed by renowned US the year. architectural firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP, which, among other things, MAJOR FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY designed the Burj Khalifa in Dubai. The The ambitions for Karlastaden are high, project is owned and operated by Karla­ and the goal since the beginning has been staden Utveckling AB, a joint venture for the district to be a spearhead in urban between Serneke Project Development construction, both in terms of innovation and NREP (www.nrep.com) with a holding and sustainability. Karlastaden will, thereof 50 percent by each party. fore, be certified in accordance with BREEAM Communities. The UK sustain­ SEVERAL STEPS FORWARD IN 2017 ability certification system is one of the The project took several steps forward in most recognized in the world, which 2017. In June, the Gothenburg City Counentails ecological, economic and social cil adopted the detailed development plan sustainability with areas of assessment for the area, and in December the plan such as energy, social planning and bio­ gained legal force. The project is now on diversity. its way to having an official construction For the residents at Karlastaden, certifistart of the first, and largest, building in cation is a way of ensuring that the district the district, Karlatornet. The objective is will have what constitutes a good urban for Karlatornet to be completed in conand residential environment. Everything is junction with Gothenburg’s 400th annibeing taken into consideration in order to versary in 2021. optimize the project in its entirety: There In July, a letter of intent was signed with will be bike paths to facilitate biking, easily the hotel group Nordic Choice for the accessible public transport stops and establishment of a hotel in Karlatornet. In ­placement of trees to contribute to a comaddition to around 300 rooms, the hotel fortable micro-climate by, for example, will include conference facilities, restauproviding wind protection. 23 value creation A focus on creating value Based on a strong vision and a clear strategy, Serneke strives to create value for customers, owners, suppliers and employees – but also for society as a whole. 2017 marked 15 years since Serneke was STRONG COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT community involvement and responsibilfounded. The overall objective then was The foundation for Serneke’s value creaity. By approaching challenges in society to challenge the largest players through tion is a competitive offering and a riskas business opportunities, Serneke creinnovative thinking and dedication, weighted business model. Based on a ates the conditions for long-term sustainthereby changing the playing field in the strong brand, innovative thinking and able growth. construction market. good internal control, Serneke aims to Therefore, Serneke’s view of social Since its inception in 2002, the busicreate value for both clients and end cusresponsibility covers a wide range of ness has been developed, broadened and tomers. In addition, Serneke also strives to areas. Through the projects, Serneke deepened – and Serneke has strengthbe a positive force and contribute to a ­contributes to improving communities ened its position step by step. There has more sustainable development – for sociand making them safer and more secure, been intense growth. Between 2002 and ety as a whole and at the local level, but as well as a positive urban development. 2017, income increased from SEK 14 milalso for each individual. One of Serneke’s From an employer’s perspective, this lion to SEK 5.6 billion, equivalent to annual business fundamentals is that good profentails creating job opportunities and growth of just over 50 percent. itability goes hand-in-hand with active providing stimulating work that promotes FINANCIAL VALUE GENERATED, SEK MILLION FINANCIAL VALUE DISTRIBUTED 5 869 Earnings from parRetained in operations, Serneke’s income and expenses ticipations in assoSEK 230 million In total, income for the Group increased by 41 ciates and joint Proposed dividend, percent in 2017. Most of the income came from ventures, SEK 93 million the contracting operations in the Construction SEK 26 million Net interest income, and Civil Engineering business areas. The Changes in value SEK 18 million expenses consisted mainly of purchases of of properties, Taxes and social goods and services and personnel expenses. SEK 238 million security contributions, Income, SEK 219 million Distribution of financial value SEK 5,605 million Wages and pension Being a positive force over time requires a sound expenses, and sustainable financial development. The SEK 481 million basis is growth and a good financial return, Purchases, which, in turn, enable both continued investSEK 4,828 million ments and initiatives, and a good dividend to the owners. This also allows Serneke to continue contributing to society by paying wages and taxes and, in other ways, contributing to the positive development of society. 24 value creation Serneke supports Berättarministeriet, a non-profit foundation, with no political or religious affiliations, active in improving literacy among children and young people in Sweden so they may have the opportunity to actively participate in society. development. This includes utilizing skills and creating jobs for young people and other groups who, for various reasons, experience difficulty entering the labor market. From an internal point of view, it is also about minimizing the negative impact of the operations on the environment and the climate. Furthermore, it involves running the business in a way that generates tax revenues and contributes to positive local development. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Serneke’s business is to be operated in a manner that ensures long-term sustainable financial sustainability – thus allowing Photo: Karl Gabor for continuous investments as well as dividends to shareholders. Serneke currently has a stable platform VALUE CREATION FOR SERNEKE’S STAKEHOLDERS that creates good conditions for continued sustainable growth with good profitClients and customers ability. The goal for the future is to conInternal collaboration, a clear value base in, and close cooperation with, customers and clients, ensure that the projects are delivered in time, with the right level of quality and at the tinue to develop each of the operations right cost. based on its specific conditions, and to take even greater advantage of the econSociety Serneke strives to contribute to the positive development of society in various ways. omies of scale and synergies that exist Through its operational activities, Serneke wants to contribute to safe residential areas and between the operations. common places that enable activity, recreation and health. In addition, the operations generate jobs and directly and indirectly contribute to tax revenues in the local economies in which the Group operates. Owners Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 30 to 50 percent of net profit after tax for the previous financial year. For the financial year 2017, a dividend of SEK 4 per share is proposed. Read more about the dividend policy on page 17. Suppliers and partners Serneke strives to have long-term and mutually value-creating relationships with selected suppliers and partners. During 2017, the cost of purchases of raw materials and services amounted to SEK 4,828 million (3,283). Purchasing is therefore Serneke’s largest cost item, corresponding to 86 percent (83) of sales. Employees Serneke creates value for its employees by offering competitive employment conditions, ongoing skills development and a forward-looking corporate culture. During 2017, salaries amounted to a total of SEK 437 million (342) and pension expenses to SEK 44 million). 25 Market Continued strong construction and civil ­engineering market Activity in the Swedish construction and civil engineering market remained high during 2017. The main driving forces included major infrastructure investments and a continued structural housing deficit. According to preliminary figures, total Hisingsleden, newly-started projects in, for DIVISION AND PLAYERS IN SWEDISH investments in the Swedish construction example, The Forsåker area, new construcCONSTRUCTION MARKET and civil engineering sector in 2017 tion at Almedal’s factories as well as the The Swedish construction market is generamounted to approximately SEK 513.5 bilexpansion of the Östra sjukhuset hospital ally divided into contracts for construction lion, an increase of approximately 12 percontribute to a strong market. In Malmö, and contracts civil engineering. Construccent compared with the previous year. In the market benefited from new projects in tion includes the construction of properties terms of the different market segments, Västra hamnen, a new medical center at the intended for residential and/or commercial investments in residential housing University hospital and the railway link use. Civil engineering mainly encompasses accounted for approximately 50 percent, Flackarp–Arlöv. substructures and earthworks for properpremises for approximately 30 percent, ties and construction of infrastructure. In and civil engineering for approximately 20 STRONG MARKET FOR THE FUTURE addition to these segments, most of the percent. Growth in housing construction is expected major Swedish players in the construction to slow slightly in 2018 due to stricter lendmarket are also active in project developBOOST FROM METROPOLITAN REGIONS ing criteria, modest increases in real wages ment and property management. The metropolitan regions of Stockholm, and rising mortgage rates. Overall, however, The construction market is characterGothenburg and Malmö accounted for continued high activity in the construction ized by a handful of major nationwide more than 50 percent of the total investand civil engineering market is expected in companies and a large number of smaller ments in construction and civil engineering the future. In 2018, investments in housing local companies. Combined, three major projects,. In Stockholm, in addition to are expected to amount to approximately players (Peab, Skanska and NCC) account extensive housing construction, a number SEK 284 billion, in premises to approxifor about a third of total sales in the of major infrastructure projects are mately SEK 152 billion and in civil engineer­S wedish market. In addition to these playexpected, such as the Odenplan–Arenastaing to approximately SEK 98 billion. ers, there are housing developer JM, govden metro line, the Stockholm Bypass and ernment-owned infrastructure companies the rebuilding of Slussen. In Gothenburg, Svevia and Infranord, the Norwegian conpreparations for the West Link Project and struction company Veidekke and Serneke. CONSTRUCTION INVESTMENT IN METROPOLITAN REGIONS 2016–2018 SEK billion 2016* 2017* 2018* SEK billion 2016* 2017* 2018* SEK billion 2016* 2017* 2018* Stockholm Gothenburg Malmö Housing 90.8 107.2 112.5 Housing 28.1 34.6 35.9 Housing 18.2 22.0 24.0 Premises 51.7 54.3 54.5 Premises 14.9 15.4 15.7 Premises 13.2 13.9 13.9 Civil EngineerCivil EngineerCivil Engineering 25.1 27.5 28.7 ing 10.0 10.6 12.5 ing 3.8 4.1 4.2 Total 167.6 188.9 195.8 Total 53.0 60.5 64.1 Total 35.3 40.0 42.1 *Forecast Source: Swedish Construction Federation 26 Market “ Overall, activity in the Swedish construction and civil engineering market is expected to remain high in future. Trends in the construction market Turnkey contracts cess, in which the construction company Increased international competition In recent years, turnkey contracts have has a clear incentive to deliver good quality As a result of declining local markets, there become more common; these are assignat the right price and on schedule. has been a noticeable increase in interest ments in which the client contracts a develfrom major international construction oper that takes full responsibility and carries New property ownership category companies based in Europe. The specific out everything from the design and planning With the strong demand for construction conditions prevailing in the regulated to the selection and purchase of materials as and civil engineering services in recent ­Swedish construction market have led to well as the construction. This differs from years, it has become more common for increased demand for partner arrangetraditional contracts in which the customer, property companies to buy into construcments with local Swedish partners. in consultation with architects and other tion companies to secure capacity for their consultants, determines how the assignown projects. Investments for increased housing ment is to be carried out and then procures construction the actual construction service. More stringent procurement­ A series of regulations have been proposed ­r equirements in recent years to facilitate housing conCollaboration agreements In recent years, customers have introduced struction. These include a noise-level ordiThe construction industry has become more stringent procurement requirements, nance, resulting in a simpler and clearer set more transparent and collaboration has which entails that it is no longer possible to of regulations, permitting modestly become increasingly commonplace. Colcompete mainly by price. Contracting comincreased noise levels for housing. This laboration entails the developer and the panies today must meet requirements such means that residences can be built in more contractor working together closely as minimum sales, ISO certification for places and construction will be easier to throughout the project, with all parties ha­­ quality and environment, organizational initiate. ving insight into the finances of the project. proficiency and the individual project memThis often results in a more efficient probers’ experience. 27 Market Market drivers MACROECONOMIC FACTORS is positive for the construction industry, the blue line to Gullmarsplan, connectGDP as demand for housing tends to be ing with the green line for greatly Strong GDP growth is a key prerequisite strongly linked to the demand for new increased capacity through central for the construction industry, although construction and renovation of housing. Stockholm. The total cost is estimated weaker periods may also be beneficial in at SEK 19.5 billion. certain cases. Construction civil engineerInterest rates •  E ast Link Project: The East Link Project ing projects can then be used to stimulate In a low interest rate environments, large is the first part of a high-speed railway the economy. In Sweden, GDP growth has amounts of capital are generally channetwork between Stockholm-Gothenhistorically moved in a stable and positive neled into the property markets and burg and Stockholm-Malmö. A gradual direction, and the National Institute of housing prices tend to rise sharply, makconstruction start is planned in 2017– Economic Research (NIER) forecasts suging new construction and renovations rel2021. The East Link Project is expected gest that economic activity will remain at atively cheaper. The low interest rates of to be completed between 2033 and good levels in the future. In general, per recent years have led to low borrowing 2035 and the budget is approximately capita GDP is higher in the metropolitan costs and more developers willing to initiSEK 35 billion. regions than in Sweden as a whole. ate construction and civil engineering projects than previously. During the year, Trafikverket’s proposals Demography and urbanization for national infrastructure plans were Changes in population size are an imporINDUSTRY-SPECIFIC FACTORS presented for the period 2018–2029. tant factor for the development of the The total plan comprises SEK 622. 5 bilproperty market. The rapidly growing Political initiatives lion, which is SEK 100 billion more than Swedish population has a positive effect Many major construction and infrastructhe previous plan (or approximately SEK 8 on the construction industry through the ture projects procured by the public secbillion more per year). There will be a govincreased demand for housing, public tor are dependent on political decisions, ernment resolution on the issue in spring properties, commercial properties and objectives and considerations. Examples 2018. infrastructure investments. Population of policy decisions that can affect the Other policy decisions that may affect growth is expected to continue to be market for major construction projects the market for major construction projects strong. Historically, population growth include large-scale infrastructure proare decisions on the development of dishas been strongest in the metropolitan jects. tricts or conversion of districts from indusregions. This trend is expected to conIn recent years, decisions have been trial use to residential and office areas, or tinue in the future, resulting in continued taken on a number of major infrastructure decisions to carry out extensive upgrades high demand for housing, public properprojects: and remodels of older ties, commercial properties and infra• S tockholm Bypass: Stockholm Bypass property holdings. As an example, the structure investments. The National is one of Sweden’s largest infrastruchousing companies with holdings that Board of Housing, Building and Planning ture projects. An SEK 100 billion traffic largely consist of apartments built during estimates that more than 600,000 new initiative connects new tracks and the ­Million Homes Program of the 1960s residences need to be built until 2025 to roads throughout Greater Stockholm. and 1970s are facing major challenges, as meet demand. About 75 percent of this • West Link Project: A railway link through these properties have often been need is expected to derive from the three a tunnel under central Gothenburg for neglected in terms of maintenance and are metropolitan regions. commuter and regional trains, facilitatin ­significant need of renovation. In total, ing travel in Gothenburg and western the Million Homes Program properties Housing prices Sweden. The budget is about SEK 20 consist of more than 900,000 residential Housing prices in Sweden have risen conbillion. units, most of which are owned by munic­ tinuously since 1993. The trend is largely • Metro expansion in Stockholm: Expanipal p­ roperty companies in major cities. the result of high demand for housing sion of the metro to Nacka, Arenastacombined with falling interest rates. This den and Barkarby and the extension of 28 Market DISTRIBUTION OF CONSTRUCTION CONSTRUCTION INVESTMENT IN SWEDEN BY SEGMENT (SEK BILLION) INVESTMENT IN SWEDEN IN 2017 600 400 200 Housing, 53% Premises, 29% 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16* 17* 18* Civil engineering, 18% Housing Premises Civil engineering *Forecast Source: Swedish Construction Federation Source: Euroconstruct 29 Sustainability Sustainability At Serneke, we believe that focused sustainability work and strong community involvement go hand-in-hand with long-term growth with good profitability. By virtue of our size, we have both an opportunity and a responsibility to contribute to a more sustainable development. Through our activities, we contribute to the development of towns, cities and society as a whole. One of the construction and civil engiIn addition to the direct impact during the PRIORITIES AND OVERALL OBJECTIVES neering industry’s biggest sustainability construction phase, there is an impact The sustainability efforts are based on a challenges is to reduce the environmental from use as well as from demolition. materiality analysis, in which the most impact related to construction and proFor several years, Serneke has been important and relevant aspects of susduction. The construction industry uses active with structured efforts to continutainability have been identified. The cenlarge amounts of material resources and ously make improvements in all stages of the tral parts focus on an active commitment energy. Statistics from IVA (Royal Swedish valuechain. These efforts are conducted to society and minimizing the risk of injury Academy of Engineering Sciences) and within our own organization, but also in to persons, property and the environment, the Swedish Construction Federation collaboration with customers, partners as well continuously reducing the direct indicate that the overall environmental and suppliers. and indirect impact on the environment. impact of construction processes in Other sustainability areas that are In addition, the operations are conducted ­S weden amounts to approximately 10 highly relevant for the construction and in a way that ensures financial sustainamillion tons of carbon dioxide equivalents civil engineering industry are social bility, thereby enabling continued value per year, four million tons of which come responsibility, ethics and anti-corruption creation for customers, employees, comfrom housing projects and six million tons issues. There are also structured and conmunities and shareholders – in the short from civil engineering projects. This is a tinuous efforts being conducted regardand long term. A strong employer brand comparable amount to the emissions ing these issues in connection with all and the confidence of all stakeholders is from all passenger cars in Sweden, and activities carried out within the Group. crucial for achieving objectives. more than all trucks and buses generate. VALUES ABOUT THE SUSTAINABLITY REPORT Together with the Code of Conduct, Serneke’s values ​​comprise the This statutory sustainability report is submitted by the Board of overall guidelines for all activity within the company. A common Serneke Group AB, but does not form part of the formal annual approach makes it easier to make the right decisions, and it accounts. Serneke’s business model is presented on page. 19. increases transparency to the outside world and attractiveness The sustainability framework is presented on pages 30–32, among both current and future employees. These values a​ lso work environment aspects on pages 33–35, environmental ­provide an important foundation in the quest to be the next generaspects on pages 36–37 and anti-corruption on page 38. Risk ation of construction companies. The values ​​are: descriptions can be found on pages 59–61. Unless otherwise stated, the information relates to the entire Serneke Group, • Commitment and Courage including subsidiaries. • Simplicity and Power to act • Honesty and Respect • Visionary and Solution-oriented 30 Sustainability A STIMUL ATING WORKPL ACE Attractive employer with satisfied employees and a strong employer brand. A SAFE WORK ENVIRONMENT A SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN ATING WORKPLA Safe and secure workplaces IMUL CE A ST with a high-safety culture. Contributing to a better sociT ety for future generations. EN A M WO UE RK VAL BLE EN VI RO NA N AI ST A SAFE SU AREAS OF FOCUS AND OVERALL OBJECTIVES IT Y COM M A BIL UN TAI IT Y N US IN LS E LV IA VO M NC EN A T FI N ETHICS COMMUNIT Y INVOLVEMENT FINANCIAL ­S USTAINABILIT Y Promote positive community development and continue to A financial development that ETHICS AND contribute to child and adolesensures resources for both ANTI-CORRUPTION cent health and learning. continuous investments and dividends to shareholders. Active training will provide tools to identify and create a culture of zero tolerance for all forms of corruption. STARTING POINTS Sustainability work within Serneke is conducted on a long-term basis, with materiality, transparency and clear governance as the main guiding principles. • M  ateriality We focus on what is most important to our business and where we have the greatest opportunity to make a difference. • T ransparency Our target is full transparency. What we report should be ­relevant and linked to the most material issues for our operations. • C  lear governance The CEO is responsible for the overall coordination and monitoring. Reporting and monitoring at all Regular Board Meetings. Continuous monitoring and feedback in each project. 31 Sustainability Governance and Framework As a complement to the existing legislaGROUP POLICIES themselves to live up to ten principles on tion, Serneke’s Board of Directors and Serneke has several policies to clarify reghuman rights, the environment, labor management have together formulated ulations and instructions. Among these standards and anti-corruption, and and adopted a framework that sets the are the aforementioned Code of Conduct respect these throughout the value chain. guidelines for Serneke’s actions as a and purchasing policy that clarify ethical responsible company and employer. The positions, internally as well as for our supILO CORE CONVENTIONS framework consists of both internal regupliers. The environmental policy describes Serneke follows the International Labor lations and guidelines as a link to external Serneke’s comprehensive approach to Organization’s (ILO) eight Core Convenprinciples and recommendations. Key environmental issues and overall princitions regarding a minimum standard for regulations and guidelines are presented ples for the management and monitoring working conditions worldwide. This regards below. of the environmental work. The alcohol basic human rights in the workplace. and drug policy describes Serneke’s posiCODE OF CONDUCT tion on alcohol and illicit drugs. The main INDUSTRY-WIDE AGREEMENTS The Code of Conduct includes Serneke’s principle is that all employees are prohibIn addition to the aforementioned frameguidelines for suppliers and partners. It ited from being under the influence of work, Serneke adheres to a number of also describes the relationship with alcohol or illicit drugs at work. industry-wide agreements and guidelines. employees and other stakeholders, and These include, among other things, an the policy on gifts and bribes. It applies to GLOBAL COMPACT industry-wide agreement that aims to the Board of Directors and all employees Serneke adheres to both the UN Global combat bribery and corruption in the of Serneke. All employees must abide by Compact and the Universal Declaration of publicly funded construction and propits principles in their daily work. Serneke’s Human Rights. The Global Compact was erty sector. Group management is responsible for introduced in 1999 by the UN former Seccompliance with the Code of Conduct. retary General Kofi Annan and is currently, CERTIFICATIONS Monitoring is continuous within the with over 6,000 corporate members from Serneke Bygg AB and Serneke Anläggning framework of the ongoing operations. 135 countries, the largest global initiative AB are certified according to ISO for corporate responsibility and sustaina14001:2004 (environment) and ISO bility issues. Corporate members commit 9001:2008 (quality). ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITY MONITORING AND CONTROLS Serneke is a nationwide company with several business areas that operThe construction and civil engineering industry is subject to extensive ate in close cooperation with one another. The Group’s operations are regulations and continuous external review regarding environmental divided into four business units, which operate on the basis of a regional and technical aspects as well as safety and working environment laws. structure. The ongoing sustainability efforts are carried out by the Group, Along with the internal regulations, these control procedures ensure a within the business areas and in close cooperation with clients and cusconsistently high level of quality. The principal external controls include tomers. Collaboration between the business areas and the central supmonitoring and auditing of clients and stakeholders associated with port functions enables high quality and a continuous exchange of experithe project, audits in relation to ISO certification and re-certification, ence. The development is monitored using a well-structured plan, with inspections by the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the Swedish the CEO having ultimate responsibility. The CEO is also responsible for the Tax Agency’s control of personnel ledgers and the trade unions’ job site continuous reporting to the Board of Directors. The responsible managand workplace inspections and ongoing monitoring. ers in each business area are responsible for implementation. 32 Sustainability A safe work environment The construction and civil engineering them. In addition to annual follow-up prooperations include work activities that cedures, structured and regular monitormay be associated with risks for the indiing of incidents and accidents takes place ACCIDENT RATE vidual employee. Serneke conducts at both the Group and business area level. 1,000 15 extensive efforts to minimize the risk of Within the projects, risk analysis is always serious incidents and accidents to the carried out at all stages of work. 750 greatest degree possible. Preventative Serneke has a Quality, Environment and 10 measures, well-developed procedures Work Environment department (KMA) 500 and systematic monitoring form the core that visits the Group’s projects to monitor 5 of these efforts. and identify areas of improvement. Twice 250 Work environment-related issues, a year, joint meetings with safety officers physical as well as social, constitute an are held to review procedures and areas 0 16 17 0 integral part of daily operations and are in of improvement. In 2017, the KMA departNumber of employees at year-end focus both at the Group and business ment recruited several new coordinators Number of accidents in area levels and in the projects. There is to best support the projects. relation to hours worked collaboration at all levels in terms of health and safety aspects. ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS 2017 In 2017, nine accidents occurred that PREVENTATIVE MEASURES resulted in absence of more than eight TYPE OF ACCIDENT AND INJURY Identification of potential risks forms the hours and/or medical treatment with basis for effective safety efforts. Serneke ­subsequent sick leave. The actual number works actively to identify risks, both overis likely larger, with those accidents not all and in each project. The work is based being reported. During the year, the KMA on a regular annual overall risk analysis, in department has been actively involved in which different types of operational risks the dissemination of information to are analyzed and monitored.Collected increase the reporting of accidents and data on incidents and accidents, as well as incidents. The objective is to report all outcomes from employee surveys and incidents, regardless of whether they Sprains, strains, and dislocations, 5 Crushing injury, 6 health surveys are used as a basis. The risk concern Serneke’s own employees or Wounds and superficial injuries, 30 analysis is then used to develop the rele­subcontractors. Skeletal injuries and fractures, 7 Other, 18 vant measures and a plan to implement CRISIS EXERCISE 2017 Safe workplaces are of the highest priority for both management and on job sites. At the end of the year, a crisis exercise was carried out for Serneke’s crisis management team. The purpose of the exercise was to further enhance understanding of the challenges involved in a crisis event – and increase the ability to effectively manage them. The group that participated in the exercise consisted of the Deputy CEO, the Managing Directors of the Construction, Civil Engineering and Project Development business areas, the HR manager, KMA manager and communications department. The exercise was conducted using an external consultant and an opponent group consisting of four people from the site management for one of Serneke’s own major construction projects. The scenario used for the exercise was a serious workplace accident with injuries and deaths. 33 Sustainability A stimulating workplace Being a next generation construction comenable wider and more qualified support ANONYMOUS REPORTING OF pany also entails the employer perspective. for the organization within all of HR’s ­I­­NCIDENTS Serneke has a strong employer brand areas of responsibility. As part of this During the year, an online feature was characterized by clear values and ambiwork, the implementation of a new HR implemented that allows all employees to tious objectives. The pursuit of continued system began during the year, which will anonymously report incidents of sexual growth provides a good opportunity for enable increased efficiency and higher harassment at the workplace to a third those who want to develop and grow in quality of delivery to the organization in party. The purpose of the function is to responsibility. areas such as recruitment, training, payensure that any irregularities are brought Competition among talented, experiroll auditing and employee talks. to the attention of Serneke in the event enced and dedicated employees is high. using the normal communication channel Serneke’s ability to identify, develop, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT via the immediate supervisor or HR funcattract and retain the right employees Continuous professional development is tion is not possible. with the right skills and attitude is crucial offered for both blue-collar and to the Group’s continued success. white-collar employees. In addition to the HEALTH PROMOTION Employees’ skills and performance are compulsory courses in areas such as At Serneke, physical activity is encourcrucial for achieving set goals and continhealth and safety and environmental proaged. In addition to health care contribuuing to develop as a company. tection, opportunities for further training tions, a variety of exercise opportunities Serneke offers employment on market are offered based on function and skills are provided. Our head offices have a gym terms and conditions, good opportunities profile. During the past year, a structured that all Group employees have access to. for ongoing competence development, skills inventory was carried out in the In addition, the internal sports club and a stimulating, safe and healthywork Construction and Civil Engineering busiSerneke IF arranges ski trips, running, environment. In addition to external ness areas. In parallel, a common training yoga and cycling. Serneke is also a partner recruitment, goal-oriented work is carried catalog was created that describes which in Fjätervålen’s mountain wintersports out to enable high internal mobility. courses are required for their respective facility. The aim is for the facility to funcpositions – as well as the courses offered. tion as a recreation center and training CONTINUED STRONG GROWTH IN 2017 center for all employees. As at year-end, the number of employees EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY in the Group was approximately 1,000. In Everyone within Serneke, regardless of PERIODIC EMPLOYEE SURVEYS recent years, recruitment rates have been gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, Significant focus is placed on measuring high, and in 2017 alone the organization religion or other beliefs is given the same and monitoring the attitudes of employgrew by about 160 new employees. Reinopportunity of recruitment and career ees and the initiatives undertaken within forcements have been made in all areas of development. Diversity and equality are the Group. Regular employee surveys are the Group, both in the business areas and undisputed values and we are convinced an important part of this work. A more centrally. The high proportion of that a clear position strengthens our extensive survey is conducted every two white-collar workers, about 50 percent of brand in relation to both customers and years. The latest survey, conducted in the average number of full-time employemployees. 2016, showed continued positive comees, provides competitive advantages The proportion of women in the organizamitment among employees. Employees early in the planning phase of each tion is still relatively low but has increased by enjoy their colleagues and the good assignment. more than 60 percent since 2015. The atmosphere in the workplace, there is stated objective is that both sexes should be strong confidence in Serneke’s manageDEVELOPMENT OF HR FUNCTION represented among final candidates in all ment and 95 percent of all employees To support the Group’s continued expanrecruitment processes. The goal for 2020 is would recommend Serneke as an sion, HR has been expanded during the to reach a 40 percent gender distribution in employer to friends and acquaintances. year with additional HR coordinators in all recruitment and senior positions. In total, Gothenburg and Malmö. During the year, a the proportion of women was 17 percent at review of the function was also initiated to the end of the year. 34 Sustainability PROPORTION OF BLUE-­ PROPORTION OF WOMEN PROPORTION OF NUMBER OF COLLAR WORKERS TO AND MEN ­EMPLOYEES BY BUSINESS EMPLOYEES WHITE-COLLAR WORKERS 1,200 900 600 300 Blue-collar workers, 40% Women, 17% Construction, 73% White-collar workers, 60% Men, 83% Civil Engineering, 15% 0 15 16 17 Project Development, 4% Property Management, 2% Other divisions, 6% 35 Sustainability Sustainable value chain The environmental impact of the conENERGY USE landfills. The hierarchy applies on the construction and civil engineering industry is Serneke actively works to reduce energy dition that it is environmentally approprilarge, particularly in terms of greenhouse consumption from its operations. The ate and economically feasible. gas emissions. Serneke strives to continuGroup continuously conducts energy surAn important aspect of the effort to ously reduce consumption of resources veys to identify efficiency and improvereduce the amount of waste is to increase and environmental impact in all business ment measures. In 2017, a detailed the accuracy of the calculation of how areas. The work occurs at all levels of the energy survey was carried out of ongoing much material will be needed. Concrete is organization and is an integral part of all construction projects and parts of the one of the materials with a high environactivities within the Group, from purchasproperty portfolio. Energy efficiency mental impact. In the Civil Engineering ing that takes this into consideration to measures can be identified and impleoperations, extra focus has therefore good sorting and handling of waste. mented by reviewing the use of electricity, been placed on minimizing spillage in The environmental impact of construcheat, lighting, construction machinery, concrete work, with good success. With a tion and civil engineering projects comtransport, etc. By 2020, Serneke will have target of less than 2 percent spillage, a prises a direct impact from the project surveyed 100 percent of the Group’s volume of less than 1.5 percent has been itself and an indirect impact as a conseenergy consumption, in accordance with measured in the projects reviewed. quence of the operation and use of the current legislation. property or building. Serneke focuses on Serneke advocates the use of renewaINTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL minimizing environmental impact during ble energy. Since 2013, Serneke has had ­EDUCATION construction. Through the planning, an agreement with Svensk Naturenergi All Serneke employees are offered trainselection and documentation of conAB, which provides the majority of offices ing in environmental issues. The program struction and materials, environmental and projects with electricity from wind takes a holistic approach to environmenperformance is optimized for the use and power. tal issues and legislation and makes use demolition stages as well. In 2017, Serneke’s energy consumption of solid advice on limiting the environThe processes with the highest envirose sharply, largely due to the acquisition mental impact of the company’s own ronmental impact in construction and of Säve flygplats in 2016 and overall in operations. On occasion, there are also civil engineering comprise energy conseveral construction projects. In 2017, opportunities to exchange experiences sumption in projects and at workplaces, renewable electricity accounted for between the different business areas and resource consumption, and waste and approximately 95 percent of total elecprojects. transport. tricity consumption. ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION PURCHASING RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AND WASTE We have extensive experience and are The majority of purchases Serneke conMANAGEMENT well-versed in working with different types ducts are locally in the specific projects. On One of Serneke’s highest priority environof environmental certifications. Within the a larger scale, purchasing activities and mental issues is resource consumption organization, there is qualified compesupplier relationships are regulated in and waste management. The constructence within the certification systems accordance with the applicable Code of tion and civil engineering industry BREEAM, LEED, the Nordic Swan ecolabel, Conduct, adopted purchasing policy and accounts for about one-third of all waste and the Sweden Green Building Council. environmental policy. Environmental congenerated in Sweden and about a quarter Through the certifications, systematic siderations should always be used as a of the hazardous waste. The objective of work on environmental and sustainability parameter in each procurement process. the Group is to minimize resource conissues is facilitated all the way from planAt the project level, the purchasing work is sumption, reduce waste generation and ning to operation. The benefits are many, also governed by defined requirements, reduce the proportion of unsorted waste. both for property owners, entrepreneurs environmental as well as social, from clients Within the Group, we work on the and society at large. Examples of this and customers. It can be anything from so-called ”waste hierarchy”. The order of include more efficient use of energy in specific materials to ensuring the projects priority entails first and foremost preoperation, a healthier indoor climate and at the overall level meet specific assessventing waste material, followed by reusreduced use of building materials with ment criteria, such as SundaHus or Basta. ing, recycling, and, finally, depositing in hazardous substances. 36 Sustainability GAMLESTADS TORG Together with Platzer, Serneke is developing “Gamlestads torg” in Gothenburg, a project comprising two buildings including Gamlestadens Resecentrum. The project is being carried out in accordance with the LEED environmental certification, a globally recognized certification for buildings. When assessing environmental performance, LEED takes into account the environment, water, energy, material choices and indoor climate. DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION, MWH, ACCORDING TO THE ENERGY TYPES SEK MILLION WASTE HIERARCHY 30,000 6,000 20,000 4,000 10,000 2,000 Energy recovery, 37% Renewable, 96% 0 0 16 17 Recycling, 41% Fossil, 0,5% Reuse if needed by waste Nuclear power, 3,5% Buildings contractor, 19% Operation Refuse dump, 3% Transports Rate of consumption 37 Sustainability Major focus on ethics and anti-corruption For Serneke, it is important to act ethically. The Group gives employees extensive from several nationwide construction It strengthens competitiveness and confreedom with their responsibility and companies, the Swedish Construction tributes to a high level of trustworthiness. encourages quick and aggressive leaderFederation and the Swedish Association Serneke respects the laws and regulaship. The culture encourages commitment, of Local Authorities and Regions are partions of the jurisdiction where we operate. responsibility and ethics in relationships ties to the agreement. We have zero tolerance for all forms of and a positive interaction with society as a The overall aim of the agreement is to corruption, including all types of bribery whole. Through clear governance and meet external demands for greater transand corruption. The Code of Conduct monitoring of the projects throughout the parency. In addition to principal positions, describes the basic principles of how entire development chain, we prevent risks it also provides concrete guidance on topmanagers and employees throughout the and ensure that the ethical guidelines are ics such as business entertainment and organization are to conduct their daily followed. sponsorship. Serneke wholeheartedly work and contact with suppliers, competisupports the agreement. tors and other third parties. It also clearly INDUSTRY AGREEMENT ON BRIBERY defines policies on areas such as gifts, In December 2015, several major players drugs and alcohol, and potential conflicts in the Swedish construction industry of interest. signed an agreement to combat bribery Serneke is characterized by extensive and corruption in the publicly-funded delegation of responsibility and authority. construction and property sector. Apart A strong community involvement Serneke wants to take an active role in should contribute to a positive developticeship period, be granted the opportucommunity development. By virtue of our ment of the individual, the Group and the nity for permanent employment. Moreosize, we have both an opportunity and a local markets in which we operate. The ver, the youths will be given the responsibility to be involved and make a support can be given either in the form of opportunity to gain access to their own difference. Our commitment is demonfinancial contribution or through the apartment after completing the training. strated by our projects and in our extentransfer of knowledge. sive commitments alongside our strictly SUPPORT FOR BERÄTTARMINISTERIET operational activities. PARTNERSHIPS WITH SOCIAL OVERSerneke is a long-term partner with Through our projects, we want to conTONES Berättarministeriet, an organization that tribute to the positive development of Serneke is involved in several projects in aims to attract students to the written society, safe residences and common which social responsibility has an key role. word. Since its foundation in 2011, over buildings and places for activities, recreaThese include the City of Gothenburg, 20,000 children and young people have tion and relaxation. In addition to the where we create different kinds of jobs taken part in their operations. Berätdirect operational activities, we offer varifor those outside the labor market. tarministeriet provides schools in its ous forms of targeted support. In accordAnother social engagement project is in enrollment areas with free educational ance with the guidelines for community conjunction with a private property manprograms mainly directed to students in involvement, Serneke prioritizes initiatives ager, in which Serneke has an active role grades two through five.The programs are related to its values, competence and in the employment of 5–10 unemployed anchored in the curriculum and act as a operations. Projects or initiatives related youths who will be recruited as apprencross-curricular support for teachers. to child and adolescent health and learntices during the construction phase and ing are the first priority. The projects who will, upon completion of the appren38 Sustainability SERNEKE GOALS – NEXT GENERATION SPONSORSHIP Our sponsorship is based on creating the right conditions for realizing goals set by associations, athletes, organizations and events. Building the foundation for good things to grow and thrive, which in turn benefits society and the next generation. We are a construction company from the beginning and know that with a strong foundation, the sky’s the limit. We provide that foundation so the sponsorship recipients can provide the drive. This way, they can focus on what they do best, and we can be a part of helping them achieve that. We admire all who dare go their own way, who have the drive to continue, despite others telling them it isn’t possible, who are honest with themselves and others, and who respect their surroundings. We believe that commitment, courage and clear goals will take you very far. We have therefore named our sponsorship program Serneke Goals, in order to support solid goals for us as a company, for society and, of course, for our many sponsorship commitments. Some call it CSR, but we see it more as an opportunity to achieve common societal goals that benefit everyone. Auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in SERNEKE Group AB of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different AB, corporate identity number 556669-4153. and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with This auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report is a International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted translation of the Swedish language original. In the events of any auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination differences between this translation and the Swedish ­original the has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. latter shall prevail. Opinion Engagement and responsibility A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the financial year 2017 on pages 30–39 Gothenburg 28 March 2018 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Deloitte AB Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Signature on the original document Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the Harald Jagner statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination Authorized public accountant 39 Business areas INCOME AND PROFIT ORDER BACKLOG, DEC 31, ORDER BACKLOG, DEC 31, INCOME AND OPERATING MARGIN Income during the year amounted 2017 PER CUSTOMER 2017 PER PRODUCT MIX to SEK 4,919 million (3,229), an 5,000 4 increase of 52 percent. Operating profit amounted to SEK 183 million 4,000 (86), an increase of 113 percent. 3 The operating margin was 3.7 3,000 ­percent (2.7). The improvement in 2 profit and margin over the corre2,000 sponding period in 2016 is mainly explained by more and larger pro1 1,000 jects in full production with a betPublic sector clients, 42% Housing (new production), 58% ter operating margin. Private clients, 58% Renovation/expansion, 7% 0 0 Offices, 4% 15 16 17 Retail, 5% Public buildings Income, SEK million (Healthcare/education), 20% Operating profit, % Other, 6% 40 Business areas BUSINESS AREA CONSTRUCTION Continued growth with strong profitability In 2017, Business Area Construction strengthened its positions in all geographic markets. Order bookings were strong during the year, largely driven by high demand in the housing sector. Business Area Construction is responsible The major new projects during the year for all construction-related activities in include contracts for housing construcINCOME, SEK MILLION the Group. The operations mainly involve tion for customers mainly within the pubconstruction of rental apartments and community properties as well as carrying out commercial property contracts. lic housing sector. Other new prominent projects include contracts for construction of two hotels for Magnolia Produktion 4,919 AB and project assignments by AkademiOPERATING PROFIT, SEK LARGE PROJECTS FOR STABLE ska Hus for the School of Business, MILLION 183 ­C USTOMERS ­Economics and Law at the University of Business Area Construction operates in all Gothenburg. After the end of the year, a segments of the construction industry: collaboration agreement was signed with new construction, renovation and expanthe Swedish Exhibition and Congress OPERATING MARGIN, % sion. The focus is mainly on large, complex Centre for expanded entrances, flexible projects. Customers mainly consist of municipal and private property companies, government-owned companies, meeting and event space, and increased hotel and offices capacity in a new fourth tower. The agreement entails that 3.7 major project development companies Serneke, in collaboration with the Swedish ORDER BOOKINGS, SEK and Business Area Project Development. Exhibition and Congress Centre, move the MILLION 5,815 As at year-end, 50 percent of the order development project forward at Kors­ backlog consisted of projects with an vägen in selected stages. order value of more than SEK 300 million. 88 percent consisted of projects with an STRENGTHENED ORGANIZATION ORDER BACKLOG, SEK order value of more than SEK 100 million. The organization was strengthened durMILLION The large contracts create the conditions ing the year through a relatively large for long-term planning while allowing long-term relationships with clients and counteract any cyclical fluctuations in a amount of recruitment, mainly of white-collar workers. The ability to attract and recruit qualified white-collar workers 7,649 cyclically-oriented industry. is of strategic importance and in line with the stated ambition to focus on planning, STRONG GROWTH IN THE ORDER management and control throughout the ­B ACKLOG construction process. During the year, a During the year, positions in all geographic regional manager was appointed in Stockmarkets were strengthened. In Gothenholm and in Malmö in early in 2018. burg, Serneke has a market-leading position. In Stockholm and Malmö, Serneke FOCUS 2018 has quickly established itself as one of the Developments during the year have conten largest construction companies. In all tributed to Business Area Construction geographic markets, the order backlog having a stronger platform for further increased significantly during the year. One growth. The focus in 2018 will be partly of the main driving forces was the high on continued growth and partly on demand for projects in the residential constrengthening profitability. The objective struction sector. Order bookings during the is to maintain the strong position in Gothyear amounted to SEK 5,815 million enburg while continuing to strengthen the (5,029) and as at the end of the period, position in Region East and Region South, total order backlog amounted to SEK 7,649 particularly regarding commercial propmillion (6,753), an increase of 13 percent. erty projects. 41 Business areas INCOME AND PROFIT ORDER BACKLOG, DEC 31, ORDER BACKLOG, DEC 31, INCOME AND OPERATING MARGIN Sales during the year amounted to 2017 PER CLIENT 2017 BY CLIENT CATEGORY SEK 623 million (455), an increase 600 1 of 37 percent. Operating profit amounted to SEK 1 million and the operating margin was 0.2 percent. Focused work on multi-level 400 –2 improvement drove the positive development. The work has had significant impact, and the busi200 –5 ness area has showed positive earnings since the second half of Public sector clients, 74% Land, 42% 2017. Private clients, 26% Concrete, 3% 0 –8 15 16 17 Road, 2% Industry, 53% Income, SEK million Operating profit, % 42 Business areas BUSINESS AREA CIVIL ENGINEERING Stable development and positive earnings Business Area Civil Engineering is engaged in concrete and civil engineering-related activities. Within the business, contracts are carried out for both external customers and other business areas in the Group. The focus is on national and regional infrastructure projects, as well as civil engineering contracts within industry as well as maintenance services. Business Area Civil Engineering performs munications, heating, water and sewerage all types of excavation and civil engineermains. In July, an agreement was signed INCOME, SEK MILLION ing work: earthworks, foundations, infrawith Midroc on a civil engineering contract structure, electrical grids, power plants, harbor contracts and concrete works. The customers consist mainly of municifor an development area in Upplands Väsby. The assignment includes performing earthworks and details for 194 apartments in 623 palities, the Swedish Transport Adminismulti-dwelling buildings and terraced OPERATING PROFIT, SEK tration, property companies and industry houses, which will be built in the emerging MILLION 1 players. The proportion of external cusarea of Eds Allé. In the Malmö region, develtomers amounted to 89 percent during opment was also positive with several new the year. The largest external customer major projects, including the rebuilding of group was public sector clients in 2017, road 798 between Esarp and Genarp. OPERATING MARGIN, % accounting for about 74 percent of the order backlog. STRONG GROWTH IN GOTHENBURG, ACTION PROGRAM GIVES RESULTS Overall, income increased by 37 percent during the year. Operating profit 0.2 STOCKHOLM AND MALMÖ amounted to SEK 1 million, corresponding ORDER BOOKINGS, SEK During the past year, positions were to an operating income margin of 0.2 perMILLION 585 strengthened in all geographic markets. In cent. Order bookings amounted to SEK line with the strategy, there have been more 585 million (510) and as at year-end, projects during the past year, which have total order backlog amounted to SEK 316 been larger and more complex. Among the million (288), an increase of 10 percent. ORDER BACKLOG, SEK more prominent of these is the construcOne of the main drivers of positive MILLION tion of a new boiler house for a new comdevelopment is the action program initibined heat and power plant for Borås Energi and Miljö AB. The boiler house will be 4,000 square meters in size, ten stories high and ated in 2016 with the aim of improving profitability and strengthening internal control overall. The scope of the program 316 reach 45 meters at its highest position. The has been thorough and affected the entire project is one of the largest to date for Busibusiness area. Key parts have included ness Area Civil Engineering. reviewing the organization, processes, During the year, excavation, leveling and working methods, objectives and focus. groundwork began in Gothenburg for the construction of Karlatornet. Other major FOCUS 2018 projects include continued earthworks for The focus in 2018 will be on continued the construction of the Kongahälla shopgrowth with good profitability. In terms of ping center in Kungälv. the geographic markets, there will be parDuring the year, the establishment in the ticular focus on continued expansion in Stockholm region continued with several the Stockholm and Gothenburg regions. new, larger projects. In April, an agreement In addition, the objective is to continue to was reached with Haninge Municipality on grow in the market for larger projects in a construction contracts in the emerging discontrolled manner, primarily in the infratrict of Vega. The project entails the constructure sector. struction of roads and electricity, telecom43 Business areas CONSTRUCTION AND CIVIL ENGINEERING A focus on major construction projects The assignments in the Construction and Civil Engineering business areas usually consist of different types of construction projects. These projects are complex and often extend over long periods of time, entailing a need for efficient processes, and close collaboration between the customer and contracting company. Contracting assignments usually take the with a common approach designed to For each project, a purchaser is shape of turnkey or traditional contracts. manage unique assignments tailored to appointed, tied directly to the production In the case of a turnkey contract, the the customer’s needs and requirements. operation. Detailed knowledge of the procontractor is responsible for both planjects and experience of similar projects is ning, design and execution. In the case Tenders and market analysis essential for optimal procurement of conof a traditional contract, the client themThe tender process begins with a market tracts and purchasing of goods. Together selves have been responsible for the analysis to identify potential assignments with the site manager and supported by ­planning and design for the contract. suited to the organization. ­A costing proSerneke’s central purchasing organizacess then ensues to evaluate any tender tion, the purchaser performs the purchasHIGH PROPORTION OF TURNKEY documents. The process then proceeds ing for the assignment. ­C ONTRACTS with costing and calculations, bids being The purchasing process is characterThe majority, about 90 percent, of requested from subcontractors, quantifiized by cost-consciousness, quick deciSerneke’s construction projects in 2017 cation (estimating how much material is sion-making and good communication consisted of turnkey contracts. To create needed) and identification of risks and with all expenses being consistently the conditions for an efficient process opportunities. After that, tender evalu­ assessed. that ensures projects are delivered on ation is performed to assure the quality Supplier evaluation is included as an time, cost-effectively and with the right of the costing. When the costing process important parameter within the framelevel of quality, Serneke has an established is completed, the tender is submitted to work of Serneke’s quality efforts. Prior to form of collaboration whereby developers, the client. procurement, the purchaser conducts a contractors, consultants and other key thorough evaluation and control to ensure players in the current project jointly solve Planning, design, production and supplier professionalism. A supplier evalua task based on a common understanding ­completion ation is also performed following compleof objectives, organization, plan and Serneke’s core competencies include tion of an assignment, providing a basis budget. being able to lead and coordinate not only for the continued strategic purchasing The collaboration is characterized by its own organization, but also suppliers, work. honesty, openness and a high degree of subcontractors and clients, as well as joint planning – creating the best condioptimizing the purchase of materials. STABLE CUSTOMERS tions for project optimization. They also Customers in the Construction and Civil create good conditions for long-term cusPURCHASING Engineering business areas are both pritomer relations, where close collaboration In 2017, purchase of materials and servate and public sector players. The total and shared experience contribute to vices amounted to an average of twoorder backlog amounted to SEK 7,965 increased efficiency, lowered costs, higher thirds of the production costs. Serneke’s million (7,041) as at the end of 2017. Of quality and reduced risk. purchasing strategy combines assignthe value, private clients accounted for 56 ment-related contracts, long-term compercent and public sector clients for 44 FLEXIBLE PROCESS FOR UNIQUE prehensive contracts with retained freepercent. Public sector clients include the ­PROJECTS dom to sign contracts locally on the spot government, county councils and regions, Contracting assignments vary in size, type, market. Purchasing is managed locally at municipalities and publicly owned compaform of procurement and complexity, the project level, supported by a central nies. Private clients consist of stable, solwhich places high demands on efficient purchasing organization, resulting in a vent and professional players with a long and adaptable processes. The Company high degree of flexibility and economies history and where credit risk is judged to has developed a comprehensive process of scale on products purchased in bulk. be low. 44 Business areas ­ EXAMPLES OF COLLABORATIVE PROJECTS AND PARTNERSHIP 1 Workshop and develop3 Joint evaluation of 5 Procurement of 7 Compilation of 10 Start-up of the­ ment of Partnership/­ ­alternative solutions and suppliers and contractors ­documentation ­g uarantee and collaboration declaration target cost calculations in collaboration management phase TENDER DESIGN COMPLETION PRODUCTION PREPARATION PRODUCTION AFTERMARKET 2 Planning as well as 4 Production-start 6 Continuous moni8 Handover and 9 Final meeting for 11 Guarantee project planning and meeting toring of budget and operations review follow-up and inspection, design phase time plan experience feed­analysis and back evaluation 45 Business areas In the middle of Helsingborg, next to the central station down by the water, Oceanhamnen is growing into a lively new district. Here, Serneke is now ­building 49 apartments as well as certain businesses in the center. INCOME AND PROFIT INCOME AND OPERATING PROFIT Income for 2017 amounted to SEK 212 million (373) and is mainly attributable to 600 90 project income from housing projects and the sale of the Mälardalen University project. Operating profit amounted to SEK 65 million (334), of which SEK 70 million was 400 60 attributable to the Mälardalen University project, SEK 38 million of which was reported as share in profit of associates 200 30 and joint ventures. The comparative figures are affected by the sale of 50 percent of the Karlastaden 0 0 15 16 17 project in the second quarter of 2016. Income, SEK million Operating profit, SEK million 46 Business areas BUSINESS AREA PROJECT DEVELOPMENT Development of properties and residential housing Since 2015, Business Area Project Development has focused on building an organization and developing a risk-adjusted project portfolio. In 2017, the effects of the work began to show in the form of increased income and sales start for a number of housing projects in Helsingborg, Landskrona and Sollentuna. Business Area Project Development is ning work. In 2017, sales of residences responsible for acquisitions and developbegan in Helsingborg, Landskrona and INCOME, SEK MILLION ment of projects and development proper­S ollentuna. ties. The operations mainly consist of acquisitions of developed or undeveloped land that is being refined into residential and SALE OF CAMPUS ESKILSTUNA TO HEMSÖ 212 commercial properties. In 2016, Serneke and Pareto were commisDevelopment of project and developsioned to develop and build the new campus OPERATING PROFIT, SEK ment properties is done in-house or in colat Mälardalen University in Eskilstuna. In MILLION laboration with partners. Customers are March 2017, Serneke and Pareto signed an mainly private individuals, tenant-owners‘ associations and private and municipal housing companies, but also property comagreement to sell the jointly owned project company that owns the properties. The buyer was the property company Hemsö. 65 panies or companies that need commercial The sale resulted in an underlying property VALUE OF PROJECT space. value of approximately SEK 800 million and PORTFOLIO, SEK MILLION also entails that Hemsö is responsible for the A WELL-BALANCED PROJECT ­DEVELOPMENT PORTFOLIO The portfolio consists of land for developproject‘s funding during the construction period. 1,814 ment of residential and commercial properNEW DISTRICT IN VEDDESTA ties in attractive locations with a focus on Järfälla Municipality resolved during the For information on the developmetropolitan regions in Sweden. As at the year to proceed with the plans to establish, ment of the Karlstaden project, end of 2017, the estimated value of the protogether with Serneke, an entirely new dissee p. 23 ject development portfolio amounted to trict in Veddesta. In addition to housing, SEK 1,814 million, of which SEK 205 million schools, commerce and hotels, a major was in its own balance sheet. Contracted multisport facility is also planned. The land development rights of which the company allocation agreement gives Serneke, for a has not yet taken possession are estimated period of three years, exclusive negotiation at approximately SEK 704 million and develrights with the municipality regarding opment rights owned through joint ventures transfer and development of the area. or associates are estimated at approximately SEK 905 million. Of the total project STRATEGY AND FOCUS GOING ­FORWARD development portfolio of an estimated In recent years, Business Area Project 636,962 square meters of gross floor area, Development has strengthened both its options on development rights, that is, conoffering and organization as well as its tracted development rights of which the position in the market. Projects carried out Company has yet to take possession, have generated positive attention and accounted for 41 percent. The options can good references, leading to increased be exercised when the detailed developopportunities for obtaining new land alloment plan for the relevant property enters cations. The strategy for the future is to legal force or a building permit is granted. continue investing in low-risk projects at the right price and in locations with a good SALES START OF HOUSING PROJECTS market presence over time. Focus 2018 Within Project Development, a number of will be on continued implementation. As housing projects are underway in several more projects enter production, the cities. The focus so far has been on acquisiexchange with other business areas within tion of land and properties as well as planSerneke will also increase. 47 Business areas PROJECT DEVELOPMENT – STEP BY STEP Capacity for large and ­complex projects Serneke has experience in large and complex projects. Knowledge and resources from the internal contracting operations enable control over the entire chain and implementation characterized by high quality and good cost control. The operations cover all stages of the value chain, from market surveillance, land acquisition, project planning, design and production for sale and management of the property. 1 2 MARKET MONITORING AND LAND PROJECT PLANNING ­ACQUISITION At the start of a project, a responsible project The first step in the project development process developer is appointed, whose assignment is to is usually the acquisition of land. Serneke develop and implement the project. The planacquires developed and undeveloped land. ning process takes place in dialogue with both Opportunities and risks are identified from a the customer and the municipality to ensure prospect list with identified objects. In connecthat all of the municipality’s requirements and tion with property acquisitions, Serneke identirestrictions are met while the customer’s fies whether a property is suitable to be held wishes are taken into account. The contracting long-term or for immediate sale after refinement. segment is also brought in to contribute experience and views on various construction solutions and production methods. ­T his creates the conditions for simple and cost-­ effective solutions that benefit all involved. The planning phase comprises design, project planning, calculations, budgeting, the detailed development plan and time plan.After the drawings and plans have been established, agreements are also made with external partners. Karlastaden, Gothenburg 48 Business areas 3 4 SALES AND MARKETING PRODUCTION AND AFTERMARKET Customers for housing projects developed Production can commence once the project in-house are usually private individuals who preparations are complete and a predeteracquire property rights or tenant-owner rights. mined share of the properties is sold through Sales to private individuals are mainly through binding agreements or a predetermined real estate agents, digital channels, advertising share of leases has been signed. Collaboraand mailings. For commercial projects, customtion between the various business areas in ers are usually public or private property owners planning and project implementation creates or tenants. the conditions for high efficiency and utilization of skills. When the building is complete, the project is handed over to the client. After completion of the project, a project review is conducted, in which the project is analyzed and evaluated. 49 Business areas INCOME AND PROFIT INCOME AND OPERATING PROFIT Income in 2017 amounted to SEK 51 million (15), mainly due to a growing property port60 300 folio. The property management earnings were negative in the amount of SEK 7 million (9) of which a non-recurring expense of SEK 11 million was charged to earnings. Adjusted 40 200 for the provision for guaranteed net operating earnings, Property Management generated an operating profit. 20 100 Changes in value of properties amounted to SEK 228 million (42), and share in profit of associates for the period amounted to a loss 0 15 0 16 17 of SEK 8 million (profit 4), mainly attributable to Änglagården Holding AB. Income, SEK million Operating profit, SEK million 50 Business areas BUSINESS AREA PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Focus on long-term value creation Business Area Property Management comprises acquisitions, development and management of properties with potential for good appreciation. Since its inception in 2015, the property MAJOR INTEREST IN MULTI-SPORT portfolio has been developed through FACILITIES INCOME, SEK MILLION selective acquisition of commercial propThe more prominent holdings in the properties, primarily in the Gothenburg region. In total, the lettable area as at the end of the year amounted to approximately erty portfolio include the jointly-owned Prioritet Serneke Arena. The facility is the Nordic region‘s largest multi-sport facility, 51 3,467,000 square meters. containing an indoor ski facility, full-sized OPERATING PROFIT, SEK soccer field, schools, restaurant, gym and MILLION 213 VALUE-BUILDING PROPERTY offices. As at 31 December 2017, the let­DEVELOPMENT ting ratio was 100 percent. Serneke is not a traditional property Interest in multi-sport facilities owner. The focus is on acquisitions and remained high in 2017 and Serneke held VALUE OF INVESTMENT property development that generate cash discussions with several municipalities PROPERTIES, SEK MILLION flows – and therefore potential for longduring the year on establishment. The term appreciation. Once the expected value of the property is reached, the objective is to put it on the market. land allocation agreement signed with Järfälla Municipality during the year includes a multi-sport facility that 895 includes indoor skiing. The facility will be ADDITIONAL ACQUISITION AT SÄVE the first of its kind in the Stockholm area. FLYGPLATS One of the significant events in 2017 was STRENGTHENED ORGANIZATION the acquisition of another property at During the past year, Business Area PropSäve flygplats. The property is directly erty Management was strengthened in a adjacent to the property that Serneke number of ways, including through exten­purchased in the spring of 2016. In total, sive recruitment and review of internal Serneke‘s now owns approximately 3.2 processes. Overall, the development has million square meters of developable land contributed to a clearer internal division of in the area. The largest current tenants are responsibilities and increased efficiency. CEVT (China Euro Vehicle Technology AB), the Swedish National Police, the Swedish FOCUS GOING FORWARD Maritime Administration, Region Västra The ambition is to develop the property Götaland and the flight school Svensk portfolio through selective acquisitions of pilotutbildning AB. properties. Through active and commitThe vision is to develop the entire area ted management, the objective is to into a logistics center, experience center achieve a balance between risk and and an area of research ​​ and development opportunity, capital tied-up and return. for the automotive industry. The large Potential acquisitions can be either paved areas and unutilized land areas properties developed within the Group allow the area to provide space for many with stable cash flows and potential for different types of activities that require long-term appreciation, or other properlarge areas. ties with good development potential. A major focus is also on strategic land and property acquisitions which, over time, through their location or due to other conditions, are expected to have the potential for positive development. 51 52 Plans for the Future Serneke is one of the main sponsors of IFK Göteborg's project “Plans for the Future”. The project, in collaboration with the Cruyff Foundation, aims to create better conditions for children and young people by promoting health, community and safety and security. In cooperation with Johan Cruyff Foundation IFK Göteborg and Serneke will build three soccer fields in the Gothenburg suburbs Hammarkullen, Biskopsgården and Bergsjön. The fields are called courts and are significantly smaller than regular soccer fields. They will be built in urban environments that are natural gathering points for children and young people. The spaces will invite both organized and spontaneous sports and be guided by the by the principles and values established ​​ by the Johan Cruyff Foundation. The concept exists today in 21 countries, and so far, about 200 fields have been built around Europe. 53 The share The share Serneke's B share has been listed on and 55.2 percent of the votes. The second carry 1.6 percent annual interest and have ­Nasdaq Stockholm since November 2016. largest owner was Lommen Holding AB, a conversion price of SEK 120. Upon conSerneke is part of the Mid Cap segment and with 17.2 percent of the number of shares version, a maximum of 132,350 Series B belongs to the Industrials and Construction and 12.4 percent of the votes. The shares may be added and share capital & Materials sector index, according to remaining shares and votes were held by may increase by a maximum of SEK 13,235. ­Nasdaq Stockholm's classification. institutional investors and individuals in During the term of the convertibles, holdThe share price for Serneke's B share Sweden and abroad. The share of foreign-­ ers are entitled, on certain occasions, to decreased by approximately 15 percent owned shares as at year-end was 3.2 request conversion into new Series B in 2017. The highest price during the year ­percent. shares. As at December 31, 2017, a total was reached on August 7, at SEK 134, and of 850 convertibles were converted to the lowest on December 29, at SEK 89.25. DIVIDEND POLICY B shares and 131,500 convertibles The price as at year-end corresponded to Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to remained. a market capitalization of approximately distribute 30 to 50 percent of net profit At the Annual General Meeting on May 3, SEK 2,075 million. after tax for the previous financial year. In 2017, a long-term convertible program A total of 5,514,956 shares were sold in accordance with this policy, the Board was adopted for employees in the Group. 2017, corresponding to a turnover rate of proposes that the 2018 Annual General The program entails that the company 23.7 percent. The total trading value in Meeting resolve on a dividend of SEK 4 take a convertible loan of a maximum the B share amounted to 422,945,882. per share. nominal value of SEK 20 million through The average daily turnover amounted to the issue of convertibles. The subscribed 21,890 shares or SEK 1,678,357. INCENTIVE PROGRAM amount was approximately SEK 7.6 million, Serneke’s permanent employees have had which entails that a maximum of 48,503 SHAREHOLDERS the opportunity to subscribe to convert­ Class B shares can increase share capital The number of shareholders amounted to ibles in Serneke Group AB (publ). by no more than SEK 4,850.3 at full con5,396 as at December 31, 2017, an The Extraordinary General Meeting on version. The conversion rate was fixed at increase of 105 owners compared with June 29, 2016 resolved to issue convertiSEK 157.70. The convertibles fall due the previous year. As at the same date, the bles with a nominal value of approximately ­S eptember 8, 2020, provided conversion largest owner was Ola Serneke Invest AB, SEK 15.9 million. The convertibles are has not taken place before this date. The with 26.0 percent of the number of shares valid up to and including August 26, 2019, convertibles will carry an annual interest rate of 2.6 percent. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PER SHARE SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2017 SEK (unless otherwise stated) 2017 2016 Price Profit/loss before dilution 13.94 22.40 140 Profit/loss after dilution 13.81 21.22 Weighted average number 120 of shares before dilution 23,169,394 17,590,630 Weighted average number of shares after dilution 23,396,120 18,567,901 100 Cash flow from operations, before ­dilution 2.03 2.56 80 Cash flow from operations, after ­dilution 2.01 2.42 60 Shareholders’ equity, before dilution 78.33 64.67 Shareholders’ equity, after dilution 77.73 62.83 40 jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec Market price as at year-end 89.25 105.00 2017 Dividend, SEK 1) 4.00 Serneke B OMX Mid Cap Stockholm Index Source: SIX Financial Information 1) For 2017, the Board’s proposal to the Annual General Meeting. 54 The share SERNEKE'S TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS, DECEMBER 31, 2017 Series A Series B Total number of Percentage Percentage of votes, Name shares shares shares shares, % % Ola Serneke Invest AB 3,710,000 2,331,354 6,041,354 26.0 55.2 Lommen Holding AB 540,000 3,457,803 3,997,803 17.2 12.4 Christer Larsson i Trollhättan AB 380,000 497,000 877,000 3.8 6.0 Ledge Ing AB 330,000 450,000 780,000 3.4 5.2 Vision Group i väst AB 250,000 536,000 786,000 3.4 4.2 AB Stratio 150,000 0 150,000 0.6 2.1 Carnegie Fonder 0 1,364,126 1,364,126 5.9 1.9 Svolder Aktiebolag 0 1,200,000 1,200,000 5.1 1.7 Cliens fonder 0 927,600 927,600 4.0 1.3 JPMEL Stockholm Branch 0 425,000 425,000 1.8 0.6 Total, 10 largest 5,360,000 11,188,883 16,548,883 71.2 90.6 Other shareholders 0 6,699,569 6,699,569 28.8 9.4 Total 5,360,000 17,888,452 23,248,452 100.0 100.0 Source: Euroclear and Serneke SHARE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT Change in Series A Series B Total number Change in Total share Quotient value Date Event number of shares shares shares of shares share capital capital per share Founding of 2004 ­c ompany 1,000 1,000 100,000 100 2005 New share issue 4,000 5,000 400,000 500,000 100 Bonus issue/ 2011 share split 9,995,000 5,000,000 4,995,000 10,000,000 500,000 1,000,000 0.10 2012 New share issue 478,000 478,000 10,478,000 47,800 1,047,800 0.10 2012 New share issue 1,047,670 1,047,670 11,525,670 104,767 1,152,567 0.10 2013 New share issue 2,717,256 360,000 2,357,256 14,242,926 271,725.6 1,424,292.6 0.10 2014 New share issue 286,000 286,000 14,528,926 28,600 1,452,892.6 0.10 Exchange of 2015 ­c onvertibles 1,309,586 1,309,586 15,838,512 130,958.6 1,583,851.2 0.10 2015 New share issue 727,273 727,273 16,565,785 72,727.3 1,656,578.5 0.10 New share issue in conjunction with the initial public 2016 offering 5,681,818 5,681,818 22,247,603 568,181.8 2,224,760.3 0.10 Exchange of 2016 ­c onvertibles 467,249 467,249 22,714,852 46,724.9 2,271,485.2 0.10 Exchange of 2017 ­c onvertibles 533,600 533,600 23,248,452 53,360 2,324,845.2 0.10 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE, DECEMBER 31, 2017 SHARE SERIES, NUMBER OF SHARES AND NUMBER Percentage OF VOTES, DECEMBER 31, 2017 Number of Number of of Series B Number of Series B shares shareholders shares shares, % Share class Shares Votes 1–1,000 4,931 682,396 3.8 Series A shares 5,360,000 5,360,000.0 1,001–10,000 354 1,188,952 6.7 Series B shares 17,888,452 1,788,845.2 10,001–100,000 86 2,668,288 14.9 Total 23,248,452 7,148,845.2 100,001– 21 13,348,816 74.6 Source: Euroclear and Serneke ANALYSTS MONITORING SERNEKE SHARE INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTES Erik Granström, Carnegie Name Serneke Group B The share capital amounts to SEK 2,324,845.20 erik.granstrom@carnegie.se Exchange Nasdaq Stockholm divided among 23,248,452 shares, each with a Listed since November 24, 2016 quotient value of SEK 0.1. There are two classes: Per Holm, Carnegie Listing Mid Cap Stockholm 5,360,000 A shares and 17,888,452 class B per.holm@carnegie.se Sector Construction & Materials shares. The Series A share entails one (1) vote Symbol SRNKE B and the Series B share one-tenth (0.1) of a vote. Johan Edberg, Pareto Securities Currency SEK johan.edberg@paretosec.com ISIN-code SE0007278841 55 Board of Director’s Report Board of Director’s Report The Board and Chief Executive Officer of Serneke Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556669-4153 hereby present the annual accounts and consolidated accounts for the 2017 financial year. Serneke Group AB, headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, is the parent company of the Group. OPERATIONS believe that challengers drive development and that new ways of The Serneke Group operates within four business areas – Conthinking create more efficient and innovative solutions. struction, Civil Engineering, Project Development and Property Management. The Group provides comprehensive services in INCOME these areas for property companies, industrial companies and Consolidated income for 2017 amounted to SEK 5,605 million commerce in both the private and public sectors Serneke’s oper(3,978), an increase of 41 percent compared with the correspondations are focused on the three major metropolitan areas of ing period the preceding year. Demand for the Swedish construcStockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. tion market has been good in 2017, and the contracting operations Construction and Civil Engineering amounted to SEK 5,542 (3,684), BUSINESS CONCEPT growth of 50 percent. Income during the period amounted to SEK Serneke is the next generation contractor. We demonstrate this 212 million (373) and is mainly attributable to project income from by constantly challenging, daring to think differently and queshousing projects and the sale of the Mälardalen University project. tioning the current industry conditions we face every day. We Property Management income amounted to SEK 51 million (15) and the strong increase in income is primarily attributable to a growing property portfolio. MULTI-YEAR SUMMARY, THE GROUP Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Jan–Dec SEK million 2017 2016 2015 2014 EARNINGS Income statement Consolidated operating profit amounted to SEK 419 million (411), Income 5,605 3,978 3,107 1,800 an increase of 2 percent compared with the corresponding period Operating profit 419 411 128 82 the previous year. A sharp increase in volume as well as improved Profit after net financial margins entails that the contracting operations accounted for SEK items 401 394 112 70 184 million (50) of the operating profit. Construction had an operProfit for the year 323 394 137 68 ating margin for the full year of 3.7 percent (2.7), accounting for Key indicators SEK 183 million (86), an increase of 113 percent. Civil Engineering’s Growth, % 40.9 28.0 72.6 55.4 operating profit amounted to SEK 1 million (loss 36). The business Organic growth, % 39.1 28.0 51.8 41.3 area has made major changes with the aim of improving profitabilOperating margin, % 7.5 10.3 4.1 4.6 ity, which have had a major impact and resulted in an operating Equity/assets ratio, % 41.3 42.7 27.4 20.6 profit. For Business Area Project development operating profit amounted to SEK 65 million (334), of which SEK 70 million was INCOME Jan–Dec Jan–Dec attributable to the Mälardalen University project, SEK 38 million of SEK million 2017 2016 which was reported as share of profit of associates and joint venConstruction 4,919 3,229 tures. During the second quarter of 2016, the company carried out Civil Engineering 623 455 its largest transaction so far as 50 percent of the Karlastaden proProject Development 212 373 ject was divested, which generated income of SEK 318 million and Property Management 51 15 operating profit of SEK 444 million, affecting comparative fi­ gures. Group-wide 127 99 Operating profit for Business Area Property Management Elimination –327 –193 increased strongly during the year and amounted to SEK 213 Total 5,605 3,978 ­million (37), which is mainly attributable to changes in value of the investment properties. OPERATING PROFIT The operating margin for the Group was 7.5 percent (10.3). Net Jan–Dec Jan–Dec SEK million 2017 2016 financial items amounted to SEK negative 18 million (17). Tax reported for the year amounted to SEK 78 million (0) and is mainly Construction 183 86 attributable to the unrealized appreciation increases on the propCivil Engineering 1 –36 erties. The previous year’s tax is explained mainly by non-taxable Project Development 65 334 earnings attributable to divested properties and non-taxable Property Management 213 37 earnings of associates and joint ventures. Group-wide –43 –10 Profit for the year amounted to SEK 323 million (394). Total 419 411 56 Board of Director’s Report FINANCIAL POSITION covers approximately 9,000 square meters of land and approxiOn December 31, 2017 the equity/assets ratio was 41.3 percent mately 10,000 square meters of premises space. The property (42.7). As at the end of the period, the Group’s cash and cash entered Serneke’s possession on October 2, 2017. equivalents, including unutilized credit facilities, amounted to SEK 631 million (771). Sale of Mälardalen University project Shareholders’ equity for the period increased to SEK 1,821 million Serneke, in cooperation with Pareto, was commissioned to develop (1,469). This increase comprises conversion of convertible debenand build the new campus at Mälardalen University in Eskilstuna. ture loans for SEK 27 million, issue costs of SEK 2 million and profit As at the end of March, all shares in the project company were sold for the year of SEK 323 million. to Hemsö Fastighets AB, which becomes the long-term owner and Net debt amounted to SEK 254 million (negative 37) as at manager of the property. The transaction was first carried out December 31, 2017. The net debt/equity ratio was 13.9 percent through a sale of Serneke’s wholly owned project company to a (negative 2.5) and the average interest rate was 3.94 percent joint venture with Pareto. After that, the joint venture was sold to (4.49). Unutilized committed credit facilities amounted to SEK Hemsö. Serneke recognizes part of the sales as share of profit of 200 million (200) as at the end of the period. associates and joint ventures of SEK 38 million. Cash flow OTHER SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 47 million (45). The detailed development plan for Karlstaden gains legal force Cash flow from investing activities amounted to negative SEK 319 In December 2017, the detailed development plan for Karlstaden million (201). This is mainly due to acquisition of investment propgained legal force, clearing the way for determining an official erties but also changes in investment activities. construction start for Karlatornet, the first and largest building Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK 132 million in the district. Currently, extensive ground improvement is being (716) and mainly relates to changes in borrowing. The previous carried out for foundation reinforcement for Karlatornet, which is year, the new issue contributed net SEK 598 million and issued scheduled for completion in summer 2018. After that, the work of bonds SEK 294 million. erecting the tallest building in the Nordic region will begin. Cash flow for the period amounted to negative SEK 140 million (positive 560). OUTLOOK The market for all four business areas within Serneke continues to ORDER BOOKINGS AND ORDER BACKLOG develop well. The need for new housing and a continued strong For the period January–December 2017, order intake increased by urbanization trend drives the development of commercial proper16 percent to SEK 6,400 million (5,539), which is largely driven by ties and public service ventures. Several major infrastructure initia continued good housing market and continued high demand in atives are under way, which directly and indirectly creates business the market. As at the end of 2017, order backlog was SEK 7,965 opportunities for Serneke. With a strong foothold in the country’s million, compared with SEK 7,041 million as at the end of 2016, an three metropolitan regions, the Group is well-positioned to conincrease of 13 percent. tinue to grow organically and through acquisitions. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Acquisition of project and development properties In accordance with Chapter 6 of the Annual Accounts Act Chapter, In May, Serneke acquired several companies comprising approxiSection 11, the company has chosen to prepare the sustainability mately 40,000 square meters of development rights as well as a report separate from the Annual Report. The sustainability report smaller operating construction business. The development rights can be found in the Annual Report on pages 30–39. are geographically located mainly in Trollhättan, Vänersborg and Strömstad. Serneke’s ambition is for several of the development EMPLOYEES rights to start production in 2018. The properties entered The number of employees as at year-end was about 1,000, comSerneke’s possession in the first week of May. pared with 850 at the corresponding time the previous year. The Group’s future development is contingent on retaining Acquisition of the Säve Depå property existing dedicated and skilled employees and attracting new ones. In June, Serneke acquired a property at Säve Depå, with an underSerneke has, therefore, declared a strategic objective to be recoglying property value of approximately SEK 100 million. The current nized as the most attractive employer in the industry. Through land area of ​​Säve, which covers about 1 million square meters, is continuous dialogue and responsiveness, Serneke wants to create located directly adjacent to Säve flygplats, which Serneke acquired personal development opportunities in a challenging environment. in May 2016. Serneke’s total contiguous land holdings now comThe continuous need for recruitment arising from continuous prise about three million square meters of developable land. The growth is a great challenge but also provides good opportunities property was acquired through a corporate acquisition of AB Platzer for motivated employees to develop within the organization. With Åseby 7:2 and entered Serneke’s possession on September 1, 2017. stimulating projects and a belief in the ability of our employees, Serneke wants to provide a corporate culture of great personal Acquisition of property at Karlastaden responsibility and participation. In June, Serneke acquired the property Göteborg Lindholmen 1:22. With a systematic and prioritized work environment through all The property is adjacent to the emerging Karlastaden district and stages of the process, we strive for a safe and secure work environ­ is strategically important for the further development of the area. ment that encourages personal growth and commitment. The purchase consideration was SEK 127 million and the property 57 Board of Director’s Report CONVERTIBLES year amounted to SEK 117 million (88) and operating profit was The Annual General Meeting on April 13, 2015 resolved to issue negative in the amount of SEK 19 million (9). convertibles at a nominal amount of SEK 49.5 million. The convertibles had a maturity up to and including April 28, 2017 with a conTHE SHARE version rate of SEK 49.50. During the year, all convertibles were Serneke B shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since converted, entailing that 1,000,000 Series B shares were added, November 2016. For further information, see page 54, the section and the share capital increased by SEK 53,285. on the Share. The Extraordinary General Meeting on June 29, 2016 resolved to issue convertibles with a nominal value of approximately SEK 15.9 DIVIDEND POLICY AND PROPOSED DIVIDEND million. The convertibles are valid up to and including August 26, Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 30 to 50 percent 2019, carry 1.6 percent annual interest and have a conversion of net profit after tax for the previous financial year. Ahead of the price of SEK 120. Upon conversion, a maximum of 132,350 Series Annual General Meeting 2018, the Board of Director’s proposes a B shares may be added and share capital may increase by a maxidividend of SEK 4 (0). mum of SEK 13,235. During the term of the convertibles, holders are entitled, on certain occasions, to request conversion into new PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION OF EARNINGS Series B shares. The Annual General Meeting has at its disposal the following As at December 31, 2017, a total of 850 convertibles were conamounts, SEK: verted to B shares and 131,500 convertibles remained. Retained earnings –93,984,886 At the Annual General Meeting on May 3, 2017, a long-term Share premium reserve 802,570,581 incentive program was adopted in the form of employee convert­ Profit for the year –32,683,077 ibles for employees in the Group. The program entails that the Total 675,902,618 company take a convertible debenture loan of a maximum nominal value of SEK 20 million through the issue of convertibles. The subThe Board proposes that the available earnings be appropriated as scribed amount amounted to approximately SEK 7.6 million, which follows, SEK: means that a maximum of 48,503 Class B shares can increase Dividend 92,993,808 share capital by no more than SEK 4,850.3 at full conversion. The Carried forward: 582,908,810 conversion rate was fixed at SEK 157.70. The convertibles fall due Total 675,902,618 September 8, 2020, provided conversion has not taken place before this date. The convertibles will carry an annual interest rate THE BOARD’S OPINION ON THE PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION of 2.6 percent. OF PROFIT The Group’s equity has been determined in accordance with the WORK OF THE BOARD IN 2017 IFRS standards adopted by the EU and their interpretations (IFRIC) Serneke’s Board consists of six members. In 2017, the Board held and in accordance with Swedish law, including the Financial ten formal meetings in addition to ongoing contact. The Board is Reporting Council, RFR 1. The Parent Company’s adjusted equity responsible for the company’s organization and management of has been determined in accordance with Swedish law and Financial the company’s affairs by establishing the Group’s objectives and Reporting Council, RFR 2. strategies, ensuring procedures and systems for monitoring the The proposed dividend is in line with the Board’s defined dividend established objectives, continuously assessing the Group’s financial policy. Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 30 to 50 situation as well as evaluating the operational management. In percent of net profit after tax for the previous financial year. Taking general, the Board deals with issues that are of material importance into consideration the overall strategy in which growth is prioritized to the Group. Key issues during the year, in addition to the issues over dividends over the next few years, the dividend proposal has included in the Board’s standard work, have been strategic decisions taken into account actual development and growth opportunities. regarding property transactions, financing, etc. Particular descripThe proposed dividend amounts to 29 percent of net profit after tax. tion of the Board’s work is included in the Corporate Governance In assessing the size of the dividend, the Board has taken into report found on page 62. account the Group’s investment needs, consolidation needs and position in general, and that the Group’s future development can REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES occur with retained financial strength and continued good freedom According to the Swedish Companies Act, a resolution is to be made of action. The proposed dividend to shareholders reduces the at the Annual General Meeting on guidelines for remuneration and Group’s equity/assets ratio from 41.3 percent to 40.1. The Group’s other terms of employment for senior executives. “Senior execuequity/assets ratio decreases by more than 1 percentage point tives” refers to Serneke’s Group management. through the proposed dividend. The equity/assets ratio is prudent The Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting in 2018 in view of the fact that the company and the Group’s operations put forward a proposal for a decision regarding these payments, continue to be profitable. The liquidity of the company and the including that they should be commercially competitive. The full Group is estimated to be maintained at an equally prudent level. proposal will be published in conjunction with the invitation to the The Board is of the opinion that the proposed dividend does not Annual General Meeting. Current terms of employment do not differ prevent the company and other companies included in the Group from the principles of the forthcoming proposal. from fulfilling their obligations in the short and long term, nor from carrying out the required investments. The proposed dividend can PARENT COMPANY thus be defended with regard to the provisions of the Companies The operations of Serneke Group AB (publ) consist mainly of Group Act (2005:551) 17 Chapter 17, Section 3, paragrahps 2–3 Management and Group-wide services. Annual sales during the ­(prudence rule). 58 Board of Director’s Report Risks and risk management The ability to identify, evaluate, manage and monitor risks plays a key role in the management of Serneke. The objective is to implement the Group’s strategy with a well-thought-out and well-balanced risk level. Future events could affect the business positively and present the opportunity to create increased value, or negatively by risks, which could have a negative impact on Serneke’s operations and performance. In Serneke’s operations, there are several types of risks, both Furthermore, the Board is responsible for ensuring that accuoperational and financial. Operational risks are linked to daily rate information is provided to the company’s stakeholders, that operations and may apply to tenders or project development, the company complies with laws and regulations and that the assessment of projects’ profit development, risks associated company develops and implements internal policies and ethical with production or price development. Operational risks are manguidelines. A risk analysis for the Group is conducted annually in aged by the internal business management that has been develconjunction with the Board of Directors’ resolutions for updating oped within the Group. Each business area manages its risks on the Group’s risk policy. The CEO and management are responsible the basis of business management and developed procedures for compliance with policies. Compliance policies are reported to and processes. Serneke’s financial risks such as interest rate, the Board on a monthly basis. liquidity, financing and credit risks are managed centrally in order to minimize and control risk exposure. Risk Description of the risk Management EXTERNAL RISKS Economic growth The contracting and property sectors are largely affected by macroeSerneke closely monitors macroeconomic develconomic factors such as general economic trends, opments and continuously focuses on efficiency growth, employment, production rates and trends in prices for new improvements and cost control. housing and commercial premises, changes in infrastructure, inflation and interest rates. If one or more of these factors were to be subject to a negative development, this could have a material adverse effect on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. Demography Population growth and migration flows affect housing demand. Serneke Serneke carefully follows the demographic trend strives to be active in regions with sustained population growth, such as and strives to be active in regions that have susthe metropolitan regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. There tained population growth. is nonetheless a risk that changing patterns of population growth and migration flows will negatively affect the conditions for Serneke’s ope­ rations, which could have a negative effect on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. Competitive situation Serneke operates in an industry that is exposed to competition. A ­ mong Serneke focuses on distinguishing the offering other factors, Serneke’s future competitive opportunities rely on by being more innovative, thinking in new and Serneke’s capacity to anticipate future changes and react quickly to different ways, as well as working smarter and existing and future market needs. Serneke may be forced to make costly more cost-effectively. investments, restructuring or price reductions to adapt to a new competitive situation, which could have a negative effect on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. 59 Board of Director’s Report Risk Description of the risk Management Political risks Political decisions, such as amended tax regulations, conditions of tenSerneke’s activities are diversied within several ure, changed regulations on housing construction, infrastructure different disciplines such as housing and cominvestments and municipal planning, could change the conditions of mercial projects and through different forms of the market and of Serneke’s operations. Worthy of specific mention are tenure. possible regulatory changes regarding interest deductions, amortization requirements and possible debt ceilings for private individuals, all of which could change the conditions of the market and, accordingly, of Serneke’s operations. In individual projects, there is a risk that political decisions, and amendments to previous political decisions (that previously approved infrastructure investments are postponed, for example), entail worsened conditions for the project, which could have a negative impact on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. OPERATIONAL RISKS Risks related to In contracting operations, the primary limitation of operational risk Before submitting a tender, it is always ensured ­production ­normally occurs in the tender process. Tenders that are not sufficiently that there are sufficient resources for managing elaborate, or based on inaccurate calculations, can lead to both lower the projects. For submitted tenders, it is always earnings, loss of internal control, and increased expenses. The risk that ensured that identified risks are manageable and the planning process is delayed, detailed development plans are not calculable. Serneke has in recent years gained approved or that building permits or other permits required for new some experience from large and complex proconstruction or renovation are not obtained or are delayed. jects and hired senior expertise in risk analysis, cost estimation and project management. Price development The risk that the property market developed negatively during the proAlways aiming for sales prior to or in conjunction ­during the project’s ject, which can make the property difficult to sell. with the start of production. Established process ­production time with clear analytical and decision-making structure that takes into account market outlets before an investment is made. Pollution, work Serneke’s construction and civil engineering operations have an impact Measures related to pollution, occupational ­environment and for which Serneke is responsible. In connection with property acquisihealth and environmental risks are normally han­environmental risks tions within the framework of the project development operations, dled as part of ongoing operations. there is also a risk of the acquired property having previously been contaminated. Depending on the scale of any pollution, this could have a negative impact on Serneke’s brand, operations, performance and financial position. Serneke’s operations also include risks related to the work environment. Accidents or serious incidents may materialize liability and negative publicity, which may adversely affect Serneke’s brand, operations, performance and financial position. Risks related to the In addition to the contractor risk (where applicable), the development of Serneke has competent employees supported by development of projects and properties, both residential and commercial, under the ongoing training and the most current industry ­projects and properties company’s own auspices and with partners, also entails development, experience. An important element is the Group’s sales and value risk. The realization of such risks could result in addicollective experience from similar projects and tional capital being tied up, but also losses. the solutions developed for special situations. FINANCIAL RISKS (SEE NOTE 4 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT) Interest risk Serneke’s operations are financed, apart from equity, through borrowFinancial policy governs the handling of ings. Interest rate expenses are primarily affected by the level of current Serneke’s interest rate risk. Current interest rates market interest rates and credit institutions’ margins as well as the are monitored continuously. strategy Serneke chooses for the fixed interest rate. Market interest rates are mainly affected by the anticipated rate of inflation. The shorter interest rates are mainly affected by the Riksbank’s key interest rate, which constitutes a monetary policy instrument. In periods with rising inflation expectations, interest levels are expected to rise, which could have a negative effect on Serneke’s performance and cash flow. Liquidity risk Serneke’s payment commitments consist primarily of expenses for The Group continuously monitors its liquidity by materials and subcontractors, as well as personnel expenses. If Serneke reporting to the Board and management on a were to lack sufficient liquidity to fulfill its payment obligations, this monthly basis. Liquidity planning is ongoing, could have a negative effect on Serneke’s operations, financial position focusing on the short-term as well as the longand performance. term need. 60 Board of Director’s Report Risk Description of the risk Management Refinancing risk Refinancing risk is the risk that financing cannot be secured or renewed The Group’s external financing needs are mon­ on maturity, or can only be obtained or renewed at significantly itored regularly by management and the Board. increased expense. The Company primarily finances its operations The Group’s financial operations are centrally through shareholders’ equity, borrowings and the company’s own cash organized, giving a good overview of its financial flow. There is a risk that it will not be possible to raise additional capital positions. or that it can only be obtained on terms that are unfavorable for Serneke. Although the Group currently has access to long-term financing, Serneke could, in the future, breach its financial covenants and other commitments under credit and loan agreements due to general economic conditions or disruptions in the capital and credit markets. If the company fails to obtain the necessary capital in the future, this could have a negative impact on the company’s operations, financial position and performance. If the company fails to refinance its loan agreements or can only obtain refinancing of its loan agreements at significantly higher costs, it could have a material adverse effect on the company’s operations, financial position and performance. Risk of commitments in Serneke’s borrowings from credit institutions and the issued debenture Group fulfillment of loan conditions and coveloan agreements and loan contain commitments. If a Group company were to breach any of nants is continuously monitored by the Board debenture loans the obligations included in a loan agreement or the terms of the debenand management. ture, this could result in the loan being terminated, and even in other loan agreements being terminated as a result of so-called cross-default provisions. A termination of this kind could have a negative effect on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. Credit and counterparty Uncertainty in the external environment and in the financial markets The Group’s financial policy governs the managerisk may mean that customers, suppliers and subcontractors encounter ment of credit risks and counterparty risks. difficulties with their financing. This could also cause planned investCredit rating of each new customer is done reguments to be delayed, as well as difficulties in meeting existing commitlarly. The financial situation for existing customments. Serneke may suffer losses that have a negative effect on its ers and suppliers is continuously monitored for operations, financial position and performance. the early identification of warning signs. Risk from the sale On selling properties and development rights, different In all significant sales transactions, managers in of properties and assessments and estimates may be made regarding the probability the business area along with the CFO perform an ­development rights of various factors, such as changes to detailed development plans and assessment of outstanding commitments and outstanding commitments, which could have a highly significant impact other uncertainties. These estimates are on the Group’s performance and financial position. Outstanding comupdated regularly. mitments may also be difficult to identify by their nature and extent. A sale may be conditional on a future detailed development plan being accepted. In the event that the detailed development plan is not approved, which the Group had assessed as very likely to be approved, this could have a significant impact on performance and financial position. Risk in income Earnings from construction contracts are recognized in pace with the Construction projects are monitored by manage­r ecognition degree of completion before the final earnings can be determined. Misment on a monthly basis. Through clear procalculation can lead to misleading accounting and/or strategic decicesses for project management and ongoing folsions being based on incorrect information. low-up of production calculations, work performed and total cost forecasts, it is ensured that the accounts are accurate and strategic decisions are taken on the right basis. Disputes Serneke operates in an industry in which disputes occur, both with cliDisputes are regularly monitored by manageents and suppliers. Large-scale and complicated disputes can be costly, ment on a monthly basis. Both decentralized time and resource-intensive and may disrupt normal operations, which responsibility for earnings and leadership create could have a negative impact on Serneke’s brand, operations, perfora customer-focused organization that works mance and financial position. closely with the client and subcontractor to minimize the risk of disputes. 61 Corporate governance Corporate governance Good corporate governance is about ensuring that companies are managed in the most effective manner possible for shareholders. The overall objective is to increase value for shareholders and thereby fulfill the requirements the owners have on invested capital. The central external and internal control instruments for Serneke the Board. Serneke’s Board is responsible for the company’s are the Swedish Companies Act, the Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule organization and management of the company’s affairs. The CEO Book for Issuers, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance is responsible for the ongoing management of the company (the Code), the Articles of Association adopted by the Annual according to the Board’s guidelines and instructions. In addition, General Meeting, the Board’s rules of procedure, instructions for in consultation with the Chairman of the Board, the CEO compiles the Board’s committees, the CEO’s instructions including the an agenda for the board meetings and is otherwise responsible instructions for financial reporting and policies determined by for providing information and a decision-making basis to the Board. SERNEKE’S GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 1 Shareholders 2 3 4 Nomination Committee General Meeting Audit 5 Board of Directors 6 7 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee 9 CEO, Serneke 8 Internal control Management team 62 Corporate governance 1. SHAREHOLDERS The Nomination Committee’s work for the 2018 Annual The Serneke Group consists of 82 companies*. The Parent Com­G eneral Meeting pany is the Swedish limited liability company Serneke Group AB, The composition of the Nomination Committee was made public the Series B shares of which are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm on October 31, 2017. Ahead of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, exchange in the Mid Cap segment since November 24, 2016. the Nomination Committee consists of the following members: Share capital in Serneke is represented by Series A and B • C arl Sandberg (Chairman of the Nomination Committee), shares. Each Series A share entitles the shareholder to one vote appointed by Ola Serneke Invest AB and representing 55.1 and each Series B share to one-tenth (0.1) of a vote. All shares percent of the votes as at October 31, 2017, and 55.2 percent carry equal rights to the company’s assets and profits. As at 31 as at December 31, 2017, December 2017, the number of shareholders was 5,396. • Ludwig Mattsson, appointed by Lommen Holding AB and repThe largest owner is Ola Serneke Invest AB, with a shareholding resenting 12.4 percent of the votes as at October 31, 2017, of 26.0 percent. The second largest owner, Lommen Holding, and 12.4 percent as at 31 December 2017, owns 17.2 percent. The larger primary shareholders in Serneke • Christer Larsson, appointed by Christer Larsson in Trollhättan exercise an active ownership role. The Board and Group manageAB and representing 6.0 percent of the votes as at October 31, ment control a total of 73.9 percent of the votes and 49.9 percent 2017, and 6.0 percent as at 31 December 2017. of the company’s capital. The Articles of Association contain no • S ofia Åstenius, appointed by Ledge Ing AB and representing reservation regarding voting restriction. 5.2 percent of the votes as at October 31, 2017, and 5.2 perAs at 31 December 2017, there were no outstanding authoricent as at 31 December 2017, zations from the Annual General Meeting to the Board to issue • Kent Sander, Chairman of Serneke Group AB. new shares or to acquire own shares. For further information on the ownership structure, trading Ahead of the Annual General Meeting 2018 the Nomination and share performance, see pages 54–55 of the Annual Report. Committee held ten formal meetings as well as communication by telephone and email. The Nomination Committee’s proposal is 2. NOMINATION COMMITTEE available on the corporate website www.serneke.group. The rules for the composition of Serneke’s Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee has taken account of the internal were determined at the Annual General Meeting 2017. According evaluation conducted of the Board’s work, and the Chairman of to these, the Nomination Committee shall consist of the four the Board’s statement on the Board work and the company’s largest shareholders in the company, who then have the right to strategy, as well as interviewed individual Board members. The appoint one member each to the Nomination Committee. If one Nomination Committee concludes that the proposed members of the four largest shareholders, in terms of votes, declines to together have the required breadth and competence. exercise the right to appoint a member to the Nomination ComThe Nomination Committee has in preparation of its proposal mittee, the next largest shareholder is then given the opportunity to the Board applied item 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Governto appoint a member. These four members together with the ance Code as diversity policy, whereby the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Board shall constitute Serneke’s Nomination took into account that, with regard to the Company’s operations, Committee. stage of development and general circumstances, the Board The largest shareholders shall be determined on the basis of a should have an appropriate composition characterized by diverlist of registered shareholders by Euroclear Sweden AB on the last sity and breadth regarding the competence, experience and banking day in September. background of the members of the Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee submits recommendations to the In view of the above, the Nomination Committee has had a Annual General Meeting, including proposals for the chairman of good basis for assessing whether the composition of the Board is the Annual General Meeting, the number of Board members to be satisfactory, if the need for competence, breadth and experience elected by the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman of the of Board members is met as well as to submit proposals for the Board and other members elected by the Annual General Meetelection of auditors. ing, fees and other remuneration to each of the Board members Shareholders have had the opportunity to submit proposals and to members serving on the Board’s committees. ­T he Nomiand comments regarding the Nomination Committee’s work nation Committee makes further proposals for the election of ahead of the 2018 Annual General Meeting. auditors, remuneration to the auditors, principles for appointing the Nomination Committee and the instruction for the Nomination Committee. *Including associates and joint ventures 63 Corporate governance 3. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING to the Board their observations from the audit and their assessThe right of shareholders to make decisions in Serneke’s affairs is ment of the Company’s internal control. exercised through the highest decision-making body, the Annual According to the Articles of Association, the Annual General General Meeting, or Extraordinary General Meeting. The meeting Meeting must appoint at least one, and at most, two auditors or resolves on matters such as amendments to the Articles of Assoone or two authorized auditing firms. The 2017 Annual General ciation, election of the Board of Directors and auditors, adoption Meeting elected the accounting firm Deloitte AB as the Company’s of the income statement and balance sheet, discharge from liaauditor, with authorized public accountant Harald Jagner as the bility of the Board and CEO, distribution of profit or loss, principles principal auditor, for the period extending until the end of the for appointing the Nomination Committee and guidelines for next Annual General Meeting. Harald Jagner is a member of FAR. remuneration to senior management. The Annual General Meeting further decided that remuneration According to the Articles of Association, notice to attend the to the auditor should be paid in accordance with the approved Annual General Meeting will be issued through publication by amount. For information about remuneration to the auditor, see mail, in Swedish print media and on the Company’s website. An note 8. announcement that an invitation has been issued shall be pubDuring the year, the auditors participated in three meetings lished simultaneously in the Swedish financial daily Dagens with the Board’s Audit Committee and held an individual meeting Industri. with the Board. Right to participate in General Meetings 5. BOARD To participate in a General Meeting, shareholders must notify Board of Directors The Board is responsible for the company’s Serneke no later than on the date specified in the invitation to organization and management of the company’s affairs by estabattend. This day may not be a Sunday, other public holiday, Saturlishing the Group’s objectives and strategies, ensuring procedures day, Midsummer Eve, Christmas Eve or New Year’s Eve and not fall and systems for monitoring the established objectives, continuearlier than the fifth weekday prior to the meeting. Shareholders ously assessing the Group’s financial situation as well evaluating wishing to have matters considered at the Annual General Meetthe operational management. It is also the responsibility of the ing must submit a written request to the company’s Board of Board to ensure that accurate information is provided to the Directors. Such a request should normally reach the Board no company’s stakeholders, that the company adheres to laws and later than seven weeks before the General Meeting. regulations, and that the company develops and implements internal policies and ethical guidelines. The Board also appoints Annual General Meeting 2017 Serneke’s Chief Executive Officer and sets salaries and other The Annual General Meeting 2017 was held on May 3, 2017 at remuneration to the CEO based on guidelines adopted by the the company’s head office in Gothenburg. Overall, 56.7 percent Annual General Meeting. of the total number of shares and 78.0 percent of the total number of votes were present. The accounts for 2016 were adopted Composition of the Board of Directors and the Board Members and the CEO were discharged from liabilThe elected members of the Board are elected by the Annual ity. Resolutions were also taken on the election of Board members, General Meeting for the period until the conclusion of the next Chairman and auditors, as well as fees to the Board and auditors. Annual General Meeting. According to the Articles of Association, The Annual General Meeting also resolved, in accordance with the Board of Directors shall consist of no less than three (3) and the Board’s proposal, on adjustment of the Articles of Association no more than nine (9) ordinary members elected by the General and adoption of long-term incentive programs in the form of Meeting, without deputies. ­B oard Members are presented on employee convertibles for employees in the Serneke Group. page 69. Annual General Meeting 2018 Chairman of the Board The Annual General Meeting 2018 will be held on Thursday, May 3, The Chairman of the Board is responsible for ensuring that the 2018 at the company’s premises at Kvarnbergsgatan 2, GothenBoard’s work is carried out efficiently and that the Board carries burg. Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General out its duties in full. In particular, the Chairman shall organize and Meeting must be registered as shareholders in the share register lead the Board’s efforts to create the best possible conditions for held by Euroclear Sweden AB on Thursday, April 26, 2018, and by this work. the same date notify the Company of their participation in the AGM. The Chairman’s task is to ensure that new members of the Board receive adequate initial training and other training that the Chair4. AUDIT man and such new members of the Board agree to be appropriate, The Company’s auditors review the annual accounts and annual that members of the Board regularly update and deepen their report and the Company’s ongoing operations and routines to knowledge of the Company, that the Board receives sufficient then issue a statement on the financial statements and manageinformation and documentation for its work, that the proposed ment by the Board of Directors and the CEO. After each financial agenda for Board meetings is adopted after consultation with year, the auditors shall submit an audit report to the Annual Genthe CEO, that the Board’s decisions are implemented and that eral Meeting. Each year, the Company’s auditors report in person the work of the Board of Directors is evaluated annually. 64 Corporate governance The Chairman is responsible for contacts with the owners BOARD OF DIRECTORS regarding ownership issues and for conveying the view of the Serneke’s Board has two ordinary committees: the Audit Commitowners to the Board. The Chairman does not participate in the tee and the Remuneration Committee. The work carried out in the operational work within the Company. Nor is he included in Group committees is reported to the Board on an ongoing basis. The Management. committees shall be regarded as working committees for the Board and do not take on the responsibility that is the responsiBoard work bility of the Board as a whole. The Board follows written procedures that are reviewed annually and adopted at the constituent meeting. These rules of procedure 6. AUDIT COMMITTEE regulate the Board’s work, tasks, decision-making within the The Board of Directors, excluding the CEO, forms the Audit ComCompany, Board meeting procedure, the Chairman’s responsibilimittee, with Kristina Willgård as Chairman. The Audit Committee’s ties and an appropriate division of tasks between the Board and main task is to monitor Serneke’s financial reports monitor the the CEO. Instructions regarding financial reporting and instructions effectiveness of the company’s internal control, internal audit for the CEO are also defined in conjunction with the constituent and risk management with regard to financial reporting, as well Board meeting. as issuing recommendations and proposals for ensuring the reli­ The work of the Board is also based on an annual meeting ability of the reporting. The Audit Committee shall, in cooperation schedule that meets the Board’s needs for information. The with Serneke’s auditor, ensure audit planning, monitoring, and meeting plan shall be designed so that the meetings coincide with auditing status ahead of the annual accounts and consolidated the production of interim reports, financial statements and yearaccounts and for the conclusions of the Supervisory Board of Public end reports. The Board as a whole handles matters of internal Accountants’ quality control. control incumbent upon the Board. In addition to Board meetings, In addition, the Audit Committee shall monitor the auditor’s the Chairman of the Board and CEO maintain an ongoing dialogue impartiality and independence and especially, if applicable, pre-­ concerning the management of Serneke. approve when the auditor provides the company with services The Board meets according to an annual schedule and must other than audit services. hold at least six regular meetings between Annual General Mee­ The Audit Committee also evaluates the audit work and informs, tings. In addition to these meetings, further meetings can be ahead of appointment of auditors, the Company’s Nomination arranged to address issues that cannot be postponed to any of Committee of the results of the evaluation and assists the Nomithe regular meetings. During the 2017 financial year, the Board nation Committee in preparing proposals for appointment of has held ten formal meetings. auditors and audit fees. The Board of Directors believes that the requirement that at Evaluation of the Board least one member shall be independent and have accounting or Evaluation of the Board is conducted within the framework of the auditing skills have been met. work of the Nomination Committee. The Board also performs an The Audit Committee held four formal meetings in 2017. In annual evaluation of its work, including planning for the year. these meetings, the auditor’s review of the financial statements The Board’s evaluation of its work has been carried out with and the Company’s internal controls has been reported and the assistance of external consultants, through questionnaires ­discussed. and individual interviews with the Board Members and the CEO. The results of the interviews have since been compiled by the 7. Remuneration Committee consultant and submitted to the Board. The Nomination CommitThe Remuneration Committee consists of Kent Sander (Chairman), tee has also taken account of the evaluation report. Mari Broman and Ludwig Mattsson. The CEO presents matters The Board’s evaluation showed that the work of the Board has not involving remunerations to the CEO. functioned worked very well and that comments from the 2017 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and evaluation were taken into consideration, but that there was recommending to the Board the principles for the terms and room for further improvements. The evaluation further showed remuneration of the Company’s senior executives. that the Board is a well-composed group with major commitment The Remuneration Committee shall evaluate the CEO annually. and that the members have broad competence and extensive Questions concerning the CEO’s terms of employment, remunerexperience from various areas that are relevant to Serneke’s ation and benefits are prepared by the Remuneration Committee ­operations. and approved by the Board. An important part of the Remuneration Committee’s tasks is to Remuneration to the Board of Directors ensure that the right skills are available in the Group’s key positions. The 2017 Annual General Meeting resolved that fees totaling SEK The Committee conducts an annual review and evaluation of the 1,625,000 would be paid to the Board, with the Chairman of the management organization based on specific criteria and requireBoard receiving SEK 750,000, each of the other members of the ments to meet future needs. The evaluation takes place both as Board not employed by the Company receiving SEK 200,000 and individual conversations and with the CEO presenting. the Chairman of the Audit Committee receiving SEK 75,000. 65 Corporate governance The Committee has held four meetings regarding remuneration Among other things, the Board shall ensure that Serneke has as well as conferencing by telephone and email on a number of good internal control and formalized routines ensuring that the occasions throughout the year. established principles for financial reporting and internal control are adhered to and that there are effective systems for monitor8. INTERNAL CONTROL ing and controlling the company’s operations and the risks with The Board’s responsibility for internal control is regulated by the which the company and its operations are associated. Swedish Companies Act and the Annual Accounts Act, which The overall purpose of the internal control is to ensure to a requires that information on the principal features of Serneke’s reasonable extent that the company’s operating strategies and system of internal control and risk management in connection targets are monitored and that the owners’ investments are prowith financial reporting be included each year in the Corporate tected. The internal control shall also ensure that the external Governance Report – as well as the Swedish Corporate Governfinancial reporting is, with a reasonable degree of certainty, reliaance Code. ble and prepared in accordance with good accounting practices The Company has established and complies with an internal and applicable laws, that regulations are complied with and that control plan adopted by the Board. The plan is based on the COSO the requirements imposed on listed companies are met. framework structure and comprises the continuous monitoring of Serneke’s policies and instructions are reviewed annually. This five critical business processes and for each process a number of report on Serneke’s internal control is prepared in accordance controls are then carried out of essential activities and events. with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and mainly includes the following components. WORK OF THE BOARD IN 2017 DECEMBER FEBRUARY/MARCH DEC JAN Board Board • Budget and business objectives • Year-end report • Corporate governance NOV FEB • Dividend proposal • Monitoring and evaluation of • Preparation for the Annual the Board’s work General Meeting • Corporate Governance OCT MARCH Report • Board evaluation • Status audit of financial statements Audit Committee SEP APRIL • Status audit of financial statements SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER • Evaluation auditors Board AUG MAY Remuneration Committee • Interim Report third quarter • Evaluation of the work of the • Strategic development, evaluation, CEO and management team strategic direction and goals JULY JUNE as well as planning for future needs Audit Committee • Overall wages and conditions • Evaluation of internal control and policy for the Group risk management • Remuneration to senior • Review of auditors’ audit of interim APRIL/MAY executives, including the report proposed guidelines for • Review Policy Board Annual General Meeting • Interim Report first quarter Statutory Board meeting decisions • Audit Plan • Board and Committees rules • Evaluation of the incentive of procedure, the CEO’s program and the need for new instructions JULY programs to be presented at • Members of the Audit and the Annual General Meeting Remuneration Committee Board • Interim Report second quarter Audit Committee • Audit Plan 66 Corporate governance Control environment Management and monitoring The Board of Directors bears the overall responsibility for internal Continuous monitoring of performance outcomes occurs at mulcontrol regarding financial reporting. To create and maintain a tiple levels in the Group, both at the corporate level and at the functioning control environment, the Board has adopted a number Group level. Budget and forecasts are monitored. The results are of policies and governance documents that regulate the financial analyzed by the contracting operations and the administrative reporting. These primarily comprise the Board’s agenda, instrucand accounting departments. tions for the CEO and instructions for financial reporting. The The teams report to the CEO and Board of Directors. According Board has also adopted specific authorization rules and a finanto the Board’s instructions to the Audit Committee, the Committee cial policy. The Company also has a financial manual containing shall annually have at least one meeting where the Company’s principles, guidelines and process descriptions for accounting auditors attend without the presence of employees in Serneke. and financial reporting. The auditors shall report on audit scope and on their observations This manual is updated regularly to reflect changes in legal made during the audit and internal control. The proceedings of requirements, listing requirements and/or accounting standards. the Audit Committee meetings are entered in the minutes, which The handbook also contains a detailed time and activity plan for are provided to the Board. the Company’s accounting and reporting process. Dates of reporting are published on the Group’s financial calendar, available Need for internal audit via its website. The efficiency of the internal audit is largely dependent on the The Board has also established an Audit Committee whose Company’s organizational structure and size of the organization. main task is to monitor the Company’s financial position, monitor Serneke has a relatively small organization in which the financial, the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control, internal economic and rental administration is conducted from the comaudit and risk management, to stay informed about the auditing pany’s offices in Gothenburg. Monitoring of the income statement of the annual accounts and to review and monitor the impartiality and balance sheet is conducted monthly of the various functions and independence of the auditor. The Board also receives reports within the company and those of the company’s management from the Serneke’s auditor. and the Board. Overall, this means that it is not considered ­necessary to conduct a separate internal audit. Risk assessment The Board receives further information on risk management, Monitoring internal control and financial reporting by the auditor through the Compliance with the internal controls and their efficacy is moniAudit Committee or Board meetings with the auditor present. tored on an ongoing basis. The CEO ensures that the Board conIn a special risk assessment document, Serneke’s Board has tinuously receives reports on the development of the Company’s identified and evaluated the risks incurred in the Company’s operations, including the development of the Company’s perforoperations, and assessed how the risks can be managed. Within mance and financial position, as well as information about signi­ the Board, it is primarily the Audit Committee that is responsible ficant events. for continuously assessing the Company’s risk situation, after which the Board also conducts an annual review of the risk 9. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND MANAGEMENT situation. The role of the Chief Executive Officer is subordinate to the The significant risks that Serneke has identified are misstateBoard of Directors, and the main task is to attend to the ongoing ment in the financial statements and in the valuation of ongoing management of the company and its day-to-day operations. The projects, contracts and associates, control and documentation Board’s rules of procedure and instructions for the Chief Execuof IT risks and the loss or misappropriation of assets on the sale tive Officer clarify which issues the Company’s Board of Directors of subsidiaries and properties. The Company has established shall decide on and which decisions should be made by the CEO. procedures to prevent and detect irregularities and fraud that The CEO also produces reports and essential documentation could materially affect the company’s financial position. necessary to make decisions at Board meetings and presents the material at Board meetings. Control activities In addition to the CEO, Serneke has nine senior executives, see Control activities mitigate the risks identified and ensure accurate pages 70–71. and reliable financial reporting. The Board is responsible for internal control and monitoring of the company’s management. Remuneration to senior executives This involves both internal and external control activities, and by In 2017, a total of SEK 14.3 million was paid in fixed remuneration reviewing and monitoring the company’s governance documents. to the Company’s senior executives (Group management). The An important part of Serneke’s control activities include standtotal gross remuneration paid to the CEO and Group management, ardized reporting and clear and documented work procedures including base salary, pension premiums, car and health insurance and responsibilities. Controls are carried out monthly both manbenefits, amounted to SEK 18.2 million in 2017, of which SEK 2.7 ually and automatically with system support, and compiled in a million constituted remuneration to the CEO. report to the CFO who then informs the CEO and Board of the outcome. 67 Corporate governance Principles for remuneration to senior executives Transactions with Adapta are considered to constitute related At the Annual General Meeting on May 3, 2017, the following party transactions since the principal owner, Ludwig Mattsson, is guidelines were adopted for remuneration and other terms of a member of the Board of Serneke Group AB. The transactions employment for senior executives. In this context, “senior execuconsist mainly of construction contracts and rent from Serneke’s tives” refers to the CEO and other senior managers in the Serneke headquarters. Transactions with Ola Serneke Invest AB are considGroup. These remuneration guidelines also apply to Board Memered to be related-party transactions, as Ola Serneke is the principal bers to the extent they receive compensation for services renowner, CEO and a member of the Board of Serneke Group AB. These dered to the Serneke Group beyond their roles as Board Member. transactions consist primarily of contracting operations. TransacSerneke shall apply remuneration levels and other terms of tions with Glimstedt are considered to be related-party transacemployment necessary to be able to recruit and retain senior tions, as one of the principal owners, Anders Wennergren, is a executives with the expertise and capacity to achieve the estabmember of the Board of Serneke Group AB. The transactions lished targets, and that are designed to promote long-term value mainly consist of consulting costs. creation for the Company. In connection with the listing of Serneke’s shares in November Remuneration shall be paid in the form of fixed salary, other 2016 Ola Serneke Invest AB undertook, with certain reservation, benefits and pension. No variable remuneration shall be paid. to not sell its respective holdings for a certain period of time from Pension benefits shall be contribution-based, with retirement the commencement of trading at Nasdaq Stockholm. This so-­ age set individually, albeit not lower than at 60 years of age. The called lock up period is 720 days for Ola Serneke Invest AB. period of notice shall normally be six months if the executive No company in the Group has entered into agreements that resigns. On termination by the company, the notice period and give Board members or members of Group management entitlethe period during which severance pay applies should not exceed ment to benefits after each respective assignment is completed. 12 months. In special cases, it shall be possible for Board members to receive fees for services rendered in their respective areas REGULATIONS of expertise that do not constitute Board work. For these services, External rules a market-based fee shall be paid, which must be approved by the As a Swedish public limited liability company with securities listed Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is entitled to deviate on Nasdaq Stockholm, Serneke is obliged to comply with the from these guidelines in individual cases should special reasons Swedish Companies Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for prevail. ­Issuers and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE BOARD Deviations from the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, OF DIRECTORS stock exchange rules or good practices on the stock market In accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, The Company has not deviated from the Swedish Corporate GovChairman of the Board Kent Sander, and Mari Broman, Anders ernance Code or stock exchange rules. Furthermore, the Company Wennergren and Kristina Willgård, are all independent of Serneke, has not been subject to a decision by Nasdaq Stockholm’s Discithe company’s management and its main owner. Board member plinary Committee or a decision on violations of good practices in Ludwig Mattson represents more than 10 percent of the vote the stock market by the The Swedish Securities Council. and is regarded as dependent in relation to major shareholders. Ola Serneke, CEO of Serneke Group AB holds more than 10 percent Internal rules of the votes and therefore is regarded as dependent in relation to Serneke has a series of internal regulations that, together with major shareholders and the company. the external rules, provide the framework for the business. The None of the Board members or members of Group management central regulations include the Articles of Association, the have any family relations with any other Board member or member Board’s rules of procedure and those for each committee, the of Group management within Serneke. CEO’s instructions, including instructions for handling conflicts There are also no conflicts of interest through which the private of interest and delegation. interests of Board members or members of Group management The company’s internal rules regarding ethics and sustainability would conflict with the company’s interests. Board member Ludwig are summarized in the sustainability policy and business ethics Mattsson has a holding in Lommen Holding AB of 16 percent of policy. Linked to the sustainability policy and business ethics the shares. Lommen Holding AB owns the Adapta Group, which ­policy are guidelines that describe practical application in the purchases contracting services from Serneke, in addition to daily operations. In addition, there are the following basic policies which it holds a 10 percent stake in Änglagården Holding AB, including the financial policy, risk management policy, insider a company in which Serneke holds 40 percent. ­policy and communication policy. All employees have a responsibility for the company’s compliRelated-party transactions ance with external and internal rules. Employees are encouraged Related-party transactions in the Serneke Group are normally to report abusein the company’s operations. Such notification attributed to contracting assignments, financing and purchasing can be made to the nearest supervisor, security officer or HR of consulting services. The main objective is to generate more department. transactions, primarily in the form of construction projects. 68 Corporate governance Board of Directors ANDERS KRISTINA KENT SANDER MARI BROMAN LUDWIG MATTSSON OLA SERNEKE ­WENNERGREN ­W ILLGÅRD Born 1953 1951 1983 1971 1956 1965 Nationality Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Function Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board and Chairman of the since 2015. Member of since 2012. Member of since 2004 and CEO since 2012. since 2015. ChairBoard since 2017. the Remuneration the Remuneration since 2008. woman of the Audit ­C hairman of the Remu­C ommittee. ­C ommittee. Committee. neration Committee. Education MBA, Stockholm Master of Economics, MBA, Stockholm Master of Engineering, Bachelor of Laws, UniverMBA, Lund University, ­University. Gothenburg University, ­University. Chalmers University of sity of Lund, 1982. 1989. 1974. Technology, 1998. Experience More than 30 years of Deputy CEO Riksbyggen, CEO Gavia Group, assignPresident and CEO of Lawyer and partner of CEO Addlife AB, CFO senior management Chairwoman and memments within the Gavia Serneke Group AB. Glimstedts Advokatbyrå Addtech AB (publ), CFO experience in internaber of the board of sevGroup and within the Founder of Serneke since 1990. Ericsson AB, CFO and HR tional telecom and high eral property companies Lommen Group. Group AB. Netwise, CFO Frontec technology IT compaand industry associa(now Acando AB), nies. Kent Sander has tions. ­B usiness Controller been CEO of True­ Spendrups and Auditor Position, Executive VP Arthur Andersen. Sales at Ericsson in the US and Chairman of ­Transmode. Other assignChairman of Tobii AB, Chairman of Marginalen Chairman of the board of Board member of Board member of Chairman of AddLife ments OnePhone Holding AB, Bank AB, IQ Samhälls­ Adapta Fastigheter AB and Änglagården ­Fastighets AB Balder and Development AB, Board Triboron International byggnad AB and Sharing Deputy Chairman of the Fastighets­u tveckling individual assignments member of Mediplast AB AB and Mr Green & Co Capabilities AB. Board board in other companies AB, Göteborgs Nya within the Balder Group, and listed company AB. Board member of member Forserum within AdaptaGroup. Arena drift och event Morlanda-Bro AB and Nordic Waterproofing Expander Business Safety Glass AB and Chairman of the board of AB. Board member and Sydvind Energi AB. B ­ oard Holding A S. Assign­C onsulting AB, BT ChromoGenics AB. Lommen Invest AS and CEO of Ola Serneke member of Bassholmen ments such as a Board ­OnePhone Ltd and Incell board member of other Invest AB, Landskrona AB and other companies member and co-owner Internationall AB. companies in the Lommen Fröfabriksutvecklings in the Bassholmen AB of Willgård AB. Group. Chairman of Spisa AB. Board member of Group. Holding AB and Board several economic assomember of Ativo Finans ciations, in addition to AB, Zocalo Sweden AB, which several assignÄnglagården Holding AB, ments such as Chairman Änglagården Fastighets­ of the board, board utveckling AB and GBG member or CEO of Nya Arena Drift och Event ­c ompanies within the AB. Serneke Group. Fees determined SEK 750,000 SEK 200,000 SEK 200,000 SEK 200,000 SEK 275,000 by the Annual General Meeting Holdings in 0 shares 909 Series B shares in 540,000 Series A shares 3,710,000 Series A 283,636 Series B shares 1,000 Series B shares in Serneke Group Serneke Group AB and 3,475,803 Series B shares and 2,331,354 in Serneke Group AB Serneke Group AB AB, own and (publ). shares in Serneke Group Series B shares in (publ). (publ). related-parties’, AB (publ). Serneke Group AB May 2017 (publ). Independent Yes Yes No No Yes Yes of major ­s hareholders Independent Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes of the company and its management Member of Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Not a member Audit Committee Audit Committee ­c ommittee Remuneration Remuneration CommitRemuneration Committee ­C ommittee tee Meeting Board meeting 6/10* Board meeting 10/10 Board meeting 10/10 Board meeting 10/10 Board meeting 10/10 Board meeting 10/10 ­a ttendance Audit Committee 2/4* Audit Committee 4/4 Audit Committee 4/4 Audit Committee 4/4 Audit Committee 4/4 Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration Committee ­C ommittee 0/4* ­C ommittee 4/4 4/4 *Kent Sander has attended all board meetings since joining at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. 69 Corporate governance Management OLA SERNEKE MICHAEL BERGLIN ANDERS DÜRING DANIEL ÅSTENIUS FREDRIK JONSSON Born 1971 1973 1965 1971 1976 Nationality Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Function CEO Deputy CEO CFO Business Area Manager Business Area Manager Serneke Construction, CEO Plant, CEO of Serneke of Serneke Bygg AB Anläggning AB Employed 2002 2012 2017 2007 2014 since Education Master of Engineering, Structural engineering Executive MBA Finance & Structural engineer, MSc Project Management, Chalmers University of ­program, Borås University, Accounting, University of ­C halmers University of University of Northumbria, Technology, 1998. 1994 and engineering Gothenburg, 1998 and MSc Technology, 1992. Newcastle, 2001, and BSc ­program, Sven Erikson Business Administration, Civil Engineering, Structural Upper Secondary School, University of Gothenburg, Engineer, Chalmers UniverBorås, 1992. 1990. sity of Technology, 2000. Experience President and CEO of Claims manager, Folksam CFO KappAhl AB (publ.) Senior executive positions Assignments within the Serneke Group AB. ­F ounder 2000–2012 and assign2013–2017, CFO Volvo IT within Serneke. Previous ­B ilfinger Group, including of Serneke Group AB. ments in NCC and Skanska 2007–2013, Group Conassignments as structural Project manager and in 1994–2000. troller & CIO Ballingslöv engineer and project manRegional manager during 2003–2006. Worked as a ager within the Startec the period 2007–2014 consultant at Arthur D. Group 1992–1998, and and Production manager ­L ittle and Andersen owner, CEO and project ­S kanska 2001–2007. ­C onsulting, 1990–2003. manager at Ledge Ing AB 1998–2007. Other Board member of Several assignments within Assignments as board Assignments as board ­a ssignments Änglagården Fastighets­ the Serneke Group as board member of the Serneke member of the Serneke utveckling AB, Göteborgs member. In addition, Group. Member of the Group. Nya Arena drift och event assignments as board Board and CEO of Ledge Ing AB. Board member and CEO member in associates and AB. of Ola Serneke Invest AB, JV such as Änglagården Landskrona Fröfabriks­ Fastighetsutveckling AB utvecklings AB. Board and Göteborgs Nya Arena member of several ecodrift och event AB. nomic associations, in addition to which several assignments such as ­C hairman of the board, board member or CEO of companies within the Serneke Group. Holding, 3,710,000 Series A shares 264,500 Series B shares in 2,000 Series B shares in 330,000 Series A shares 45,000 Series B shares in Dec 2017 and 2,331,354 Series B Serneke Group AB (publ). Serneke Group AB (publ). and 450,000 Series B Serneke Group AB (publ). shares in Serneke Group AB shares in Serneke Group AB (publ). (indirectly through Ledge Ing AB). 70 Corporate governance PATRIK LINDSTRÖM KRISTER JOHANSSON TONI HULTBERG JONAS FJELLMAN ROBIN GERUM 1972 1970 1963 1979 1987 Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Business Area Manager Business Area Manager Regional Manager of HR Director Business Development ­P roject Development, CEO Property Management, CEO Serneke Bygg AB Manager Serneke Project DevelopSerneke Property Management AB ment AB 2014 2016 2012. 2017 2017 Civil engineering, Road and Technical college graduate, Construction technology, Master of Economics, MSc Finance and InvestWaterway, Royal Institute of Developer Masterclass Uddevalla College, 1987, ­University of Gothenburg, ments, Rotterdam School of Technology, 1997 and GradDiploma. Construction and civil 2005. Management, 2012, and uate Engineer, Construc­engineering program, BSc Business Administration, Royal Institute of Tech­K ongahälla Upper Secondtion, University of New nology, 1994. ary School, 1981. Hampshire, 2011. Assignments within the CEO Fastighetsaktiebolaget Project manager Enaco Senior executive positions Corporate Finance at Peab Group 1999–2014, Tornstaden 2014–2016, 2012, a significant number within HR since 2008. ­C arnegie Investment Bank including management Construction Manager of positions within the 2011–2017 within the IAC 2012–2017 and Private positions during the period ­M ölndalsbostäder AB Skanska Group 1985– Group, most recently from a Equity at Liberty Lane 2008–2014. Trainee, 2009–2014, Technical 2012. role as HR Director Europe. ­P artners 2011. ­S kanska AB 1997–1998. manager Mölndalsbostäder AB 2004–2009, Operations manager Mölndalsbostäder AB 1998–2004, Consultant Bengt Dahlgren AB 1994– 1998. Chairman of the board Form Factory of Sweden AB, Board member Fagered Invest AB, Deputy board Alera AB. 20,000 Series B and7,000 191 Series B shares in 140,000 Series B shares in 634 convertibles in Serneke 5,206 Series B shares and convertible debentures in Serneke Group AB (publ). Serneke Group AB (publ). Group AB (publ). 25,364 convertibles in Serneke Group AB(publ). Serneke Group AB). 71 Multi-year summary Multi-year summary 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 SEK million JAN–DEC JAN–DEC JAN–DEC JAN–DEC JAN–DEC Income statement Income 5,605 3,978 3,107 1,800 1,143 Operating profit 419 411 128 82 31 Profit after net financial items 401 394 112 70 16 Profit for the year 323 394 137 68 25 Balance sheet Fixed assets 1,682 1,160 408 204 148 Current assets 2,722 2,277 1,244 1,156 488 Total assets 4,404 3,437 1,652 1,360 636 Shareholders’ equity 1,821 1,469 453 280 177 Non-current liabilities 980 764 398 196 60 Current liabilities 1,603 1,204 801 884 399 Total equity and liabilities 4,404 3,437 1,652 1,360 636 Orders* Order bookings 6,400 5,539 5,094 Order backlog 7,965 7,041 5,125 Employees Average number of employees 942 779 618 479 369 Key indicators Growth, % 40.9 28.0 72.6 57.5 6.3 Organic growth, % 39.1 28.0 51.8 41.3 7.8 Operating margin, % 7.5 10.3 4.1 4.6 2.7 Earnings per share, SEK, before dilution 13.94 22.40 8.49 4.73 1.94 Earnings per share, SEK, after dilution 13.81 21.22 8.11 4.37 1.76 Cash flow before financing –272 –156 32 4 –68 Cash flow from operations per share, before dilution 2.03 2.56 2.23 3.83 1.82 Cash flow from operations per share, after dilution 2.01 2.42 2.13 3.53 1.66 Working capital 1,119 1,073 443 272 89 Capital employed 2,516 1,985 670 695 354 Return on capital employed, % 21.6 31.8 19.0 16.2 10.8 Return on equity after taxes, % 19.6 41.0 37.4 29.7 18.1 Equity per share, SEK, before dilution 78.33 64.67 27.35 17.68 12.43 Equity per share, SEK, after dilution 77.73 62.83 25.79 17.68 11.38 Equity/assets ratio, % 41.3 42.7 27.4 20.6 28.0 Net debt 254 –37 223 313 168 Net debt/equity ratio, % 13.9 –2.5 49.2 111.8 94.9 Average number of shares before dilution 23,169,394 17,590,630 16,141,542 14,375,892 12,884,298 Average number of shares after dilution 23,396,120 18,567,901 16,891,542 15,576,345 14,193,884 *Order backlog and order intake reported accordingly from January 2015 72 Financial definitions Financial definitions KEY INDICATORS DEFINITION PURPOSE Income Within the contracting operations, income is In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows reported in accordance with the percentage-­ofinvestors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s completion method. This income is recognized in earnings capacity. pace with the construction project within the company being gradually completed. For project development, income and gains on disposals of land and development rights are recognized at the point in time at which the material risks and benefits are transferred to the buyer, which normally coincides with the transfer of ownership, as well as other ­revenue, such as rental income. In the Parent ­C ompany, income corresponds to invoiced sales of Group-wide services and rental income. Growth Income for the period less income for the previous In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows period divided by income for the previous period. investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s capacity to increase its earnings. Organic growth Income for the period, adjusted for acquired growth, In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows less income for the previous period, adjusted for investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s acquired growth, divided by income for the previous capacity to increase its income without acquiring period, adjusted for acquired growth. operating companies. Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Calculation of organic growth 2017 2016 Income current period 5,605 3,978 Income corresponding period previous period 3,978 3,107 Income change 1,627 871 Adjustment for structural effect –70 0 Total organic growth 1,557 871 Total organic growth (%) 39.1 28.0 Order bookings The value of new projects and changes in existing In Serneke’s view, the key indicator allows invesprojects during the period. tors, who so wish, to assess the Group’s sales by Business Area Construction and Business Area Civil Engineering for the current period. Order backlog The value of the Company’s undelivered orders as at In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows the end of the period. investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s income by Business Area Construction and Business Area Civil Engineering in future periods. 73 Financial definitions KEY INDICATORS DEFINITION PURPOSE Operating margin Operating profit divided by income. In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s profitability. Working capital Current assets less current liabilities. In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s capital tied-up, in relation to its competitors. Capital employed Consolidated total assets less deferred tax assets In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows less non-interest-bearing liabilities including investors, who so wish, to assess the total capital deferred tax liabilities. For the business areas, the placed at the Company’s disposal by shareholders net of Group-internal receivables and liabilities is and creditors. also deducted. Dec 31, Dec 31, Calculation of capital employed 2017 2016 Total assets 4,404 3,437 Other deferred tax assets 0 –48 Less non-interest-bearing liabilities including deferred tax liabilities –1,888 –1,404 Capital employed 2,516 1,985 Return on capital Profit after net financial items plus financial In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows employed expenses divided by average capital employed investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s for the period. Accumulated interim periods are capacity to generate a return on the total capital based on rolling 12-month earnings. placed at the Company’s disposal by shareholders and creditors. Dec 31, Dec 31, Calculation of average capital employed 2017 2016 December 31, 2017 (2516) + December 31, 2016 (1,985) / 2 2251 December 31, 2016 (1,985) + December 31, 2015 (670) / 2 1,328 Dec 31, Dec 31, Calculation of return on capital employed 2017 2016 Profit after net financial items 401 394 Addition for financial expenses 85 28 Average capital employed 2,251 1,328 Return on capital employed, % 21.6% 31.8% 74 Financial definitions KEY INDICATORS DEFINITION PURPOSE Return on equity Profit for the period as a percentage of average In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows shareholders’ equity. Accumulated interim periods investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s are based on rolling 12-month earnings. capacity to generate a return on the capital shareholders have placed at the Company’s disposal. Dec 31, Dec 31, Calculation of average shareholders’ equity 2017 2016 December 31, 2017 (1,821) + December 31, 2016 (1,469) / 2 1,645 December 31, 2016 (1469) + December 31, 2015 (453) / 2 961 Dec 31, Dec 31, Calculation of return on shareholders’ equity 2017 2016 Profit/loss for the period 323 394 Average shareholders’ equity 1,645 961 Return on equity % 19.6% 41.0% Equity/assets ratio Shareholders’ equity less minority interests as The equity/assets ratio shows the proportion of a percentage of total assets. total assets represented by shareholders’ equity and has been included to allow investors to be able to assess the Company’s capital structure. Net debt Interest-bearing liabilities less liquid assets less Net debt is a measure deemed relevant for interest-bearing receivables. ­creditors and credit rating agencies. Net debt/equity Interest-bearing net debt divided by shareholders’ Net debt/equity ratio is a measure deemed releratio equity. vant for creditors and credit rating agencies. Equity per share, Total equity according to the balance sheet divided In the Company’s view, the key indicator gives before/after diluby the number of shares outstanding as at the investors a better understanding of historical tion ­closing date. The difference between before and return per share as at the closing date. after dilution is the Group’s issued convertibles. Cash flow from Cash flow from operating activities divided by the In the Company’s view, the key indicator gives operations per average number of shares during the period. The investors a better understanding of the operashare, after dilution difference between before and after dilution is tions’ cash flow in relation to the number of the Group’s issued convertibles. shares, adjusted for changes in the number of shares during the period. Earnings per share, Profit for the period divided by the average number In the Company’s view, the key indicator gives before/after dilution of shares during the period. The difference between investors a better understanding of earnings before and after dilution is the Group’s issued per share. ­convertibles. 75 Consolidated income statement Consolidated income statement SEK million Note 2017 2016 Income 5, 6 5,605 3,978 Production and administration expenses –5,299 –3,738 Gross profit 306 240 Sales and administration expenses –151 –97 Change in value of investment properties 238 42 Revaluation of joint ventures 19 0 226 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 19 26 0 Operating profit 7, 8, 9, 10 419 411 Financial income 11 18 11 Financial expenses 12 –36 –28 Net financial items –18 –17 Profit after financial items 401 394 Taxes 14 –78 0 Profit for the year 323 394 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 323 394 Non-controlling interests 0 0 Earnings per share Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 13.94 22.40 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 13.81 21.22 Weighted average number of ordinary shares before dilution, number of shares 23,169,394 17,590,630 Weighted average number of ordinary shares after dilution, number of shares 23,396,120 18,567,901 76 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK million Note 2017 2016 Profit for the year 323 394 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit/loss: Translation differences for the year 0 0 Total comprehensive income 323 394 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 323 394 Non-controlling interests 0 0 77 Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of financial position SEK million Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 15 23 23 Investment properties 16 895 329 Other tangible fixed assets 17 95 75 Deferred tax assets 29 0 48 Participations in associates and joint ventures 19 446 424 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 20 10 30 Other non-current receivables 20 213 231 Total fixed assets 1,682 1,160 Current assets Project and development properties 21 283 242 Inventories 22 1 2 Accounts receivable 23 845 589 Accrued but not invoiced income 24 319 252 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 25 57 19 Other current receivables 26 786 602 Cash and bank balances 431 571 Total current assets 2,722 2,277 Total assets 4,404 3,437 78 Consolidated statement of financial position SEK million Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 27 Share capital 2 2 Other paid-in capital 806 777 Translation reserve –1 –1 Retained earnings including profit/loss for the year 1,014 691 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 1,821 1,469 Non-controlling interests 0 0 Total equity 1,821 1,469 Non-current liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 28 641 436 Other non-current liabilities 28 152 208 Deferred tax liability 29 29 0 Other provisions 30 158 120 Total long-term liabilities 980 764 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 28 54 128 Accounts payable 799 541 Current tax liabilities 8 10 Other current liabilities 185 146 Invoiced but not accrued income 24 297 172 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 31 260 207 Total current liabilities 1,603 1,204 Total equity and liabilities 4,404 3,437 79 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of changes in equity Retained Total equity ­e arnings attributable Other including to Parent Non-­ Total shareShare paid-in Translation profit/loss Company controlling holders’ SEK million capital capital reserve for the year shareholders interests equity Opening balance as at January 1, 2016 2 155 –1 297 453 0 453 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 394 394 0 394 Other comprehensive income Translation differences 0 0 Total other comprehensive income, after tax 0 0 0 0 0 Total comprehensive income 0 394 394 0 394 Transactions with shareholders: New share issue 0 598 598 598 Conversion, convertible debenture loans 0 23 23 23 Equity component of convertible debenture loans 1 1 1 Total transactions with shareholders 0 622 622 622 Closing balance as at December 31, 2016 2 777 –1 691 1,469 0 1,469 Opening balance as at January 1, 2017 2 777 –1 691 1,469 0 1,469 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 323 323 0 323 Other comprehensive income Translation differences 0 0 Total other comprehensive income, after tax 0 0 0 0 0 Total comprehensive income 0 323 323 0 323 Transactions with shareholders: New share issue 0 2 2 2 Conversion, convertible debenture loans 0 27 27 27 Equity component of convertible debenture loans Total transactions with shareholders 0 29 29 29 Closing balance as at December 31, 2017 2 806 –1 1,014 1,821 0 1,821 80 Consolidated statement of cash flow Consolidated statement of cash flow SEK million Note 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities Operating profit 419 411 Adjustment for non-cash items 33 –195 –397 Interest received 3 Interest paid –33 –19 Income taxes paid –2 –6 192 –11 Decrease (–) increase (+) in project and development properties –41 233 Decrease (–) increase (+) in inventories 1 2 Decrease (–) increase (+) in accounts receivable –248 –237 Decrease (–) increase (+) in receivables –139 –103 Decrease (–) increase (+) in accrued but not invoiced –67 –55 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in accounts payable 258 192 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in current liabilities –34 17 Decrease (–) increase (+) in invoiced but not accrued 125 7 Cash flow from operating activities 47 45 Investment activities Acquisition of fixed assets –62 0 Acquisitions of investment properties –248 –175 Sale of fixed assets 0 Business combinations –8 –10 Disposal/reduction of financial assets –1 –16 Cash flow from investment activities –319 –201 Financing activities New share issue 27 2 598 Borrowings 33 218 547 Convertible debenture loans raised 33 8 16 Repayment of borrowings 33 –79 –427 Change of financing activities 33 –17 –18 Cash flow from financing activities 132 716 Cash flow for the year –140 560 Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of year 571 11 Cash and cash equivalents as at year-end 431 571 81 Parent Company income statement Parent Company income statement SEK million Note 2017 2016 Income 6 117 88 Sales and administration expenses 7 –136 –97 Operating profit 8, 9, 10 –19 –9 Financial income 11 1 2 Financial expenses 12 –24 –11 Net financial items –23 –9 Appropriations 13 33 –39 Profit after financial items and appropriations –9 –57 Tax on profit for the year 14 –24 9 Profit for the year –33 –48 82 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income Parent Company statement of comprehensive income SEK million Note 2017 2016 Profit for the year –33 –48 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income –33 –48 83 Parent Company balance sheet Parent Company balance sheet SEK million Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 ASSETS Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 17 5 6 Total tangible fixed assets 5 6 Financial assets Participations in Group companies 18 127 75 Deferred tax assets 29 29 54 Other non-current receivables 20 2 1 Total financial fixed assets 158 130 Total fixed assets 163 136 Current assets Project and development properties 21 3 3 Current receivables Accounts receivable 23 0 0 Receivables from Group companies 903 715 Other current receivables 26 6 0 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 25 9 6 Total current receivables 918 721 Cash and bank balances 392 476 Total current assets 1,313 1,200 TOTAL ASSETS 1,476 1,336 84 Parent Company balance sheet SEK million Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 27 Restricted equity Share capital 2 2 Statutory reserve 1 1 3 3 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 803 774 Accumulated profit or los –94 –46 Profit for the year –33 –48 676 680 Total equity 679 683 Non-current liabilities Convertible debentures 28 23 15 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 28 298 297 Other provisions 30 20 Total long-term liabilities 341 312 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 28 1 27 Accounts payable 14 15 Liabilities to Group companies 430 282 Current tax liabilities 1 0 Other current liabilities 3 2 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 31 7 15 Total current liabilities 456 341 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,476 1,336 85 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUIT Y, PARENT COMPANY Statement of changes in equity, Parent Company Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Profit or loss Share brought forward Share Statutory premium including profit Total SEK million capital reserve reserve for the year equity Opening balance as at January 1, 2016 2 154 –46 110 Profit for the year –48 –48 Total comprehensive income –48 –48 Transactions with shareholders New share issue 0 598 598 Conversion, convertible debenture loans 0 22 22 Equity component of convertible debenture loans 1 1 Total transactions with shareholders 0 1 620 621 Closing balance as at December 31, 2016 2 1 774 –94 683 Opening balance as at January 1, 2017 2 1 774 –94 683 Profit for the year –33 –33 Total comprehensive income –33 –33 Transactions with shareholders New share issue 0 2 2 Conversion, convertible debenture loans 0 27 27 Total transactions with shareholders 0 29 29 Closing balance as at December 31, 2017 2 1 803 –127 679 86 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Parent Company statement of cash flows SEK million Note 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities Operating profit –19 –9 Adjustment for non-cash items 33 22 2 Interest received 1 2 Interest paid –24 –11 Income taxes paid 0 –20 –16 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in receivables –196 –280 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in accounts payable –1 11 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in current liabilities 124 –143 –73 –412 Cash flow from operating activities –93 –428 Investment activities Acquisitions of tangible fixed assets –1 –1 Disposal of tangible fixed assets 0 0 Cash flow from investment activities –1 –1 Financing activities New share issue 27 2 598 Borrowings 33 8 309 Repayment of borrowings 33 –5 Cash flow from financing activities 10 902 Cash flow for the year –84 473 Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of year 476 3 Cash and cash equivalents as at year-end 392 476 87 Notes Notes NOTE 1 General information guidance for specific areas and there are extensive disclosure requireSerneke Group AB (publ) (“Serneke”), corporate identity number ments. IFRS 15 is applicable for the financial year beginning on or after 556669-4153, is a public limited liability company registered in SweJanuary 1, 2018, with earlier application permitted. Serneke has conden and headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden. The address of the ducted an analysis of the effects of IFRS 15 and determined that applihead office is Kvarnbergsgatan 2, SE-411 05 Gothenburg. cation of the new rules does not result in any significant conversion The company’s and its subsidiaries’ (together Group ) operations effects in recognition of revenue. Serneke implements the standard comprise comprehensive services in construction, civil engineering, with forward-looking retroactive transition method from January 1, project development and property management. Serneke operates in 2018. both the public and commercial markets. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was published on July 24, 2014, and The Parent Company in the largest group in which Serneke is replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement. included is Ola Serneke Invest AB, corporate identity number The standard contains new requirements for the classification and val556659-5764, based in Gothenburg. uation of financial instruments, impairment and general rules for hedge accounting. The standard is mandatory for periods beginning January 1, 2018. Serneke has conducted an analysis of the effects of IFRS 9, NOTE 2 Significant accounting policies which shows that the new rules do not result in any significant conversion effects. The new principles for classification of financial assets are The consolidated accounts for Serneke have been prepared pursuant based on an analysis of the business model under which the asset is to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as approved by managed and the asset’s cash flow character. Credit loss provision is the EU, as well as interpretations from the IFRS Interpretations Commade in a model based on expected losses. Serneke will apply IFRS 9 mittee (IFRIC). retroactively from January 1 2018, with the help of the transition relief The Group also applies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and included in the standard ­Recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, IFRS 16 Leases was published on January 13, 2016, and replaces IAS issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. 17 Leases. IFRS 16 introduces a right-of-use model, which for the lesIn the consolidated accounts, items have been measured at acquisisee entails that essentially all leases are recognized in the balance tion cost, apart from with regard to certain financial instruments and sheet, eliminating the need to classify them as operating or finance investment properties, which are measured at fair value. To follow is a leases. The exception is leases with a term of 12 months or less, and description of the significant accounting policies that have been leases that amount to a low value. Amortization of the asset and interapplied. est expenses for the liability are recognized in the income statement. The standard includes more extensive disclosure requirements comNew and amended standards applied by the Group pared with the current standard. For the lessor­, IFRS 16 does not involve The following standards are applied by the Group for the first time for any major differences, compared with IFRS 17. IFRS 16 is applicable for fiscal years beginning January 1, 2017: the financial year beginning on January 1, 2019, with earlier application • Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 7. The changes in IAS 7 permitted provided that IFRS 15 is applied at the same time. require disclosure of changes in liabilities from financing activities, Serneke’s assessment is that the application of IFRS 16 may affect see Note 33. the reported amounts in the financial statements regarding the Group’s The application of the change has not had any impact on any financial assets and liabilities. Serneke has not yet conducted a reported amounts for the previous financial year and the change detailed analysis of the effects of applying IFRS 16 and cannot yet will not have any effect on current or future periods. quantify the effects. Serneke believes that other new and amended standards and interInterpretations pretations that have not entered into force will not have a material IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) has not published any new impact on the Group’s financial statements when applied for the first interpretations that have come into effect for the financial year 2017. time. New standards and interpretations that have not yet been applied Consolidated accounts by the Group The consolidated accounts cover the Parent Company Serneke Group A number of new standards and interpretations will gain legal force for AB (publ) and the companies over which the Parent Company has a financial years beginning after January 1, 2017 and have not been direct or indirect controlling interest (subsidiaries). The Group has a applied in the preparation of this financial report. These new standards controlling interest over a company when it has influence over the and interpretations are expected to affect the Group’s financial stateinvestment object, exposure to or entitlement to a variable return from ments as follows. its involvement in the investment object, and an opportunity to exert its IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was published on influence over the investment object to affect its return. Details of the May 28, 2014and replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction composition of the Group are provided under Note 18. Contracts. IFRS 15 provides a model for revenue recognition for almost Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from the date all income generated through agreements with customers, with the of acquisition and are de-consolidated from the date that control exception of leases, financial instruments and insurance contracts. The ceases. core principle for revenue recognition in accordance with IFRS 15 is Consolidated earnings and components in other comprehensive that a company must recognize revenue in a way that reflects the income are attributable to the Parent Company’s owners and to transfer of the promised good or service to the customer, in the amount non-controlling interests, even if this results in a negative value for that the company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for the non-controlling interests. good or service. Revenue is then recognized once the customer gains The accounting policies for subsidiaries have been adjusted as control of the good or service. IFRS 15 includes a substantial amount of required in order to make them consistent with the Group’s accounting 88 Notes policies. All intra-group transactions, dealings and unrealized gains and When preparing the consolidated accounts, the assets and liabilities losses attributable to intra-group transactions have been eliminated of foreign subsidiaries are translated into SEK (Swedish krona) accordon preparation of the consolidated accounts. ing to the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rate for the Transactions with non-controlling interests period, unless the exchange rate has fluctuated considerably during Changes to the Parent Company’s share in a subsidiary that result in a the period, in which case the exchange rate on the transaction date is loss of controlling interest are recognized as equity transactions (i.e. as used instead. Any translation differences arising are recognized in transactions with the Group’s owners). Any difference between the other comprehensive income and transferred to the Group’s translation amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair reserve. Upon disposal of a foreign subsidiary, such translation differvalue of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in ences are reported in the income statement as part of the capital gain. equity and allocated among the Parent Company’s owners. Goodwill Loss of controlling interest Goodwill comprises the difference between the sum of the purchase When the Parent Company loses its controlling interest over a subsid­­ consideration, any non-controlling interests and fair value at the acquiiary, the profit of loss on disposal is calculated as the difference sition date of previous shareholdings, and the fair value at the acquisibetween: tion date of identifiable acquired net assets. At the acquisition date, i) the sum of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair goodwill is recognized at acquisition cost and following initial recognivalue of any remaining holdings, and tion is measured at acquisition cost less any impairment. ii) the previous carrying amounts of the subsidiary’s assets (including When testing for impairment, goodwill is allocated among the goodwill) and liabilities, and any non-controlling interests. cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies arising as a result of the acquisition. Goodwill shall be tested annually When the divested subsidiary has assets that are measured in accordwith regard to any impairment requirement, or more often when there ance with the revaluation model or at fair value, and the attributable is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the accumulated gains or losses have been recognized in other comprehenrecoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is established as a value sive income and accumulated in equity, these amounts that have previlower than the carrying amount, the impairment amount is distributed. ously been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumuFirst, the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to the cash generating lated in equity should be recognized as though the Parent Company had unit is reduced and then the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to disposed the assets directly, which means a reclassification to profit/ other assets in the unit is reduced. A recognized impairment of goodwill loss or direct transfer to retained earnings. cannot be reversed in a later period. The fair value of the remaining shareholdings in the previous subsidiWhen a subsidiary is sold, the remaining carrying amount of goodwill ary at the point at which the controlling interest is lost is regarded as is included in the calculation of the capital gain or loss. the fair value on initial recognition of a financial asset, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, or, Business combinations where applicable, the acquisition cost on initial recognition of an Business combinations are recognized in accordance with the acquiinvestment in an associate or joint arrangement. sition method. The purchase consideration of the business combination is measured Segment reporting at fair value at the acquisition date, which is calculated as the sum of An operating segment is part of an enterprise that is able to earn the fair values at the acquisition date of assets paid, arising or assumed income and incur expenses, the operating results of which are regularly liabilities and equity interests issued in exchange for control over the reviewed by the company’s highest executive decision maker, and for acquired business. Acquisition expenses are recognized in the income which there is independent financial information. The company’s statement as they arise. reporting of operating segments is consistent with the internal reportThe purchase consideration also includes the fair value at the acquiing to the highest executive decision maker. The highest executive sition date of the assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent condecision-maker is the function responsible for allocating resources and sideration arrangement. Changes in the fair value of a contingent conassessing the results of the operating segments. The Company has sideration arising as a result of additional information received after identiﬁed Group management as the highest executive decision-maker. the acquisition date regarding facts and conditions that existed on the acquisition date qualify as adjustments during the valuation period and Foreign currency are adjusted retroactively, with a corresponding adjustment of goodItems included in the financial reports for the different units in the will. All other changes in the fair value of a contingent additional purGroup are recognized in the currency used in the primary business chase consideration price classified as an asset or liability are reported environment where each unit primarily pursues its operations (funcin accordance with the applicable standard. tional currency). In the consolidated accounts, all amounts are transThe identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities, as well as lated into Swedish krona (SEK), which is the functional and reporting contingent assets, are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date, currency of the Parent Company. with the following exceptions: Foreign currency transactions are translated in the respective unit • Deferred tax asset or liability and liabilities or assets attributable to into the unit’s functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing the acquired company’s contracts regarding employee benefits are on the transaction date. In each balance sheet date, monetary items recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange and IAS 19 Employee Benefits. rate at that date. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a for• L iabilities or equity instruments attributable to the acquired compaeign currency are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the day ny’s share-based allocations or to the exchange of the acquired the fair value was established. Non-monetary items measured at historcompany’s share-based allocations against the acquirer’s equity-reical acquisition cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. lated assets are valued at the acquisition date in accordance with Exchange rate differences are recognized in the income statement IFRS 2 Share-based payments. for the period in which they arise, with the exception of transactions • F ixed assets (or disposal group) classified as though they are held for consisting of currency hedges that satisfy conditions for hedge sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and accounting of cash flows or of net investments, for which gains and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with this losses are recognized in other total earnings. standard. 89 Notes Contingent liabilities that have been taken over in a business combinaognize additional losses, unless the Group has taken on commitments tion are recognized as though they are existing obligations arising from or made payments on behalf of the associate/joint venture. past events, the fair values of which can be reliably calculated. The Group performs an assessment at the end of each reporting In business combinations in which the sum of the purchase considperiod of whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the eration, any non-controlling interests and the fair value at the acquisiassociate/joint venture is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calcution date of previous shareholdings exceeds the fair value at the acquilates the impairment requirement as the difference between the assosition date of identifiable acquired net assets, the difference is ciate/joint venture’s recoverable amount and the carrying amount and recognized as goodwill in the statement of financial position. If the difrecognizes the amount in Share of profit of associates in the income ference is negative, it is recognized as a gain on an acquisition at a low statement. price directly in profit or loss, after the difference has been reviewed. For transactions between affiliates and associates/joint ventures, For every business combination, previous non-controlling interests the portion of the unrealized gains and losses that corresponds to the in the acquired company are measured either at fair value or at the Group’s share of the associate or joint venture is eliminated. Dividends value of the proportional share of the non-controlling interest of the received from associates/joint ventures reduce the investment’s caracquired company’s identifiable net assets. rying amount. In the event of an acquisition in stages, or ‘step acquisition’, the preIn the event of a step acquisition of an associate’s shares, separate vious equity interests in the acquired company are revalued at their fair valuations are carried out at each acquisition date. Goodwill or surplus values at the acquisition date (i.e. the point at which the controlling values are calculated for each acquisition. When bolt-on acquisitions interest is obtained). Any gain or loss is recognized in the income stateentail that the Group acquires a controlling interest in the holding, all ment. Any changes in the value of the previous equity interests that shares are revalued at fair value at the point at which the controlling prior to the acquisition date were recognized in other comprehensive interest is acquired. See above under the section entitled ‘Business income, are reclassified to profit or loss on the same basis as would be combinations’ for further details regarding step acquisitions. required had these interests been divested. When the Group loses controlling influence of a subsidiary, a revaluation of the remaining share is conducted at fair value. Any gain or Asset acquisitions loss associated with the loss of control is recognized in the income When an acquisition is made of shares in a subsidiary, the acquisition statement on a separate line. comprises either an acquisition of a business or an acquisition of assets. An asset acquisition has occurred if, for example, the acquired Income company only owns one or several properties with leases, but the Construction income acquisition does not include the necessary processes in order to purAll contracting assignments are initially valued in accordance with IFRIC sue business activities. 15 “Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate”. Depending on the When the acquisition of a subsidiary involves the acquisition of net form of the agreement, the assignment can be considered a contractassets that do not comprise a business, the acquisition cost is alloing agreement and reported in accordance with IAS 11 Construction cated among the individually identifiable assets and liabilities, based on contracts, which involves the percentage-of-completion method. If their fair values at the acquisition date. Transaction costs are added to project contracts do not meet the requirements imposed in accordthe acquisition value of acquired net assets on acquisition of assets. In ance with IFRIC 15, the contract is treated as a sold service or good. In the case of additional acquisitions, deferred tax attributable to the propsuch a situation, income and profit/loss are recognized in accordance erty acquisition is not recognized. Any negotiated tax rebate reduces the with IAS 18 Revenue, which is normally when transfer of ownership has acquisition value of the property, which means that the value changes occurred. in subsequent valuation are affected by the tax rebate. When the outcome of a construction contract recognized in accordThe contingent purchase consideration for acquisition of assets is ance with IAS 11 can be reliably estimated, the income and expenses recognized initially at fair value and included as part of the cost of the attributable to the contract are recognized as income and expenses, asset. The equivalent amount is reported as a liability. In the case of taking into account the contract’s degree of completion at the end of changes in assumptions about the conditional purchase consideration, the reporting period. The degree of completion is calculated as the the liability is revalued. Adjustments in a liability’s carrying amount in ratio between contracted expenses for work performed at subsequent accounting instances are recognized as a corresponding the end of reporting period and estimated total assignment expenses. adjustment of an asset’s acquisition cost. Revaluations of the project’s final forecasts entail corrections of previously accumulated earnings. If it is probable that the total contract Investments in associates and joint ventures expenses will exceed the total contract income, the anticipated loss An associate is a company over which the Group exercises a controlling should be immediately recognized as a cost in its entirety. Changes in interest via the possibility of participating in decisions affecting the the scope of the assignment, claims and incentive compensation are company’s economic and operational strategies. These circumstances included in the assignment income to the extent that it is likely that normally exist in cases in which the Parent Company directly or indiadjustments will result in income and can be measured reliably. rectly owns shares representing 20–50 percent of the votes. If the outcome of a contracting assignment cannot be calculated A joint venture is a collaborative arrangement whereby the parties reliably, income recognition should only be made in amounts correwith joint control over the operations are entitled to the net assets of sponding to the incurred assignment expenses that are likely to be the operations. compensated for by the client, and assignment expenses are recogAssociates and joint ventures are recognized in accordance with the nized as expenses in the period in which they arise. equity method. In applying the equity method, the investment is initially When production starts on a housing project, with the client being a valued at cost and the acquisition cost is subsequently increased or housing cooperative, in cases where the property is already owned by decreased to recognize the Group’s share in the profit or loss of associSerneke, the property is transferred at its book value to the construcates and joint ventures, after tax, after the acquisition date. Recognition tion project and included in the project’s other production expenses. of the associate/joint venture is adjusted so that it complies with the Where project contracts with tenant-owner associations fulfill the Group’s accounting policies. requirements imposed for a construction contract in accordance with When the Group’s share of the losses in an associate/joint venture IAS 11, income is based on stage of completion and earnings are calcucorrespond to or exceed its holding in the associate/joint venture lated based on the same principles as above. Risks associated with (including any long-term holdings that, in spirit, comprise part of the commitments to the tenant-owner association in respect of unsold Group’s holding in the associate/joint venture), the Group does not recapartments are taken into account in the accumulated earnings. 90 Notes Sale of properties and development rights Defined contribution plans On disposal of properties or development rights directly or indirectly For defined-contribution plans, the Company pays fixed fees to a sepathrough a sale of shares, the underlying property or development right’s rate, independent legal entity and is under no obligation to pay addivalue is recognized in the Group as income. tional fees. Expenses are charged to the Group’s earnings as the beneThe income is recognized when the right of ownership has been fits are earned, which normally coincides with the point at which transferred, i.e. when all material risks and benefits have been transpremiums are paid. ferred to the buyer. When agreements encompass both sales of properties and development rights, as well as construction contracts for Borrowing expenses planned construction for the buyer, an assessment is made as to Borrowing expenses directly attributable to the purchase, construction whether the property and/or development right transactions’ respecor production of an asset that necessarily takes considerable time to tive construction contracts are separate agreements, or whether they complete for the intended use or sale are included in the acquisition should be regarded as a single agreement, or “linked transaction”. cost of the asset until the date of completion of the asset for its Sales of development rights can be dependent upon decisions intended use or sale. Interest income from temporary placement of regarding future detailed development plans. An assessment is then borrowed funds for the above described asset are deducted from the made as to the probability of the respective detailed development plan. borrowing costs that may be included in the asset’s acquisition value. Sales income and earnings are recognized when the probability is Other borrowing expenses are recognized in earnings in the period in deemed to be very high. When sales income is recognized, all remaining which they arise. commitments in the sales earnings are also taken into account. Taxes Rental income The tax expense consists of the sum of current tax and deferred tax. Income that is recognized includes rental income, which is recognized on a straight-line basis. ­A s lessor, the Group only has leases that are Current tax classified as operating leases. In cases where the rental contract allows Current tax is calculated on taxable income for the period. Taxable a reduced rent for a certain period of time, which is compensated for by income differs from the recognized profit or loss in the income statehigher rent during another period, this is allocated across the term of ment, as it has been adjusted for non-taxable income and non-deductthe contract. ible expenses, as well as for income and expenses that are taxable or deductible in other periods. The Group’s current tax liability is calcuDividend income lated in accordance with the tax rates that have been adopted or Dividend income is recognized once the shareholder’s right to receive announced at the balance sheet date. payment has been established. Deferred tax Interest income Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the carInterest income is recognized over the term using the effective interest rying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and method. the tax value of assets and liabilities used to calculate taxable income. The effective interest rate is the rate that means the present value of Deferred tax is recognized according to the balance sheet method. all future receipts and disbursements during the fixed-interest term is Deferred tax liabilities are recognized in principal for all taxable tempoequal to the carrying amount of the receivable. rary differences, and deferred tax assets are recognized in principle for all deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is likely the Leases – the Group as lessee amounts can be offset against future taxable profits. Deferred tax liaA finance lease is a lease according to which the financial risks and benbilities and tax claims are not recognized if the temporary difference is efits associated with ownership of an asset are for all intents and purattributable to goodwill, or if it arises as a result of a transaction that poses transferred from the lessor to the lessee. Other leases are classicomprises initial recognition of an asset or liability (that is not a busified as operating leases. ness combination), and that, on the transaction date, affects neither Assets held in accordance with finance leases are recognized as recognized nor taxable income. fixed assets in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value at the A deferred tax liability is recognized for taxable temporary differbeginning of the term, or at the present value of the minimum lease ences attributable to investments in subsidiaries, except in cases in payments, if this is lower. The corresponding liability to the lessor is which the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temrecognized in the balance sheet as a finance lease liability. porary differences and it is likely that such a reversal will not happen in Lease payments are allocated between interest and amortization of the foreseeable future. The deferred tax liabilities that are attributable the liability. The interest is allocated to periods during the lease term so to deductible temporary differences with regard to such investments as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balshould only be recognized to the extent that it is likely the amounts can ance of the liability for each period. The interest expense is recognized be offset against future taxable profits and it is likely that such offsetdirectly in the income statement. ting will happen in the foreseeable future. The fixed assets are depreciated during the shorter period of the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed every yearasset’s useful life and term. end and reduced to the extent that it is no longer likely that sufficient For operating leases, lease payments are expensed on a straight-line taxable profit will be available to offset, entirely or in part, against the basis over the lease term, unless another systematic way better reflects deferred tax asset. the user’s economic use over time. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the tax rates that are expected to apply for the period in which the asset is recovered or the Employee benefits liability settled, based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been Employee benefits in the form of salaries, bonus payments, paid holiadopted or announced at the balance sheet date. day, paid sick leave, etc., as well as pensions, are recognized as they are Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset when they relate to earned. With regard to pensions and other post-employment benefits, income tax charged by the same authority, and when the Group intends these are classified as defined-contribution or defined-benefit pension to settle the tax at a net amount. plans. The Group has no pension plans that are recognized as defined-benefit plans. 91 Notes Current and deferred tax for the period occurred during the period of time and risk factors to consider. The Current and deferred tax is recognized as an expense or income in the assessments made affect the carrying amount in the balance sheet income statement, except when the tax is attributable to transactions under ‘Investment properties’, and in the income statement the item recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In such ‘Change in value of investment properties’ is recognized. Furthermore, cases, the tax should also be recognized in other comprehensive external valuations of the properties are conducted annually to corrobincome or directly in equity. For current and deferred tax arising on recorate the internal valuation. ognition of a business combination, the tax effect should be recogAdditional expenses are only included in the carrying amount when it nized in the acquisition calculation. is likely that future economic benefits that may be attributable to the item will flow to the Group, and that the acquisition value of the item Tangible fixed assets can be reliably calculated. All other expenses for repairs and mainteTangible fixed assets are recognized at acquisition cost, less accumunance and other additional expenses are recognized in the period in lated depreciation and any impairment losses. which they arise. Acquisition cost comprises the purchase consideration, expenses directly attributable to the asset in order to put it in place and prepare Operating properties it for its intended use, and estimated expenses for dismantling and Properties that are used continually within the Group’s construction removing the asset and restoring the site at which it was located. Addiand civil engineering operations are reported within the Property Mantional expenses are only included in the asset or recognized as a sepaagement business area and classified as operating properties when the rate asset when it is likely that future economic benefits that may be Group’s intention is for the holding to be a long-term holding. These attributable to the item will flow to the Group, and that the acquisition operating properties are measured at historical acquisition cost, less cost of the item can be reliably calculated. All other expenses for accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. A provision is repairs and maintenance and additional expenses are recognized in the made for the full amount for any impairment requirement when it is income statement in the period in which they arise. deemed likely. Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is expensed so that the asset’s Acquisitions of operating properties are normally recognized as value less estimated residual value at the end of its useful life is depreassets once binding acquisition agreements have been entered into. ciated on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which is estimated to be: Impairment of tangible fixed assets On every balance sheet date, the Group analyzes the carrying amounts Buildings and land of tangible fixed assets to establish whether there is any indication that – Land improvement 25 years the value of these assets has declined. If such is the case, the asset’s – Frames 50 years recoverable amount is calculated in order to establish the value of any – Roofs 30 years impairment. Where it is not possible to calculate the recoverable – Interior finishes 10 years amount for an individual asset, the Group calculates the recoverable – Fixtures and fittings 10 years amount for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Machinery and other technical facilities 5–10 years The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less selling Equipment, tools and installations 5 years costs and its value-in-use. When calculating value-in-use, the estiCars 3 years mated future cash flow is discounted to present value at a discount rate before tax that reflects the current market assessment of the time value Estimated useful life, residual values and depreciation methods are of money and the risks associated with the asset. reviewed at least at the end of each accounting period, and the effect If the recoverable amount for an asset (or cash-generating unit) is of any changes to estimates is recognized prospectively. established at a lower value than the carrying amount, the carrying The carrying amount of a tangible fixed asset is derecognized from amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is impaired to the recovthe statement of financial position on retirement or disposal, or when erable amount. An impairment should be immediately expensed in the no future economic benefits are expected from use or retirement/disincome statement. posal of the asset. The profit of loss arising from the scrapping or disWhen an impairment is later reversed, the asset’s (cash-generating posal of the asset is the difference between any net income on disposal unit’s) carrying amount increases to the revaluated recoverable and its carrying amount, recognized in the income statement in the amount, but the higher carrying amount may not exceed the carrying period when the asset is removed from the statement of financial amount that would have been established if no impairment of the asset position. (cash-generating unit) had been carried out in previous years. A reversal of an impairment is recognized directly in the income statement. Investment properties Properties acquired for more long-term strategic development within Financial instruments the Property business area are classified as investment properties A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in the balance sheet when the Group’s intention with the holding is to manage it for the purwhen the Company becomes party to the contractual conditions of the pose of generating rental income and earnings from property manageinstrument. A financial asset or part of a financial asset is removed from ment, or an increase in value, or a combination of the two. These propthe balance sheet when the rights in the contract are realized, expire or erties are initially recognized at acquisition cost for each acquisition, when the Company loses control of it. A financial liability or part of a but the properties are subsequently measured at market value in financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the commitaccordance with IAS 40. Any impairment needs are fully reserved when ment in the contract has been fulfilled or is otherwise extinguished. identified. See Note 16 for further information. At every balance sheet date, the Company conducts an assessment Acquisition of investment properties is normally recognized as an as to whether there are objective indications that a financial asset or asset in connection with the point at which possession of the propergroup of financial assets is impaired due to past events. Examples of ties occurs. such events include a significant deterioration in the financial position The fair value of properties is based on internal valuations. Fair value of the counterparty, or non-payment of overdue amounts. is the estimated amount that could be collected in a transaction at the Financial assets and financial liabilities that on subsequent recognipoint of valuation between well-informed parties that are independent tion are not measured at fair value via the income statement are recogof each other and who have an interest in completing the transaction. nized on initial recognition at fair value with additions/deductions for This is carried out taking account of value-driven changes that have transaction expenses. Financial assets and financial liabilities that on 92 Notes subsequent recognition are measured at fair value via the income Accounts payable statement are recognized on initial recognition at fair value. On sub­ Accounts payable are categorized as ‘Other financial liabilities’, which sequent recognition, financial instruments are measured at amortized means measurement at amortized cost. However, the anticipated cost or at fair value, depending on their initial categorization in accordmaturity of the accounts payable is short, which is why the liability is ance with IAS 39. recognized at a nominal amount without discounting. On initial recognition, a financial asset or a financial liability is placed into one of the following categories: Liabilities to credit institutions and other borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans, bank overdrafts and other loans are cateFinancial assets gorized as ‘Other financial liabilities’ and measured at amortized cost, • Fair value via the income statement according to the effective interest method. Any differences between • Changes in loans and accounts receivable the loan amount received (net of transaction expenses) and repayment • Investments held to maturity or amortization of loans is recognized over the term of the loan, in • Financial assets available for sale accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for borrowing expenses (see above). Financial liabilities • Fair value via the income statement Convertible debentures • Other financial liabilities measured at amortized cost The Group has issued a convertible debenture (compound financial instrument), which the owner can convert into a certain number of Fair values of financial instruments ordinary shares in the issuing company. The convertible debenture The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined includes both a liability and an equity component. The Group recogas follows: nizes the liability component and the equity component separately in The fair value of financial assets and liabilities with standard terms the statement of financial position. The issuer of a convertible debenthat are traded on an active market is determined taking account of ture initially establishes the carrying amount of the liability component quoted market prices. by calculating the fair value of a similar liability that has no conversion The fair value of other financial assets and liabilities is determined in right. The carrying amount of the equity component, which correaccordance with generally accepted valuation models based on inforsponds to the right to convert the instrument into ordinary shares, is mation retrieved from observable, relevant market transactions. subsequently obtained by the fair value of the compound financial For all financial assets and liabilities, the carrying amount is deemed instrument in its entirety being reduced by the fair value of the financial to be a good approximation of their fair value, unless otherwise stated liability. in the notes that follow. In the subsequent recognition, the liability component is measured at amortized cost in accordance with the effective interest method. Amortized cost The equity component is only revalued on conversion or redemption. Amortized cost refers to the amount at which the asset or liability was During the year, the Parent Company has issued a convertible initially recognized, less amortization, additions or deductions for debenture (compound financial instrument), which can be converted accumulated allocation in accordance with the effective interest into a certain number of ordinary shares in the issuing company. method of the initial difference between received/paid amounts and amounts due to be paid/received on the maturity date, and less Project and development properties impairment. Serneke regularly acquires various project and development properties. The effective interest rate is the rate that, on discounting of all The properties that are acquired for development within the Project future anticipated cash flows over the expected term, results in the iniDevelopment business area are classified as current assets. The Group’s tially recognized value of the financial asset or the financial liability. intention is for the properties to be sold within the near future following development, and they are therefore measured in accordance with IAS 2 Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Inventories. This includes direct production expenses and a reasonable Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognized in the balance proportion of indirect expenses. sheet at a net amount when a legal right exists to offset and when These project and development properties are measured at the there is an intention to settle the items at a net amount, or to realize lower of acquisition cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the asset and settle the liability at the same time. the estimated selling price less estimated expenses for completion and the expenses estimated as necessary for effectuating the sale. Cash and cash equivalents Acquisitions of project and development properties are normally Cash and cash equivalents includes cash funds and bank balances, as recognized as assets once binding acquisition agreements have been well as other current liquid investments that can be easily converted entered into, and where future conditional changes to detailed develinto cash and are subject to a negligible risk in terms of changes in opment plans are deemed highly probable. value. Additional expenses are only included in the carrying amount when it In order to be classified as cash and cash equivalents, the term may not is likely that future economic benefits that may be attributable to the exceed three months from the acquisition date. Cash funds and bank item will flow to the Group, and that the acquisition cost of the item can balances are categorized as ‘Loans and receivables’, which means be reliably calculated. All other expenses for repairs and maintenance measurement at amortized cost. As bank deposits are payable on and other additional expenses are recognized in the period in which demand, amortized cost corresponds to a nominal amount. Current they arise. investments are categorized as ‘Held-for-trading’ and are measured at fair value, with changes in value recognized in the income statement. Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realAccounts receivable izable value. The acquisition cost is determined through the application Accounts receivable are categorized as ‘Loans and receivables’, which of the First In First Out method, (FIFO). Net realizable value is the estimeans measurement at amortized cost. ­However, the anticipated mated selling price less estimated expenses for completion and the maturity of the accounts receivable is short, which is why they are expenses estimated as necessary for effectuating the sale. ­recognized at a nominal amount without discounting. Deductions are made for receivables that are deemed to be bad debts. Impairment losses on trade receivables are recognized in operating expenses. 93 Notes Appropriations Pensions Provisions are recognized when the Group has an existing commitment The Parent Company’s pension commitments are determined and (legal or informal) resulting from past events, it is likely that an outflow reported based the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Application of the of resources will be required in order to settle such commitment and a Pension Obligations Vesting Act is a prerequisite for tax deduction. reliable estimate of the amount can be made. The amount that is set aside constitutes the best estimate of the Changes in accounting policies amount required to settle the existing commitment on the balance The amendments to RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities that have sheet date, taking account of risks and uncertainties associated with entered into force for the financial year 2017 have not affected the the commitment. When a provision is calculated by estimating the Parent Company’s financial reports. ­disbursements expected to be required to settle the obligation, the carrying amount should correspond to the present value of such Changes in RFR 2 that have not yet entered into force ­disbursements. The Parent Company has not yet begun to apply the changes in RFR 2 Where part or all of the amount required to settle a provision is Accounting for Legal Entities, which will gain legal force January 1, expected to be replaced by a third party, the compensation shall be 2018 or later. reported separately as an asset in the statement of financial position Described below are those changes expected to have an impact on when it is virtually certain that it will be obtained if the company reguthe Parent Company’s financial statements in the period in which they lates the obligation and the amount can be calculated reliably. are applied for the first time. The new standard for financial instrument classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and liaRelated-party transactions bilities. In RFR 2, there are exemptions from applying IFRS 9 for a legal Related parties can be both companies and natural persons. Related entity, as well as the introduction of rules for recognizing financial companies are defined as all companies within the Group and compainstruments in RFR 2 to be applied by the companies that choose to nies in which related entities have a controlling or significant interest. apply the exemption. The amendment shall take effect on the same Related physical persons are defined as Board members, senior execudate that IFRS 9 is first applied in the consolidated accounts, i.e. for tives and close family members to these. financial years beginning January 1, 2018 or later. For purchases and sales between affiliates and from and to related Serneke has conducted an analysis of the effects of IFRS 9, which natural persons, the same pricing principles are applied as for transacshows that the new rules do not result in any significant conversion tions with external parties. effects. Serneke will apply IFRS 9 retroactively from January 1, 2018. Management believes that other amendments to RFR 2, which have Accounting policies for the Parent Company not yet entered into force, are not expected to have any material The Parent Company applies the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements when applied Financial Reporting Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entifor the first time. ties. Application of RFR 2 entails the Parent Company, as much as possible, apply all EU-approved IFRS within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act, and observe the relationship between accounting and taxation. The differences between the Parent Company and the Group are described NOTE 3 Key estimates and assessments below: Significant sources of uncertainty in estimates Classification and presentation Detailed below are the key assumptions regarding the future, and other The Parent Company’s earnings and balance sheet has been prepared important sources of uncertainty in estimates as at the balance sheet in accordance with the schedule set by the Swedish Annual Accounts date that involve a significant risk of material adjustments to carrying Act. The difference to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, which amounts for assets and liabilities during coming financial years. is applied for the consolidated accounts, mainly concerns reporting of To prepare the financial statements in accordance with IFRS and financial income and expenses, fixed assets, equity and the use of progenerally accepted accounting practices, management is required to visions in the balance sheet. make various assumptions. Assessments and estimates that affect the assets and liabilities, income and expenses, contingent assets and conSubsidiary tingent liabilities recognized in the year-end report, and other informaShares in subsidiaries are carried at cost in the Parent Company’s tion. These assessments and estimates are based on historical experifinancial statements. Acquisition-related costs for subsidiaries, which ence and expectations of future events considered reasonable under are expensed in the consolidated accounts, are included as part of the prevailing circumstances. Naturally the actual outcome may differ conacquisition cost for shares in subsidiaries. siderably from these assessments and estimates if other assumptions are made, or if other conditions exist or arise. Group contributions • On the disposal of properties and development rights, different Group contributions are recognized according to the alternative rule assessments and estimates may be made regarding the likelihood which means that both Group contributions received and Group contriof various factors, such as changes to detailed development plans butions paid are recognized in the year-end appropriation. and outstanding commitments, which could have a highly significant impact on the Group’s performance and financial position. ContinuFinancial instruments ing commitments can also be difficult to identify in their nature and The Parent Company does not apply IAS 39 Financial Instruments: extent. A sale may be conditional on a future detailed development ­Recognition and measurement. In the Parent Company, a method is plan being accepted. In the event that the detailed development plan applied based on acquisition cost in accordance with the Swedish is not accepted, which the Group had assessed as very likely to be Annual Accounts Act. This entails that financial assets are measured approved, this could have a significant impact on performance and at cost less impairment losses, if any, and current financial assets are financial position. measured at the lower of cost and fair value. Financial liabilities are • In the valuation of investment properties, assessments and estimeasured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Prinmates may have a significant impact on the Group’s recognized ciples of recognition and derecognition of financial instruments are earnings and financial position. Valuation of investment properties equivalent to those applied for the Group and as described above. requires a number of different assessments, such as yield requirements, etc. 94 Notes • V aluation of Group-owned investment properties and investment • G oodwill is valued to the lowest of acquisition costs and recovery properties owned through associates and joint ventures could have value. Several assumptions on estimates of future conditions are a significant impact on the Group’s earnings and financial position. taken into account when calculating the discounted cash flow as the Assessments concerning Group-owned investment properties basis for the estimated recoverable amount. Impairment testing of affect the ‘Investment property’ item in the balance sheet and in the goodwill in accordance with IAS 36 is presented under Note 15. income statement, the item ‘Change in value of investment proper• In 2016, Serneke, via Karlavagnstornet Holding AB, sold 50 percent ties’ is recognized. The assessment relating to investment properties of the shares in Karlavagnsplatsen Holding AB to NSF II Sweden AB owned through associates and joint ventures affects the item Parti­ (NREP). cipations in associates and joint ventures in the balance sheet and, The purchase consideration for the transferred shares in Karla­ in the income statement, the effect is reported on the line Share of vagnsplatsen Holding AB amounted to half of the underlying value of profit of associates and joint ventures. building rights that the parties preliminarily considered to amount to • T he Group’s project and development properties are not measured approximately SEK 1.5 billion. In addition, the purchase consideration at market value in the consolidated balance sheet. Nevertheless, may be adjusted in the event that the development rights are resold assessments and estimates have a significant impact on the Group’s at a price lower than that agreed between the parties in determining market value. Valuation of these properties requires a number of the purchase consideration. Serneke has made a number of commit­different assessments – see above. ments to the buyer, including that Serneke shall ensure that property-­ • T he reported earnings of ongoing construction projects are deterowning companies are provided with certain agreed sites, plots and mined under the percentage-of-completion method based on the premises. Serneke shall also be responsible for all property registraproject’s completion. A fundamental condition in order to assess the tion expenses, including any stamp tax and for certain other obligapercentage-of-completion method is for project income and project tions and services involved in advancing the project, including expenses to be reliably determined. The assessment of project decontamination, demolition and development measures. income and project expenses is based on a number of estimates and In order to reflect the implications of the transaction, Serneke has assumptions that rely on project managers’ experience and know­ allocated the purchase consideration between both the sale of ledge of project management. There is a risk that the final outcome shares and the sale of future services. The earnings from the sale of of a project may differ from the gradually accumulated results. participations were recognized in the income statement at the time • W ithin the framework of Serneke’s ordinary operations, Serneke is of disposal. Earnings from sales of services is recognized in the from time to time involved in various legal disputes. In these cases, income statement over time in accordance with the percentage-­ofan assessment of the commitments and responsibilities as well as completion method. the probability of the outcome is determined. The assessment is • IFRS lacks rules for how contingent considerations are to be recogbased on information and knowledge that exists in the current situanized upon the acquisition of assets. For recognition of contingent tion. The assessment is in any case difficult, and the final outcome considerations, Serneke has used a method that is based on similar may be different than predicted, which may have significant impact rules for contingent considerations in accordance with IFRS 3 Busion the reporting and monitoring. ness Combinations. This entails that the contingent considerations • Deferred tax on losses is booked in cases where they are established are initially measured at fair value and included as part of the acquiand expected to be used against future profits. Assessment exists sition value of the asset. ­T he equivalent amount is reported as a whether or not future earnings can be utilized. ­liability. Adjustments in a liability’s carrying amount in subsequent • P rovisions for future expenses due to guarantee undertakings are accounting instances are recognized as a corresponding adjustment recognized at the estimated amount required to settle the obligation of an asset’s acquisition value. For further information on conditional at the balance sheet date. The estimate is based on calculations, purchase terms, see Note 4. management’s assessment and experience from previous transactions. NOTE 4 Financial risk management and financial instruments, cont The Group is exposed through its operations to various types of finanLong-term liquidity planning is updated every month for 12 months cial risks. The Company’s Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility forward, and short-term liquidity planning occurs weekly for the comfor exposure, management and monitoring of the Group’s financial ing month. At year-end, there was available liquidity as detailed below. risks. The framework for exposure, management and follow-up of See also Note 28 financial risks is determined by the Board in a financial policy revised Financing risk refers to the risk of the Group being unable to obtain annually. The Board of Directors has the opportunity to deviate temposufficient financing at a reasonable cost. The Group’s target is to have rarily from the established finance policy. The Board of Directors an average remaining maturity of 18–36 months. receives regular monitoring reports. The bank overdraft with Nordea of SEK 200 million carries a covenant, which means that the Group shall have an equity/assets ratio of 25 Liquidity and financing risk percent. In the most recent report on December 31, 2017, the equity/ Liquidity risk refers to the risk that Serneke experiences difficulty in assets ratio was 41.3 percent (42.7). meeting its payment obligations as a result of inadequate liquidity. The Group’s objective is to have a liquidity reserve of 5 percent of sales for Available liquidity the rolling twelve months. The Group works continually to improve its GROUP Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 liquidity situation. Work on streamlining collection of accounts receiv­ Cash and bank balances 431 571 able is under way and has been a priority in the Group. Unused bank overdraft 200 200 Total 631 771 95 Notes Maturity analysis of financial liabilities, undiscounted cash flows, including interest Average Nominal ­interest rate as amount Amount SEK, Maturing GROUP 2017 at the balance original including ­S eptember Maturity Maturing SEK million Currency sheet date, % ­c urrency ­interest 2018 2019–2020 2021 or later Bank loans SEK 1.74% 315 331 38 274 19 Finance lease liabilities SEK 1.25% 61 64 22 42 Convertible debentures SEK 2.09% 23 24 0 24 Bond SEK 6.25% 300 356 19 337 Total interest-bearing financial liabilities 699 775 79 677 19 Accounts payable SEK 799 799 799 Other liabilities SEK 162 162 162 Total non-interest-bearing financial liabilities 961 961 961 Total financial liabilities 1,660 1,736 1,040 677 19 Average Nominal ­interest rate as amount Amount SEK, Maturing GROUP 2016 at the balance original including ­S eptember Maturity Maturing SEK million Currency sheet date, % ­c urrency ­interest 2017 2018–2019 2020 or later Bank loans SEK 1.93 184 191 85 97 9 Finance lease liabilities SEK 1.25 44 45 20 25 Convertible debentures SEK 3.12 41 43 27 16 Bond SEK 6.25 300 352 19 333 Total interest-bearing financial liabilities 569 631 151 471 9 Accounts payable SEK 541 541 541 Other liabilities SEK 224 224 224 Total non-interest-bearing financial liabilities 765 765 765 Total financial liabilities 1,334 1,396 916 471 9 Further information is provided under Note 28. Interest risk financial policy, excess liquidity may be invested in interest-bearing Interest risk refers to the risk of fair values or future cash flows fluctubank accounts or in interest-bearing securities. According to the finanating as a result of changes to market interest rates. The Group’s target cial policy, the credit risk when investing excess liquidity should be is to have a weighted average fixed-interest term of 24 months, with a reduced by only investing in counterparties with an extremely good deviation mandate of +/–6 months. The Group is primarily exposed to rating. Furthermore, the financial policy states that investments should interest risk through its loan financing. Loans carry variable interest, normally be spread across several counterparties or issuers. which means that the Group’s future financial expenses are affected The accounts receivable are spread among a large number of cuswhen market interest rates change. tomers and no customer accounts for a significant part of the total A sensitivity analysis for interest risks can be found under Note 28. accounts receivable as no customer accounts for more than 7.5 percent of total accounts receivable. Nor are accounts receivable concenCurrency risk trated to a specific geographical area. The Group therefore deems the Foreign exchange risk comprises the risk of fair values and cash flows concentration risks to be limited. See Note 23 for an aging analysis of regarding financial instruments changing as the value of foreign currenoutstanding accounts receivable and provisions for and settled doubtcies fluctuates. The Group currently has limited inand outflows in ful accounts receivable. The credit standing of receivables not yet due ­f oreign currencies. is deemed to be good. The Group and Parent Company’s maximum exposure to credit is Credit and counterparty risk deemed to correspond to the carrying amounts of all financial assets Credit risk refers to the risk of losing income because counterparties and is detailed in the consolidated balance sheet and notes. are unable to fulfill their payments or commitments. Categorization of financial instruments Credit risk in accounts receivable In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments, financial instruments Serneke’s exposure to credit risk is primarily attributable to accounts are measured at amortized cost or at fair value, depending on their cate­ receivable. A credit assessment is conducted on every new customer in gory. The items that have been subject to measurement at fair value are order to limit the Group’s credit risk. The financial situation of existing financial assets available for sale and additional considerations. customers is also monitored continually in order to identify warning For fair value estimation of interest-bearing receivables and liabilities, signs at an early stage. future cash flows have been discounted at quoted market interest The credit risk for housing projects with housing cooperatives is rates for remaining maturities. For non-interest-bearing assets and deemed to be limited, as financing of housing cooperative production ­liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, with a occurs via bank loans, which are approved prior to the start of conremaining maturity of less than six months, the carrying amount is struction. deemed to reflect fair value. Credit risk also arises when the Company’s excess liquidity is invested in various types of financial instruments. According to the 96 Notes Categorization of financial instruments Financial assets and ­liabilities valued at fair value via the Financial assets Loans and Other financial Total carrying income statement available for sale receivables liabilities amount Fair value GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Financial assets Other non-current receivables 2 1 221 259 223 260 223 261 Accounts receivable 845 589 845 589 845 589 Other current receivables 581 463 581 463 581 463 Cash and bank balances 431 571 431 571 431 571 Total financial assets 2 1 2,078 1,882 2,080 1,883 2,080 1,884 Financial liabilities Convertible debentures 23 41 23 41 23 41 Liabilities to credit institutions 315 184 315 184 315 184 Bond 296 294 296 294 305 308 Lease liability 61 44 61 44 61 44 Other shortand long-term ­liabilities 162 224 162 224 162 224 Accounts payable 799 541 799 541 799 541 Total financial liabilities 1,656 1,328 1,656 1,328 1,665 1,342 Effects from measurement of financial instruments at fair value are included in consolidated earnings at SEK 0 million (0). Calculation of fair value LEVEL 2 – Financial instruments for which the fair value is established Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the based on valuation models that are based on other observable data for balance sheet are classified according to one of three levels based on the asset or liability than quoted prices included in Level 1, either the information used to establish the fair value. The tables below give directly (i.e. as price quotations) or indirectly (i.e. derived from price details of the Group and Parent Company’s classification of financial quotations). assets and liabilities measured at fair value. No significant transfers have been made between the levels during the periods. See Note 16 Examples of observable data within Level 2 are: Investment properties for information about buildings and land valued • Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities. at fair value that are attributable to Level 3. •D  ata that may form the basis of assessments of price, e.g. market interest rates and yield curves. LEVEL 1 – Financial instruments for which the fair value is established based on observable (unadjusted) quoted prices in an active market for LEVEL 3 – Financial instruments for which fair value is established based identical assets and liabilities. A market is considered active if quoted on valuation models where significant inputs are based on non-observprices from a stock exchange, broker, industry group, pricing service or able data. supervisory authority are easily and regularly available and these prices represent real and regularly occurring market transactions at arm’s length. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Financial assets Financial assets available for sale 2 1 2 1 Total financial assets 2 1 2 1 Financial liabilities Other shortand long-term liabilities 84 31 84 31 Of which, additional purchase considerations 84 31 84 31 Total financial liabilities 84 31 84 31 The most important items are described below: In 2015, an asset acquisition was made that included an additional In May 2016, Säve flygplats was acquired from Swedavia. In addition purchase consideration for future detailed development plan changes to the purchase consideration, Serneke is to pay the seller an additional and construction. The fair value of the additional purchase considerapurchase consideration of up to SEK 200 million if a number of condition amounts to SEK 31 million, which is unchanged from the previous tions specified in the share purchase agreement are met. Serneke curyear. Otherwise, no changes have occurred in relation to previously rently estimates that the fair value of the additional purchase considerreported periods. ation amounts to SEK 45 million (0). 97 Notes Capital structure One of Serneke’s financial targets is for the equity/assets ratio Serneke’s objective for the management of capital is to secure the (equity divided by total assets) to exceed 25 percent. The Board Group’s ability to continue its operations with financial stability in order believes that this level is adapted to Serneke’s business and the objecto generate a reasonable return for shareholders and benefit to creditive is part of the Group’s strategic planning. If the equity/assets ratio tors and other stakeholders. permanently exceeds the target, capital will be transferred to the Capital is defined as shareholders’ equity and concerns equity shareholders in an appropriate form. At the end of 2017, the Group’s attributable to shares in the Parent Company. equity/assets ratio amounted to 41.3 percent (42.7). The Group is ­subject to externally imposed capital requirements, which are detailed under Note 28. NOTE 5 Segment information Group Property: The operations entail management and development of The information reported to the highest executive decision-maker as a properties for long-term appreciation. Management is conducted of basis for allocating resources and assessing segment earnings comcommercial properties. prises the Group’s business areas: Construction, Civil Engineering, ­P roject Development and Property. These business areas constitute Group-wide: Other operations are reported under Group activities and the Group’s reportable operating segments. primarily comprise central companies and Group functions. Segment reporting is conducted based on reported income and Operating segment earnings in accordance with the consolidated accounts. Construction: Construction conducts all of the Group’s construction-­ related operations. The business area carries out construction projects Income and operating profit by operating segment for both external clients as well as the internal units within the Serneke Each business area is operationally responsible for its income stateGroup. Operations comprise new construction of housing and comment, down to and including operating profit and operating margin. For mercial properties. the Project Development business area, management also follows the development of capital employed. Civil Engineering: Civil Engineering conducts all infrastructure-related Internal prices between the Group’s business areas are set based on operations in the Group. The business area carries out contracts to the arm’s length principle. Internal sales between business areas are both external clients as well as to internal units within the Sernekeeliminated at Group level. Group. The operations consist mainly of construction and concrete work in infrastructure projects and maintenance services. Assets and liabilities by operating segment The assets and liabilities of the business areas consist of capital Project Development: The business area develops residential and employed. Capital employed comprises the business area’s respective ­c ommercial properties and generates contracts for the Construction balance sheet total, reduced by deferred tax assets less interest-­ and Civil Engineering business areas. bearing liabilities and deferred tax liabilities. Consolidated goodwill is attributed to each of the business areas responsible. Consolidated income and profit THE GROUP 2017 ProjectProperty Amount in SEK million Construction Civil Engineering Development ­M anagement Group-wide Elimination Group External sales 4,806 557 201 49 12 –20 5,605 Internal sales 113 66 11 2 115 –307 0 Total income 4,919 623 212 51 127 –327 5,605 Operating profit 183 1 65 213 –43 419 Financial income 0 0 16 1 1 18 Financial expenses –1 –1 –8 –3 –23 –36 Earnings after financial items –1 –1 8 –2 –22 –18 Tax 0 0 –1 –49 –28 –78 Profit for the year 182 0 72 162 –93 323 98 Notes ProjectProperty SEK million Construction Civil Engineering Development ­M anagement Group-wide Elimination Total Segment Assets Goodwill 23 23 Deferred tax assets 1 0 1 0 25 –27 0 Investment properties 895 895 Participations in associates and joint ventures 356 90 446 Other fixed assets 104 14 158 34 8 318 Project and development properties 280 3 283 Accrued but not invoiced 278 58 0 2 –19 319 Other current assets 735 109 834 34 408 2,120 Total assets 1,141 181 1,629 1,055 444 –46 4,404 OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION ProjectProperty SEK million Construction Civil Engineering Development ­M anagement Group-wide Elimination Total Segment Depreciation –10 –4 –1 –2 –3 – –20 Impairment losses 0 0 0 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 38 –7 –4 27 Change in value of investment properties 228 10 238 THE GROUP 2016 ProjectProperty Amount in SEK million Construction Civil Engineering Development ­M anagement Group-wide Elimination Group External sales 3,208 370 371 14 15 3,978 Internal sales 21 85 2 1 84 –193 0 Total income 3,229 455 373 15 99 –193 3,978 Operating profit 86 –36 334 37 –10 411 Financial income 0 0 0 0 11 11 Financial expenses 0 0 0 0 –28 –28 Earnings after financial items 0 0 0 0 –17 394 Tax 0 0 0 0 0 0 Profit for the year 86 –36 334 37 –27 394 ProjectProperty SEK million Construction Civil Engineering Development ­M anagement Group-wide Elimination Total Segment Assets Goodwill (included in other fixed assets) 23 23 Deferred tax assets 48 48 Investment properties 329 329 Investments in associates and joint ventures 327 97 424 Other fixed assets 94 11 189 28 13 335 Project and development properties 239 3 242 Accrued but not invoiced 179 72 1 ­252 Other current assets 867 72 692 62 491 –400 1,784 Total assets 1,163 155 1,448 516 555 –400 3,437 OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION ProjectProperty SEK million Construction Civil Engineering Development ­M anagement Group-wide Elimination Total Segment Depreciation 8 3 1 1 4 17 Impairment losses 51 51 Revaluation of associated companies and joint ventures 226 226 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 0 4 –4 0 Change in value of investment properties 42 42 Significant items other than depreciation, amortization and impairment not matched by payments 0 14 14 Information regarding geographical areas The Group only pursues operations within Sweden, with three main geographical areas – West, South and East. 99 NOTES NOTE 6 Income per income type NOTE 9 Leasing Group Parent Company Operating leases – lessee 2017 2016 2017 2016 Operating lease expense for the year: Construction contracts 5,502 3,642 0 2 Group Parent Company Income from sales of project 2017 2016 2017 2016 and development properties 38 318 1 Rental income* 22 15 6 5 Minimum lease payments 91 78 14 13 Administrative services 110 80 Variable payments 2 2 2 2 Other 43 3 1 0 Total 93 80 16 15 Total 5,605 3,978 117 88 As at the balance sheet date, the Parent Company and Group had out* S ome project and development properties are rented out under operating standing commitments in the form of minimum lease payments under leases and generate rental income. Rental contracts mainly concern short-term non-cancellable operating leases, with maturity dates as follows: leases up until construction begins. The sum of the year’s variable fees included in profit for the financial year amounts to SEK 0 million (0) in the Group and SEK 0 million (0) in the parent. Future minimum lease income relating to non-cancelGroup Parent Company lable operating leases expires substantially within one year. Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Within one year 19 22 13 13 NOTE 7 Operating expenses by type of expense 1–5 years 58 48 49 46 Later than 5 years 25 17 19 17 Group Parent Company Total 102 87 81 76 2017 2016 2017 2016 Material –804 –465 The operating leases relate particularly to the rental of premises, Subcontractors –3,281 –2,250 including the Group’s head office in Gothenburg and local offices in Stockholm, as well as various pieces of office equipment. The amount Employees –683 –527 –41 –34 relating to expensed leasing also includes non-recurring rents which Carrying amount sold property held for resale –101 include production-related equipment and tools. Other production expenses –525 –327 The lease term for the Group and Parent Company’s rented premises Depreciation –20 –17 –2 –2 amounts to 1–9 years. The lease may be extended at the end of the Impairment losses 0 –51 0 0 term at what the Group considers to be a fee consistent with market Other –137 –97 –93 –61 rates. Rental payments increase annually according to an index, based Total –5,450 –3,835 –136 –97 on the index figure for the month of October. The lease term for other premises varies between three and seven years. The lease term for various pieces of office equipment varies between NOTE 8 The auditor’s fee and cost compensation 3 and 4 years. In 2015, the Group and Parent Company signed a new lease for its Group Parent Company current headquarters in Gothenburg. This lease is for 10 years and the 2017 2016 2017 2016 rent will be settled in accordance with index clauses. In 2016, the Group and Parent Company signed a new lease for office premises in Deloitte Stockholm. The lease is for three years with three-months’ notice, after auditing assignments 2 3 2 2 which the lease can be extended for six months at a time, and the rent auditing-related services 0 1 0 3 is regulated in accordance with index clauses. tax consultancy 0 0 0 0 Consultation 0 1 0 0 Total Deloitte 2 5 2 5 Deloitte was appointed as the primary auditing firm in 2013. 100 NOTES NOTE 10 Number of employees, salaries, other remuneration and social security costs 2017 2016 Of which Of which Number of number Number of number Basic salary/ Other Pension AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES employees of men employees of men 2016 Fee benefits costs Total Parent Company Chairman of the Board Ulf Ivarsson * 450 450 Sweden 48 15 42 13 Member of the Board Total in the Anders Wennergren ** 200 200 Parent Company 48 15 42 13 Member of the Board Ludwig Mattsson 200 200 Subsidiary Board Member Sweden 893 810 737 666 Kristina Willgård 275 275 Total for subsidiaries 893 810 737 666 Board Member Mari Broman 200 200 Member of the Board & CEO Total in Group 942 825 779 679 Ola Serneke 2,329 0 2,329 Other senior executives *** 9,679 667 2,509 12,855 Total 13,333 667 2,509 16,509 2017 2016 Of which remuneration Social Social from Parent Company 6,744 258 983 7,985 ­s ecurity ­s ecurity Salaries ­c ontributions Salaries ­c ontributions and other (of which andother (of which * In 2017, Ulf Ivarsson left the Board and Kent Sander was elected Chairman of TOTAL SALARIES, remunerapension remunerapension REMUNERATION ETC. tions costs) tions costs) the Board. Remunerations for this person have in the table above only been included during the period during which he was on the Board and in the Parent Company 26 11 20 8 capacity as Chairman of the Board. (3) (2) ** Fees at market rates for legal counsel are invoiced by law firm Glimstedt, of Subsidiary 411 174 322 134 which Board member Anders Wennergren is a partner. For 2017, legal (41) (32) expenses for the law firm Glimstedt amounted to SEK 0 million (2). Total Group 437 185 342 142 *** 4)”Other senior executives” refers to the seven individuals in addition to the (44) (34) CEO who are members of Serneke’s Group management. As at the end of 2017, Group Management consisted of 10 people, including CEO. Variable remuneration Parent Company Subsidiary There is no variable remuneration or other bonus system in the Group. Distribution of senior executives as at balance sheet date Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Other benefits Women: Other benefits largely comprise the assessed rental value of company Board including CEO 2 2 0 0 cars. other senior executives 0 2 0 0 Pensions Men: The Group only has defined-contribution pension plans. Board including CEO 4 4 9 11 Agreements on severance pay and termination other senior executives 9 7 0 0 There are no agreements between the Company and the CEO regarding Total 15 15 9 11 severance pay. The same applies for other senior executives. The period REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES of notice shall normally be six months if the executive resigns. In the Details in SEK thousand event of termination by the company, the notice period shall not exceed Basic salary/ Other Pension 2017 Fee benefits costs Total twelve months. Chairman of the Board Kent Sander * 750 750 Member of the Board NOTE 11 Financial income Anders Wennergren ** 200 200 Member of the Board Ludwig Mattsson 200 200 Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Board Member Kristina Willgård 275 275 Interest income 18 11 1 2 Board Member Mari Broman 200 200 Exchange gains 0 0 0 0 Member of the Board & CEO Other 0 0 0 0 Ola Serneke 2,658 2,658 Total financial income 18 11 1 2 Other senior executives *** 11,668 895 3,015 15,578 All interest income is attributable to financial assets measured at Total 15,951 895 3,015 19,861 amortized cost. Of which remuneration from Parent Company 7,660 362 1,241 9,263 101 NOTES NOTE 12 Financial expenses NOTE 14 Tax on profit for the year, cont Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 CURRENT TAX 2017 2016 2017 2016 Interest expenses –35 –26 –23 –9 Current tax on profit for the Interest expense attributable year 0 0 0 to convertible debentures –1 –2 –1 –2 Adjustments recognized in Exchange rate losses 0 0 0 0 current year regarding prior years’ current tax 2 –4 0 Total financial expenses –36 –28 –24 –11 Total 2 –4 0 All interest expenses are attributable to financial liabilities measured at Group Parent Company amortized cost. DEFERRED TAX 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deferred tax on losses –28 9 –29 9 Deferred tax attributable to NOTE 13 Appropriations temporary differences –52 –5 5 0 Total –80 4 –24 9 Parent Company 2017 2016 Total tax –78 0 –24 9 Group contributions received 274 133 Group contributions paid –241 –172 Income tax in Sweden is calculated at 22 percent (22) of the year’s Total appropriations 33 –39 ­taxable income. Tax in other jurisdictions is calculated at the tax rate that applies for the respective jurisdiction. A reconciliation is presented below between recognized profit for the year and tax expense for the year: Group Parent Company RECONCILIATION TAX EXPENSE FOR THE YEAR 2017 2016 2017 2016 Profit/loss before tax 401 394 –9 –57 Recognized tax for the year –78 0 –24 9 Theoretical tax expense –88 –87 2 13 Difference 10 87 –26 –4 The difference is explained by Non-deductible tax effect of impaired assets 0 –6 0 0 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses –4 –1 –1 –1 Tax effect of non-taxable income 6 0 0 1 Tax effect of non-taxable Group contributions from ­s ubsidiaries 12 10 Tax effect of non-deductible Group contributions to ­s ubsidiaries –37 –14 Tax effect of unmeasured losses Tax effect of non-taxable income from disposal of ­a ssociates 48 Tax effect of non-taxable income from disposal of ­a ssociates 50 Tax effect of share of profit of associates 6 Tax effect of revaluation of associates on acquisition 0 Taxes attributable to previous years 2 –4 0 Total 10 87 –26 –4 102 NOTES NOTE 15 Goodwill Group Investment properties are recognized in the consolidated statement of Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 financial position at fair value and changes in value are recognized in Acquisition cost, opening balance 23 23 the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Acquisitions for Purchasing the year were acquired in September and October 2017, respectively Impairments for the year and, of the closing carrying amount, land accounted for SEK 80 million. Closing acc. cost of acquisition 23 23 Changes in value of the properties amounted to SEK 238 million (42), which is based on external valuations of all investment properties. Recognized goodwill relates to Serneke Bygg Öst, SEK 23 million (23). The property Säve Depå, access to which was gained on September 1, For the goodwill value, the recoverable amount has been generated by was acquired exclusively as Serneke had previously disposed of a lease calculating the value in use of the cash-generating unit. The calculation agreement that burdened the property. Serneke has, in accordance model is based on discounting of future forecast cash flows, which with procedures, valuated Säve Depå at market value, which generated have been set against the unit’s carrying amount. Future cash flows are an earnings effect of SEK 244 million. based on five-year forecasts produced by management. No impairInvestment properties are properties that are managed with the ment has been identified under IAS 36 for the cash-generating unit. purpose of generating rental income, capital appreciation or a combination of both. The Group also owns investment properties through Significant assumptions that have been used when calculating associated companies, for which changes in value resulting from fair the value in use value estimations are recognized in the associated company’s share. The Group’s share of the investment properties in associated compaNet sales and operating margin nies amounted to SEK 320 million (355). See Note 19 Participations in Assumptions used are based on the business plan and budget estabassociates and joint ventures. lished by management. Valuation model Working capital requirements and investment needs Property values ​​are based on internal values, which are corroborated The requirement has been assumed to be the same as that for the annually by external valuations. Fair value is the estimated amount that ­current fiscal year in relation to net sales. could be collected in a transaction at the point of valuation between well-informed parties that are independent of each other and who Long-term growth rate have an interest in completing the transaction. Long-term sustainable growth beyond the forecast period of 2 (2) As at December 31, 2017, Serneke has carried out an external valua­percent has been used to reflect the market’s long-term growth. tion of all properties. This is to ascertain the reliability of the internal valuation. Discount rate Forecast cash flows and residual values are discounted to present Significant assumptions that have been used in the cash flow model: value with a weighted cost of capital according to WACC. In calculations that have been made of value in use, a weighted discount rate before Income tax has been used. The unit’s pre-tax discount rate was 8 percent (10) Future income is based on existing leases with inflation of two percent, and after tax amounted to 6 percent (8). as well as forecast changes in occupancy rates. Sensitivity analysis Operation and maintenance expenses In the event of reasonable fluctuations in key assumptions, impairment When assessing properties’ future property expenses, estimated nortesting continued to show no impairment requirement. malized expenses have been used. Required Yield NOTE 16 Investment properties The required yield between 5.8 and 8.7 percent (6.1–7.4). Group External valuation Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 To ascertain the Company’s assessment of the value, all significant investment properties are also valued by an external, independent valOpening carrying amount 329 13 uer, which ensures the property’s anticipated future value against a Acquisitions for the year 248 267 consideration of prevailing market conditions. Capital expenditures 80 7 Unrealized changes in value 238 42 Sensitivity analysis* Closing carrying amount 895 329 The assumption that has the greatest impact on the valuations is the yield requirement. At +/–1 percentage unit’s change in the yield and +/–3 percent of income and operating and maintenance expenses, the Group Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 consolidated results are affected by (SEK millions): +/–1 percentage unit yield: –192/+266 (–85/+116) Rental income from investment properties 20 10 +/–3 percent income: +53/–53 (+23/–23) Property expenses from investment properties –19 –3 +/–3 percent operation and maintenance expenses: –10/+10 (–6/+6) Earnings from property management 1 7 * T he sensitivity analysis includes effects of investment properties in associates. 103 NOTES NOTE 17 Tangible fixed assets Group Parent Company Group Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 PLANT AND MACHINERY Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Buildings and land 15 13 Acquisition cost, opening balance 16 16 Plant and machinery 3 1 Purchasing 2 Equipment, tools, fixtures Sales/scrapping –7 and fittings 77 61 5 6 Closing acc. cost of acquisition 11 16 Closing accumulated cost of acquisition 95 75 5 6 Opening depreciation –15 –14 Group Sales/scrapping 7 0 BUILDINGS AND LAND Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Depreciation for the year 0 –1 Closing acc. depreciation/amortization –8 –15 Acquisition cost, opening balance 35 35 Reclassification Closing carrying amount 3 1 Purchasing 3 Disposal/retirement Group Parent Company EQUIPMENT, TOOLS, FIXTURES Closing accumulated cost of acquisition 38 35 AND FIT TINGS Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Acquisition cost, opening Opening depreciation –22 –19 ­b alance 101 87 8 11 Depreciation for the year –1 –3 Purchasing 42 32 2 4 Sales/scrapping Reclassification –1 Reclassification Disposal/retirement –25 –17 –2 –7 Closing accumulated depreciation –23 –22 Closing accumulated cost 118 101 8 8 Closing carrying amount 15 13 Opening depreciation –40 –31 –2 –2 Reclassification Disposal/retirement 18 6 1 2 Depreciation for the year –19 –15 –2 –2 Accumulated depreciation, closing balance –41 –40 –3 –2 Closing carrying amount 77 61 5 6 Of which financially leased assets 60 40 3 2 NOTE 18 Participations in Group companies Parent Company Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Acquisition cost, opening balance 75 28 Shareholder contributions paid 52 47 Closing cost of acquisition 127 75 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Company, corporate identity number Domicile Share of equity %* Share of equity %* Carrying amount Carrying amount Serneke Construction AB, 556621-6908 Gothenburg 100% 100% 15 15 Serneke Anläggning AB, 556782-0591 Gothenburg 100% 100% 37 37 Serneke Industri AB, 556630-8184 Gothenburg 100% 100% 1 1 Serneke Project AB, 556688-6601 Gothenburg 100% 100% 0 0 Serneke Fastighet AB, 556982-4914 Gothenburg 100% 100% 74 22 127 75 * Also the share of votes Parent Company Serneke Group AB owns 100 percent of the shares of its five subsidiaries. The subsidiaries are engaged in the core business, while the Parent Company provides Group-wide services. No operations are conducted in Serneke Industri AB. Directly owned subsidiaries are shown in the table above. Other companies in the Group specified in the respective subsidiary’s annual report. 104 NOTES NOTE 19 Participations in associates and joint ventures Group Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Opening amount 424 94 Acquisition of participations in associates 0 Shareholder contributions 34 7 Dividend 0 Joint venture converted to Group company during the year –38 Share of profit, after tax 26 5 Residual percentage at partial disposal of a Group company * 318 Closing value 446 424 *W hen a Parent Company loses control of a subsidiary, the residual holding is revalued at fair value. See further Note 2 Significant accounting principles. In 2016, 50 percent of the shares in Karlavagnsplatsen Holding AB SEK 226 million (excluding transaction costs). The corresponding were sold, after which the controlling influence was lost and remaining amount has been partly recognized as a revaluation gain on remaining shares were revalued at fair value. The fair value of the remaining shares in the earnings and partly with remaining net assets of SEK 92 shares has been obtained by determining what the other party has paid million recognized as acquisition value for the joint venture participation. for the disposed shares. The consolidated income statement for the year 2016 includes capital gains from disposed shares amounting to Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Associated companies/ COMPANY, ORGANIZATION Domicile Ownership share * Ownership share * Joint ventures Valuation Method Karlastaden Holding AB, 559057-5816 Gothenburg 50.0% 50.0% Joint venture The equity method Associated Änglagården Holding AB, 556911-1015 Gothenburg 40.0% 40.0% ­c ompanies The equity method Associated 7H Bil AB, 556629-2362 Gothenburg 30.0% 30.0% ­c ompanies The equity method Associated Fastighetskompaniet i Väst AB, 556735-7271 Gothenburg 50.0% 50.0% ­c ompanies The equity method Associated Herrestads Etablering AB, 556966-0086 Trollhättan 20.0% 0% ­c ompanies The equity method *Also the share of votes Description of operations • Karlastaden Holding AB – The company is carrying out the Karlastaden • 7H Bil AB The company’s operations are sales of cars etc. project that will house approximately 2,000 residential units and • Fastighetskompaniet i Väst AB – The company will own, manage 70,000 square meters of commercial space. and develop properties. • Änglagården Holding AB – The company shall own, manage and • Herrestads Etablering AB – The company conducts property develop ­P rioritet Serneke Arena. ­development. SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION Fastighetskompaniet Karlastaden Holding AB Änglagården Holding AB 7H Bil AB i Väst AB Herrestads Etablering AB SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Total assets 783 352 1,006 1,103 81 71 0 0 0 Total liabilities and provisions 677 342 696 751 62 52 0 0 0 Total net assets 106 10 310 352 19 19 0 0 0 The Group’s share of net assets 356 330 83 91 7 7 0 0 0 Fastighetskompaniet Karlastaden Holding AB Änglagården Holding AB 7H Bil AB i Väst AB Herrestads Etablering AB SUMMARY PROFIT/LOSS STATEMENT Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Income 2 2 81 68 266 209 0 0 0 Profit for the year –2 0 –20 43 5 5 0 0 0 Preferential rights to other ­shareholders* –55 –77 The Group’s share of profit** –1 0 –8 3 1 1 0 0 0 * A n agreement between the co-owners of Änglagården Holding AB: Lommen Holding, ** Unrealized changes in value of the associate’s investment property were negaPrioritet Finans and Serneke have signed in 2015, which means a preferential divitive in the amount of SEK 89 million (48 million), of which the Group’s share dend of SEK 90 million for the benefit of the other co-owners before Serneke can after tax was negative in the amount of SEK 28 million (15). Serneke Group AB partake of free distributable funds. During 2016 (SEK 13 million) and 2017 (SEK (publ) has also entered into a guarantee undertaking, which means that the 22 million), dividends have been paid to the other shareholders, whereupon the co-owners in Änglagården Holding AB are jointly responsible for the correct preferential right amounted to SEK 55 million as at the end of 2017. ­S erneke also fulfillment of interest and repayment of the associate’s liabilities to credit has a commitment in the form of an operational guarantee in relation to the other ­institutions in the event that the associate is unable to pay. As at December 31, co-owners in Änglagården Holding AB. The operational guarantee entails that 2017, the associate’s liability to credit institutions amounted to SEK 460 million Serneke must compensate the other co-owners for all operating earnings that fall (479). short of SEK 51.6 million on an annual basis up until December 31, 2020. The operational guarantee has affected earnings for the year negatively by SEK 11 million (14) and the outstanding provision for remaining commitment amounts to SEK 7 million. 105 NOTES NOTE 20 Other non-current receivables NOTE 21 Project and development properties Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Opening amount 261 167 1 1 Opening cost* 242 629 3 3 Incoming from property sales 161 Purchasing 74 Incoming other 27 9 Reclassification –10 Reclassification –65 1 Subsequent to asset acquisition* 67 Settlement –76 Capital expenditures 34 50 Closing value* 223 261 2 1 Impairment losses –51 *of which interest-bearing 10 30 Sales –6 –453 *including receivables from associated companies and Other –51 joint ventures 62 67 Closing accumulated cost 283 242 3 3 * of which properties that Group has taken over for which the is not the legally ­registered owner SEK 5 million (5). Capitalized interest Loan interest of SEK 0 million (0) has been capitalized during the year. NOTE 22 Inventories Group Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Raw materials and supplies 1 2 Total 1 2 NOTE 23 Accounts receivable Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Accounts receivable, gross 850 595 0 0 Provision for bad debts –5 –6 Total accounts receivable, net of provision for bad debts 845 589 0 0 Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Provision for bad debts at start of year –6 –10 Provision for doubtful accounts receivable for the year –1 –6 Settled doubtful accounts receivable 2 10 Total provision for bad debts –5 –6 0 0 2017 2016 Reserve, Reserve, GROUP doubtful doubtful accounts Customer accounts Customer Age analysis, accounts receivable Gross ­r eceivable Receivables Gross ­r eceivable Receivables Not yet due 644 0 644 458 0 458 Due within 30 days 95 0 95 47 0 47 Due 31–60 days 11 0 11 5 0 5 Due 61–90 days 3 0 3 2 0 2 Due > 90 days 97 –5 92 83 –6 77 Total 850 –5 845 595 –6 589 106 NOTES NOT 24 Contracting assignments NOTE 27 Equity Group Share capital Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 At the beginning of 2016, share capital amounted to SEK 1,656,579 Contract expenses and recognized profit 4,662 2,099 and the number of shares was 16,565,785 at a quotient value of 0.1, Less invoiced amounts –4,343 –1,847 comprising 5,360,000 Series A shares and 11,205,785 Series B Accrued but not invoiced income 319 252 shares. In 2016, the Company’s Series B shares were introduced on the Invoiced amounts 5,462 4,346 ­Nasdaq Stockholm exchange, Mid Cap list, by which Series B shares Less contract expenses and recognized profit –5,165 –4,174 became available to the public. The offering comprised a total Invoiced but not accrued income 297 172 5,786,818 shares, of which 5,681,818 were newly issued Series B shares. The subscription price of the offering was SEK 110 per share, entailing that the new share issue amounted to SEK 625 million. After issue costs recorded against equity of net SEK 27 million after tax NOTE 25 Prepaid expenses and accrued income effects, the increase in equity was SEK 598 million. In 2016, convertibles were converted to a nominal amount of Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 approximately SEK 24 million and, as at the end of 2016, the share ­c apital amounted to SEK 2,271,486. Total number of shares as at the Pre-paid rent 8 6 3 3 end of December 31, 2016 amounted to 22,714,852, of which Prepaid leasing 2 1 0 0 5,360,000 were Series A shares and 17,354,852 Series B shares. Prepaid insurance 1 3 0 0 The Company resolved at the Annual General Meeting on April 13, Accrued income 16 4 0 0 2015 to issue convertibles at a nominal amount of SEK 49.5 million with Other prepaid expenses 30 5 6 3 an annual interest rate of 4.0 percent and at a conversion rate of SEK Total 57 19 9 6 49.50. All remaining convertibles have been converted during 2017. The Annual General Meeting on June 29, 2016, resolved to issue convertibles with a nominal value of approximately SEK 15.9 million. The conNOTE 26 Other current debt vertibles are valid up to and including August 26, 2019, carry 1.6 percent annual interest and have a conversion price of SEK 120. Upon converGroup Parent Company sion, a maximum of 132,350 Series B shares may be added and share Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 capital may increase by a maximum of SEK 13,235. During the term of Receivables from sales of the convertibles, holders are entitled, on certain occasions, to request ­project properties 516 447 conversion into new Series B shares. As at December 31, 2017, a total of Receivable from joint ventures 192 140 850 convertibles were converted to B shares and 131,500 convertibles Other current receivables 78 15 6 0 remained. 786 602 6 0 At the Annual General Meeting on May 3, 2017, a long-term incentive program was adopted in the form of employee convertibles for employees in the Group. The program entails that the Company take a convertible loan of a maximum nominal value of SEK 20 million through the issue of convertibles. The subscribed amount was approximately SEK 7.6 million, entailing that a maximum of 48,503 Class B shares can increase share capital by no more than SEK 4,850.3 at full conversion. The conversion rate was fixed at SEK 157.70. The convertibles fall due September 8, 2020, provided conversion has not taken place before this date. The convertibles will carry an annual interest rate of 2.6 percent. In spring 2017 convertibles were converted to a nominal amount of SEK 27 million and issue costs were SEK 2 million lower than expected, which has been recognized against equity. At the end of 2017, the share capital amounted to SEK 2,324,846. Total number of shares as at the end of December 31, 2017 amounted to 23,248,452, of which 5,360,000 were Series A shares and 17,888,452 Series B shares. Other capital contributions – Group Other capital contributions comprise the share premium reserve. 107 Notes NOTE 28 Borrowings Convertible debentures In August 2016, a new convertible debenture loan was issued aimed at Group Parent Company employees. The amount issued totals SEK 15,882,000 and the loan LONG-TERM Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 carries an interest rate of 1.6 percent. Interest payments occur annually in August. The loan matures on August 26, 2019. Conversion may Bank loans 282 101 0 take place at fixed times over a period of 10 business days after the Convertible debentures 23 15 23 15 year-end report is published in 2017, 2018 and 2019 as well as August Finance lease liabilities 40 26 2 3 1–12, 2019. The conversion price is 120 SEK. The market interest rate Debenture loan 296 294 296 294 for corresponding loans without collateral is assessed to be an interest Other 152 208 0 rate of 4.0 percent, and if the convertible’s interest rate is lower than Total 793 644 321 312 the estimated market interest rate, SEK 1 million of the issued convertiGroup Parent Company ble has been recognized in equity. SHORT-TERM Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 In August 2017, a new convertible debenture loan was issued aimed at employees. The amount issued totals SEK 7,648,923 and the loan Bank overdraft facility carries an interest rate of 2.6 percent. Interest payments are made on Bank loans 33 83 1 December 31 each year and at the due date of the loan. The loan Finance lease liabilities 21 19 1 0 matures on September 8, 2020, providing conversion has not taken Convertible debentures 26 26 place before. The conversion rate is SEK 157.70. The market interest Other 0 0 rate for corresponding loans without conversion rights is an interest Total 54 128 1 27 rate in line with the interest rate on the convertible loan, therefore no part of the issued convertible bond is recognized in equity. In April Total borrowings* 847 772 322 339 2017, conversion of convertible loans amounted to SEK 26,473,125. *All borrowings in the Group are in SEK. The decision to offer all employees convertibles was made on market terms whereby each employee was given the right to subscribe to conCollateral for borrowings vertibles. The purpose of the offers has been to boost long-term finanTotal borrowing includes bank loans and other borrowings collateralized cial commitment among Serneke’s employees. The employees have with SEK 186 million (184). Collateral for borrowings consists of the paid the market price for the convertibles received and the programs Group's properties, liens on assets and pledged shares in subsidiaries. are not associated with any condition of continued employment or perFor further information regarding collateral, see Note 32. formance of the employee. Serneke has assessed that the issue has been carried out on market Sensitivity analysis interest risk terms and that the terms of the convertibles program are designed in The Group’s future financial expenses are affected as detailed below in such a way that no benefit exists for employees. Thus, no expense, in the event of a change in the borrowing rate, given the same borrowings addition to interest, is recognized in relation to the convertibles. as at the end of the period. Convertible debentures are recognized in the balance sheet in Group accordance with the following: Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Group Parent Company Effect on future financial expenses +/–1% –7/+7 –5/+ 5 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Effect on future financial expenses +/–3% –21/+21 –15/+15 Nominal amount 23 42 23 42 Available credit Liability component as at issue date –23 –41 –23 –41 Group Equity component 0 1 0 1 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Bank overdraft facility 200 200 Liability component as at issue Utilized amount date –23 –41 –23 –41 Available credit 200 200 Effective interest rate 0 0 0 0 Liability component as at As at December 31, 2017, criteria for a covenant were fulfilled regarding December 31 –23 –41 –23 –41 a bank overdraft facility the Group has signed with Nordea. Serneke has Finance lease liabilities committed to an equity/assets ratio of 25 percent. As at 31 December The Serneke Group as lessee has mostly finance leases relating to pri2017, Serneke showed an equity/assets ratio of 41.3 percent (42.7). vate cars. The conditions for these are: Bank loans T he lease payments are variable and reflect the interest rate plus surThe bank loans mature in 2025 and, as at December 31, 2017 have an charge. The payment frequency is monthly in advance. The leasing fee average interest rate of 1.70 percent (1.93). is based on the reference interest rate (STIBOR 90 days with a 90 day The exposure, regarding bank loans, to interest rate changes and fixed-interest term) and a margin with the straight-line depreciation contractual dates for interest renegotiation are, as at the end of the method. The lease period is normally 36 months. Serneke is entitled to reporting period, as follows: early termination of the lease after 12 months. In the event of early terGroup Parent Company Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 mination, Serneke will pay, at the settlementdate, booked residual value as well as due lease payments and accrued interest rates. < 12 months 32 83 1 12–36 months 264 92 0 The carrying amounts of the leased assets are detailed under Note 17. > 36 months 19 9 0 Total 315 184 1 108 Notes Liabilities finance leases: NOTE 30 Other provisions Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Maturity date: Within one year 21 19 1 0 Additional purchase consider1–5 years 40 26 2 3 ation 84 31 Total 61 45 3 3 Provision relating to possession of property 5 5 Provision for commitments Debenture loan attributable to property sales 6 62 In September 2016, Serneke issued an unsecured debenture loan of a Provision for guarantee commitments 63 22 20 nominal value of SEK 300 million. The debenture loan has a variable Total 158 120 20 interest rate of STIBOR 3 months plus 6.25 percent. Serneke has listed the debenture loan on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange. The loan has Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 financial covenants regarding the equity/assets ratio and liquidity. The equity/assets ratio is to reach 20.0 percent for the period until SepProvisions consist of; tember 30, 2017, 22.5 percent for the period until September 30, Long-term portion 158 39 20 2018, and 25.0 percent for the period until September 30, 2019. Cash Short-term portion 81 and cash equivalents corresponding to one year’s interest payment Total 158 120 20 remain valid. The covenant requirements also stipulate that all properties be valued by an external party. Serneke fulfilled the requirements Additional Provision Provision for Provision for purchase relating to commitments guarantee as at December 31, 2017. considerpossession relating to commitation of property property sales ments Total Other As at January 1, “Other” consists mainly of deferred income related to the Karlastaden 2017 31 5 62 22 120 project. For further information on the transaction, see Note 3 in the Incoming provisions 45 3 48 96 Board of Directors' Report Provisions for acquisitions 8 8 Reversed unused amounts –8 –8 NOTE 29 Deferred tax Used during the year –51 –7 –58 As at December 31, 2017 84 5 6 63 158 Temporary differences arise when the carrying amounts and tax values of assets or liabilities differ. The Group’s and Parent Company’s temporary Additional purchase consideration differences have resulted in deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax Concerns estimated future outflows attributable to the acquisition of assets with regard to the following items: businesses or project and development properties. Group Parent Company Provision relating to possession of property Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Acquisitions of project and development properties are normally Deferred tax assets ­recognized as assets once binding acquisition agreements have been Buildings and land 1 entered into, and where future conditional changes to detailed develInvestment properties 10 1 opment plans are deemed highly probable. The probability of the Project and development detailed development plan being implemented is considered to be very properties 6 high, which is why the property is recognized as accessed and allocaLoss carryforwards 26 54 25 54 tion has been made in the corresponding amount. Other deferred tax assets 10 1 4 Total deferred tax assets 47 62 29 54 Sales commitment Concerns commitments conditional upon sales of properties or Deferred tax liabilities develop­ment rights. Buildings and land –3 –3 Investment properties –72 –11 Guarantee undertakings Project and development properties Concerns the projects' individually estimated expenses to correct Other deferred tax liabilities –1 problems and shortcomings that may occur during the guarantee Total deferred tax liabilities –76 –14 period, which usually is five years. The fair value of other provisions corresponds to their carrying Total deferred tax assets and amounts, since discounting effects are minimal. liabilities, net –29 48 29 54 The Group and Parent Company recognize deferred tax assets to the NOTE 31 Accrued expenses and prepaid income extent it is deemed likely that the deduction can be made against future taxable surpluses. Group Parent Company The Group has recognized deferred tax on losses in companies that Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 have accumulated losses. Losses are expected to be able to be used Accrued interest expenses 0 2 0 2 within the Group against future profits. Loss carry-forwards have no Accrued personnel expenses 70 52 3 2 fixed maturity dates. Prepaid rental income 8 5 0 0 Deferred income 157 129 Other accrued expenses 25 19 4 11 Total 260 207 7 15 109 Notes NOTE 32 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Pledged assets Contingent liabilities Group Parent Company Group Parent Company REFERS TO LONG-TERM BORROWINGS Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Property mortgages 305 108 0 Guarantee obligations of benefit for Group companies 541 246 Machinery and equipment with ownership reservation 2 1 Guarantee and contracting guarantees for Group compaLiens on assets 48 48 nies 106 30 Total 353 158 1 Guarantees in connection with property sales 186 184 184 184 CONCERNING SHORT-TERM BORROWGroup Parent Company Guarantees for letter of credit INGS Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 in tenant-owners' association 91 5 91 5 Guarantees for advance payProperty mortgages 32 83 ment and contribution guaranMachinery and equipment with tees in tenant-owner’s associownership reservation 0 0 ation 125 4 125 4 Pledged shares in subsidiaries 459 Guarantees for the benefit of associated companies * 145 50 145 50 Blocked funds 120 120 Total 547 243 1,192 519 Liens on assets 200 221 200 221 Total 352 763 320 221 * Serneke Group AB (publ) has, in addition to the amount given above, entered into a guarantee undertaking, which entails that the co-owners in Änglagården Group Parent Company Holding AB are jointly responsible for the correct fulfillment of interest and repayment of the associate’s liabilities to credit institutions in the event that the assoCONCERNING PROPERT Y SALES Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 ciate is unable to pay. As at December 31, 2017, the associate’s liability to credit Property mortgages 19 institutions amounts to SEK 460 million (479). In May 2016, Säve flygplats was acquired from Swedavia. In addition to the purTotal 19 chase consideration of SEK 175 million, Serneke will pay the seller an additional purchase consideration of up to SEK 200 million if a number of conditions are met under the share purchase agreement, including requiring the properties have detailed development plans and are developed and that the sale is conducted to an external party. Serneke estimates that the fair value of the additional purchase consideration amounts to SEK 45 million (0). NOTE 33 Cash flow statement Reconciliation of net debt Group Parent Company Group Parent Company ADJUSTMENTS ITEMS NOT AFFECTING CASH FLOW Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Net debt Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Share of profit of associates Cash and cash equivalents 431 571 392 476 and joint ventures –26 Non-current interest-bearing Revaluation on acquisition of receivables 10 30 0 0 controlling interest –226 Borrowings – Unrealized changes in value –238 –42 due within one year –54 –128 –1 –27 Capital gains –218 Borrowings – due after one year –641 –436 –321 –312 Provisions 37 15 Net debt –254 37 70 137 Amortization and depreciation 20 68 2 2 Other items not affecting cash flow 12 6 20 0 Cash and cash equivalents 431 571 392 476 Total –195 –397 22 2 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 10 30 0 0 Gross debt – fixed interest rate –23 –15 –23 –42 Gross debt – floating rate –672 –549 –299 –297 Net debt –254 37 70 137 Group Other assets Liabilities attributable to financing activities Non-current Financial leases Financial leases Cash and cash ­interest-bearing that expire that expire Borrowings due Borrowings due equivalents receivables within 1 year after 1 year within 1 year after 1 year Total Net debt as at 1 January 2017 571 30 –19 –25 –109 –411 37 Cash flow –140 17 79 –226 –270 Exchange rate differences 0 0 Other items not affecting cash flow –20 –22 –15 36 –21 Net debt as at 31 December 2017 431 10 –24 –40 –30 –601 –254 Parent Company Other assets Liabilities attributable to financing activities Non-current Financial leases Financial leases Cash and cash ­interest-bearing that expire that expire Borrowings due Borrowings due equivalents receivables within 1 year after 1 year within 1 year after 1 year Total Net debt as at 1 January 2017 476 –1 –2 –26 –310 137 Cash flow –84 0 0 –8 –92 Exchange rate differences 0 0 Other items not affecting cash flow 0 0 26 –1 25 Net debt as at 31 December 2017 392 –1 –2 0 –319 70 110 Notes NOTE 34 Related parties NOTE 35 Events after balance sheet date Related party relationships Dispute resolved for acquisition of Värmdö Byggentreprenader AB The Group is subject to significant influence from Ola Serneke whom, On August 27, 2014, an agreement was signed to acquire 100 percent through companies, holds 55 percent (55) of the votes in the Parent of the shares in Värmdö Works AB. Under the contingent purchase conCompany Serneke Group AB (publ). The Parent Company of the largest sideration, Serneke was to pay a variable purchase price based on the Group in which Serneke Group AB (publ) is included is Ola Serneke company's operating profit for 2015 up to a maximum of SEK 30 milInvest AB. lion. Serneke and the seller of Värmdö Byggentreprenader AB were Ludwig Mattsson, family and company have a significant influence involved in a dispute regarding the payment of an additional purchase over Serneke Group AB (publ) through its holding of 12 percent (13) of consideration and the seller initiated arbitration proceedings. Serneke’s the votes. view was that the additional purchase consideration should not be paid. The ruling from the arbitration proceedings was issued in FebruOla Serneke Invest ary 2018 in favor of Serneke, which entails that no additional purchase Ola Serneke is CEO, Member of the Board, and owner of Ola Serneke consideration will apply. The financial effects of the ruling will be recogInvest. nized in the next quarterly report. Lommen Holding Ludwig Mattsson is a Member of the Board of Lommen Holding and, NOTE 36 Distribution of Parent Company profit together with the family, owner of the company. The Annual General Meeting has at its disposal the following amounts, Adapta SEK Adapta is under significant influence of Ludwig Mattsson, family and company. Ludwig Mattsson is Chairman of the Board of Adapta. Profit/loss brought forward –93,984,886 Share premium reserve 802,570,581 Associates Profit for the year –32,683,077 In addition to the above related party relationships, the Group has a Total 675,902,618 close relationship with its associates. See Note 19. The Board proposes that the available earnings be appropriated as Subsidiaries ­f ollows, SEK: In addition to the related party relationships stated for the Group, the Parent Company has a close relationship with its subsidiaries. See Dividend 92,993,808 Note 18. Carried forward: 582,908,810 The Board's opinion on the proposed distribution of profit Summary, related party transactions The Group's equity has been determined in accordance with the IFRS standards adopted by the EU and their interpretations (IFRIC) and in accordance with Swedish law, including the Financial Reporting Council, Group 2017 2016 RFR 1. The Parent Company's adjusted equity has been determined in Transactions with Ola Serneke Invest accordance with Swedish law and Financial Reporting Council, RFR 2. Sales to Ola Serneke Invest 2 4 The proposed dividend is in line with the Board's defined dividend Purchases from Ola Serneke Invest 0 0 policy. Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 30 to 50 Receivable from Ola Serneke Invest percent of net profit after tax for the previous financial year. Taking into Debt to Ola Serneke Invest consideration the overall strategy in which growth is prioritized over dividends over the next few years, the dividend proposal has taken into Transactions with Lommen Holding account actual development and growth opportunities. The proposed Sales to Lommen Holding dividend amounts to 29 percent of net profit after tax. Purchases from Lommen Holding In assessing the size of the dividend, the Board has taken into account Receivable from Lommen Holding the Group's investment needs, consolidation needs and position in Debt to Lommen Holding general, and that the Group's future development can occur with retained financial strength and continued good freedom of action. The Transactions with Adapta proposed dividend to shareholders reduces the Group's equity/assets Sales to Adapta 372 235 ratio from 41.3 percent to 40.1. The Group's equity/assets ratio Purchases from Adapta 12 11 decreases by more than 1 percentage point through the proposed Receivable from Adapta 50 36 ­dividend. The equity/assets ratio is prudent in view of the fact that the Debt to Adapta 4 4 company and the Group's operations continue to be profitable. The liquidity of the company and the Group is estimated to be maintained Transactions with associates and joint ventures at an equally prudent level. Sales 198 42 The Board is of the opinion that the proposed dividend does not Purchases 3 5 ­prevent the company and other companies included in the Group from Receivable 262 213 fulfilling their obligations in the short and long term, nor from carrying Debt 29 15 out the required investments. The proposed dividend can thus be defended with regard to the provisions of the Companies Act (2005:551) Remuneration to senior executives 17 Chapter 3, Section 2–3 (prudence rule). Information on remuneration to senior executives is presented in Note 10. 111 Notes APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Annual Report was approved by the Board and approved for The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the consolidated publication mars 28, 2018. accounts have been prepared in accordance with International The Board of Directors and the CEO hereby certify that the Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and perAccounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities and gives a formance and the Board of Directors’ Report gives a true and fair true and fair view of the company's position and results and that view of the development of the Group’s operations, position and the management reportgives a fair overview of the development performance and describes significant risks and uncertainties of the company's operations, position and performance and the companies included in the Group face. describes significant risks and uncertainties the company faces. Gothenburg, March 28, 2018 Kent Sander Mari Broman Ludwig Mattsson Chairman Board Member Board Member Ola Serneke Anders Wennergren Kristina Willgård Board Member Board Member Board Member CEO Our audit report regarding this Annual Report and consolidated accounts has been submitted on March 28, 2018 Deloitte AB Harald Jagner Authorized Public Accountant 112 Audit report Auditor’s report This auditor’s report is a translation of the Swedish language We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffioriginal. In the events of any differences between this translation cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. and the Swedish original the latter shall prevail. To the general meeting of the shareholders of SERNEKE Group Key Audit Matters AB (publ) corporate identity number 556669-4153. Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit Opinions of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a sepaof SERNEKE Group AB (publ) for the financial year 2017-01-01 rate opinion on these matters. 2017-12-31 except for the corporate governance report on pages 62–71. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Revenue – Percentage of completion method the company are included on pages 56–112 in this document. construction contracts In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Description of risk accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all Revenue from construction contracts is recognized according material respects, the financial position of the parent company to percentage of completion based on income and costs. The as of 31 December 2017 and its financial performance and cash percentage of completion is mainly based on project costs paid flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual compared to estimated total project costs at completion (degree Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in of completion). accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all To be able to apply the percentage of completion method the material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 Group has to assess income and costs in a reliable way. This December 2017 and their financial performance and cash flow requires efficient and coordinated processes and systems for for the year then ended in accordance with International Finanmanaging and following up on contract assignments. Incorrect cial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the estimates and assumptions regarding income and costs may have Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate a significant impact on the Group’s result and financial position. governance report on pages 62–71. The Group discloses information about risks and risk manageThe statutory administration report is consistent with the ment regarding construction contracts in the administration other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. report on page 59. Accounting principles and critical judgment We therefore recommend that the annual general meeting of areas regarding percentage of completion related to construcshareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet tion contracts are described in note 2 –Significant accounting for the parent company and the statement of comprehensive principles, in note 3 – Significant judgments and estimates and in income and balance sheet for the group. note 24 – Construction contracts in the annual report. Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the Our audit procedures additional report that has been submitted to the parent compaOur audit included but was not limited to the following procedures: ny’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation • Evaluation of the Group’s principles for revenue recognition (537/2014) Article 11. and compliance with IFRS, • Review and evaluation of internal controls regarding the Basis for Opinions ­appliance of percentage of completion, and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Stand• Review of a number of construction contracts by interviews ards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards with management and managers, analysis of risks and uncerin Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further tainty in forecasts for a selection of projects, verification of described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indeinformation in forecasts against contracts together with pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance ­c alculation of degree of completion and revenue. with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with Valuation of investment properties these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our Description of risk knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the The Group reports investment properties at fair value. The propAudit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to erties are valued internally and as quality control the properties the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or have also been valued by external parties. Valuation of investits controlled companies within the EU. ment properties requires management to perform a number of 113 Audit report assessments and assumptions about, for example, future cash accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due flows and determination of yield requirements for each property. to fraud or error. Relatively small changes in assessments and assumptions can In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, have a significant impact on the Group’s result and financial The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsi­position. ble for the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability The Group disclosure information about accounting principles to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matand significant judgment areas regarding investment properties in ters related to going concern and using the going concern basis note 2 Significant accounting principles, in note 3 – Significant of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however judgments and estimates and in note 16 – Investment properties in not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director the annual report. intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Our audit procedures The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Our audit included but was not limited to the following procedures: Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other • Evaluation of the Group’s principles for classification and things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. ­valuation of investment properties and compliance with IFRS, • Review of the Group’s procedures and internal controls Auditor’s responsibility regarding valuation of properties and evaluation of assumpOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether tions applied, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are • Review of input data and calculations in the Group’s valuation free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, on property level for significant properties, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. • Review of the result of external valuations and compared the ­Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a result with the Group’s valuations and guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and • Review of that relevant notes in compliance with IFRS have generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always been disclosed in the financial reports. detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, indiOther information than the annual accounts and vidually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected ­consolidated accounts to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis This document also contains other information than the annual of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–55 As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise and page 117. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director ­professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism are responsible for this other information. throughout the audit. We also: Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the accounts does not cover this other information and we do not annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responinformation. sive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and conand appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of solidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is identified above and consider whether the information is materihigher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve ally inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowlor the override of internal control. edge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relinformation otherwise appears to be materially misstated. evant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are If we, based on the work performed concerning this informaappropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of tion, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing internal control. to report in this regard. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and closures made by the Board of Directors and the Managing the Managing Director Director. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are respon­ • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ sible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit eviaccounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The dence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also respon­ related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt sible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 114 Audit report are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our accordance with these requirements. opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiOur conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to conResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and tinue as a going concern. the Managing Director • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for approannual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the dispriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a closures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated ­dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s a manner that achieves fair presentation. and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidafinancial information of the entities or business activities tion requirements, liquidity and position in general. within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organaccounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and ization and the administration of the company’s affairs. This performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible includes among other things continuous assessment of the for our opinions. ­company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherthe planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform wise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Direcof significant audit findings during our audit, including any signifitor shall manage the ongoing administration according to the cant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements accounting in accordance with law and handle the management regarding independence, and to communicate with them all of assets in a reassuring manner. ­relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeAuditor’s responsibility guards. Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, includwhether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing ing the most important assessed risks for material misstatement, Director in any material respect: and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these mat• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission ters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes which can give rise to liability to the company, or ­disclosure about the matter. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY ­R EQUIREMENTS Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriaOpinions tions of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. of Directors and the Managing Director of SERNEKE Group AB Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a (publ) for the financial year 2017-01-01 2017-12-31 and the guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, the profit to be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or the statutory administration report and that the members of the loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted from liability for the financial year. auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The Basis for Opinions examination of the administration and the proposed appropriaWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted tions of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk section. We are independent of the parent company and the and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on 115 Audit report such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the The auditor´s examination of the corporate governance stateoperations and where deviations and violations would have parment. This means that our examination of the corporate governticular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and ance statement is different and substantially less in scope than test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion conon Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Swecerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the den. We believe that the examination has provided us with suffiBoard of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s cient basis for our opinions. profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclostatement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be sures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paraable to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the graph points 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 secCompanies Act. tion 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated THE AUDITOR’S EXAMINATION OF THE CORPORATE accounts and are in accordance with the Swedish Annual ­GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Accounts Act. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate Deloitte AB, was appointed auditor of SERNEKE Group AB by ­governance statement on pages 62-71 has been prepared in the general meeting of the shareholders on the 2017-05-03 and accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. has been the company’s auditor since 2013-05-14. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 Gothenburg 28 March 2018 Deloitte AB Signature on the original document Harald Jagner Authorized public accountant 116 Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting 2018 The Annual General Meeting of Serneke Group AB (publ) will be Shareholders represented by proxy shall issue a written and held on May 3, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. (CET) Location: Kvarnbergs­ dated power of attorney. If the proxy is issued by a legal person, a gatan 2, Gothenburg. certified copy of the registration certificate or similar papers of Shareholders wishing to take part in Serneke Group AB's authorization are also required. Power of attorney, registration Annual General Meeting must be registered in the shareholders' certificates and other authorization documents must be available register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB as of April 26, 2018, for the Meeting and, in order to facilitate entry to the Meeting, and have notified the company of their attendance, no later than sent to the Company at the above address, no later than April 27, April 26, 2018, preferably before 4:00 p.m. (CET) Registration is 2018. The power of attorney may not be older than one year done by mail to Serneke Group AB, Attention: Inger Svanholm, unless indicated that it is valid for a longer period, not exceeding Kvarnbergsgatan 2, 411 05 Gothenburg, by telephone: five years. P­ roxy forms for shareholders wishing to attend the 031-712 97 00 or by e-mail: agm@serneke.se. Upon notification, Meeting by proxy will be made available on the Company’s webshareholders must state their name, Swedish personal identity site www.serneke.Group. number/corporate identity number, address, telephone number, The notification will be made available on www.serneke.group. shareholding and the names of any accompanying assistant/s (maximum of two). In order to attend the Meeting, shareholders with nominee-­ registered shares must temporarily re-register their shares in their own name with Euroclear Sweden AB. Accordingly, shareholders must inform the trustee of this request in ample time prior to April 26, 2018 Solberg • Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet • Foto: Felix Gerlach 117 Kvarnbergsgatan 2 031-712 97 00 411 05 Gothenburg www.serneke.group info@serneke.se
