Sustainability report 2017 100 y susta ears o inabl f e thin king CEO statement Materiality assessment We celebrated Hartmann’s 100 year-anniversary in 2017, and At the same time, though, the significant changes to the group’s As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Hartmann contimoulded-fibre has been at the very core of our business since geographical footprint over the course of recent years have nuously strives to improve within all four areas of the Global 1936. Since then, sustainability has remained a key component rendered our climate target for 2020 obsolete. A number Compact – Environment, Anti-corruption, Human Rights and of our success as diligent resource consumption, proper busiof external factors and reporting criteria impacting emission Labour Rights. And we require our suppliers to respect and supness conduct and the environmentally-friendly characteristics calculations vary significantly across the countries in which we port our commitment to the ten UN Global Compact principles. of moulded-fibre packaging together contribute to ensuring a operate. On that backdrop, we have resolved to cancel the strong competitive position. In short, sustainability and business aim of reducing CO2 equivalent emissions by 25% compared As a consequence of the group’s primary activities within go hand in hand – and have done so for decades. to the base level in 2012 as it is our firm belief that climate production of moulded-fibre packaging across Europe and the efforts and targets should be aligned with Hartmann’s business Americas, we focus on Hartmann’s environmental and climate We have expanded our geographical presence in recent years, objectives and ambitions. Our commitment to safeguard the impact to ensure the greatest possible effect of our sustainaand in 2017, we decided to strengthen the coordination of our climate, our employees and other stakeholders while ensuring bility efforts. Life Cycle Assessments have shown that our prosustainability efforts across business units as we established attractive growth and profitability is unfaltering. We continue ducts’ climate footprint constitutes the group’s most significant a group of CSR coordinators and appointed a chair of this to implement automation and efficiency measures across our environmental impact. We therefore remain committed to group. We are aiming to ensure structured knowledge sharing business units to enable us to do more with less – and in 2018, accommodating this impact. and enhancing our ability to support the implementation of we will consider a new target that serves to properly re-align successful initiatives across our business units to truly leverage our climate and operational objectives going forward. We operate our business in adherence with European and inthe Hartmann group’s combined experience. ternational regulation and frameworks as well as expectations We are pleased to reaffirm our commitment and endorseto companies such as Hartmann within the fields of Anti-corOur geographical expansion has created a strong and profitable ment of the UN Global Compact and its principles. ruption, Labour Rights and Human Rights, and we consider our business with a positive long-term outlook as we focus on marresponsibility to reach throughout our sphere of influence and kets driven by parameters such as population growth, urbanisaMarianne Rørslev Bock in accordance with it. tion and economic progress as well as consumers’ propensity to CFO and interim CEO consider sustainability when purchasing packaged food products. Materiality – Global Compact themes Highlights Environment and climate 4/4 Anti-corruption Appointed CSR chair and 100% of paper raw Whistleblower system 12% reduction in work10 supplier audits 3/4 identified CSR coordinamaterials from FSC established during 2017 related accidents per conducted in 2017 tors across business units or recycled source and launched in 2018 million working hours Human Rights 2/4 This Communication On Progress report is part of the management report in Brødrene Hartmann A/S’ annual report 2017 covering the period 1 January to 31 December 2017. This report ensures compliance with section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Labour Rights 2/4 H A RT M A N N 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 7 Environment and climate in the US as well as the effect on group figures of the significantly Policy Risks higher national CO2-e conversion factors applying in the US and Argentina where our combined production setup grew compared We systematically and proactively protect, respect and safeguard The main environmental risks related to our activities include uninto 2016. the environment and climate in daily business activities by developtended wastewater spill and excessive emissions of CO2. ment of production methods and products, training of employees ISO 14000 certificates for environmental management and ISO and influencing suppliers and stakeholders. Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations 50001 certificates for energy management as well as Hartmann’s governing, among other things, noise reductions, wastewater Climate Partner certification were renewed in 2017. The certifiWe support a precautionary approach to environmental and treatment and waste disposal as well as CO2 emissions. Risks are cates contribute to ensuring a structured and efficient approach climate challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater monitored locally and from the head office to prevent, remedy or to environmental management and energy consumption, while responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of minimise any adverse effect on the external environment. simultaneously serving to provide evidence of our efforts to exterenvironmental and climate-friendly technologies in accordance nal stakeholders. with principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. Following the commissioning of the wastewater treatment plant in KPI Hungary in 2016, the Hungarian factory reduced wastewater loads in peak manufacturing periods, ensuring chemical and biochemical Action We measure and monitor CO2 equivalent (CO2-e) emissions from oxygen demand (COD and BOD) levels well below the defined electricity and heat-related energy consumption at our factories emissions limits during 2017. We continued our efforts to reduce the environmental and climarelative to the sellable product quantities on stock (kg). This KPI te impact of Hartmann’s business activities in 2017. Our main focus reflects overall developments within the climate focus area, but areas remained: reported figures are significantly impacted by variances and fluc•• Investments in new process technology tuations in national CO2-e conversion factors between and within CO2-equivalent emissions Index (2012 = 100) •• Improvement and optimisation of existing equipment our respective markets. In 2018, we will therefore consider the •• Product and production process development implementation of a new target – and potentially KPI – to better 125 •• Waste reduction re-align our climate and operational objectives. •• Replacement of fossil energy with renewable energy 100 75 Initiatives are typically managed at business unit level, and during 2017 we established a group of CSR coordinators to support Results 50 sustainability efforts and ensure efficient knowledge sharing across Hartmann’s locations. During the year, the newly established group We reduced our CO2-e emissions per kg sellable product by 25 of CSR coordinators worked to improve and align data collection, 2.5% in 2017 as our two most recently added factories in South establish uniform reporting frameworks and consider current and America improved their share of sellable output following commis0 future targets and KPIs for Hartmann’s efforts in the environment sioning and testing in 2016. Our emissions per kg sellable product 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and climate area. were adversely affected by the establishment of our new factory CO2-equivalent emissions per kilogram of sellable product H A RT M A N N 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 7 Anti-corruption Policy Risks We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Hartmann’s manufacturing is located in both lowand relatively bribery. high-risk countries1 in terms of corruption, and Hartmann sells technology globally. We enter into open dialogue with relevant business partners, and we have set up guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery and The main risks related to our activities include employees’ and corruption, in accordance with principle 10 of the Global Compact. suppliers’ violation of Hartmann’s anti-corruption policy and We contribute to minimising bribery and corruption in companies potential legal and financial consequences hereof. forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann belongs. Our business activities are subject to various national laws and Our commitment is furthermore expressed in Hartmann’s regulations as well as legislation with an international reach. anti-corruption policy. Action KPI During 2017, we planned, prepared and established the infrastrucWe monitor results of supplier audits on an ongoing basis and ture necessary to launch Hartmann’s group-wide whistleblower adapt our policies and processes if necessary. In addition, we regisystem in early 2018. The system is a voluntary alternative to the ster any instances of whistleblowing by employees in accordance ordinary routes of communication and may be used anonymously with applicable regulation. if serious offences – including corruption – are observed or suspected by any employee. Enforcement of the anti-corruption principle remains an integraResults ted part of our supplier handling process, and we maintained our focus on ensuring that suppliers acknowledge and respect their During the year, we conducted 10 supplier audits, which did not responsibility when doing business with Hartmann. lead to termination of contracts. We furthermore laid the foundation for launching Hartmann’s whistleblower system in early 2018. No employees reported cases of attempted bribery, facilitation payments or similar through our traditional reporting channels during the year. 1 Transparency International, Corruption Perceptions Index 2017, www.transparency.org H A RT M A N N 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 7 Human Rights with completion of internal factory audits with a view to initiate Policy corrective measures, continuously improve conditions and ultimaResults tely reduce the number of work-related accidents. We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s The positive development continued in 2017 as we improved human rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are The new group of CSR coordinators was established to drive safety at the workplace and reduced the number of work-related part of the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. safety initiatives and ensure sharing of best practices and systems accidents per million working hours (LTI-FR) by 12% compared to across Hartmann’s business units. 2016 and 27% from the 2015 base year. We aim to further reduce In accordance with principles 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, the number of work-related accidents per million working hours Hartmann supports and respects the protection of internationally The focus on safeguarding food safety at our facilities was main(LTI-FR) in 2018. proclaimed human rights and ensures that the group is not complitained as we monitored and controlled production processes and cit in human rights abuses. We endeavour to secure: the materials used as well as tested end-products in accordance All OHSAS 18001 certificates for working environment and ISO with applicable requirements. 22000 certificates for food safety management were renewed. •• Health and safety in the workplace by means of cleaner technologies and improved procedures and practices as well as competency development. Risks •• Fair wages by means of a wages policy and alignment with the level at local industrial companies. The main risks related to our activities include unintended incidents at factories potentially leading to severe injuries or fatalities •• The well-being of employees and their families by means of as well as non-compliance with the Global Compact’s principles local initiatives, practices and procedures in keeping with local internally or in the value chain to which the Hartmann group traditions, conditions and needs. belongs. Accident statistics Index (2015 = 100) •• Good relations with the local community by means of active 125 participation in social and business-related activities at local level. KPI 100 75 We measure and monitor the number of work-related accidents Action per million working hours (LTI-FR). The KPI reflects overall devel50 opments in safety performance at our factories. Following the introduction of various safety initiatives in recent 25 years, we continued the efforts to improve safety at the workplace in 2017. Monitoring of accidents and near-misses continued along 0 2015 2016 2017 Work-related accidents per million working hours (LTI-FR) H A RT M A N N 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 7 Labour Rights Policy Action KPI We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s Efforts to ensure proper conduct at Hartmann’s own sites We monitor results of conducted audits on an ongoing basis, labour rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are and among suppliers continued in 2017 as we established the and any potential instances of whistleblowing by employees are part of the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. infrastructure for our whistleblower system, which was launched registered in accordance with applicable regulation. In addition, we in early 2018, and conducted internal audits as well as audits of continuously measure developments in the gender composition at In accordance with principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact, selected suppliers. our other managerial levels and on the board of directors. Hartmann: Hartmann continued to monitor and assess HR data through the •• Recognises the right of employees to be members of a trade group’s HR master data system to increase internal transparency union and negotiate pay and working conditions. and promote gender equality by providing an overview of gender Results statistics and pay comparisons for equal work, among other things, •• Supports elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory ensuring that such parameters were considered in connection We conducted 10 supplier audits under our sourcing programme labour, and does not accept use of forced labour. with employment, promotion and redeployment during the year. in 2017 without de-selecting any suppliers on that background. Based on the positive experiences in Europe, we took steps to Hartmann's HR master data system contributed to the basis for •• Applies preventive procedures and practices to ensure that introduce the system in our South American business during 2017. decision for management and the HR function in connection with persons below the minimum age are not employed. In 2018, we aim to ensure full integration of the system in South employment, promotion, and redeployment during the year. In the America and introduce the system in North America as well. South American business, the first steps to introduce the system •• Endeavours to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equduring 2017 entailed greater salary transparency. al opportunities by means of the application of procedures and In Europe, we took steps to ensure the master HR data system’s practices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitcompliance with the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, The representation of women on Hartmann’s other managerial ment or dismissal, career development, training and education, which will come into force in 2018. levels increased to 20% from 12% in 2016. We did not reach the or the granting of staff benefits. target of raising the share of the underrepresented gender to a minimum of 40% of the shareholder-elected board members as there Our commitment is furthermore expressed in our policy on were no changes to the composition of the board of directors in gender equality in other management, which serves to increase Risks 2017. We maintain our ambition of reaching the target by 2021. the number of the underrepresented gender at Hartmann's other managerial levels. The main risks related to our activities include non-adherence Representation of women Target to Hartmann’s principle of preventing discriminatory practices 2016 2017 2021 The policy defines and describes focus areas within recruitment, and securing equal opportunities and potential legal, financial and performance evaluation and development as well as networking. HR-related consequences hereof. Board of directors2 25% 25% 40% The policy is available at our website, www.hartmann-packaging.com. Other managerial levels3 12% 20% Our business activities are subject to various national laws and 2 Shareholder-elected members. regulations. 3 Managers reporting to the executive board, including presidents of regional business units as well as corporate heads of functions and general managers reporting to them. H A RT M A N N 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 7 Hartmann at a glance Products and customers Sustainability Production Hartmann sells egg and fruit packaging to manufacturers, distribuSustainability and protection of the environment are integral comHartmann’s production platform consists of 12 factories in Europe, tors and retail chains, which are increasingly demanding specialised ponents of Hartmann’s business model and strategy. All Hartmann Israel and North and South America. Our deep technology knowmarketing expertise. Our comprehensive product portfolio is products are based on recycled paper, which is a renewable and how and extensive experience in manufacturing moulded-fibre customised to accommodate customer and consumer needs in biodegradable resource. Working closely with our customers to packaging form the basis of the establishment, development and each individual market. accommodate demand for sustainable products in the retail indumaintenance of our production platform. stry, Hartmann was the first manufacturer to offer both FSC-certiHartmann’s technology and related services are sold to manufactufied and CO2-neutral retail packaging. Every year, the group’s 2,000 employees manufacture billions of rers of moulded-fibre packaging outside the group's main markets. moulded-fibre packaging units. Production process Pulp Deinking Moulding Drying After-pressing Print/labelling Delivery Moulded fibre is made from recycled Packaging is produced in several shapes The graphic design of the end product paper and may be deinked and colours to accommodate specific may be customised prior to delivery customer requirements H A RT M A N N 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 7 Hartmann at a glance Denmark Canada Hartmann is the world’s leading manufacturer of Germany Hungary moulded-fibre egg packaging, a market-leading Croatia manufacturer of fruit packaging in South America and USA one of the world’s largest manufacturers of technology Israel for the production of moulded-fibre packaging. Founded in 1917, Hartmann’s market position builds on its strong technology know-how and extensive experience of moulded-fibre production dating back to 1936. Markets Hartmann’s key markets are Europe, South America and North America, where the group has strong market positions. Hartmann is a market leader in Europe and South Brazil America, where our product portfolio also includes fruit packaging. Hartmann has a small, but growing share of the North American market. Hartmann’s technology and related services are also sold globally outside Hartmann's main markets. Argentina Production Office Corporate memberships •• UN Global Compact Brødrene Hartmann A/S •• UN Global Compact – Caring for Climate Ørnegårdsvej 18 •• European Moulded Fibre Association (EMFA) DK-2820 Gentofte •• Green Industry Platform Tel (+45) 45 97 00 00 Fax: (+45) 45 97 00 01 e-mail: bh@hartmann-packaging.com Web: hartmann-packaging.com CVR no. 63 04 96 11
