Annual Report 2017 Ascom is a global solutions provider focused on healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions. The vision of Ascom is to close digital information gaps allowing for the best possible decisions – anytime and anywhere. Ascom’s mission is to provide missioncritical, real-time solutions for highly mobile, ad hoc, and time-sensitive environments. Ascom uses its unique products and solutions and software architecture capabilities to devise integration and mobilization solutions to improve workflows for healthcare, industry and retail sectors. Shareholder return Share information 2017 2016 Share price at 31.12. in CHF 25.20 16.00 Market capitalization at 31.12. in CHFm 907.20 576.00 Nominal value per share in CHF 0.50 0.50 Share Price Performance 2013 to 2017 Share price performance 2013 to 2017 25.0 CHF (rebased to Ascom) 20.0 15.0 +184% Ascom 10.0 +71% SPI Index 5.0 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Ascom SPI 2017 1 2016 2015 2014 2013 Dividend (CHF per share) 0.45 0.80 0.45 0.45 0.40 Average annual share price (CHF) 19.6 16.7 16.8 15.3 12.2 Dividend yield (%) 2.3% 4.8% 2.7% 2.9% 3.3% 1 Proposal to the Annual General Meeting. Ascom continues to expand its range of innovative products and solutions to set new industry standards. For 2018, we have a strong pipeline of innovative products and solutions including: ■  scom Myco 2 (DECT) A ■ Ascom Myco 3 (including a larger display) ■ CDAS ■ Unite analyze ■ Digistat ICU / Surgery ■ Elderly Care Platform ← ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONTENTS 1 Annual Report 2017 2 Letter to Shareholders 4 Performance Report 8 The Ascom Healthcare Platform 10 Customer case 12 Sustainability Corporate Governance 14 Corporate structure and shareholders 17 Capital structure 18 Board of Directors 24 Executive Board 26 Compensation, shareholdings and loans 26 Shareholders’ participation rights 27 Change of control and defensive measures 28 Auditors 28 Information policy 29 Corporate governance rating Remuneration Report 30 Ascom Remuneration Policy 36 Remuneration in fiscal year 2017 41 Share ownership 42 Long-term incentive plans Financial statements 2017 47 Table of contents 48 Ascom Group 83 Ascom Holding AG 94 Worldwide contacts 95 Dates and contacts Declaration of forward-looking statements Publishing details 2 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Letter to Share­holders Andreas Umbach, Chairman (l.), Holger Cordes, CEO (r.) Dear Shareholders EBITDA significantly improved in the second half of Ascom is a global solutions provider focused on 2017. For the full-year, EBITDA margin came to 14.1% healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions. It is compared to 9.5% in 2016. Ascom closed fiscal year our vision to close digital information gaps allowing 2017 with a Group profit of CHF 25.9 million. The Comfor the best possible decisions – anytime and anypany has a solid balance sheet with an equity ratio of where. In 2017, we made significant steps forward 36.2% and a net cash position of CHF 12.3 million as of towards that vision in executing our strategy, and fin31 December 2017. ished an active and eventful year with solid results. We have set ourselves ambitious operational and While business activities in Europe showed good strategic objectives, which we largely met. As pregrowth and the OEM business bounced back, our dicted, we have seen a strong revenue growth in the operations in North America did not meet our expectasecond half of 2017. We achieved a significant intions. Therefore, we initiated targeted measures to sigcrease in incoming orders, and we succeeded in senificantly strengthen our market position in this attraccuring flagship wins in both the healthcare and the tive region. Moreover, we signed in 2017 important enterprise sector. In terms of profitability, we met our strategic partnerships with strong players such as GE targets with an EBITDA margin of 14.1%. Healthcare and Dräger. Strategically, Ascom completed the implementation Dividend of CHF 0.45 per share of the OneCompany organization. We built a stronger The Board of Director is proposing a dividend of CHF organization through the recruitment of industry0.45 per share to the Annual General Meeting, repreleading talents in the different areas and the appointsenting a payout ratio of 62.5% of the Group profit. The ment of Anette Weber as our new CFO, who came higher dividend payment for fiscal year 2016 was an into office on 1 August 2017. In addition, we further exception due to the pay out of the major part of the strengthened our sales force with experienced soluproceeds from the divestment of the former division tions sales resources. Network Testing. Solid financial results achieved in 2017 Ascom has a solid equity story focusing on long-term Incoming orders increased significantly and came to profitable growth and cash generation to create value CHF 324.8 million (2016: CHF 302.9 million [2016 numfor all stakeholders. The share price development in bers are pro forma numbers and equal to the Group 2017 was very positive, reaching a maximum of CHF results adjusted for the former division Network Test25.40 and a market capitalization of CHF 907.2 million ing divested in September 2016]). In terms of revenue, as of 31 December 2017 compared to CHF 576.0 million the second half-year 2017 was much stronger than the by the end of 2016. first six months. Overall, consolidated net revenue increased to CHF 309.7 million, representing a growth rate of 3.1% (2.3% at constant currencies). ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS 3 Successful launch of pioneering products Revenue by region Innovation is an important success driver for our growth strategy. We set new industry standards and increase OEM 10% Europe 68% workflow productivity in the healthcare sector as well as in the enterprise sector. Therefore, we launched Benelux 21% Nordics 17% several products and solutions during 2017, e.g. DACH 16% expanding the Ascom Myco portfolio, the new Ascom Rest of Europe 14% Telligence Patient Response System and the Unite ­Integration Platform. Going forward, we have a strong Growth Markets 6% pipeline of innovative products and solutions including two new versions of our smart device Ascom Myco as well as new software solutions. We target to increase North America 16% the share of software and professional services in our total revenue. Looking forward With the solid results in 2017 and achievement of our strategic milestones, we have set a good basis to continue executing our clear strategy to become a best-inclass healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions provider. In 2018, we strive to accelerate the strategy Revenue by segment execution and we see strategic growth opportunities with new solutions, new services, new partners, and Others 7% new markets. North America is a focus topic in 2018. A new leadership and strong and evolving strategic partOEM 10% nerships will support a positive development. In addiSecure tion, we will further strengthen our strong market posiestablishments 5% tion in Europe and continue to grow our business in Asia Pacific. Industry 12% Ascom targets to achieve 3–6% revenue growth for the full year 2018. The EBITDA margin for 2018 is expected Hotel & Retail 5% to be in line with prior year, up to around 15%. Moreover, Ascom confirms its mid-term targets for 2020: Ascom Healthcare 61% strives to achieve 7–10% revenue growth in 2020 and has the ambition to reach an EBITDA margin of 20%. Note of thanks The 2017 business year was exciting and intensive. The entire Board of Directors and the Executive Committee would like to thank our shareholders, customers and business partners for their confidence in Ascom. A special thank goes to our employees for their extraordinary work and dedication to support our vision to become a best-in class healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions provider. Andreas Umbach Holger Cordes Chairman of the Board CEO 4 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ASCOM PERFORMANCE REPORT Performance report Net Revenue – Strong growth during the second half-year 2017 In 2017, Ascom generated net revenue of CHF 309.7 million, representing a growth rate of 3.1% (2.3% at constant currencies) compared to the previous year. As expected, the Company experienced a strong second half-year 2017 with net revenue of CHF 166.5 million, representing a significant increase of 7.8% compared to the second half-year of 2016. Ascom performed well in Europe with an overall growth of 5% compared to 2016. Solid revenue growth was generated in all European regions (Benelux, DACH, Nordic, Southern Europe, UK, CEE). The development of our operations in North America was disappointing. Key reasons were challenges in channel management and slow-paced transformation 2017 is Ascom’s first full financial year as a one-busifrom product to solution business. Targeted measures ness company after successfully converting from a have been implemented to strengthen our market podivisional and regional set-up to a OneCompany sition and to bounce back rapidly. Tim Whelehan was functional organization with one business, one replaced by Rob Goldman as Managing Director North mission, and one culture. Ascom is actively addressAmerica in January 2018. Rob Goldman and his new ing its markets as a global solutions provider focused team are committed to strengthen the organization and on healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions. We to achieve a better customer proximity. Strategic partuse our unique products and solution portfolios, and nerships shall be revitalized and key customer projects intelligent software architecture to devise integration with Integrated Delivery Networks (IDN) further proand mobilization solutions that provide efficient moted. workflow both for the healthcare and enterprise sectors. In 2017, we have put our emphasis on comGrowth Markets (Middle East, Asia, and Australia) pleting the set-up of the OneCompany functional orshowed moderate growth. The result was impacted by ganization with a lower cost base compared to the political uncertainties and social unrest in some reprevious year. Although 2017 was still impacted by gions such as the Middle East. On the other hand, first some transformation including the finalization of the revenues in Central and Eastern Europe were generOneCompany restructuring, and the recruiting of ated. The OEM business bounced back and showed new talents mainly in sales and software developstrong growth in 2017. ment, the execution of the new strategy gained traction and solid results were achieved. Significant increase of incoming orders In 2017, incoming orders increased by 7.2% and came In 2017, Ascom was able to show profitable growth to CHF 324.8 million (2016: CHF 302.9 millon). Order and to strengthen its market position. The Company backlog amounted to CHF 143.3 million at the end of reported an increase of 7.2% in incoming orders and 2017, representing an increase of 17.7%. of 3.1% in net revenue compared to 2016. As expected, a strong second half-year supported the achieveAscom was able to secure significant orders in its ment of our targets. Ascom increased the profitability addressed markets. Important flagship wins in the with an EBITDA margin of 14.1% compared to 9.5% for healthcare sector include: 2016, and closed the financial year 2017 with a Group ■■ Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam (Netherlands): profit of CHF 25.9 million. Ascom Myco units and Ascom Unite software ■■ Sant Joan de Déu, Barcelona (Spain): Entire Ascom Healthcare Platform 2016 numbers are pro-forma numbers and equal to ■■ Rijnstate Hospital, Arnhem (Netherlands): Nurse Call the Group results adjusted for the former division Systems Network Testing divested as of 30 September 2016. ■■ Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa (Finland): Major Nurse Call service contract ■■ St Olavs Hospital Trondheim (Norway): Delivery of 4,000 Ascom Myco units ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ASCOM PERFORMANCE REPORT 5 ■■ IDN Munson Healthcare, Michigan (USA): Entire Moreover, important partnership agreements were Ascom Healthcare Platform signed in 2017 such as: ■■ Drammen Municipality (Norway): Elderly care solu■■ Partnership agreement with Dräger to deliver clinical tions alarm management solutions to healthcare providers ■■ Koutio Médipôle Hospital, Nouméa (New Caledonia): ■■ Strategic distribution partnership in Europe with GE Ascom Myco and IP-DECT solutions Healthcare for Digistat Patient Watch solutions ■■ Royal Free, London (UK): Ascom Myco and Ascom Telligence patient systems These important orders and agreements confirm that Ascom is the preferred partner of choice for complex The enterprise sector showed a good performance and secure communication solutions that can be lifeand significant orders could be secured: saving in the attractive healthcare market and are also ■■ Major Dutch University (Netherlands): Nationwide viable for the enterprise sector. service contract ■■ CSL Behring, Lengnau (Switzerland): Alarm manageCost base significantly reduced ment solutions During 2017, Ascom has focused intensively on the set■■ Swyx (Germany): IP-DECT solutions up of the OneCompany functional organization to ■■ Marks & Spencer (UK): Retail solutions reduce its cost base compared to the previous year. As ■■ Avaya (US): OEM a result, on a comparable basis administration ■■ Aastra Mitel (Canada): OEM expenses were lowered by about 36% to CHF 20.3 million in 2017 (2016: CHF 31.5 million). Moreover, despite strengthening the management team with the appointment of new industry leading experts, substantially improving the sales force and marketing teams 6 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ASCOM PERFORMANCE REPORT with well experienced sales people and the set-up of a Strong balance sheet sales academy, our marketing and sales expenses Ascom is a financially sound company. Based on the rose only slightly by 1.9% to CHF 76.3 million (2016: improved results in 2017, the Company showed a CHF 74.9 million). In 2017, Ascom has increased its inhigher positive cash flow from operating activities of novation rate and therefore R&D expenses went up by CHF 16.2 million (2016: CHF 6.0 million). Cash flow from about 8% to CHF 29.1 million (2016: CHF 26.9 million). investing activities amounted to CHF –0.7 million while cash flow from financing activities was CHF –20.7 Profitability targets achieved million, particularly due to the high dividend payment Ascom’s OneCompany strategy is proving to be sucof CHF 28.8 million in April 2017. cessful. For the full-year 2017, EBITDA rose to CHF 43.6 million (2016: CHF 28.6 million) representing an Total assets include cash and cash equivalents of EBITDA margin of 14.1% (2016: 9.5%). With this result, CHF 30.3 million. The shareholders’ equity amounts to Ascom met its profitability target 2017 as communicaCHF 83.1 million resulting in an equity ratio of 36.2% as ted. The operating result also increased and EBIT at 31 December 2017. The net cash position amounted came to CHF 33.2 million (2016: CHF 21.3 million) with to CHF 12.3 million. a double-digit EBIT margin of 10.7% compared to 7.1% for 2016. Leaner Board of Directors The Board of Directors has been reduced from seven Ascom experienced a very strong second half-year to five members as of the Annual General Meeting 2017 with an EBITDA margin of 17.8% compared to 9.7% 2017. Taking into account the lower Board fees, the for the first half-year. overall compensation for the entire Board of Directors declined by 42% for the period 2017/18 compared to Ascom closed the financial year 2017 with a Group the period 2016/17. profit of CHF 25.9 million compared to a Group loss of CHF 145.7 million for financial year 2016 (which was impacted by a one-time effect in connection with the divestment of Network Testing as of 30 September 2016). In financial year 2017, earnings per share was CHF 0.72 (2016: negative earnings per share of CHF –4.07). We have a strong pipeline of innovative products to set new industry standards Device Telligence teleCARE Myco 2 DECT/ Interfacing 5.0 9.0 Black Nurse Call Unite Digistat Acute Integration Unite Care & Telligence Myco 2 Platform Collaborate Surgery 6.0 Medical Unite Task Device Unite ManageCDAS Drivers Analytics ment Digistat v5 Elderly Care App d63 DECT Platform suite Myco 3 Myco & Clinical apps 2017 2018 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ASCOM PERFORMANCE REPORT 7 Changes in the Executive Management ■■ Anette Weber joined Ascom as new CFO as of 1 August 2017 replacing Bianka Wilson. ■■ Judith Bischof, General Counsel, decided to leave the Company by end of October 2017 to pursue a new career opportunity. Her tasks were assigned to Daniel Lack, Company Secretary and Senior VP Legal & Communications / IR. ■■ Rolf Veldman, Vice President Human Resources, joined the Executive Committee in July 2017. The Board of Directors and the Executive Committee thank Bianka Wilson and Judith Bischof for their many years of successful service for Ascom. Significant pipeline of new products and solutions Innovation is an important success driver for Ascom’s growth strategy. In 2017, new solutions with gamechanging impact on Healthcare and Enterprise were presented: ■■ Ascom Myco 2 smart device ■■ Ascom Telligence Patient Response System ■■ Ascom Unite Integration Platform ■■ Digistat Medical Device Connectivity ■■ Ascom Myco and clinical apps ■■ Medical Device Drivers Ascom continues to expand its range of innovative products and solutions to set new industry standards. For 2018, we have a strong pipeline of innovative products and solutions including: ■■ Ascom Myco 2 (DECT) ■■ Ascom Myco 3 (expanding the platform including a larger display) ■■ CDAS ■■ Unite analyze ■■ Digistat ICU / Surgery ■■ Elderly Care Platform We target to further improve our service business. The reorganization of services further strengthens our expertise in project execution and up-selling potential. Ascom strives to improve its position in workflow consulting and technology consulting to advise and optimize solution added value. Moreover, Ascom support its customers in project planning and project execution as well as in change management and user adoption. 8 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THE ASCOM HEALTHCARE PLATFORM A platform of unique Ascom’s healthcare mission is to solve these challenges faced by hospitals and clinicians on a global basis. and unmatched The Ascom Healthcare Platform closes digital inforworkflow solutions, mation and communication gaps across points of care to enable the best possible clinical decisions. designed to harness Ascom executes its mission through the Ascom Healthcare Platform, a platform of unique and unmatched sothe power of digital lutions, designed to harness the power of digital clinical information for the benefit of patients and their care clinical information for teams. the benefit of patients The Ascom Healthcare Platform Streamlines digital flow of clinical insight and their care teams ■■ ■■ Turning fragmented data into actionable, context-rich insight through data analytics and filtering ■■ Connects siloed hospital information systems to make critical care information more accessible Clinical care around the world continues to grow ■■ Extends the reach of information across points of evermore more complicated and complex: care to anywhere ■■ 33% – The percentage of intensive care unit (ICU) ■■ Improves efficiency of mobile clinical care team coornurses that suffer from burnout syndrome1 dination and care management ■■ 2,000 – The number of data points a single ICU patient can generate in a single day 2 The Ascom Healthcare Platform is based upon the ■■ 1.2 million – The number of alarms recorded in 30 three pillars: days at one major US hospital 3 Workflow Digitalization is how Ascom consults with healthcare facilities to review their existing clinical This complicated and complex environment is made workflows and to identify targeted areas of enhancemore difficult due to the vast amount of critical patient ment such as turning manual and or disconnected proand care treatment information held in siloed repositocesses into digital and integrated workflows. Ascom ries across different hospital information systems, medconsults across general ward, operating Rooms, ICUs ical devices, laboratory systems and even physically as well as in Elderly Care and Institutional Care facilities. held across different clinicians themselves. Ascom Workflow Optimization is the implementation of the calls this unconnected, unintegrated workflow environAscom Healthcare Platform on a workflow solutions ment the “digital information gap”. basis, providing a multitude of valuable use cases for When information is held in silos, clinicians are unclinicians such as Alerts & Critical Events Management, able to access critical data in a timely, relevant and acCare Team Coordination and Communication and Care tionable fashion. In other words, the digital information Protocol alignment. gaps in a hospital can slow, or prevent, informed deciAnalytics & Smart Data capture data from medical desion making on clinical and workflow basis across care vices, clinical labs and EMRs; filters and analyzes the data teams. As such, clinical decisions, coordination and to help clinicians calculate Early Warning Scores indicatpatient care workflow can suffer as evidenced by ining the potential degradation of a patient’s condition. dustry research. The three pillars of the Ascom Healthcare Platform are ■■ 80% of serious medical errors are caused by misimplemented through the combination of Ascom’s communication 4 leading products and software such as the clinical or■■ 36% – The amount of nurses in one UK study that chestration software solutions of Digistat and Unite “had to leave necessary tasks undone” because of which support clinical workflows across general ward, workloads 5 operating room and ICUs; the groundbreaking Telli■■ 15% – The error rates of patient vital signs recording due to manual double documentation processes 6 4 Joint Commission Center for Transforming Healthcare Releases Targeted Solutions Tool for Hand-Off Communications. Joint Commission Perspectives. August 2012, Volume 32, Issue 8. 1 Poncet MC. Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med. 2007. 5 Campbell, Denis. NHS nurses are too busy to care for patients properly, research 2 McFarling, Usha Lee. Raising an alarm, doctors fight to yank hospital ICUs into shows. The Guardian, 29 September 2017. the modern era. Stat, 7 September 2016. 6 Wagner KA, Schaffner MJ, Foulois B, Kazley AS, Parker C, Walo H. Comparison of 3 Colliver, Victoria; Kaul, Greta; Allday, Erin. Medical equipment generates millions the quality and timeliness of vital signs data using three different data-entry of alerts, “alarm fatigue”. SFGate, 12 November 2014. devices. Comput Inform Nurs. 2010;28(4): 205–212. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THE ASCOM HEALTHCARE PLATFORM 9 Actionable, Context Rich, Clinical Insight Consultancy (Connects across all elements) & Lifecycle Engineers Unite Unite ■ Myco 2 ■ Cardiomax Medical Device d63 Mobility ■ Integration Digistat ■ d43 Digistat ■ d81 and d81ex ■ Connect ■ i62 Digital Workflow Optimization Orchestration Software Unite ■ Analyze Telligence Patient Response Applications ■ Collaborate/Context Systems teleCARE Digistat ■ Smart Central Exisiting Medical ■ Asset Management Technology Frameworks 3rd Party Appli­cations Flexible gence series of Nurse Call system; as well as the These benefits are why hospitals around the Ascom Myco smart device portfolio. world including Royal Free Hospital, UK; Erasmus MC, The platform, unmatched in the industry by any Netherlands; Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Spain; Trinity single competitor, is flexible, scalable and interoperaHealth, USA; Munson Healthcare IDN, USA; and St. ble with existing hospital information systems and Vincents Private Health, Australia, have implemented medical devices. Configurable and customizable, the the Ascom Healthcare platform in 2017. Ascom Healthcare Platform meets both the current and expanding demands of clinical care. Together, Ascom’s The Ascom Healthcare Platform enhances the value products, systems and software create a modular, yet proposition of global healthcare partners comprehensive healthcare solution which grows with The importance of the Ascom Healthcare Platform is the hospitals requirements. recognized not only by our direct healthcare customers, but by global healthcare giants such as GE Healthcare, Together with Ascom’s Professional Consulting teams, Dräger Healthcare and BD Carefusion, and many othhospital customers can implement any number of critiers. These leading healthcare players partner with cal care solutions including Ascom to complement their own value propositions with ■■ Care team coordination and collaboration the unique value of the Ascom Healthcare Platform. ■■ Vital signs registration As an example, in 2017, Ascom and GE Healthcare ■■ Early warning scores announced a European strategic partnership with an ■■ Hand hygiene innovative and unique ICU solution called GE Digistat ■■ Medical Asset management Patient Watch. Based on Ascom’s connectivity, clinical ■■ Rounding/charting workflow and mobility expertise, the GE Digistat Pa■■ Medical device monitoring tient Watch solution provides clinicians throughout Eu■■ ICU central monitoring rope with an innovative solution to address the alarm ■■ Operating Room patient management systems management and communication needs of Intensive Care Units (ICUs). This partnership expanded further The value in the Ascom Healthcare Platform is clear. the long standing global relationship between GE Through the implementation of individual modules or the Healthcare and Ascom. complete platform, hospitals and patients benefit from Together, Ascom and our global partners have faster, more targeted treatments; accelerated diagnosis; implemented new general ward and ICU solutions reduced miscommunication between care teams; imacross hospitals in North America, Europe, the Middleproved patient response time and decrease staff “alarm East, and Asia. fatigue” and burnout among other critical benefits. 10 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CUSTOMER CASE An American health Once the pilot launched, usage metrics were captured on an ongoing basis to track adoption and the rate of system demonstrates usage for the text, broadcast, message and call features. At the pilot’s end, the hospital administered a follow-up how the Ascom survey. The survey included the same questions from the pre-implementation survey, as well as additional Health­care Platform questions that addressed nurses’ perceptions of the phones, software and their impact on the caregiving ensignificantly improved vironment. its unit communicaUsage metrics and reporting Over the 60-day pilot, the Ascom Myco and Context tions, nurse satisfaction solution was used more than 75,000 times. This activity­ level corresponds to 471 communications per trained and patient care. caregiver during the pilot. Texting was a brand-new way of communicating on the nursing floor and quickly became the favored mode of communication, accounting for over 90% of Ascom Myco and Context activity. Information gaps obstruct workflows, frustrate careImmediately after launch there were 14 texts for givers and create barriers to successful patient care. every call. Within two weeks, the ratio had climbed to For a health system’s flagship hospital, information 22 texts per call, and has stayed at about that level ever gaps were an ongoing challenge. Nurses were dissince. Unite Context can record and extract data for satisfied with the time it took to locate and contact analytics reporting and metrics, which is valuable for other caregivers, perceived their unit’s communicahealthcare informatics teams. tions systems to be slow and unreliable, and a significant majority believed that communications were Closing the digital information gap for caregivers a barrier to successful patient care. The vision of Ascom is to close digital information gaps, allowing for the best possible decisions anytime and Management acted to close these gaps by implementanywhere – and to facilitate workflow collaboration ing Ascom Myco smart devices paired with Unite Conthat enable clinicians to spend more time at the bedtext software. A unique healthcare solution, the Ascom side actually caring for patients instead of chasing Myco with Unite Context solution enables voice calls down colleagues and information. In 60 days, that and are Health Insurance Portability and Accountability vision became reality for this hospital’s units. Act compliant, secure text messaging to support cliniComparing the preand postpilot clinician surveys: cian communication and tele-tech workflows with their ■■ The hospital experienced a doubling of caregivers health unit coordinator. who agree that their unit has a rapid, reliable means The impact at this hospital was significant and imof communication, from 37% to 77%. mediate. A comparison of pre and post implementation ■■ The increase in caregivers who agree that the comsurveys found dramatic increases in nurse satisfaction, munication environment allows for timely communisignificantly more positive perceptions of communicacation of codes increased from 61% to 74%. tions systems and the overall care environment, and a ■■ The amount of nurses who believe communication is substantial decrease in the number of nurses who felt a barrier to successful patient care decreased from that communications were a barrier to providing effec66% to 46%. tive care. Positively impacting caregivers and their patients Clinical mobile device pilot Caregiver satisfaction also increased substantially since The 60-day pilot was conducted in two care areas of the the Ascom Myco and Context pilot launched. 700+ bed acute-care flagship hospital. A total of 159 staff ■■ Satisfaction tripled by reducing the time it takes to received training including registered nurses, certified page and get a call back from a doctor, as has satisnursing assistants, float staff, health unit coordinators faction with the time it takes to locate and speak to and technicians. A brief survey was administered during a certified nursing assistant. training for the implementation of Ascom Myco smart de■■ Satisfaction more than doubled with the time it takes vices with Unite Context software. The survey included to locate and speak to a registered nurse. questions regarding the care areas’ communications en■■ Satisfaction with the time it takes to locate and speak vironments, nurses’ satisfaction with current communicato security or a health unit coordinator increased tions, and the impact of communications on patient care. substantially. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CUSTOMER CASE 11 63% of respondents agreed that the Ascom solution 60 days to impact helped them reduce the number of steps they take in Today, hospitals are under tremendous pressure as a day, and 43% say that overhead paging is drastically they strive to provide the best possible patient care, reduced, creating a quieter environment for both paincrease patient satisfaction, support and retain their tients and caregivers. caregivers and generate quick returns on investment. Due to the pilot’s successful metrics and the supAs demonstrated at this health system, the combinaport and training provided, management of the nontion of the Ascom Myco with Unite Context software profit system plans to deploy 5,000 Ascom Myco 2 has the potential to meet all of these requirements in smart devices with Unite Context in 2018 across all as little as 60 days. seven of their regional hospitals and 70 remote clinics, Closing the information gap is essential for hospimaking this the largest Ascom Myco implementation tals that want to thrive in our rapidly changing healthto date for Ascom. care environment. Caregivers not only need accurate, timely patient information, but the solution that supports them must deliver the right information to the right person at the right time. The Ascom Myco smart device with Unite Context closes the loop on the clinical information gap and the front-end workflow, making it an innovative advancement in the acute-care setting. ACUTE CARE CASE STUDY Caregiver perspectives on communication Survey statement Timing We currently have a rapid and 37 Pre-Pilot reliable means of communication Post-Pilot 77 within our unit staff. Our current communication environment Pre-Pilot 61 allows for timely communication codes. Post-Pilot 74 Communication is currently a barrier Pre-Pilot 66 to successful patient care. Post-Pilot 46 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% % Agree/Strongly Agree Caregiver satisfaction Survey statement Timing The time it takes to page and get Pre-Pilot 17 a call back from doctors. Post-Pilot 52 Ability to locate and speak with Pre-Pilot 25 certified nursing assistants on my unit. Post-Pilot 78 Ability to locate and speak with Pre-Pilot 31 registered nurses on my unit. Post-Pilot 79 Pre-Pilot 30 Ability to locate and speak with security. Post-Pilot 38 Ability to locate and speak with the Pre-Pilot 67 health unit coordinator on my unit. Post-Pilot 84 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% % Satisfied/Very Satisfied 12 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY Innovative products, products and solutions, and business travel of employees. They amount to a carbon footprint of 87%. Ascom together with socially defines strategic actions on products/solutions and services by adopting a customer perspective on the most and environmentally relevant issues. Therefore, our activities are focused on product development, life cycle support and service conscious behavior, activities. On the product side, the new version of the smart for the benefit of device Ascom Myco (Ascom Myco 2) has lowered power consumption by around 57% during use compared all our stakeholders to the previous version. In addition, the new Telecare IP repeater shows a power reduction which is three times lower compared to the previous version. Reduce fleet emissions Since business travel in the service organization is our third largest generator of carbon emissions, reducing emissions and continuing to decrease onsite mainteAscom focuses on sustainable growth and value crenance is highly strategic for the service organization. ation based on innovation and quality management In 2017, we continued the focused efforts to decrease in its business activities. From the responsible sourconsite maintenance and increase remote service. Suring of raw materials to energy-efficient offices, from veillance enables us to take preventive actions and rigorous compliance standards to lower travel activiplan our on-site visits more efficiently, thereby saving ties, Ascom constantly fosters sustainable behavior. both time and unnecessary travel. We implemented several measures in 2017: Underpinning all our activities is the continuous improve■■ In the Netherlands, we improved our service desk: ment of our products and their impact on the environ8,546 hours of a total of 16,197 service hours were ment throughout their life cycle. We place great emphaworked without travelling. sis on economical usage of (raw) materials and energy, ■■ In Finland, the target of the car fleet was to lower emisincreased awareness of environmental aspects among sions to an average of 130 g CO2/km (2016: 140 g all employees, and the involvement of our suppliers in CO2/km). The result achieved in 2017 was 118 g CO2/km. implementing consistent environmental requirements. ■■ In Denmark, we increased the number of sites that Ascom has been a signatory of the United Nations were monitored 24/7 from 60 to approximately 100. Global Compact (UNGC) since 2010 and is committed to respecting the ten principles of human rights, labor Ascom UK has implemented remote access points via rights, the environment and anti-corruption. The Ascom the Service Desk and achieved incident support in Code of Ethical Business Conduct and several Cor­ 72% of service cases raised (target 2017: handle 50% porate Directives form the basis of our corporate of service issues via remote access support and resoculture. The Code of Ethical Business Conduct contains lution). This success in remote access and customer binding principles regarding anti-corruption, labor, support, as well as improving response and fix times, human rights and the environment. It applies to every has reduced the number of kilometers travelled by Ascom employee. field-based staff by an average of 10% (travel distance In addition, Ascom established new corporate avoided of 4,968 km). values under the name of the Ascom Way in 2017, which Monitoring of first-tier contract manufacturers, encompasses six principles: Customer Focus, Accountwhich represent approximately 90% of our purchase ability & Commitment, Growth, Innovation, Leadership, value, occurs quarterly with regard to environmental and We are Ascom. A strong culture of ethics and compliissues. The reports include CO2 emissions, energy ance is the foundation of a robust risk management proconsumption, water and waste. In 2017, almost all of our gram. Ascom has implemented a risk scheme across our first-tier contract manufacturers were ISO 14001 certiglobal processes during 2017, which identifies key issues fied, whereas the figure in 2016 amounted to only in a dialogue with internal and external stakeholders. slightly more than half. Energy and material efficiency improved in 2017 Strong culture of compliance The annual review of our environmental impacts shows Ascom has a strong compliance culture throughout the that the three main elements at Ascom are power conentire organization. Every Ascom employee is responsumption of products during use, materials used in its sible for fully complying with the company’s compliASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY 13 ance principles. Medical Compliance Culture Training continued according to plan for both current and new employees, with training sessions conducted for 130 people during 2017. Since 2013, Ascom has had an active and anonymous whistleblowing procedure in place for anti-competitive practices, corruption and bribery issues, including a compliance hotline for inquiries related to compliance matters and a whistleblower channel. These channels are important components of our corporate compliance and are accessible to all employees. No incidents were reported through our whistleblower channel during 2017. The new EU Medical Device Regulation (MDR) has “In 2017, we established our been published and entered into force on 26 May 2017 with a three-year transition period. Our preparations corporate values encompassfor this are ongoing, and we have been extremely busy ing six principles: Customer establishing gap analysis and action plans. Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, which Focus, Accountability & Comrepresents a significant change in data privacy regulamitment, Growth, Innovation, tion, also has high priority. Ascom appointed a Data Protection Officer to ensure rigorous compliance. Leadership and We are Ascom.” Holger Cordes, CEO Ascom Wide diversity of employees Ascom is strongly committed to a diverse workforce. the Gold rating is the highest recognition for Supplier Any discrimination of employees based on their sex, Sustainability across global supply chains and is awardrace, physical impairments, origins, sexual preferences, ed to the top 3% of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in political opinion, religion or any other characteristics all categories. The EcoVadis CSR analysis system asprotected by local law is prohibited. All these principles sesses 21 criteria across four categories: Environment, of non-discrimination are laid down in the Ascom Code Fair Labor, Ethics/Fair Business, and Supply Chain. of Ethical Business Conduct. Receiving the highest recognition from EcoVadis We are convinced that diversity strengthens our proves that sustainability policy and practice are firmly innovative capacity and contributes directly to our established priorities for Ascom. Ascom continuously business success. Equality and diversity plans are in improves its sustainability efforts, implementing addiplace where required by law. Ascom has signed collectional measures like online training on business ethics tive agreements on working conditions where appliand structured mechanisms to quickly address any cable, including agreements on remuneration and policy violations. The company also received endorsecompany-specific pension plans for employees. ment for work involving ISO 14001 certification and The Performance Appraisal is one of the core being a Global Compact Signatory. elements of talent development. Regular assessments Ascom has developed a “Conflict Minerals Policy” of individual performance are conducted on a yearly and integrated it into procurement to ensure that a basis. We aim to create a continuous dialog between global process is in place within the supply chain. employee and manager about expectations regarding Our approach is informed by the risk-based reindividual contributions and behavior, as well as feedquirements of the “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for back on actual impact and how the Ascom Way behavResponsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflictior is demonstrated. Current competence and compeAffected and High-Risk Areas”. Responsibility for adtence improvement are evaluated every year. herence and related activities lies with the Supply Ascom is committed to ensuring that the working Chain Management organization. In order to establish conditions in its companies throughout the world are transparency on the use, sources and origins of conflict safe and do not harm the health of employees. During minerals in our supply chain, we work to identify the 2017, Ascom had one minor occupational accident. smelters involved. This year, we added smelter data on 500 components. In 2017, the number of non-respondGold recognition level from EcoVadis ing suppliers was unchanged at 4%. In May 2017, for the second time running, Ascom was awarded a Gold rating by EcoVadis, a rating company in For more information visit www.ascom.com/corp/ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Valid for one year, corporate-governance/sustainability.html 14 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate The Group is organized by functions as Ascom has become a one-business company and has no divisions Governance anymore. Listed corporation: Ascom Holding AG Ascom Holding AG (Ascom Holding SA, Ascom Holding Ltd.) is a publicly listed company headquartered in Baar, Switzerland. It has a share capital of CHF 18,000,000, divided into 36,000,000 registered shares with a par value of CHF 0.50 per share. The Company’s registered shares are traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange Swiss Reporting Standard under ISIN CH0011339204, symbol ascn. Ticker symbols: ■■ Bloomberg; ASCN.SW ■■ Reuters: ASCN.S Market capitalization as of 31 December 2017 was 1. CORPORATE STRUCTURE CHF 907.2 million. AND SHAREHOLDERS Unlisted Group companies Ascom is fully committed to good Corporate GoverThe following companies belong to the Ascom Holding nance. The information published in the Corporate AG scope of consolidation (see table on page 16). Governance report follows the SIX Swiss Exchange directives on standards relating to Corporate Governance. All information within this Corporate Governance report refers to rules and regulations that were in effect as of 31 December 2017. Operating corporate structure (January 2018) CEO Holger Cordes* Legal & HR Communications / IR Rolf Veldman Daniel Lack Marketing & Business Sales COO Software Platforms CFO Development Holger Cordes* Claes Ödman* André Neu Anette Weber* Francis Schmeer* Regional Sales Organizations * Also member of the Executive Board. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15 The Ascom Top Management LTR: Francis Schmeer, Daniel Lack, Anette Weber, Holger Cordes, Claes Ödman, Rolf Veldman, André Neu. 16 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Unlisted Group Companies: Ascom Holding AG (as of 31 December 2017) Country Company Registered Office Share Capital Parent Company Group’s Interest Australia GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. Chippendale AUD 3 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Alexandria NSW AUD 3,000,000 GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. 100% Belgium Ascom (Belgium) NV Brussels EUR 1,424,181 Ascom Holding AG 100% Denmark Ascom Danmark A/S Glostrup DKK 1,200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Finland Ascom Miratel Oy Turku EUR 33,638 Ascom Holding AG 100% France Ascom (France) SA Nanterre EUR 2,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Germany Ascom Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt a. M. EUR 2,137,200 Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH 100% Technologiepark Teningen GmbH Emmendingen EUR 6,136,000 Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH 94% Ascom Solutions Ltd. 6% Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH Frankfurt a. M. EUR 5,113,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Italy Ascom UMS S.r.l. Scandicci EUR 100,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Malaysia Ascom (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Petaling Jaya MYR 1,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Netherlands Ascom (Nederland) BV Utrecht EUR 1,361,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Norway Ascom (Norway) A/S Oslo NOK 1,250,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Singapore Ascom Solutions (Singapore) Pte Ltd Singapore SGD 50,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Sweden Ascom (Sweden) AB Gothenburg SEK 96,154,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Switzerland Mocsa AG in Liquidation Berne CHF 100,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Solutions Ltd. Mägenwil CHF 10,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% United Kingdom Ascom (UK) Ltd. Birmingham GBP 50,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% USA Ascom (US) Inc. Morrisville NC USD 1 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Shareholders In accordance with the disclosure announcements made according to Article 120 of the Financial Market Registered shareholders Infrastructure Act (FMIA), the following parties with As of 31 December 2017, there were 4,247 shareholders voting rights exceeding a threshold of 3% are regarded registered in the share register of Ascom Holding AG. as significant shareholders in Ascom as of 31 December 2017: Share ownership as of 31 December 2017 ■■ UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel: Number of shares Number of shareholders ­A scom securities representing 5.13% of the voting rights (announcement dated 24 January 2017) 1 to 100 835 ■■ Schroders plc, London, UK: Ascom securities repre101 to 1,000 2,247 senting 4.962% of the voting rights (announcement 1,001 to 5,000 906 dated 24 May 2017) 5,001 to 10,000 119 ■■ Veraison SICAV, Zurich: Ascom securities representMore than 10,000 140 ing 5.0176% of the voting rights (announcement dated Total 4,247 4 March 2016) ■■ Credit Suisse Funds AG, Zurich: Ascom securities representing 3.30% of the voting rights (announcement Significant shareholders dated 13 September 2016) The following significant shareholders exceeding a ■■ BlackRock Inc., New York, USA: Ascom securities repthreshold of 3% of voting rights were recorded in the resenting 2.69% of the voting rights and sale positions share register as of 31 December 2017: of 0.96% (announcement dated 24 September 2016) ■■ Veraison SICAV, Zurich: 7.62% ■■ Cologny Advisors LLP, London, UK: Ascom securities ■■ UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel: 5.41% representing 3.07% of the voting rights (announcement dated 24 August 2017) This does not cover shares, which are not registered in ■■ Norges Bank, Oslo, Norway: Ascom securities reprethe share register (dispo shares). Dispo shares amountsenting 3.11% of the voting rights (announcement ed to 39.12% as of 31 December 2017. dated 13 May 2017) ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 17 ■■ Patrik Schmitz-Morkramer/Patrick Bierbaum (PSquared Bonus certificates Master SICAV), Zurich: Ascom securities representAscom Holding AG has not issued any bonus certifiing 3.04% of the voting rights (announcement dated cates. 10 November 2017) Authorized share capital/conditional share capital Subsequent events: The Company has no authorized or conditional share The following changes in the shareholder base were capital. notified after 1 January 2018: ■■ The Capital Group Companies Inc., Los Angeles CA Changes in equity (USA): ­A scom securities representing 5.132% of the The equity of Ascom Holding AG has changed as voting rights (announcement dated 19 January 2018) ­follows: ■■ Kempen Capital Management N.V., Amsterdam (Netherlands): ­A scom securities representing 3.05% CHF 1,000 2017 2016 2015 2014 1 of the voting rights (announcement dated 17 January Share 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000 2018) capital Legal 6,523 6,523 6,523 6,523 Further details regarding these shareholders as well reserves as additional information regarding the individual disRetained 374,802 395,203 469,538 432,053 closure notices in 2017 are available on the disclosure earnings platform of the SIX Swiss Exchange at www.six-exTreasury (475) (1,046) (2,345) (9,206) shares change-regulation.com/en/home/publications/signifiTotal 398,850 418,680 491,716 447,370 cant-shareholders.html?companyId=ASCOM. 1  he figures have been adjusted to the new Swiss accounting legislation T of the Swiss Code of Obligations. The free float of the shares of Ascom Holding AG is 100% since 1 November 2013. Limitations on transferability and As of the balance sheet date, the Company held 44,547 nominee registrations treasury shares, representing 0.12% of voting rights. ■■ In principle, the Articles of Association of Ascom The Company only held own shares to back the on­ Holding AG contain no limitations on transferability going long-­term incentive plans (share matching plans). and no statutory privileges (www.ascom.com/content/dam/ascom/ws/ready-for-use/global/corporate/ There are no known shareholders’ agreements. documents/corporate-governance/ascom-articlesassociation-en.pdf). Cross-shareholdings ■■ The share registration guidelines are published on The Ascom Group has not entered into cross-sharethe Company’s website (www.ascom.com/content/ holdings with other companies in terms of capital or dam/ascom/ws/ready-for-use/global/corporate/docvoting rights. uments/corporate-governance/ascom-share-registration-guidelines-2017-en.pdf). 2. CAPITAL STRUCTURE ■■ Every person recorded in the share register is regarded as a shareholder or beneficiary vis-à-vis the Ordinary share capital Company. Since the Annual General Meeting held on 6 April ■■ For registered shares, a share register is maintained 2006, the share capital has amounted to CHF in which the names and addresses of the owners and 18,000,000, divided into 36,000,000 registered beneficiaries are entered. Changes must be reported shares with a par value of CHF 0.50 per share. The to the Company. share capital is fully paid up. ■■ Entry in the share register requires proof of acqui­ sition of title to the shares or of beneficiary status. Share structure A purchaser of registered shares is entered in the share register upon request as a voting shareholder 31.12.17 31.12.16 Number (CHFm) Number (CHFm) if he/she expressly declares that he/she acquired the Registered 36,000,000 18.0 36,000,000 18.0 registered shares in his/her own name and on his/her shares par own account. If the purchaser is not prepared to value CHF 0.50 make such a declaration, the Board of Directors may Registered 4,247 4,630 refuse registration as a voting shareholder. shareholders 18 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ■■ After consulting the party involved, the Company ■■ Ultimate supervision of business activities may delete entries in the share register if such entries ■■ Drawing up the Annual Report and the Remuneration occurred in consequence of false statements by the Report as well as preparing the Annual General purchaser. The purchaser must be informed immediMeeting and carrying out its resolutions ately of the deletion. ■■ Informing the courts in the event of excessive indebt■■ Admission of nominees is decided by the Board of edness Directors. No applications in this regard were submit■■ Passing resolutions on the financing of business, ted in 2017. and in particular deciding on capital increases and IPOs and the consequent changes to the Articles of Options/convertible bonds Association ■■ Passing resolutions on participations of major/strateOptions/share matching plans gic significance All Ascom option plans are expired. Ascom share ■■ Determining the compensation for members of the matching plans are listed in the Remuneration Report Board of Directors and the Executive Board subject on pages 42 to 44. to the approval of the Annual General Meeting Convertible bonds Election and composition of the Board of Directors Ascom Holding AG has not issued any convertible bonds. of Ascom Holding AG The Articles of Association define the election of the Management transactions Board of Directors of Ascom Holding AG as follows: The listing rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange stipulate a ■■ The Board of Directors consists of at least three and disclosure obligation in respect of management transnot more than seven members. actions, including exercise of options, acquisitions and ■■ The General Meeting elects the members and the sales of Ascom shares. To ensure compliance with Chairman of the Board of Directors individually. these provisions, the Board of Directors has issued an ■■ The terms of office of the members of the Board of Annex to the Organization Regulations. Details can be Directors as well as the term of office of the Chairman found on the disclosure platform of the SIX Swiss of the Board of Directors shall end no later than at the Exchange at www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/ closing of the ordinary General Meeting following home/publications/management-transactions.html?­ their election. Re-election is permitted. companyId=ASCOM. ■■ The majority of the members of the Board of Directors shall be independent members. 3. BOARD OF DIRECTORS ■■ In the event that the position of the Chairman is vacant, the Board of Directors appoints a new Chairman Primary tasks of the Board of Directors for the remaining term of office. The Board of Directors holds ultimate decision-making ■■ Members of the Board of Directors retire from the authority and determines the strategic, organizational Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting and financial planning guidelines for the Group as well of the respective year when they complete their as the Company objectives. The Board of Directors is 70th year of age. responsible for the overall direction as well as the supervision and control of the management. It sets guideAscom’s Articles of Association are available on the lines for business policies and ensures that it is reguCompany website: www.ascom.com/content/dam/aslarly informed on the course of business. com/ws/ready-for-use/global/corporate/documents/ The primary tasks of the Board of Directors under corporate-governance/ascom-articles-association-en. the Swiss Code of Obligations and the Articles of pdf. ­A ssociation of Ascom Holding AG are: ■■ Overall management of the Company and the Group, At the Annual General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG including setting the strategic direction as well as isheld on 19 April 2017, the shareholders elected the suing directives as required ­following members of the Board of Directors individu■■ Defining the organization and management structure ally and for a term of one year until the Annual General ■■ Laying out the forms of accounting and financial conMeeting 2018: trol as well as financial planning ■■ Appointing and discharging persons entrusted with the management and representation of the Company and determining who is entitled to sign on behalf of the Company ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19 Member since Elected until ■■ The Board of Directors passes its resolutions by a AGM majority of the votes cast. The Chairman holds the Andreas Umbach, Chairman 2010 2018 casting vote. (Chairman since 2017) ■■ Resolutions may also be adopted by written consent Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda 2016 2018 to a proposal circulated by the Chairman among all Dr Harald Deutsch 2014 2018 members and passed by a majority of all members of Jürg Fedier 2017 2018 the Board of Directors. ■■ Minutes are kept of deliberations and resolutions, Christina Stercken 2014 2018 and are signed by the Chairman and the Secretary. ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may exercise a The Board of Directors aims for a balanced professionconsulting mandate for the Ascom Group alongside al expertise and diversity of its members when propostheir activity on the Board of Directors, subject to the ing them for election to the Annual General Meeting. unanimous consent of the Board of Directors. There The selection process is regardless of origin, nationalwere no such consulting mandates as of the balance ity, culture, religion, or gender. sheet date. The shareholders elected Andreas Umbach as ChairMandates outside the Ascom Group of members man of the Board of Directors as successor of Juhani of the Board of Directors Anttila. Moreover, the Annual General Meeting elected Dr Harald Deutsch and Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda as Mandates outside Mandates outside the Ascom Group the Ascom Group members of the Compensation Committee, all for a (profit-oriented) (non-profit-oriented) term of one year. Andreas Umbach Landis + Gyr Group AG, Zug Wirtschaftskammer, All members of the Board of Directors are non(Chairman) (Chairman) 1 Zug (President) WWZ AG, Zug 1 executive members. No member of the Board of Dr Valentin Calida Holding AG, Sursee 1 None Directors has any significant business relationship with Chapero Rueda Goldbach Group AG, Ascom Holding AG or its subsidiaries. Küsnacht ZH 1 Quo AG, Opfikon ZH Valamero Holding AG, Secretary of the Board of Directors Willen b. Wollerau Dr Daniel Lack has served as Secretary of the Board of (including 2 mandates in affiliated Group companies) Directors since May 2001. Dr Harald Deutsch None None Changes to the Board of Directors Jürg Fedier Dätwyler AG, Altdorf 1 None Juhani Anttila (former Chairman of the Board of Direc3 mandates in affiliated tors), Dr J.T. Bergqvist and Urs Leinhäuser decided not Group companies of OC Oerlikon AG, to stand for re-election and stepped down from the Pfäffikon SZ Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting 2017. Christina Stercken Ansell Ltd., Melbourne Myanmar Jürg Fedier was elected as new member to the (AUS) 1 Foundation, Munich Landis + Gyr Group AG, Zug 1 (Vice Chairperson) Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting 2017. Andreas Umbach was elected as new Chairman Myanmar Foundation, Munich (Vice Chairman) of the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meet1 Publicly listed companies. ing 2017. Andreas Umbach and Christina Stercken are also both Internal organization Members of the Board of Directors of Landis+Gyr ■■ Except for the election of the Chairman of the Board Group AG, Zug. Landis+Gyr Group AG and Ascom of Directors and the members of the Compensation Holding AG participate in different industries. Committee, the Board of Directors is self-constituting and designates its other committees and the SecreArticle 20d of the Articles of Association defines the tary. The latter needs not be a member of the Board mandates outside the Ascom Group: of Directors. ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may occupy or ■■ The Board of Directors is quorate when the majority exercise four additional positions against compensaof members are present. In the event of capital intion in the highest managing or supervising body of creases, such a quorum is not required for decisions other entities that are obliged to be entered into the concerning definition of the capital increase, amendcommercial register or a comparable foreign register ments to the Articles of Association or resolutions that are neither controlled by nor that control the regarding the capital increase report. Company. 20 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Members of the Board of Directors Andreas Umbach Dr Valentin Chapero Dr Harald Deutsch (Chairman) Nationality: Switzerland/ Nationality: Spain/Switzerland | Nationality: Germany | Ger­many | Born 1963 | Place of Born 1956 | Place of residence: Born 1962 | Place of residence: residence: Zug, Switzerland | Wilen bei Wollerau, Switzerland Schwalbach am Taunus, Member since 2010 | Chairman | Member since 2016 | Elected Germany | Member since 2014 | since 2017 | Elected until AGM until AGM in 2018 Elected ­until AGM in 2018 in 2018 1989 Master in Mechanical Engi1986/1988 Master and PhD 1987 Graduation as physician. neering, Technische Universität (Dr rer.nat.) in Physics, University Medical exam, University of Berlin; 1991 Master of Business of Heidelberg, Germany; Cologne; 1988 Approbation,­ Administration (MBA), University 1988–1992 Director of Systems and member of German Medical of Texas, Austin TX; 1991–1995 Integration for Mainframe Unix Association;­ 1988 Graduation Management Audit, Corporate Systems, Siemens Nixdorf Inforas Master of Science (MSc) in Planning and Developing Departmations Systems AG, Paderborn, Physics, University of Cologne;­ ment, Siemens AG, Munich; Germany; 1992–1994 Vice 1989 Promotion to Medical 1995–1999 Commercial ManagPresident Professional Services, Doctor (MD), University of Coer, Business Unit Pilot and Siemens Nixdorf Spain, Madrid; logne; 1988–1989 Bundeswehr Sensing Devices, Drives and 1994–1996 Vice President (Germany Armed Forces): Automation Group, Siemens AG, Network Systems, Siemens AG Military Surgeon; 1990–1998 Erlangen, Germany; 1999–2002 Spain, Madrid; 1996–1999 CEO Behring­werke AG, Marburg, General Manager, subsequently Siemens Audiologische Technik Germany: Software Director;­ division President of Metering, GmbH, Erlangen, Germany; 1998–2003 Booz Allen & HamilPower Transmission and Distribu2000–2002 President Mobile ton, Frankfurt/M.: Principal tion Group, Siemens Metering Network, Siemens AG, Munich; and Member of the German AG, Zug; 2002–2017 President & 2002–2011 CEO Sonova Holding Board; 2003–2008 Accenture, CEO, Landis + Gyr Group, Zug, AG, Stäfa; Since 2011 Business Kronberg, Germany: Executive Since 2017 Chairman of the Angel & Investor Valamero HoldPartner and Managing Director; Board of Directors of Ascom ing AG, Wilen b. Wollerau; Since 2008–2012 CSC Computer Holding AG and Chairman of 2015 Co-founder and Partner Sciences Corporation, Aldershot, Landis+Gyr Group AG, Zug Veraison Capital AG, Zurich UK, and Wiesbaden, Germany: Vice President­ healthcare EMEA; 2012–2015 BearingPoint GmbH, Frankfurt/M. and Amsterdam: Partner and Industry Lead healthcare; Since 2015 Independent Consultant ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 21 Jürg Fedier Christina Stercken Nationality: Switzerland | Nationality: Germany | Born 1955 | Place of residence: Born 1958 | Place of residence: Richterswil, Switzerland | Munich, Germany | Member Member since 2017 | Elected since 2014 | Elected until AGM until AGM in 2018 in 2018 1978 Commercial Diploma Busi1982 Master in Economics, ness Administration, Dr Raebers University of Bonn; 1983–1984 Höhere Handelsschule, Zürich; BMW Pty Ltd., Isando, South 1978–2000 Various manageAfrica: Marketing Consultant; ment positions at Dow Chemical 1985–1987 Siemens AG, Munich: in the USA, Europe and Asia; Consultant Strategic Planning 1990–2002 Various executive and Marketing for Communicamanagement programs at IMD tion and Information Technology Lausanne and University of Group; 1988–1989 Siemens AG, Michigan, Ann Arbor MI (USA); Munich: Consultant Management 2000–2003 Global Business Tools and Training, Corporate Finance Director, Dow Chemical Development & Strategy; Thermosets, Midland MI (USA); 1989–1994 Siemens AG, Munich: 2004–2006 Vice President Senior Consultant Corporate Finance, Dow Chemical PerforProjects (Inhouse Consulting) mance Chemicals and ThermoCorporate Development & Stratesets, Midland MI (USA); 2006– gy; 1994–1995 Siemens AG, 2007 CFO and Member of the Munich: Head of Regional StrateEuropean Executive Team, Dow gy, Corporate Development & Europe; 2007–2008 CFO and Strategy; 1995–1997 Siemens Member of the Executive Team; Ltd. China, Beijing: Head of CIBA Specialty Chemicals, Basel; Task Force China; 1998–2000 Since 2009 CFO OC Oerlikon, Siemens Business Services Pfäffikon SZ (Switzerland) GmbH & OHG, Munich: Head of Business Unit Public Sector; 2000–2006 Siemens AG, Munich: Managing Director Corporate Finance, Mergers & Acquisitions; 2006–2017 EAC – Euro Asia Consulting PartG, Munich, Shanghai, Mumbai, and Moscow: Partner; Since 2018 Non-Executive Director 22 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board attendance in 2017 24.1. 22.2. 19.4. (I) 19.4. (II) 12.5. 23.5. 2.6. 24.7. 21.8. 21./22.9. 9./10.11. 18.12. Andreas Umbach ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Dr Harald Deutsch ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ o ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Jürg Fedier 1 n/a n/a n/a ✓ ✓ o ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Christina Stercken ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Juhani Anttila 2 ✓ ✓ ✓ n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Dr J.T. Bergqvist 3 ✓ ✓ ✓ n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Urs Leinhäuser 4 ✓ ✓ o n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 1 Jürg Fedier has been a member of the Board of Directors since 19 April 2017. 2 Juhani Anttila was a member of the Board of Directors until 19 April 2017. 3 Dr J.T. Bergqvist was a member of the Board of Directors until 19 April 2017. 4 Urs Leinhäuser was a member of the Board of Directors until 19 April 2017. ■■ In addition, members of the Board of Directors may year, and any measures necessary for improvements occupy or exercise five uncompensated positions in are agreed and implemented as required. the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense recovery is no compensation. Committees of the Board of Directors ■■ The Chairman of the Board of Directors may exercise To support the efficient and effective organization of its a total of up to three positions in other publicly traded duties, the Board of Directors has set up a structure companies. with two permanent committees whose primary role is ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Board to prepare materials as a basis for decisions by the of Directors may occupy or exercise not more than Board of Directors in specialized areas. The two perfive positions in several different companies that form manent committees are the Audit Committee and the the same group of companies or positions that are Compensation Committee. The authority to make deciheld based on the Instructions of the Company. sions lies with the Board of Directors. All members of the Board are entitled to attend any meetings of these None of the members of the Board of Directors committees. previously worked for the Ascom Group, nor does any The nomination of candidates for election to the member of the Board of Directors perform any permaBoard of Directors and the selection of candidates for nent management or consultancy functions for imporappointment to the Executive Board and as Head of tant Swiss or foreign interest groups or hold any official Corporate Functions are done by the entire Board. positions or political offices. Audit Committee Mode of operation of the Board of Directors Members: Jürg Fedier (Chairperson) and Board meetings or conference calls are held as and Christina Stercken when necessary. In general, the CEO and CFO attend The Board of Directors elects the members and the all ordinary meetings of the Board of Directors. In addichairperson of the Audit Committee for a term of office tion, executive sessions are held. Other members of of one year until the closing of the ordinary General the Executive Board as well as external experts are Meeting following the election. invited to attend meetings to address specific topics if The Audit Committee is composed of two nonnecessary. executive members of the Board of Directors and gen12 meetings (including both physical meetings erally meets four times a year (at least one meeting per and conference calls) were held in 2017. Board attenquarter), although the Chairperson may convene meetdance was 95.5%. The ordinary meetings of the Board ings as often as business requires. Six Audit Commitof Directors last one full day and strategy meetings last tee meetings were held in 2017, generally lasting sevtwo days. eral hours, whereof the external auditors attended five. Committee attendance was 100%. The Chairman of the Self-evaluation of the Board of Directors Board of Directors as well as the CFO attended all Since 2005, the Board of Directors has carried out a meetings. The CEO was present in five meetings of the self-evaluation at year-end on the basis of a standardAudit Committee. The Secretary of the Board of Direcized ­process using a comprehensive questionnaire. tors prepares the meetings and records the minutes. The results are discussed in the first quarter in the next The full Board of Directors is kept informed of the Audit ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 23 Committee’s activities following each meeting, and ■■ Implementation and monitoring of long-term incen­receives a copy of the minutes. tive plans The Audit Committee’s main activities are: Areas of responsibility ■■ Internal control The Board of Directors has delegated the operational ■■ Financial reporting management of the Company and the entire Ascom ■■ Finance management Group to the CEO unless otherwise required by the ■■ Risk management law, the Articles of Association or the Organization ■■ Tax management Regulations. The CEO, together with the Executive ■■ External auditing Board, is responsible for the overall management of ■■ Compliance the Ascom Group. ■■ Litigation matters The Board of Directors explicitly reserves the power to decide on the following matters: Compensation Committee ■■ Authorizing important acquisitions and divestments Members: Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda (Chairperson) ■■ Appointing and discharging members of the Execuand Dr Harald Deutsch tive Board and the Top Management According to the Articles of Association, the General ■■ Defining compensation models for members of the Meeting elects the members of the Compensation Board of Directors and the Executive Board (subject Committee individually for a term of office of one year to the approval of the Annual General Meeting), and until the closing of the ordinary General Meeting folthe Top Management lowing the election. The Compensation Committee ■■ Approving the budget consists of at least two and not more than three mem■■ Arranging public bonds and important framework bers of the Board of Directors. The Chairperson of the credit agreements Compensation Committee has to be independent. He ■■ Substantial investments is elected by the Board of Directors. In the event that ■■ Issuing the Organization Regulations and their Annexes the Compensation Committee has fewer members ■■ Defining the internal audit and submitting the prothan the number of members elected by the last posal to the Annual General Meeting for election of General Meeting and is therefore not fully staffed, the the auditors Board of Directors elects the missing members for the ■■ Submitting proposals on dividends to the Annual remaining term. General Meeting The Compensation Committee is composed of ■■ Issuing and implementing long-term incentive plans two non-executive members of the Board of Directors and is convened by the Chairperson as often as busiInformation and control instruments in respect of ness requires. Seven meetings were held in 2017. the Executive Board/management instruments Committee attendance was 100%. The Chairman of the The Ascom Group’s management information system Board of Directors attended four meetings in 2017. The (MIS) consists of management reporting and financial CEO attended the meetings as and when required. consolidation. The Secretary of the Board of Directors prepares the Each month, the balance sheet, income statemeetings and records the minutes. The full Board of ment, incoming orders, order backlog and employee Directors is kept informed of the Compensation Comheadcount for the individual companies are entered in mittee’s activities following each meeting, and receives the management reporting system. This information is a copy of the minutes. based on the regulation and accounting standards and A major task of the Compensation Committee is to consolidated for the various group companies and for prepare the resolution of the Board of Directors conthe Group as a whole, and compared against the previcerning the compensation of the members of the Board ous year’s figures and the current budget. The Execuof Directors and the members of the Executive Board tive Board discusses the results in detail on a monthly to be approved by the Annual General Meeting. To fulbasis and decides on actions to be taken. fill its duties, the Compensation Committee may consult Full financial consolidation (including cash flow other persons and external consultants for support. statement) in compliance with the regulation and acOther main fields of work of the Compensation counting standards is performed on a quarterly basis. Committee shall consist of making recommendations Financial reports are submitted to the Board of to the Board of Directors in relation to: Directors on a monthly basis. Additional management ■■ Ascom Group remuneration policies instruments for monitoring management processes in■■ Fixing compensation models for the Board of Direcclude strategic medium-term planning (MTP), annual tors and the Top Management planning and quarterly forecasts. 24 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A quarterly report on pending law suits is submit4. EXECUTIVE BOARD ted to the Audit Committee. As part of Business Risk and ­Opportunity Management (BROM), an updated The Executive Board of the Ascom Group risk map for the Group is submitted to the Board of The Board of Directors has delegated the operational Directors on a semi-annual basis. The meetings of the management of the Company and the entire Ascom Board of Directors and the Audit Committee are atGroup to the CEO unless otherwise required by the tended by the CEO and CFO as well as, whenever neclaw, the Articles of Association or the Organization essary, by other members of Management. Regulations. As members of the Executive Board are considered the CEO and each further person who is Internal audit explicitly appointed as such by the Board of Directors. The Group does not have an in-house internal audit As a rule, members of the Board of Directors shall not function. The Board of Directors empowered the Audit be on the Executive Board. Committee to mandate an external audit firm to carry out special focus audits, as needed. Accordingly, such Composition of the Ascom Executive Board internal audits are conducted from time to time as The Ascom Group Executive Board comprised the fol­mandated by the Audit Committee. During 2017, no lowing members as of 1 January 2018: special focus audits have been commissioned. Internal audit fees are based on the scope of services renExecutive Board member since dered. Fees incurred in 2017 were nil (2016: nil). Holger Cordes CEO 01.06.2016 Anette Weber CFO 01.08.2017 Risk management As an internationally active group, Ascom is exposed Claes Ödman COO 14.06.2011 (former General Manager (COO since to a variety of risks arising from its operations in the Wireless Solutions) 01.10.2016) normal course of business. Risk management is thereFrancis Schmeer EVP Marketing & 01.09.2014 fore an integral part of Group management and hence Business Development (EVP Marketing & (former EVP Business Dev. part of the business processes. Group Treasury cenStrategy & Business since 01.10.2016) trally monitors financial risks (liquidity, foreign currency, Development) interest rate, credit risks) in accordance with written guidelines. Capital risk is also monitored using defined Changes in the Executive Board thresholds for the debt ratio and the equity ratio. Anette Weber replaced Bianka Wilson as CFO of the Further information on risk management can be Ascom Group as of 1 August 2017. found in note 27 to the financial statements of the Ascom Group on page 73 of this Annual Report. Mandates outside the Ascom Group of members of the Executive Board Internal Control System (ICS) Article 20d of the Articles of Association defines the A Board directive of 21 August 2017 and the ICS manumandates outside the Ascom Group: al govern the Internal Control System (ICS). The ICS ■■ Members of the Executive Board may occupy or ensures the implementation of appropriate procedures exercise – subject to the approval of the Board of and measures for the purpose of identifying and moniDirectors – one additional position against compentoring the main financial risks to which the Company is sation in the highest managing or supervising body exposed. In particular, the aim of the ICS is to ensure of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the integrity and completeness of accounting, to prothe commercial register or a comparable foreign vide timely and reliable financial reporting, and to pre­register and that are neither controlled by nor that vent, minimize and identify errors and irregularities in control the Company. the financial statements. ■■ In addition, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise three uncompensated positions in In order to achieve these targets, Group companies in the highest managing or supervising body of such enscope are determined annually. Hereby, it is ensured tities, whereby expense recovery is no compen­sation. that at least 80% of the revenue and of total assets of ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the the Group are covered. The external audit confirms the Executive Board may occupy or exercise not more existence of the ICS in connection with the year-end than five positions in several different companies that audit. Additionally, external audit submits improvement form the same group of companies or positions that suggestions on a yearly basis, which are implemented are held based on the instructions of the Company. in the following year. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 25 Members of the Executive Board Holger Cordes Anette Weber Claes Ödman Francis Schmeer Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer COO EVP Marketing & Business Development Nationality: Germany | Nationality: Germany | Nationality: Sweden | Nationality: USA | Born 1969 Born 1971 Born 1965 Born 1972 1995 Master of Economics from 1997 Lic.oec. HSG in Business 1990 Master of Science in Engi1994 Bachelor of Marketing Université de Poitiers (France); Administration from University of neering Physics and Master of Georgetown University, Washing1997 Diplom – Volkswirt (DiploSt. Gallen; 1997–1999 InternationBusiness Administration (Chalmton DC (USA); 1994–1999 Goldma of Economics) from al Controller Novartis Animal ers University Gothenburg); man Sachs, Associate New York/ University of Marburg (Germany); Health Inc., Basel; 1999–2005 1990–1994 Area Manager Saab London; 2001 Master of Business 1997–2000 Project Leader Head of Finance and IT/then Marine Electronics AB, GothenAdministration, London Business SAP/Senior FP & A Analyst Country Head Japan Novartis burg; 1994–1998 Area Manager School; 2001–2003 Samsung Paulaner Brauerei KG, Munich; Animal Health K.K., Tokyo; 2005 Ericsson Radio Systems, StockGroup, Global Strategist, Seoul; 2000–2002 Manager ControlCFO (kfm. Geschäftsführerin) holm; 1998–2001 Vice President 2003–2005 T-Mobile Inter­ ling and Process Organization, Sandoz Pharma GmbH, Munich; Ericsson Taiwan Ltd., Taipei national, International Marketing European Telecommunications 2006–2009 CFO Lek.d.d. (Taiwan); 2001–2005 President & Head of SMS and IP Messaging Holding AG, Frankfurt/M.; Ljubljana (Slovenia); 2009–2014 Country Manager Ericsson TeleLondon/Bonn; 2005–2006 2002–2006 Regional Controller CFO Biopharma and Oncology, com PTE Ltd., Singapore; 2005– Empower Interactive, Chief MarMainland Europe/Director Sandoz International GmbH, 2011 Vice President Ericsson AB, keting Officer, London/Singapore; International Financial Planning Holzkirchen (Germany); 2014– Stockholm, 2005–2008 Multime2006–2009 Sony Ericsson and Analysis, Aspect Software, 2016 Global Head Finance dia Solutions;­ 2008–2009 Head Mobile Communications, Vice London; 2007–2010 Finance Pharma Development, Novartis of Sales and Marketing; 2010 President & Global Head of Director EMEA, Cerner Group, Pharma, Basel; 2016–2017 Head of Region Project; 2010– Strat­egy and Corporate DevelopLondon; 2010–2014 General Global Lead Development Trans2011 Engagement Practices ment, London/Lund (Sweden); Manager Central Europe, formation, Novartis AG, Basel; ­Region Northern Europe 2010–2013 OC Oerlikon Group Cerner Group, Frankfurt/M.; Since 1 August 2017 CFO and and Central Asia); 2011–2016 Executive Vice President & Head 2014–2016 COO Europe and member of the Executive Board General Manager ­Wireless of Group Business Development, Latin America, Cerner Group, of the Ascom Group Solutions and member of the Member of Executive Leadership Frankfurt/M.; Since 1 June Executive Board of the Team, Pfäffikon (Switzerland); 2016 CEO and member of the Ascom Group; Since 1 October 2014–2016 EVP Strategy & Executive Board of the Ascom 2016 COO and member of Business Development and Group the Executive Board of the member of the Executive Board Ascom Group of the Ascom Group; Since 1 October 2016 EVP Marketing & Business Development and member of the Executive Board of the Ascom Group 26 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Mandates outside Mandates outside 5. COMPENSATION, SHAREHOLDINGS the Ascom Group the Ascom Group against compensation without compensation AND LOANS Holger Cordes None None All details of compensation, shareholdings and loans Anette Weber Xing SE, Hamburg None (Germany) 1 are listed in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to Claes Ödman Sensys Gatso Group AB, None 44 to this Annual Report. Stockholm (Sweden) 1 Francis Schmeer None None Statutory rules regarding the principles of compen­ sation, participation plans, loans, credits and pension 1 Publicly listed company. benefits are set in Articles 20b and 20c of the Articles of Association. The rules regarding the approval of the Executive Committee remuneration by the Annual General Meeting are set in The Executive Committee is an extended panel, which Article 20e. The Articles of Association are available supports the Executive Board. In addition to the memunder www.ascom.com/content/dam/ascom/ws/readybers of the Executive Board, it consists of the following for-use/global/corporate/documents/corporate-gov­ further members as of 1 January 2018: ernance/ascom-articles-association-en.pdf Dr Daniel Lack Company Secretary / 6. SHAREHOLDERS’ PARTICIPATION RIGHTS Senior VP Legal & Communications/IR André Neu Senior VP Platform Solutions Voting rights and protective rights Rolf Veldman VP Human Resources Shareholders in Swiss public listed companies have Tim Whelehan Managing Director North America extensive participation and protective rights governed (until 16 January 2018) in principle by the Swiss Code of Obligations (OR) and supplemented by the respective Company’s Articles of Association. Dr Judith Bischof, General Counsel, left the Company as of the end of October 2017. Her tasks were assigned Annual General Meeting to Dr Daniel Lack. Rolf Veldman, Vice President HR, joined the ExecuVoting rights and representation tive Committee in July 2017 while Tim Whelehan, Man■■ Each share entitles the holder to one vote represented aging Director North America, resigned in January at the Annual General Meeting. There are no voting 2018. right restrictions. ■■ Each shareholder may be represented at the Annual Mode of operation of the Executive Board General Meeting by a third person who is authorized As a rule, a halfor full-day meeting of the Executive as proxy in writing or by the Independent RepresenBoard is held on a monthly basis. Additional meetings tative. or conference calls are held as and when necessary. ■■ Sole proprietor companies, partnerships and legal 14 meetings were held in 2017. entities may be represented persons with written authorization to act on their behalf. Management contracts ■■ The Board of Directors makes the requisite arrangeThere are no management contracts within the Ascom ments to determine voting rights and to establish the Group. results of votes and elections. Business relationships with closely Independent Representative related companies and persons According to the Articles of Association, the General No significant business transactions exist with closely Meeting elects an Independent Representative. The ­related companies or persons. term of office of the Independent Representative ends with the closing of the ordinary General Meeting following the election of the Independent Representative. Re-election is admissible. If the Company has no Independent Representative, the Board of Directors designates an Independent Representative for the next General Meeting. The Independent Representative is obliged to vote the shares for which he or she received proxies in accordance with the instructions given. If he or she has ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 27 not received any instructions with respect to votes, he Agenda or she abstains from voting the respective shares. The In accordance with Article 699 para. 3 of the Swiss general instruction for motions contained and/or not Code of Obligations, requests to place an item on the contained in the invitation to vote in line with the ­motion agenda must be submitted to the Board of Directors no of the Board of Directors qualifies as a valid instruction later than 45 days before the date of the General Meetfor the exercise of the voting right. ing. The party submitting such request must represent The shareholders elected at the Annual General shares of at least CHF 100,000 par value. Meeting held on 19 April 2017 Franz Müller, Berne, as The invitation to submit agenda items is published Independent Representative for a term of one year unin a single announcement in the Company’s publicatil the completion of the Annual General Meeting 2018, tion organ (the SOGC). and Dr Alexander Kernen, Berne, as his representative. Franz Müller and Dr Alexander Kernen are independent Registration in the share register and have no further mandates for the Ascom Group. All shareholders recorded in the share register as voting All shareholders have the possibility to register on shareholders 10 days before the date of the General the Sherpany platform and to give online instructions Meeting are admitted to the meeting and entitled to vote. to the Independent Representative (www.ascom.com/ The Board of Directors is empowered to strike enInvestor-Relations/Financial-information/Annual-Gentries from the share register with retroactive effect to eral-Meeting.html). Details of the electronic proxies the registration date if, after consulting the parties inand voting instructions to the Independent Represenvolved, it determines that such entries have been made tative are explained in the invitation to the Annual Genbased on false information on the part of the acquirer. eral Meeting. Shareholders who dispose of their shares before the General Meeting are no longer entitled to vote. Resolutions and elections The General Meeting is capable of passing resolutions Annual General Meeting 2017 regardless of the number of shares represented. 18,711,231 votes or about 52% of the share capital were Unless the law or the Articles of Association rerepresented at the Annual General Meeting 2017, quire otherwise, the General Meeting shall pass resowhich was held on 19 April 2017 in Cham, Switzerland. lutions and elections with an absolute majority of the The shareholders voted in favor of all proposals of the votes validly cast, whereby abstentions, blank votes Board of Directors by a clear majority. and invalid votes shall not count as votes cast. Most resolutions including the election of the The Board of Directors shall define the voting promembers of the Board and the dividend proposal were cedure. Shareholders representing registered shares approved with majorities of over 93%. The Remunerawith a nominal value of CHF 100,000 may request a tion Report was approved with a majority of around secret ballot. This threshold corresponds to 0.5% of the 68.5% as some shareholders criticized the practice to votes. grant to new members of the Executive Board (joining According to Article 704 of the Swiss Code of Obliduring the year) a guaranteed variable compensation. gations, the following resolutions of the General Meeting The Board of Directors informed the shareholders that require at least two thirds of the votes represented and this practice was changed in the beginning of 2017. the absolute majority of the nominal value of shares represented to be passed: changing the Company’s 7. CHANGE OF CONTROL AND purpose; creating voting shares; changing limitations on DEFENSIVE MEASURES transferability of registered shares; an authorized or conditional capital increase; a capital increase out of equity, Obligation to submit a purchase offer against asset contribution or for the purpose of asset The Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG contakeover and the granting of special benefits; limiting or tain neither an opting-out nor an opting-up clause (Arrevoking of subscription rights; relocation of the Comticle 125 Financial Market Infrastructure Act (FMIA)). pany’s registered office; dissolution of the Company. Any party who acquires one-third (33 1/3%) of share capital in Ascom Holding AG is obliged under Article Convocation of the General Meeting 135 FMIA to submit a public purchase offer for the reThe General Meeting is convened by the Board of maining shares. Directors or, if needed, by the auditors. Convocation is effected no later than 30 days Change of control clauses ­before the date of the meeting by a single announceContracts of employment with members of the Execument in the Company’s publication of record (the Swiss tive Board, other members of the Executive Committee Official Gazette of Commerce – SOGC) and by letter to or other members of the senior management provide the registered shareholders. for no special severance payment. 28 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The period of notice for members of the Executive ing. The aim is to ensure the general independence Board is maximal 12 months. of the auditors as well as the personal independence In the event of a takeover and a delisting of the of the auditor-in-charge and determine their underCompany, the participants of the Ascom share matchstanding of Ascom’s business activities and the specific ing plans shall receive the same number of matching business risks relevant for Ascom, the nature of colshares as they hold investment shares at the date of laboration between the external auditors and the Audit the publication of the delisting. Committee, and the manner in which support is provided for implementation of the legal provisions as well 8. AUDITORS as requirements from regulation and accounting standards (Swiss GAAP FER). Auditors The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness The auditors are appointed by the Annual General of the auditors in compliance with the legal provisions Meeting for a term of one year. Pricewaterhouse­ in Switzerland. The Board of Directors bases the rotaCoopers AG, Zurich (formerly STG-Coopers & Lybrand tion cycle for the auditor-in-charge on the relevant Ltd), have acted as auditors since 1987. According to ­provisions of the Swiss Code of Obligations, according the Swiss Code of Obligations, the lead auditor has to to which the auditor-in-charge may perform this manbe rotated at least every seven years. Thomas Wallmer date for no more than seven years. is auditor-in-charge since 2015. The Audit Committee also examines the ratio between the fee for the annual audit and fees for additionAuditing fee al services performed by the auditors, in order to ensure PricewaterhouseCoopers AG was paid compensation that the auditors’ independence is not impaired. For the of CHF 451,600 (previous year: CHF 549,700) for ser2017 reporting year, the Board of Directors concluded vices in connection with auditing the annual financial that the auditors’ independence was fully assured. statements of Ascom Holding AG and the Group companies as well as the consolidated statements of the 9. INFORMATION POLICY Ascom Group for the year ended 31 December 2017. The Board of Directors and the Executive Board have Additional fees undertaken measures to align their organizational strucPricewaterhouseCoopers AG was paid the following ture with the latest corporate governance standards. additional fees in 2017: Ascom’s information policy is based on commitment to a high degree of transparency and equal treatTax consulting CHF 15,100 (previous year: CHF 21,000) ment of all stakeholder groups. Corporate Communi­ Miscellaneous CHF 5,000 (previous year: CHF 119,900) cations/IR come under the remit of the Company Total CHF 20,100 (previous year: CHF 140,900) Secretary. Ascom provides a wide range of communication tools to keep its shareholders, the media, analysts and other stakeholder groups informed: The level of the non-audit fees of Pricewaterhouse­ Coopers AG amounting to CHF 20,100 corresponds to Publications 4.5% of the total audit fees of CHF 451,600. ■■ Annual Report ■■ Half-Year Report Monitoring and control instruments ■■ The official publication organ is the Swiss Official As a committee of the Board of Directors, the Audit ­Gazette of Commerce (SOGC) (www.shab.ch) Committee evaluates the performance, fees and independence of the external auditors each year. Events The external auditors prepare a detailed audit ■■ Annual Media Conference and Half-Year Media report at least once a year and report in detail to the Conference for media representatives and analysts Audit Committee. The main findings and recommenda■■ Ad hoc media conferences and analyst calls tions contained in the audit reports of the external ■■ Analyst & Investor Day auditors are then discussed in detail with the CFO. ■■ Annual General Meeting of Shareholders In 2017, the external auditors drew up one de■■ Road shows for institutional investors tailed management report in relation to the Annual Report. The external auditors attended two of the Audit Committee meetings held in 2017. Each year, the Board of Directors reviews the selection of auditors in order to propose them to shareholders for appointment at the Annual General MeetASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29 Media releases 10. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RATING In accordance with the provisions of the SIX Swiss Exchange, Ascom publishes information on an ad hoc Ascom is ranked number one in corporate governance and regular basis. Furthermore, Ascom publishes among 168 publicly listed Swiss companies according to Ascom media releases on significant business activities the Corporate Governance study 2017 of zRating (www. and on important product and service innovations. zrating.ch). The study covered the following topics: ■■ Shareholder base and capital structure Online communication ■■ Shareholder’s participation rights The website www.ascom.com provides a comprehen■■ Composition of the board and the executive mansive overview of the Company’s structure and activiagement/information policy ties and the offerings of the individual business units. ■■ Remuneration and participation model for the memAll media releases and presentations at media conbers of the board and the executive management ferences can be downloaded from the website at www. ascom.com/news-and-events/financial-news and www. ascom.com/news-and-events/Ascom-business-news. html and www.ascom.com/Investor-Relations/Financialinformation/Reports-and-presentations.html. Media releases may also be received by e-mail by subscribing to the News Service on the website. The Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG, the Organization Regulations, a current extract from the Commercial Register, the Code of Business Conduct and the share registration guidelines can also be downloaded from the website under “Corporate ­Governance” (www.ascom.com/Investor-Relations/Financial-information/Annual-General-Meeting.html). The minutes of past Annual General Meetings are available at www. ascom.com/content /dam/ascom/ws/ready-for-use/ global/corporate/documents/annual-general-meeting/ agm-2017/ascom-agm-minutes-2017.pdf. Implementation of publication requirements under stock exchange regulations The Board of Directors has issued an Annex to the Organization Regulations entitled “Corporate Policy and Procedure on Insider Trading”, which in particular prohibits Ascom employees and governing bodies of Ascom from engaging in insider trading. An absolute ban on trading applies during a period of four weeks (or earlier as defined by the CFO) prior to the publication of the annual results and half-year results. Information on management transactions is published at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/ home/publications/management-transactions.html. Detailed information on disclosure announcements can be viewed at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/ home/publications/significant-shareholders.html. Dates and contacts A list of important dates in 2018 and Corporate Communications and Investor Relations contacts is provided on page 95 of this Annual Report. 30 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report Note PricewaterhouseCoopers AG as statutory auditors have audited the Remuneration Report according to Clause 17 of the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation (“OaEC”). The audit was limited to the information contained in the sections II/1 lit.a, II/2 (Table “Compensation Executive Board 2017”), II/2 lit.g, II/2 lit.h and II /3 all marked as “audited information”. I. ASCOM REMUNERATION POLICY 1. Corporate Governance as basis of the remuneration policy Remuneration is a part of Corporate Governance (see also p. 14 to 29 of the Annual Report) and Corporate Governance is a key topic for Ascom. Both the Board of Directors and Management are committed to good Corporate Governance in order to ensure sustainable development of the Company. According to the Articles of Association, it is a major task of the Compensation Committee to prepare the resolution of the Board of Directors concerning the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and the members of the Executive Board to be approved by the Annual General Meeting. Basic rules and regulations to be followed are set out in: ■■ Swiss Code of Obligations ■■ Ordinance against Excessive Compensation with respect to stock exchange listed companies (“OaEC”) ■■ Listing Rules of SIX Swiss Exchange (LR) ■■ Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG (dated 15 April 2015) ■■ Organizational Regulations of Ascom Holding AG (dated 21 August 2017) ■■ Share Registration Guidelines (dated 21 August 2017) ■■ Ascom Code of Ethical Business Conduct (dated 15 February 2012) ■■ Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance The Articles of Association and the Organizational Regulations of Ascom Holding AG are available on the Company website: www.ascom.com/corp/corporate-governance/directives-andguidelines.html 2. Remuneration principles for the Board of Directors a) Legal background According to Article 20b of the Articles of Association, the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors shall be adequate, competitive and performance-oriented and shall be set in line with the operative and strategic goals, the success of the Company, as well as the long-term interests of the shareholders. b) Compensation structure Members of the Board of Directors receive a fee in accordance with the Remuneration Regulations (Annex to the Organization Regulations). The members of the Board of Directors receive a fixed fee without a variable component, and this fee is paid in cash. No other remuneration is paid. Members of the Board of Directors receive no severance payment. The fees for members of the Board of Directors are reviewed on an annual basis and are set by the full Board of Directors subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting. The assessment of the fees is based on external (e.g. benchmark to other international stock-listed technology companies with similar market capitalization) and internal criteria (e.g. workload, request of availability). Committee work, additional meetings or special projects are not compensated with an additional fee and no attendance fees are paid out either. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 31 According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Board of Directors for all necessary expense, also in form of lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. c) Board fees The Board of Directors decided to reduce the Board fees as of the Annual General Meeting 2017: ■■ Chairman of the Board: Annual gross remuneration of CHF 200,000 (before: CHF 300,000) ■■ Member of the Board: Annual gross remuneration of CHF 100,000 (before: CHF 120,000) Taking into account the reduction of the Board of Directors from seven to five members, the overall compensation for the Board members will decrease from CHF 1,020,000 (period 2016/17) to CHF 600,000 (period 2017/18), i.e. by about 42%. In addition, all Board members are encouraged to build up an investment over time of Ascom shares in the value of an annual Board compensation. d) Mandates outside the Ascom Group Article 20d of the Articles of Association defines the mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise four additional positions against compensation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the commercial register or a comparable foreign register and that are neither controlled by nor that control the Company. ■■ In addition, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise five uncompensated positions in the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense recovery is no compensation. ■■ The Chairman of the Board of Directors may exercise a total of up to three positions in other publicly traded companies. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the instructions of the Company. The members of the Board of Directors comply with this regulation. The mandates outside the Ascom Group are listed in the Corporate Governance part (p. 19). 3. Remuneration principles for the Executive Board a) Legal background According to Article 20b of the Articles of Association, the compensation of the members of the Executive Board shall be adequate, competitive and performance-oriented and shall be set in line with the operative and strategic goals, the success of the Company, as well as the long-term interests of the shareholders. The Company may pay to the members of the Executive Board in addition to a fixed compensation a performance-related compensation in cash. The amount of such compensation is dependent on the qualitative and quantitative goals and parameters determined by the Board of Directors, in particular the overall result of the Company and the individual contribution of the respective member. The amount of the performance-related compensation of a member of the Executive Board (excluding any possible allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) cannot exceed the fixed compensation of such member. According to Article 20b Section 3 of the Articles of Association, the Company may also allocate, beside a cash compensation, equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying to the members of the Executive Board as part of their total compensation (“long-term incentive”). In case of an allocation of equity securities, 32 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying, the amount of the compensation is equal to the value of the securities or, respectively, the rights allocated, determined as at the time of the allocation (grant) in accordance with the accounting standards applied by the Company for its consolidated accounts. The total value of the long-term incentive for a member of the Executive Board cannot exceed 50% of the fixed compensation. b) Appointment of members of the Executive Board As members of the Executive Board are considered the CEO and each further person who is explicitly appointed as such by the Board of Directors. As of 31 December 2017, the Executive Board consisted of four members: CEO, CFO (change as of 1 August 2017), COO and Executive Vice President Marketing & Business Development. The former CFO left the Company as of 31 July 2017. c) Determination of the remuneration of the Executive Board members The remuneration package of the members of the Executive Board consists of three parts: ■■ Base salary (fixed compensation in cash) including social benefits: according to market benchmarks of the peer group (other international stock-listed technology companies with similar market capitalization) ■■ Performance-related variable compensation (in cash): dependent on the quantitative goals and parameters such as net revenue and EBITDA as determined by the Board of Directors. The goals shall be in line with the yearly budgets of the Company. Performance-related variable compensation (excluding any possible allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) cannot exceed the fixed compensation. ■■ Long-term incentive (share matching plan): The Board of Directors decided to introduce a share matching plan as a long-term incentive instead of options. The long-term incentive consists of a performance-related and a retention part. During a defined subscription period, the members of the Executive Board as beneficiaries have the opportunity to buy Company shares at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. The beneficiaries may get – up to 65% of the number of their investment shares – matching shares in addition, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved (“performance-related part”). In any case, the beneficiaries receive 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free (“retention part”), if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point of time. – A s communicated at the Annual General Meeting 2017, the Board of Directors decided to add growth targets to the share matching plans. Beneficiaries may get up to 50% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares in addition, provided that defined mid-term growth targets (CAGR over a certain period) are achieved. This new regulation was introduced with the Share Matching Plan 2017 (for members of the Executive Board to be introduced with the Share Matching Plan 2018). – A s a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with 1.5 matching shares. The total value of the long-term incentive for a member of the Executive Board cannot exceed 50% of the fixed compensation. The introduction of the additional growth target does not increase the total costs for the Company as the number of potential investment shares will be adapted accordingly. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Executive Board for all necessary expense, also in form of car allowances and other lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 33 d) System of CEO Compensation Salary part Target salary CEO Long-term incentive (share matching plan) Opportunity to invest investment shares up to a maximum of CHF 325,000 Variable compensation (performance-related) Minimal variable salary: CHF 0 Target variable salary: CHF 325,000 Maximal variable salary: CHF 650,000 Fixed compensation (base salary) CHF 650,000 e) Number of external mandates and functions Article 20d of the Articles of Association define the mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise – subject to the approval of the Board of Directors – one additional position against compensation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the commercial register or a comparable foreign register and that are neither controlled by nor that control the Company. ■■ In addition, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise three uncompensated positions in the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense ­recovery is no compensation. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the instructions of the Company. The members of the Executive Board comply with this regulation. The mandates outside the Ascom Group are listed in the Corporate Governance part (p. 26). f) Employment agreements with members of the Executive Board According to Article 20c of the Articles of Association, employment agreements with members of the Executive Board that form the basis of the compensation for the respective members are entered into for a fixed term of not more than one year or an indefinite term with a termination period of not more than twelve months as per the end of each calendar month. All members of the Executive Board comply with this regulation. g) Pension payments According to Article 20c of the Articles of Association, the members of the Executive Board receive pension payments from the occupational pension scheme in accordance with the domestic or foreign occupational welfare law or pension regulations applicable to them, including possible supplementary benefits. Pension payments outside the occupational pension scheme to a member of the Executive Board by the Company, an affiliate of the Company or any third party are admissible to the extent of not more than 25% of the annual total compensation of the person concerned, as far as the respective person is not affiliated to a Swiss or foreign benefit institution. 34 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 4. Approval Mechanism a) Statutory approval mechanism According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, the General Meeting votes annually, separately and in a binding manner on the maximum total amounts proposed by the Board of Directors for: ■■ The compensation of the Board of Directors for the year of office following the ordinary General Meeting until the next ordinary General Meeting ■■ The fixed compensation of the Executive Board for the next fiscal year (1 January–31 December) following the ordinary General Meeting ■■ The variable and other compensation of the Executive Board (including the allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) for the same approval period In addition, the Board of Directors submits the remuneration report for the business year prior to the Annual General Meeting for a consultative vote. The Annual General Meeting 2017 approved in a consultative non-binding vote the Remuneration Report 2016 with a majority of 68.5%. As far as a total amount approved for the compensation of the Executive Board is insufficient to compensate members of the Executive Board appointed or promoted within the Executive Board after the respective resolution of the General Meeting until the beginning of the following Approval Period, the Company may use an additional amount pursuant to Article 19 OaEC in addition to the previously approved total compensation for the Executive Board for the ­respective Approval Period. Such an additional amount is only available within the following limits: for the CEO an amount which is not more than 20% higher than the compensation of its predecessor and for a member of the Executive Board an amount which is not more than 20% higher than the amount available on average for members of the Executive Board (excluding the CEO) for the Approval Period. The General Meeting does not vote on the used additional amount. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, the Company is entitled to compensate recoverable claims, which a newly appointed member of the Board of Directors or member of the Executive Board would have had towards his or her previous employer or principal, if this member had not changed the company. The recoverability of the claims has to be examined by an independent expert. Ascom Compensation Approval Mechanism 1.1.2018 1.1.2019 1.1.2020 Consultative vote about AGM 2018 AGM 2019 Prospective binding vote remuneration report 2017 April 2018 April 2019 Compensation for “Maximum Total the Board of Directors Compensation Budget” Fixed compensation for the Board for fixed compensation of Directors until next year’s AGM of the Board of Directors Compensation for “Maximum Total the Executive Board Compensation Budget” Fixed compensation for the Execufor fixed compensation tive Board for the fiscal year 2019 and performance-based compensation based on realized performance Performance-based compensation as well as for the longbased on the realized performance term incentive (LTI) of the fiscal year 2019 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 35 b) Level of decision authority Type of compensation Compensation Committee Full Board of Directors Annual General Meeting Compensation Board of Directors Maximum compensation for the Board of Directors Recommendation Proposal to the Annual Approval for the period until the next Annual General Meeting General Meeting 1 Individual compensation for the members Proposal Approval 1 – of the Board of Directors in the reporting year Compensation Executive Board Maximum compensation for the members Recommendation Proposal to the Annual Approval of the Executive Board (fixed compensation, General Meeting variable compensation, long-term incentive) for the fiscal year following the Annual General Meeting Individual compensation for the CEO Review, Approval – (fixed compensation, variable compensation, recommendation long-term incentive) in the reporting year Individual compensation (fixed compensation, variable Review of the CEO Approval – compensation, long-term incentive) for the members recommendation of the Executive Board (without CEO) in the reporting year 1 In any case of potential conflict of interest the respective member of the Board of Directors shall abstain from voting. c) Approvals of the Annual General Meeting 2017 The shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2017: ■■ Board of Directors: maximal amount of CHF 600,000 (for five members) for the period from the Annual General Meeting 2017 until the Annual General Meeting 2018 (subject to additional employer contributions to governmental social insurances to the extent they constitute or increase pension benefits for the beneficiaries); approved with a majority of 97.3%. ■■ E xecutive Board (for four members) for the business year 2018: – Maximal amount of CHF 2,100,000 as fixed compensation (including contributions to pension funds and other social benefits and subject to additional employer contributions to governmental social insurances to the extent they constitute or increase pension benefits for the beneficiaries); approved with a majority of 96.9%. – Maximal amount of CHF 1,700,000 as variable compensation; approved with a majority of 96.7%. – Maximal amount of CHF 850,000 as long-term incentive; approved with a majority of 93.2%. 36 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT II. REMUNERATION IN FISCAL YEAR 2017 1. Board of Directors a) Remuneration in fiscal year 2017 (audited information) Members of the Board of Directors were paid a gross remuneration totaling CHF 722,500 in fiscal year 2017 (2016: CHF 985,000). 2017 1 2017 2016 1 2016 Gross remuneration includEmployer contributions Gross remuneration includEmployer contributions ing employee contributions to the Swiss social ing employee contributions to the Swiss social to the Swiss social insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) to the Swiss social insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) insurances insurances Andreas Umbach 176,667 10,827 120,000 7,470 (Chairman since 19 April 2017) Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda 2 105,833 6,588 85,000 5,291 Dr Harald Deutsch 105,833 120,000 – Jürg Fedier 3 70,833 4,409 – – Christina Stercken 105,833 – 120,000 – Juhani Anttila 4 87,500 5,194 300,000 17,764 (Chairman until 19 April 2017) Dr J.T. Bergqvist 4 35,000 2,179 120,000 7,470 Urs Leinhäuser 4 35,000 2,179 120,000 7,470 Total 722,500 31,376 985,000 45,465 1 Including employee contributions to the Swiss social insurances (AHV/IV/ALV). 2 Since Annual General Meeting 2016. 3 Since Annual General Meeting 2017. 4 Until Annual General Meeting 2017. The remuneration difference compared to the previous year is due to a reduction of the Board fees as of the Annual General Meeting 2017. The annual gross remuneration was reduced from CHF 120,000 to CHF 100,000 for a regular Board member, while the annual gross remuneration for the Chairman was reduced from CHF 300,000 to CHF 200,000. Moreover, the number of Board members decreased from seven to five as of the Annual General Meeting 2017. ■■ According to Swiss law, the Company paid Swiss social insurance (AHV/IV/ALV) employer contributions for the members of the Board. These payments do not represent an additional remuneration for the members of the Board as they do neither constitute nor increase Swiss social insurance pension benefits due to the actuarial cap. ■■ No member of the Board of Directors received any additional remuneration as defined by Art. 663bbis of the Swiss Code of Obligations. ■■ No remuneration was made to parties closely related to the Board of Directors. ■■ No members of the Board of Directors or closely related parties were granted any loans by the Company nor do such loans exist. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Board of Directors for all necessary expenses, also in form of lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. According to the Remuneration Regulations for Members of the Board (Annex 1 to the Organization Regulations), the annual lump sum expense recovery amounts to CHF 20,000 for the Chairman and to CHF 5,000 for a regular Board member. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 37 b) Compliance with the decisions of the Annual General Meeting 2016 According to the Articles of Association, the shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2016: CHF 1,020,000 for the Board of Directors (seven members) for the period from the Annual General Meeting 2016 until the Annual General Meeting 2017. The remuneration amounting to CHF 1,020,000 paid to the seven members of the Board of Directors in the period between the Annual General Meeting 2016 and the Annual General Meeting 2017 is in line with the approval of the Annual General Meeting 2016. 2. Executive Board a) Members of the Executive Board In 2017, the Executive Board consisted of the following members: ■■ Holger Cordes, CEO ■■ Anette Weber, CFO (since 1 August 2017) ■■ Claes Ödman, COO ■■ Francis Schmeer, Executive Vice President Marketing & Business Development ■■ Bianka Wilson, former CFO (until 31 July 2017) Compensation Executive Board 2017 (audited information) in CHF Basic salary Variable salary Miscellaneous Pension LTI 5 Total component contributions CEO 650,000 1 29,250 1 62,097 4 74,199 299,648 1,115,194 CFO (since 1 August 2017) 135,420 1 26,135 1 4,963 4 11,666 93,730 271,914 COO 284,760 2 10,251 1,096 3 84,572 – 380,679 EVP Marketing & Business 320,000 1 13,320 1 – 33,061 9,013 375,394 Development Former CFO – in charge (until 31.7.2017) 189,583 1 37,917 1 – 21,757 – 249,257 – period after resignation (1.8.–31.12.2017) 135,417 1,6 27,083 1,6 – 15,540 – 178,040 Total Executive Board in 2017 1,715,180 143,956 68,156 240,795 402,391 2,570,478 1 Including the statutory employee contributions paid to the Swiss social insurance. 2 = SEK 2,520,000. 3 Contributions to medical benefit plans. 4 Accommodation allowance. 5 Weighted average fair value of the matching shares at grant (1 investment share = CHF 18.025) assuming full achievement of all performance-related targets. 6 Compensation according to employment contract. Compensation Executive Board 2016 (audited information) in CHF Basic salary Variable salary Miscellaneous Pension LTI 6 Total component contributions CEO (since 1.6.2016) 379,169 1 189,583 1 31,045 5 36,608 293,551 929,956 CFO 325,000 1 63,180 1 – 36,882 72,860 497,922 COO (former GM Wireless Solutions) 290,808 2 19,542 1,119 4 86,582 – 398,051 EVP Marketing & Business 320,000 1 62,208 1 – 32,653 – 414,861 Development Former CEO – in charge (until 31.5.2016) 270,833 1 67,708 1 – 37,529 – 376,070 – period after resignation (1.6.–31.12.2016) 379,169 1 94,792 1 – 52,539 53,715 7 580,215 Former GM Network Testing 277,877 3 62,556 15,230 4 10,491 – 366,154 (until 30.9.2016) Total Executive Board in 2016 2,242,856 559,569 47,394 293,284 420,126 3,563,229 1 Including the statutory employee contributions paid to the Swiss social insurance. 2 = SEK 2,520,000. 3 = USD 280,769. 4 Contributions to medical benefit plans. 5 Accommodation allowance. 6 Weighted average fair value of the matching shares at grant (1 investment share = CHF 16.123) assuming full achievement of all performance-related targets. 7 Compensation according to employment contract. 38 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT According to Swiss law, the Company paid the following Swiss social insurance (AHV/IV/ALV) employer contributions for the members of the Executive Board: in CHF Employer contributions to the Swiss s­ ocial insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) 2017 2016 CEO (since 1 June 2016) 51,609 23,594 CFO (since 1 August 2017) 8,450 – COO – – EVP Marketing & Business Development 22,389 22,526 Former CEO – – in charge (until 31.5.2016) 24,839 – period after resignation (1.6.–31.12.2016) 35,533 Former CFO 24,084 – in charge (until 31.7.2017) 13,371 – period after resignation (1.8.–31.12.2017) 9,550 Total 105,369 130,576 These Swiss social insurance employer contributions do not represent an additional remuneration for the members of the Executive Board as they do neither constitute nor increase Swiss social insurance pension benefits due to the actuarial cap. The Company paid for the COO employer contributions of CHF 39,892 (2016: CHF 39,799) to the Swedish social insurances. These contributions do neither constitute nor increase the pension benefits of the employee. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Executive Board for all necessary expenses, also in form of car allowances and other lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. b) Fixed compensation The basic salaries (including social benefits) paid to the members of the Executive Board (including the former CFO) in the 2017 financial year totaled CHF 1,715,180. Adjusted for the amount paid to the former CFO after the resignation from the Executive Board as of 31 July 2017, the total amount related to the fixed compensation paid to the active members of the Executive Board in 2017 is CHF 1,579,763. In 2016, the basic salaries for the members of the Executive Board (including the former CEO and the former General Manager Network Testing) totaled CHF 2,242,856 (adjusted for the amount paid to the former CEO after his resignation: CHF 1,863,687). c) Performance-related variable compensation ■■ Principles Targets are defined at the beginning of each year in alignment with the budget targets by the Board of Directors. If all defined targets are achieved in full, the respective member of the Executive Board receives a predetermined percentage of the basic salary as a variable component (performance-related part). If the results fall short, no variable salary component is paid. In cases where the targets set are exceeded, the member of the Executive Board is paid a higher variable salary component (up to a maximum that is in line with the fixed compensation). The CEO receives a variable salary component of 50% of his basic salary on fully achieving all targets. In cases where the targets set are exceeded, the CEO is paid a higher variable salary component (performance-related part) up to 100% of the basic salary. The other members of the Executive Board receive a variable salary component of 40–50% of their basic salary on fully achieving all targets. In cases where the targets set are exceeded, they are paid a variable salary component (performance-related part) up to a maximum of 80% of their basic salaries. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 39 Performance-related variable compensation (excluding any possible allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) cannot exceed the fixed compensation of a member of the Executive Board. ■■ Performance-related targets 2017 The Board of Directors set the performance targets for 2017 with the aim to incentivize profitable growth of the Group. The performance-related variable compensation for the members of the Executive Board in 2017 was linked to the achievement of the following measurable quantitative targets (incl. weighting): ■■ Net revenue: 55% ■■ EBITDA: 45% The three members of the Executive Board acting for the entire year 2017 received a variable compensation according to the achievement of the quantitative targets as described. The new CFO starting at 1 August 2017 received for 2017 a short-term incentive of CHF 26,135 according to the achievement of a mix of individual and quantitative targets set in August 2017. The variable salary component for the whole Executive Board amounts to CHF 143,956 in 2017. Adjusted for the amount paid to the former CFO after her resignation from the Executive Board, the total amount related to the variable compensation paid to the active members of the Executive Board in 2017 is CHF 116,873. In 2016, the variable salary component for the members of the Executive Board (including the former CEO and the former General Manager Network Testing) totaled CHF 559,569 (adjusted for the amount paid to the former CEO after his resignation: CHF 464,777). The variable salary component will be paid in April 2018, following the approval of the 2017 financial statements at the Annual General Meeting. d) Long-term incentive The Board of Directors decided to introduce the Ascom share matching plan 2017. The members of the Executive Board may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved (“performance-related part”). In addition, they get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free (“retention part”), if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at that point in time. The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of Ascom achieved in fiscal year 2019. In order to receive additional matching shares, Ascom must achieve at least the pre-defined EBITDA margin target at the lower end in 2019. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case that the EBITDA margin of Ascom in 2019 reaches the upper level of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target or higher. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with one matching share for the members of the Executive Board. In 2017, the CEO purchased 16,624 investment shares and the other members of the Executive Board in total purchased 5,700 investment shares. The fair value of a matching share at grant amounts to CHF 18.025 (weighted average fair value). Thus, the fair value of all matching shares allocated to the Executive Board amounts to CHF 402,391 whereof an amount of CHF 299,648 for the matching shares is allocated to the CEO, assuming full achievement of all performance targets. 40 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT e) Total compensation of the members of the Executive Board The total compensation in 2017 for all members of the Executive Board amounted to CHF 2,570,478. Adjusted for the amount paid to the former CFO after her resignation from the Executive Board, the total compensation paid to the active members of the Executive Board in 2017 is CHF 2,431,181. In 2016, the total compensation for the members of the Executive Board (including the former CEO and the former General Manager Network Testing) totaled CHF 3,563,229 (adjusted for the amount paid to the former CEO after his resignation: CHF 2,983,014). f) Highest compensation The highest total remuneration within the Ascom Group was paid to the CEO. The remuneration for the CEO in 2017, consisting of the basic salary and the variable salary component, amounted to CHF 741,347 (including miscellaneous). The employers’ pension contributions amounted to CHF 74,199. The value of the Matching Shares allocated to the CEO are valued at a total of CHF 299,648 based on the value at the time they were granted and assuming all performance targets will be achieved. The total remuneration paid to the CEO in 2017 amounted to CHF 1,115,194 (2016: CHF 956,285 for his predecessor). g) Additional payments (audited information) No members of the Executive Board received any additional payments as defined by Art. 663bbis of the Swiss Code of Obligations, nor were any payments made to parties closely ­related to the Executive Board. The Company granted no members of the Executive Board or closely related parties any loans nor do such loans exist. h) Severance payments (audited information) Contracts of employment with members of the Executive Board provide for no special severance payment. The period of notice for members of the Executive Board is maximal 12 months. In the event of a takeover and a delisting of the Company, the participants of the Ascom share matching plans shall receive the same number of matching shares as they hold investment shares at the date of the publication of the delisting. i) Compliance with the decisions of the Annual General Meeting 2016 The shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2016 for the then five members of the Executive Board for fiscal year 2017: ■■ CHF 2,500,000 as fixed compensation (including contributions to pension funds and other social benefits) ■■ CHF 1,900,000 as variable compensation ■■ CHF 900,000 as long-term incentive The Annual General Meeting 2016 approved a total amount of CHF 5,300,000 for the compensation of the Executive Board in 2017. In spite of the appointment of a new CFO, no additional amount according to the Articles of Association has to be decided as the total compensation paid to the Executive Board in 2017 of CHF 2,570,478 (including an amount of CHF 178,040 paid to the former CFO after his resignation) is in line with the approved amount of CHF 5,300,000 by the Annual General Meeting 2016. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 41 Reported compensation of the Executive Board during fiscal year 2017 compared to the amount approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 2016 In CHF Executive Board Maximum amount Amount within the amount compensation earned during approved by shareholders approved by shareholders FY 2017 at the 2016 AGM at the 2016 AGM and (5 members) (5 members) compensation ratio Fixed compensation 1,715,180 1 2,500,000 Yes (including contribution 68.6% to pension funds and other social benefits) Variable compensation (STI) 143,956 1 1,900,000 Yes 7.6% Long-term incentive (LTI) 402,391 1 900,000 Yes 44.7% Total compensation 2,570,478 5,300,000 Yes Executive Board 2 47.5% 1 Including the payments made to the former CFO after her resignation. 2 Including miscellaneous and pension contributions. The corresponding reporting of the Executive Board compensation 2018 approved by the Annual General Meeting 2017 as well as the reporting of the compensation ratio will be disclosed in the Remuneration Report 2018. 3. Former members of the Executive Board (audited information) In 2017, Fritz Mumenthaler (former CEO until 31 May 2016) was paid an amount of CHF 408,129 (including CHF 50,884 for pension contributions) in compliance with commitments set down in his contract of employment. III. SHARE OWNERSHIP Number of shares and options held in Ascom Holding AG as of 31 December 2017: 1. Board of Directors All members of the Board of Directors and closely related parties, in total: 44,750 shares. Shares 1 Andreas Umbach 41,750 Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda – Dr Harald Deutsch 2,000 Jürg Fedier – Christina Stercken 1,000 Total Board of Directors 44,750 1 Acquired by the Board members from the market. No members of the Board of Directors or closely related parties hold any conversion or option rights. 42 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 2. Executive Board All members of the Executive Board and closely related parties, in total: 41,950 shares. Shares 1 Holger Cordes, CEO 35,700 Anette Weber, CFO 5,200 Claes Ödman, COO Francis Schmeer, EVP of Marketing & Business Development 1,050 Total Executive Board 41,950 1 Acquired by the members of the Executive Board from the market. No members of the Executive Board or closely related parties hold any conversion or option rights. 3. Share allotment in 2017 According to the provisions of the Ascom share matching plan 2014, Ascom Holding AG allotted in 2017 5,324 shares to 17 remaining participants of the Ascom share matching plan 2014. Ascom Holding AG allotted no further shares in 2017. IV. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS 1. Ascom share matching plan 2015 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of 21 August 2015 to introduce a share matching plan 2015 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. The beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares in addition, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. In addition, they get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-years vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business achieved in fiscal year 2017. In order to distribute additional matching shares to the beneficiaries, the Ascom core business must achieve at least an EBITDA margin of 14.0% in 2017. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business in 2017 amounts to 18.0% or higher. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with one matching share. 42 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they purchased in total 60,550 investment shares. 13 participants with 18,150 investment shares in total left the plan due to the divestment of the Network Testing Division. 300 investment shares were exercised or forfeited in 2016 and 27,560 in 2017. Thus, 14,540 investment shares still may qualify for matching shares. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 43 2. Ascom share matching plan 2016 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of 19 August 2016 to introduce a share matching plan 2016 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. Beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. In addition, they get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-years vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business achieved in fiscal year 2018. In order to distribute additional matching shares to the benefi­ciaries, Ascom must achieve at least the lower end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target 2018. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of Ascom in 2018 reaches the upper end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target or higher. As a maximum, the Company will honor each ­investment share with one matching share. 19 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they purchased in total 42,630 investment shares. 1,400 investment shares were exercised or forfeited in 2016 and 6,589 in 2017. Thus, 34,651 investment shares still may qualify for matching shares. 3. Ascom share matching plan 2017 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of 21 August 2017 to introduce a share matching plan 2017 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. Beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. In addition, they get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-years vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of Ascom achieved in fiscal year 2019. In order to distribute additional performance-related matching shares to the beneficiaries, Ascom must achieve at least the lower end of the predefined EBITDA margin target 2019. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of Ascom in 2019 reaches the upper end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target or higher. In addition, the beneficiaries (excluding members of the Executive Board) may get up to 50% of the number of their investment shares as growth-related matching shares provided that defined mid-term growth targets are achieved. In order to receive additional matching shares, the growth performance (CAGR 2019 over 2016) must achieve a certain range. Every participant will receive the maximum of 50% of additional investment shares in case the growth performance as defined reaches the upper end of this range. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with 1.5 matching shares (Members of the Executive Board: 1.0 matching share). 19 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they purchased in total 32,956 investment shares. 44 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT 4. Investment shares held of 31 December 2017 Share matching plan Matching date Underlying yearly Number of result ­outstanding investment shares 2015 30.06.2018 2017 14,540 2016 30.06.2019 2018 34,651 2017 30.06.2020 2019 32,956 As of 31 December 2017, 82,147 investment shares were purchased as investments in share matching plans. These investment shares may entitle the holder to a maximum of one matching share (1.5 matching shares for non-members of the Executive Board) for the Ascom share matching plan 2017. The outstanding 87,463 contingent matching shares, correspond in total to 0.25 % of the total share capital of the Company. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR TO THE GENERAL MEETING ON THE REMUNERATION REPORT 2016 45 To the General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG, Baar Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting We have audited the information marked as “Audited information” in the accompanying remuneration report of Ascom Holding AG for the year ended 31 December 2017. Board of Directors’ responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies (Ordinance). The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the remuneration system and defining individual remuneration packages. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying remuneration report. We conduct-ed our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the remuneration report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the remuneration report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the remuneration report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied to value components of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the remuneration report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the remuneration report of Ascom Holding AG for the year ended 31 December 2017 complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Daniel Wyss Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 23 February 2018 Financial statements 2017 Ascom Group 48 Consolidated balance sheet 49 Consolidated income statement 50 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 51 Consolidated statement of cash flows 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 78 Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements 82 Summary of key financial data Ascom Holding AG 83 Balance sheet 84 Income statement 85 Notes to the annual financial statements 88 Comments on the financial statements 89 Proposals for the appropriation of retained earnings and reserves from capital contribution 2017 90 Report of the statutory auditor on the financial statements 93 Key financial data on the share capital 48 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet Assets CHFm Note 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Cash and cash equivalents 30.3 34.3 Trade receivables 5 73.0 65.9 Other short-term receivables 6 7.6 12.0 Inventories and work in progress 7 25.2 18.5 Prepayments and accrued income 16.0 14.1 Current assets 152.1 144.8 Property, plant and equipment 8 11.9 11.3 Intangible assets 9 40.3 38.5 Financial assets 10 25.3 30.5 Non-current assets 77.5 80.3 Total assets 229.6 225.1 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity CHFm Note 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Trade payables 21.3 20.5 Other liabilities 12 16.3 14.7 Provisions 13 9.7 16.2 Customer prepayments and deferred revenue 15 20.5 21.2 Accrued liabilities 16 24.1 25.1 Current liabilities 91.9 97.7 Borrowings 11 18.0 10.2 Other liabilities 3.0 3.0 Provisions 13, 14 33.6 33.3 Non-current liabilities 54.6 46.5 Total liabilities 146.5 144.2 Share capital 17 18.0 18.0 Capital reserves 15.0 15.0 Own shares 17 (0.5) (1.0) Retained earnings 50.6 48.9 Shareholders’ equity 83.1 80.9 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 229.6 225.1 The notes on pages 52 to 77 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 49 Consolidated income statement CHFm Note 2017 2016 Net revenue 18 309.7 354.3 Cost of sales 19 (149.2) (176.8) Gross profit 160.5 177.5 Marketing and sales 19 (76.3) (92.7) Research and development 19 (29.1) (40.2) Administration 19 (20.3) (37.2) Other operating income 20 0.1 0.3 Other operating expenses 20 (1.7) (6.4) Operating result (EBIT) 33.2 1.3 Financial income 21 1.3 0.7 Financial expenses 21 (2.2) (3.6) Ordinary result 32.3 (1.6) Non-operating result 22 0.5 (0.6) Extraordinary result 0.4 (145.1) Profit/(loss) before income tax 33.2 (147.3) Income tax 23 (7.3) 1.6 Group profit/(loss) for the period 1 25.9 (145.7) 1 Attributable to the owners of the parent. Earnings per share in CHF CHFm Note 2017 2016 Basic 24 0.72 (4.07) Diluted 24 0.72 (4.06) Additional information – non-GAAP measures CHFm Note 2017 2016 EBITDA 4 43.6 16.9 The notes on pages 52 to 77 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 50 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to owners of the parent Capital reserves Retained earnings CHFm Share Own Share Other Currency Goodwill Other Total capital 1 shares 1 premium capital translation offset retained share­holders’ reserves adjustments earnings equity Balance at 1.1.2016 18.0 (2.3) 1.1 13.5 (11.7) (175.6) 273.7 116.7 Group profit/(loss) for the period – – – – – – (145.7) (145.7) Currency translation adjustments – – – – 3.7 – – 3.7 Goodwill offset with equity 2 – – – – – 120.6 – 120.6 Share-based payments – – – 0.8 – – – 0.8 Purchase of own shares – – – – – – – – Disposal of own shares – 1.3 – (0.4) – – – 0.9 Dividend paid – – – – – – (16.1) (16.1) Balance at 31.12.2016 18.0 (1.0) 1.1 13.9 (8.0) (55.0) 111.9 80.9 Group profit/(loss) for the period – – – – – – 25.9 25.9 Currency translation adjustments – – – – 4.5 – – 4.5 Goodwill offset with equity 2 – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1 Share-based payments – – – 0.3 – – – 0.3 Purchase of own shares – – – – – – – – Disposal of own shares – 0.5 – (0.3) – – – 0.2 Dividends paid – – – – – – (28.8) (28.8) Balance at 31.12.2017 18.0 (0.5) 1.1 13.9 (3.5) (54.9) 109.0 83.1 1 Refer to note 17. 2 Refer to note 9. Non-distributable statutory and legal reserves of Ascom Holding AG: CHF 3.6 million (previous year: CHF 3.6 million). The notes on pages 52 to 77 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 51 Consolidated statement of cash flows CHFm Note 2017 2016 Group profit/(loss) for the period 25.9 (145.7) + Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8 2.4 3.3 + Amortization of intangible assets 9 8.3 12.3 +/− (Profit)/loss from impairment/reversal of impairment 8, 9 – 0.3 +/− (Profit)/loss from disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 (0.9) – +/− (Profit)/loss from divestment of a subsidiary or business – 139.8 + Share-based payments 0.3 0.8 +/− Addition/(release) of provisions 13 (2.6) 19.0 +/− Adjustment for other non-cash items 0.9 (5.8) +/− Change in inventory and work in progress (5.4) (1.7) +/− Change in trade receivables (5.3) 2.6 +/− Change in trade payables 0.8 (3.2) +/− Change in other receivables and prepayments (1.4) (2.9) +/− Change in accrued and other short-term liabilities and deferred income (9.3) (9.4) − Interest income 21 (1.3) (0.7) + Interest expenses 21 0.8 0.9 + Interest received 0.8 0.7 − Interest paid (0.2) (0.2) + Income tax expenses 23 7.3 (1.6) − Income tax paid (5.5) (3.5) +/− Foreign currency translation differences on intra-group positions 0.6 1.0 Cash flow from operating activities 16.2 6.0 − Purchase of property, plant and equipment 8 (2.5) (4.0) + Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 1.1 0.6 − Purchase of intangible assets 9 (7.8) (14.4) − Acquisition of a subsidiary or business 3 – (5.8) + Proceeds from divestment of a subsidiary or business 7.8 21.1 +/− Change in financial assets and other non-current assets 0.7 – Cash flow from investing activities (0.7) (2.5) +/− Proceeds from/(repayment of) short-term borrowings – (20.2) +/− Proceeds from/(repayment of) long-term borrowings 7.9 9.8 + Proceeds from disposal of own shares 0.2 0.9 − Dividends paid (28.8) (16.1) Cash flow from financing activities (20.7) (25.6) +/− Foreign currency translation differences on cash and cash equivalents 1.2 (1.0) Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (4.0) (23.1) + Cash and cash equivalents at 1.1. 34.3 57.4 Cash and cash equivalents at 31.12. 30.3 34.3 The notes on pages 52 to 77 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 52 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. GENERAL INFORMATION Ascom is a global solutions provider focused on healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions. The vision of Ascom is to close digital information gaps allowing for the best possible decisions – anytime and anywhere. Ascom’s mission is to provide mission-critical, real-time solutions for highly mobile, ad hoc, and time-sensitive environments. Ascom uses its unique product and solutions portfolio and software architecture capabilities to devise integration and mobilization solutions that provide truly smooth, complete and efficient workflows for healthcare as well as for industry, security and retail sectors. Until 30 September 2016, the Group was active in two businesses operated within two divisions, Wireless Solutions and Network Testing. Effective 30 September 2016, Ascom divested the Network Testing Division, exiting the mobile network testing business. The continuing business comprises the business unit previously referred to as the Wireless Solutions Division. Ascom is headquartered in Baar (Switzerland), has operating businesses in 18 countries and employs around 1,300 people worldwide. Ascom Holding AG, the parent company of the Group, is a public limited company and its registered shares (symbol ASCN) are listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange in Zurich (Switzerland). 2. SUMMARY OF THE GENERAL GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Ascom Holding AG comply with Swiss law and have been prepared based on the individual financial statements of each Group company. These are based on historical cost, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below, and in accordance with the entire existing guidelines of Swiss GAAP FER (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles FER/FER = Fachempfehlung zur Rechnungslegung = Accounting and reporting recommendations). Furthermore, the consolidated financial statements comply with the provisions of the listing rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange and are presented in Swiss francs (CHF). The accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group companies. A summary of the significant accounting policies is provided below. The closing date for the Group and the individual Group companies is 31 December. 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures There were no changes in 2017. 2.3 Use of judgments and estimates In preparing these consolidated financial statements, management has made judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Group’s accounting policies and the ­reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognized prospectively. Information about judgments made in applying accounting policies, that have the most significant effects on the consolidated financial statements and information about uncertainties related to assumptions and estimates, that have the potential risk of resulting in a significant adjustment, are included in the following notes: ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 ■■ Note 9 – recognition of internally generated intangible assets: whether the Group has met the criteria for capitalization of internally generated development costs relating to the design and testing of new or improved products. ■■ Note 9 – measurement of intangibles: key assumptions and estimates underlying valuation and recoverability of intangible assets from acquisitions and capitalized internally generated intangible assets, including related forecasted cash flows. ■■ Note 14 – measurement of pension liabilities related to certain pension plans: key actuarial assumptions, including discount rate, future salary or pension increases and average life expectancy, as well as plan assets performance and funded status. ■■ Notes 13 and 29 – recognition and measurement of provisions and contingencies: key ­assumptions about the likelihood and magnitude of net future outflow of cash, including discount rates. ■■ Note 23 – recognition and measurement of the provision for income tax and recognition of deferred income tax assets: availability of qualified future taxable profit against which tax loss carry-forwards can be used. 2.4 Consolidation The consolidated financial statements cover Ascom Holding AG and all subsidiaries over which the Group has control. Ascom controls a subsidiary when Ascom is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Profits or losses from disposal of subsidiaries are recorded in profit or loss, including the effect of recycling of any goodwill previously offset against equity. The list of the consolidated Group companies is included in note 34. Percentages of the Group’s interest in share capital correspond to percentages in voting rights held. The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of assets transferred, liabilities assumed and equity interests issued by the Group, including the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are capitalized and allocated to goodwill. Pursuant to a purchase price allocation, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed as well as any contingent assets and ­liabilities are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains or losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. 2.5 Foreign currency translation All assets and liabilities of foreign entities are translated into Swiss francs (CHF), the Group’s reporting currency, at the exchange rates prevailing on 31 December. Income, expenses and cash flows of foreign entities are translated at average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising from the reconversion of the net investment in subsidiaries in foreign functional currencies are recorded as currency translation adjustments in equity. Upon disposal of a foreign operation, accumulated currency translation adjustments are recognized in the income statement. Applicable exchange rates for Ascom’s major foreign currencies are as follow: Foreign currency translation CHFm ISO code Unit 31.12.2017 Average 2017 31.12.2016 Average 2016 Euro EUR 1 1.170 1.113 1.074 1.090 US dollar USD 1 0.976 0.985 1.019 0.990 Swedish krona SEK 1 0.119 0.116 0.112 0.115 Pound sterling GBP 1 1.319 1.273 1.254 1.341 54 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). Goodwill and fair value adjustments from the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rate prevailing on the acquisition date. Transactions in foreign currencies are accounted for at the average exchange rates of the prior month, as an approximation of the exchange rate at the transaction date. Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the conversion of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss. Such balances are converted into the functional currency of the foreign entity at the exchange rates prevailing on 31 December. 2.6 Revenue recognition Net revenue include all sales of goods and services after deduction of any sales reductions including discounts, rebates, returns and value-added tax. Revenue from sale of goods and services is recognized on delivery to and acceptance by the customer, when significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to Ascom. Goods sold to customers include hardware and software. Services rendered to customers include consulting, commissioning and installation services as well as after-sales support, repair and maintenance services. Revenue from long-term maintenance agreements is recognized straight-line over the contract term. Revenue from fixed-price, multi-element contracts including goods and services is allocated to the separable components based on the value of the separable components. Revenue from significant customer projects is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method (PoC), if the stage of completion and expected outcome can be measured reliably. The respective calculation is based either on the units completed compared to the total number of contracted units, or if this approach is not applicable, on the costs incurred compared to the total costs to complete. 2.7 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 2.8 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognized at their nominal value less any provision for doubtful debts, which is recognized when it becomes probable that the receivable is not fully realizable. The amount of the provision is the receivable at nominal value less the amount of the expected realization. The valuation effect is recorded in marketing and sales expenses. 2.9 Other current assets Other short-term receivables, prepayments and accrued income are stated at nominal value less impairment, if any. 2.10 Inventories and work in progress Inventories are stated at the lower of purchase or manufacturing cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the normal course of business, less estimated cost of completion and estimated selling cost. Manufacturing cost includes direct material and production costs as well as material and production overheads. The inventory cost is determined using the weighted-average cost method. Purchase discounts are treated as a purchase price reduction. Value adjustments are made for obsolete and slow-moving items. Work in progress on long-term contracts is recognized according to the stage of completion of the contract (percentage-of-completion method). Provisions are made to cover anticipated losses as soon as these are identified. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 2.11 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are recorded at acquisition or production cost (i.e. historical cost) less accumulated depreciation. Land is valued at cost and is not depreciated. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful life as shown in the following table: Useful life in years Buildings 20–40 Installations 7–10 Production equipment, measuring and test equipment, IT hardware, furniture 3–5 Tools and demo equipment 3 Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when they can be measured reliably and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with such costs will flow to the Group. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the financial period in which they incur. All gains or losses arising from the disposal of property, plant and equipment are included in the income statement. 2.12 Intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill are recorded at acquisition or production cost less accumulated amortization. Customer relations are capitalized using the excess-earning method for valuation of the existing customers at acquisition date. Technology and trademarks are capitalized using the relief from royalty method for valuation. The amortization charge is calculated on a straight-line basis over the period of its estimated useful ­economic life as shown in the following table: Useful life in years Customer relations 10 Technology 5–7 Internally generated intangibles 3–5 Other (trademarks, licenses and software) 3–5 Intangible assets not ready for use are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill resulting from acquisitions (the excess of the purchase price over the net fair value of the acquired assets, liabilities and equity interests) is offset in equity against retained earnings at the date of acquisition. The consequences of a theoretical capitalization and amortization of goodwill are explained in note 9. If the purchase price contains contingent elements that are dependent on future results (e.g. earn-out), a liability is recognized in the balance sheet at the date of acquisition based on an estimate of the earn-out payment expected to be paid at the agreed future date. Changes in this estimate during the earn-out period or differences between the recorded liability and the final settlement are recorded in equity. All research costs are charged to profit or loss as incurred. Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design, development and testing of major new products, major product improvements or software platforms and significant applications) are recognized as intangible assets, when specific criteria are fulfilled regarding technical feasibility, commitment of resources and recoverability through future economic benefits. Development costs that cannot be capitalized are charged to profit or loss in the period in which they occur. 56 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.13 Financial assets Financial assets mainly comprise of loans to third parties, deferred tax assets and pension assets. Loans and pension assets are initially recorded at actual value and subsequently measured at amortized cost less valuation adjustments. Information related to deferred tax assets is presented in note 2.22. 2.14 Impairment of assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment when indicators exist that the carrying amount of the asset might exceed its recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset is higher than the recoverable amount, the asset is impaired to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less disposal cost and value in use. Intangible assets not yet available for use are not subject to amortization and are therefore tested for impairment at least once a year. As goodwill is fully offset against equity at the date of acquisition, an impairment of goodwill will not affect income, but will only be disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (refer to note 9). Impairment tests are performed based on discounted cash flows at the level of the corresponding cash-generating units, representing the lowest level at which such assets are evaluated for recoverability. 2.15 Derivative financial instruments Due to the global nature of its activities, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk. The related risk management is described in note 27. The Group may hedge expected future foreign currency cash flows by executing forward contracts. These derivative financial instruments are recognized at fair value at the trade date. Where such forward contracts are linked to specific projected transactions and cash flows, the hedging is deemed to be effective and documented accordingly, with changes in the fair value of the cash flow hedges recognized in equity. The gain or loss relating to fair value changes of other forward contracts is recognized immediately in the income statement as part of the financial result, as these contracts are deemed ineffective hedges. Where these cash flow hedges related to flow of goods, the gains or losses are recorded as part of cost of sales. Gains and losses related to fair value changes of foreign currency forward contracts, which have been recognized in equity, are recycled in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects gain or loss. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. 2.16 Equity Registered shares are classified as equity. Own shares, expenses for equity-settled sharebased payments, realized gains or losses from disposals of own shares as well as costs relating to capital increases and decreases are recorded in equity. Dividends are charged to equity in the period in which they are approved. The share premium represents the excess of the issued share capital over its nominal value. 2.17 Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are initially recorded at actual value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently measured at amortized cost. They include mainly bank loans and are classified as current if they are settled within 12 months, and there is no unconditional right to extend the settlement to at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Borrowing costs directly attributable to a material acquisition, development or production of an internally generated asset, that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale (i.e. qualifying asset), are capitalized as part of the cost of the respective asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 2.18 Pension benefit obligations There are various pension plans in existence within the Group which are individually aligned with local conditions in their respective countries. They are financed either by means of contributions to legally independent pension or insurance funds, or by recognition as liabilities in the balance sheet of the respective Group companies. An economic obligation is recognized as a liability if the requirements for the recognition of a provision are met under Swiss GAAP FER. An economic benefit is capitalized provided that the Company is entitled to such benefit in the future, for example, to offset future Group pension expenses. Freely available employer contribution reserves are capitalized. Employees of Swiss Group companies are insured as part of a multi-employer pension fund, an independent separate legal entity under Swiss Law (“Gemeinschaftsstiftung”) financed by contributions from participating employers and employees. An economical obligation or a benefit from the Swiss pension scheme is determined from the pension fund financial statements prepared on the basis of Swiss GAAP FER 26 “Accounting of Pension Plans” and recognized in the balance sheet accordingly. The provision for pension plans of foreign subsidiaries, which are not organized as independent legal entities, is determined based on the local valuation methods in effect. 2.19 Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are made when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation in the future. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as interest expense. For costs that are ­expected to arise in connection with site closures, the disposal of companies or business units and restructuring, provisions are made at the time of the decision of approved measures. For onerous contracts, provisions are provided if the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation exceed the economic benefit to be received. If an outflow of resources to settle an obligation is not probable, a contingent liability is disclosed. Contingent liabilities and other off-balance sheet commitments are evaluated at each reporting date, taking into account also any guaranteed considerations from other parties (e.g. insurance coverage). 2.20 Leases A lease is an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee in return for a payment, or series of payments, the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time. a) Lessee accounting Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred from the lessor to the lessee are classified as finance leases. The leased assets are carried at cost not higher than the minimal lease payments and depreciated along with other property, plant and equipment (see note 2.11). The corresponding leasing obligations are shown as liabilities. Leasing payments are allocated accordingly as either capital repayments or interest expenses. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. b) Lessor accounting When assets are leased out under a finance lease, the present value of the net minimum lease payments is recognized as a receivable under financial assets. The difference between the gross receivable (gross investment in leases) and the present value of the net minimum lease payments is recognized as unearned interest income. Each lease installment is allocated between the receivable and interest income. When assets are leased out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the balance sheet based on the nature of the asset. Operating lease income is recognized in profit or loss over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. 58 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.21 Share-based payments Selected members of Ascom’s senior management receive remuneration in the form of sharebased remunerations pursuant to share matching plans (from 2013 onwards) and stock option plans (until 2012). The beneficiaries of share matching plans get the opportunity to buy company shares (or phantom shares in the case of residents of the USA) at market price as investment shares up to a certain amount. They have to keep the investment shares over a defined period in order to benefit from the plan. Beneficiaries receive 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free if they are still employed with Ascom at this point of time. As an additional performance-related part, beneficiaries may receive up to 115% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. As a maximum, the company will honor each investment share with one matching share. The cost of matching shares is measured initially at fair value at grant date, taking into consideration a deduction for the dividend yield as well as expected fluctuation of the plan participants. The initial fair value is recognized as expense over the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in other capital reserves in equity (for equity-settled instruments) or in other provisions (for cash-settled instruments). Ascom revises its estimates of the number of instruments expected to vest, based on the best available estimate of the outcome of the non-market-vesting conditions (the Group EBITDA margin and the cumulated average growth rate of the net revenue) at the end of each reporting period, with changes recognized in personnel expenses. 2.22 Income tax Income tax is recorded based on the period to which it properly relates. Deferred income tax is recorded in full using the liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities arise on temporary differences between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for Group purposes and their related tax values. The tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date are used to determine deferred income tax. Deferred income tax assets result from tax loss carry-forwards, tax credits as well as temporary valuation differences of assets and liabilities. They are recognized to the extent that realization through future taxable profits is probable. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same tax authority. 2.23 Definition of non-GAAP measures Earnings before interest and income tax (EBIT) correspond to the operating result. Earnings before interest, income tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) as a subtotal ­includes EBIT before deduction of depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment as well as amortization and impairment of intangible assets. As defined, EBIT and EBITDA do not include the impact of non-operating or extraordinary results. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 3. SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS AND CHANGES IN THE SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION Disposal of the Network Testing Division (2016) On 19 August 2016, Ascom Holding AG and InfoVista signed a binding share and asset purchase agreement under which InfoVista acquired the Network Testing Division (TEMS), a U.S.-based global provider of mobile network testing optimization, benchmarking and monitoring solutions for mobile network operators with around 400 employees worldwide. The transaction closed on 30 September 2016 and was based on a cash-free/debt-free enterprise value of USD 45 million. Ascom received USD 30 million in cash at closing and the remainder of the consideration in the form of a subordinated vendor loan with a nominal value of USD 15 million, a 7-year maturity and a stated interest rate of 4% p.a. As a result of the disposal, Ascom recognized an extraordinary loss. Net of the effect from the recycling of the TEMS-related goodwill and currency translation adjustments, total equity was reduced by CHF 17.3 million at disposal date. Further information regarding these discontinued operations are presented in note 4. Acquisition of UMS (2016) On 12 January 2016, Ascom acquired all the shares of the privately held, Florence-, Italy, based software company UMS (United Medical Software), which provides integrations for medical devices and supplies digital medical records software solutions for life-critical patient care. With this acquisition, Ascom gained access to new software and competencies for integrated workflow solutions in healthcare ICT and also significantly improved its market position in Southern Europe. The purchase price of CHF 8.9 million included a contingent consideration of up to CHF 2.8 million, payable two years after closing, upon achievement of agreed revenue targets and retention of key employees. CHFm As at the acquisition date Consideration as of 12.1.2016 Cash paid 6.0 Acquisition-related costs 0.1 Total cash outflow 6.1 Contingent consideration 2.8 Total consideration 8.9 Identifiable assets and liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 Trade receivables 1.4 Intangible assets 1 8.0 Other current and non-current assets 1.2 Liabilities (4.2) Total identifiable net assets 6.7 Goodwill 2 2.2 Total consideration 8.9 1 Intangible assets includes mainly intangible assets identified through business combination such as customer relations and technology. 2 The goodwill of CHF 2.2 million is attributable to the acquired workforce, product portfolio synergies and additional growth potential in the Italian market and internationally. 60 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. SEGMENT INFORMATION Key figures by segment CHFm Ascom continuing Network ConsoliTotal Ascom business Testing 1 dation 2017 2016 2016 2016 2017 2016 Incoming orders 324.8 303.3 57.5 (0.4) 324.8 360.4 Order backlog at 31.12. 143.3 121.8 – – 143.3 121.8 Net revenue 309.7 300.8 53.8 (0.3) 309.7 354.3 of which with other segments – 0.3 – (0.3) – – Cost of sales (149.2) (148.0) (28.3) (0.5) (149.2) (176.8) Gross profit/(loss) 160.5 152.8 25.5 (0.8) 160.5 177.5 as % of revenue 51.8% 50.8% 47.4% n/a 51.8% 50.1% Marketing and sales (76.3) (75.3) (17.8) 0.4 (76.3) (92.7) Research and development (29.1) (26.9) (13.3) – (29.1) (40.2) Administration (20.3) (31.8) (5.7) 0.3 (20.3) (37.2) Other operating income 0.1 4.3 – (4.0) 0.1 0.3 Other operating expenses (1.7) (1.7) (8.7) 4.0 (1.7) (6.4) Operating result (EBIT) 33.2 21.4 (20.0) (0.1) 33.2 1.3 as % of revenue 10.7% 7.1% n/a n/a 10.7% 0.4% Financial income/(expenses), net (0.9) (2.9) Non-operating result 0.5 (0.6) Extraordinary result 0.4 (145.1) Profit/(loss) before income tax 33.2 (147.3) Income tax (7.3) 1.6 Group profit/(loss) for the period 25.9 (145.7) Additional information EBITDA 43.6 28.7 (11.7) (0.1) 43.6 16.9 as % of revenue 14.1% 9.5% n/a n/a 14.1% 4.8% Capital expenditures 10.3 15.2 7.2 – 10.3 22.4 Employees (FTE) at 31.12. 1,223 1,188 – – 1,223 1,188 Reportable segments’ assets 171.6 161.9 – – 171.6 161.9 Deferred income tax assets 7.7 12.3 Financial assets 15.5 14.4 Income tax receivables 4.5 2.2 Cash and cash equivalents 30.3 34.3 Total assets at 31.12. 229.6 225.1 1 Discontinued operations as of 30 September 2016 (refer to note 3). ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 Since the disposal of the Network Testing Division on 30 September 2016 (refer to note 3), Ascom Group consists of one single business unit, the purpose of which is to use its unique product and solutions portfolio and software architecture capabilities to devise integration and mobilization solutions that provide digitalized, complete and efficient workflows for healthcare as well as for industry, security and retail sectors. In connection with this strategic development, Ascom reorganized the Group to increase agility and alignment with customer needs and to allow economies of scale, especially in functional and global platform areas. The new organization structure announced on 3 October 2016 was put in place in the fourth quarter of 2016. As a consequence, the previously separated Group and Wireless Solutions Division management and headquarter functions were merged and the combined results shown as Ascom continuing business. Due to the unity and strategic focus of the business on healthcare ICT, the top management (Group Executive Board) and the management structure of the Ascom Group are organized by functions. The allocation of financial resources of the Group by the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Board is decided centrally and by function. Research and development of the whole range of products and solutions is carried out centrally, while sales are carried out regionally with central support. Distribution and services are managed within central global functions. Accordingly, regional sales subsidiaries are responsible for the sale and delivery of the whole range of products, services and solutions in their sales area, supported by global R & D, global Supply Chain and global Services, as well as central marketing and administrative functions. The Company’s risks and opportunities vary by region and are impacted and supported by local regulatory requirements, most notably in healthcare. Accordingly, the financial management and allocation of Company resources by the Group Executive Board is primarily based on regional market and net revenue developments. Segment reporting is therefore reflecting Ascom’s business as one single reportable segment. The allocation of incoming orders and net revenue is disclosed below based on the regional sales structure. Allocation of incoming orders and net revenue of Ascom continuing business CHFm Incoming orders Net revenue 2017 2016 2017 2016 BeNeLux 64.1 63.9 64.0 61.0 Nordics 58.0 53.8 51.8 49.6 DACH 54.2 47.0 49.0 47.5 Rest of Europe 43.6 36.0 45.1 42.1 Total Europe 219.9 200.7 209.9 200.2 North America 53.9 56.5 50.2 55.8 Growth Markets 19.3 19.6 17.7 17.4 OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) 31.7 26.5 31.9 27.1 Total excluding intersegmental business 324.8 303.3 309.7 300.5 Intersegmental business – 0.4 – 0.3 Total 324.8 303.7 309.7 300.8 62 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. TRADE RECEIVABLES CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Receivables from third parties 1 74.2 66.8 Less provision for doubtful debts (1.2) (0.9) Total 73.0 65.9 1 This line item includes CHF 2.2 million (previous year: CHF 1.1 million) of trade receivables arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. The Group does not hold any collateral as security for trade receivables. 6. OTHER SHORT-TERM RECEIVABLES CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Income tax and other tax receivables 5.0 2.8 Other receivables 1.3 8.5 Finance leases 0.6 0.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.7 0.1 Total other short-term receivables 7.6 12.0 Other receivables as of 31 December 2016 comprised mainly amounts due, based on final purchase price adjustments related to the disposal of the Network Testing Division, according to the share and asset purchase agreement. 7. INVENTORIES AND WORK IN PROGRESS CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Raw materials and components 1.9 1.3 Work in progress 1 4.7 4.8 Finished goods and goods for resale 22.2 16.0 Inventory provision (3.6) (3.6) Total 25.2 18.5 1 This line item includes CHF 0.4 million (previous year: CHF 0.5 million) of work in progress arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CHFm Land and Machines, Equipment Other Total buildings installations under and construction equipment Cost Balance at 1.1.2016 18.8 26.8 0.8 17.7 64.1 Additions 0.3 0.9 2.2 0.6 4.0 Disposals (0.8) (3.3) – (0.7) (4.8) Acquisition of a subsidiary or business – – – 0.1 0.1 Disposal of a subsidiary or business (0.2) (5.9) (0.5) (2.9) (9.5) Reclassifications – 0.4 (0.4) – – Currency translation adjustments (0.4) (0.8) – (0.6) (1.8) Balance at 31.12.2016 17.7 18.1 2.1 14.2 52.1 Additions 0.6 0.6 1.1 0.2 2.5 Disposals (1.8) (0.7) – (0.2) (2.7) Reclassifications 0.5 0.8 (2.9) 1.6 – Currency translation adjustments 1.5 1.5 0.1 0.8 3.9 Balance at 31.12.2017 18.5 20.3 0.4 16.6 55.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Balance at 1.1.2016 (12.0) (22.9) – (14.8) (49.7) Depreciation charge (0.5) (1.6) – (1.2) (3.3) Impairment (0.3) – – – (0.3) Disposals 0.5 3.2 – 0.5 4.2 Disposal of a subsidiary or business 0.1 4.7 – 2.1 6.9 Currency translation adjustments 0.2 0.7 – 0.5 1.4 Balance at 31.12.2016 (12.0) (15.9) – (12.9) (40.8) Depreciation charge (0.5) (1.1) – (0.8) (2.4) Disposals 1.6 0.7 – 0.2 2.5 Currency translation adjustments (1.0) (1.3) – (0.9) (3.2) Balance at 31.12.2017 (11.9) (17.6) – (14.4) (43.9) Net carrying amount at 31.12.2016 5.7 2.2 2.1 1.3 11.3 Thereof non-operating 1 4.3 – – – 4.3 Net carrying amount at 31.12.2017 6.6 2.6 0.4 2.3 11.9 Thereof non-operating 1 4.6 – – – 4.6 1 Held exclusively for investment purposes (not for use) 64 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CHFm Customer Acquired Internally Acquired Other Total relations technology generated software intangibles Cost Balance at 1.1.2016 35.5 37.2 22.4 16.1 14.1 125.3 Additions – – 6.2 0.4 11.8 18.4 Disposals – – – (0.2) (0.6) (0.8) Acquisition of a subsidiary or business 1.8 3.0 – – 3.2 8.0 Disposal of a subsidiary or business (28.2) (33.4) – (4.6) (12.5) (78.7) Reclassification – – – 7.3 (7.3) – Currency translation adjustments (1.1) (1.5) (1.3) (0.8) (2.3) (5.4) Balance at 31.12.2016 8.0 5.3 27.3 18.1 8.1 66.8 Additions – – 5.5 – 2.3 7.8 Reclassification – – – 1.8 (1.8) – Currency translation adjustments 0.3 0.4 1.7 1.1 0.6 4.1 Balance at 31.12.2017 8.3 5.7 34.5 21.0 9.2 78.7 Accumulated amortization and impairment Balance at 1.1.2016 (21.4) (30.2) (8.5) (14.9) (9.6) (84.6) Amortization charge (3.0) (3.2) (2.4) (0.9) (2.8) (12.3) Disposals – – – 0.2 0.6 0.8 Disposal of a subsidiary or business 20.7 30.3 – 4.6 8.5 64.1 Currency translation adjustments 0.9 1.2 0.5 0.7 0.4 3.7 Balance at 31.12.2016 (2.8) (1.9) (10.4) (10.3) (2.9) (28.3) Amortization charge (0.8) (0.8) (4.2) (2.0) (0.5) (8.3) Currency translation adjustments (0.1) (0.2) (0.7) (0.6) (0.2) (1.8) Balance at 31.12.2017 (3.7) (2.9) (15.3) (12.9) (3.6) (38.4) Net carrying amount at 31.12.2016 5.2 3.4 16.9 7.8 5.2 38.5 Thereof acquired 5.2 3.4 – 7.8 5.2 21.6 Thereof generated internally – – 16.9 – – 16.9 Net carrying amount at 31.12.2017 4.6 2.8 19.2 8.1 5.6 40.3 Thereof acquired 4.6 2.8 – 8.1 5.6 21.1 Thereof generated internally – – 19.2 – – 19.2 Other intangibles comprise aquired trademarks and licences. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 Goodwill from acquisitions is offset against the Company’s equity at the acquisition date. The theoretical amortization is based on the straight-line method over a useful life of five years. The theoretical capitalization of the goodwill would affect the result of the consolidated financial statements as follows: CHFm 2017 2016 Acquisition cost As of 1 January 36.5 159.3 Additions from acquisitions – 2.2 Liquidation of a subsidiary or business – (0.6) Disposal of a subsidiary or business – (122.8) Reversal of earn-out (0.1) – Translation adjustment 0.7 (1.6) As of 31 December 37.1 36.5 Accumulated amortization As of 1 January (30.8) (151.0) Additions (2.9) (4.9) Liquidation of a subsidiary or business – 0.6 Disposal of a subsidiary or business – 122.8 Translation adjustment (0.6) 1.5 As of 31 December (34.3) (30.8) Theoretical book values, net As of 1 January 5.7 8.3 As of 31 December 2.8 5.7 Theorical effect on income statement CHFm 2017 2016 Operating result 33.2 1.3 Theoretical amortization goodwill (2.9) (4.9) Theoretical operating result incl. amortization goodwill 30.3 (3.6) Group profit/(loss) for the period 25.9 (145.7) Reversal of recycling of goodwill – 122.8 Theoretical amortization goodwill (2.9) (4.9) Theoretical Group profit/(loss) for the period incl. amortization goodwill 23.0 (27.8) Theorical effect on balance sheet CHFm 2017 2016 Equity according to balance sheet 83.1 80.9 Theoretical capitalization net book value goodwill 2.8 5.7 Theoretical equity incl. net book value goodwill 85.9 86.6 Equity as % of balance sheet total 36.2% 35.9% Theoretical equity incl. net book value goodwill as % of balance sheet total 37.0% 37.5% (incl. goodwill) 66 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10. FINANCIAL ASSETS CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Deferred income tax assets 7.7 12.3 Pension-related assets 3.4 4.4 Finance leases 1.6 1.8 Other financial assets 12.6 12.0 Total non-current portion 25.3 30.5 Detailed information related to deferred income tax assets and pension-related assets are provided in notes 23 and 14, respectively. Other financial assets mainly comprise the subordinated vendor loan amounting to CHF 12.2 million (previous year: CHF 11.6 million) at actual value (having a nominal value of USD 15 million, a seven-year maturity and a stated interest rate of 4% p.a.) granted in connection with the disposal of the Network Testing Division (refer to note 3). Future minimum lease payments under finance lease contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: CHFm Within Between Later Total 12 months 1 and 5 years 31.12.2017 Gross investment in leases 0.7 1.7 0.1 2.5 Unearned interest income (0.1) (0.2) – (0.3) Present value of the net minimum lease payments 0.6 1.5 0.1 2.2 CHFm Within Between Later Total 12 months 1 and 5 years 31.12.2016 Gross investment in leases 0.7 1.6 0.3 2.6 Unearned interest income (0.1) (0.2) – (0.3) Present value of the net minimum lease payments 0.6 1.4 0.3 2.3 11. BORROWINGS The Group syndicated credit facilities expired on 24 May 2016 and were replaced by revolving multi-currency credit facilities in an aggregate amount equal to CHF 35.0 million with two banks to fund working capital in the ordinary course of business, at variable interest rates (LIBOR + 0.8%), with an option to fix the interest rate monthly for a maximum period of 12 months. In addition, the Group has an uncommitted guarantee line of CHF 10.0 million with a Swiss bank. At 31 December 2017, Ascom used the cash lines as shown in the table below (borrowings denominated in CHF): CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Non-current 18.0 10.2 Total borrowings 18.0 10.2 As the final maturity of the Group’s credit facilities is 24 May 2020, the outstanding borrowings at 31 December 2017 are classified as non-current. The credit facility includes two financial covenants: a debt service ratio (calculated as the ratio of net debt and outstanding bank guarantees to EBITDA) and an equity ratio (calculated as the ratio of shareholders’ equity to total assets). The financial covenants are fully complied with. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 12. OTHER LIABILITIES (CURRENT) CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Income tax liabilities 1.8 1.6 VAT and other tax liabilities 5.8 5.1 Personnel-related liabilities 7.8 7.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.8 0.4 Other liabilities 0.1 0.4 Total 16.3 14.7 13. PROVISIONS CHFm Restructuring Deferred tax Employee Other Total provisions benefit provisions obligation Balance at 1.1.2016 3.0 5.0 18.7 9.6 36.3 Additions 10.6 2.2 3.4 6.6 22.8 Increase in present value – – 0.7 – 0.7 Payments (2.9) – (1.4) (2.1) (6.4) Release of unused amounts (0.2) (2.0) (0.2) (1.4) (3.8) Acquisition of a subsidiary or business – 1.6 0.4 – 2.0 Disposal of a subsidiary or business (0.5) – (0.1) – (0.6) Currency translation adjustments (0.1) (0.2) (1.1) (0.1) (1.5) Balance at 31.12.2016 9.9 6.6 20.4 12.6 49.5 Additions 0.1 0.6 1.0 0.8 2.5 Increase in present value – – 0.6 – 0.6 Payments (4.6) – (0.6) (1.2) (6.4) Release of unused amounts (1.4) (1.4) (1.6) (0.7) (5.1) Currency translation adjustments 0.4 0.4 1.3 0.1 2.2 Balance at 31.12.2017 4.4 6.2 21.1 11.6 43.3 Expected payment CHFm Restructuring Deferred tax Employee Other Total provisions benefit provisions obligation Within 12 months 9.8 – – 6.4 16.2 Later 0.1 6.6 20.4 6.2 33.3 Balance at 31.12.2016 9.9 6.6 20.4 12.6 49.5 Within 12 months 4.4 – – 5.3 9.7 Later – 6.2 21.1 6.3 33.6 Balance at 31.12.2017 4.4 6.2 21.1 11.6 43.3 For detailed descriptions related to deferred taxes, refer to note 23. On 17 August 2016, the Board of Directors of Ascom Holding AG approved the OneCompany program which comprised mainly personnel-related restructuring charges, impacted all functions within the organization and carried a cost of CHF 10.6 million. 68 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Provisions for employee benefit obligation include the economical pension obligation (refer to note 14) as well as provisions for other long-term employee benefits. The discount rate used in the calculation for certain foreign pension plans is the most important parameter and any changes can strongly impact the valuation of the pension liability. In 2017, the range of the ­applied discount rate varies between 1.3% and 2.5% (previous year: 1.4%–2.6%), which corresponds to local market conditions. Other provisions comprise mainly obligations arising from asserted and unasserted claims or disputes in the normal course of Ascom’s business operations, provisions for warranties, obligations arising from cash-settled share-based payments and provisions for environmental costs relating to non-operating premises. 14. PENSION BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Employer contribution reserves (ECR) CHFm Result from ECR in Result from ECR in personnel expense interests expense Nominal Renounced Balance AccumuCTA Balance 2017 2016 2017 2016 value use sheet lation / 2017 sheet 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 (usage) 31.12.2016 2017 Pension plans 3.4 – 3.4 (1.0) – 4.4 – (0.1) – (0.1) Total 3.4 – 3.4 (1.0) – 4.4 – (0.1) – (0.1) Economical benefit/economical obligation and pension benefit expenses CHFm Economical part Pension benefit Pension benefit of the organization expenses within expenses within personnel interests expenses expenses (Surplus) / 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Change to CTA Contri­ 2017 2016 2017 2016 deficit prior-year 2017 butions 31.12.2017 period or concerning ­recognized in the the current business result of the period period Pension plans without n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a (9.6) 9.6 13.7 – – surplus/deficit Pension plans with deficit 2.3 2.3 4.4 (2.3) 0.2 (0.4) (2.0) 2.4 0.1 0.1 Pension plans without own assets 17.3 17.3 14.7 1.6 1.0 (0.2) 1.2 0.8 0.6 0.6 Total 19.6 19.6 19.1 (0.7) 1.2 (10.2) 8.8 16.9 0.7 0.7 15. CUSTOMER PREPAYMENTS AND DEFERRED REVENUE CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Customer prepayments 1 20.1 18.8 Deferred revenue 0.4 2.4 Total 20.5 21.2 1 This line item includes CHF 1.1 million (previous year: CHF 2.0 million) of customer prepayments arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 16. ACCRUED LIABILITIES CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Personnel-related accruals 15.9 13.9 Accrued liabilities arising from long-term contracts (PoC) – 0.5 Other accrued expenses 8.2 10.7 Total 24.1 25.1 17. SHARE CAPITAL AND OWN SHARES Composition of share capital CHFm Number Amount Number Amount 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2016 Registered shares nom. CHF 0.50 36,000,000 18.0 36,000,000 18.0 Number of registered shareholders 4,247 4,630 The total authorized number of ordinary shares is 36,000,000 of which 35,955,453 are outstanding at 31 December 2017 (previous year: 35,901,925). Each outstanding share grants the owner one vote at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders. All shares issued by the company were fully paid in. Own shares CHFm Number 2017 Amount 2017 Average Number 2016 Amount 2016 Average transaction price transaction price Balance at 1.1. 98,075 1.0 10.66 220,894 2.3 10.62 Additions – – – 975 – 17.92 Disposals (53,528) (0.5) 10.66 (123,794) (1.3) 10.64 Balance at 31.12. 44,547 0.5 10.66 98,075 1.0 10.66 18. NET REVENUE Sale of goods comprises sale of hardware and software. Rendering of services comprises professional services delivered in connection with customer projects as well as after-sale support, repair and maintenance services. The table below provides additional information for long-term contracts applying the percentage-of-completion method: CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Contract revenue recognized in the reporting period 26.7 22.9 70 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19. PERSONNEL EXPENSES The following personnel expenses are included in cost of sales, marketing and sales, research and development as well as administration expenses: CHFm 2017 2016 Wages and salaries (96.4) (98.6) Social security and pension costs (24.9) (27.8) Other personnel expenses (7.0) (15.5) Total (continuing business) (128.3) (141.9) Personnel expenses from discontinued business – (30.6) Total 1 (128.3) (172.5) 1 Own employees 20. OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES CHFm 2017 2016 Amortization of intangible assets from acquisition 1 (1.7) (6.4) Total other operating expenses (1.7) (6.4) Gain related to disposal of a business unit – 0.1 Other operating income 0.1 0.2 Total other operating income 0.1 0.3 1 This line item exclusively contains amortization of intangible assets initially capitalized due to a purchase price allocation at acquisition date. 21. FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES CHFm 2017 2016 Financial income Interest income 1.3 0.7 Total 1.3 0.7 Financial expenses Interest expenses (0.8) (0.9) Net foreign exchange losses (1.1) (2.0) Other financial expenses (0.3) (0.7) Total (2.2) (3.6) Financial income/(expenses), net (0.9) (2.9) 22. NON-OPERATING RESULT CHFm 2017 2016 Non-operating income 2.2 1.4 Non-operating expenses (1.7) (2.0) Total 0.5 (0.6) Non-operating income and expenses relate exclusively to non-core legacy real estate activities. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 23. INCOME TAX CHFm 2017 2016 Current income tax charge (3.4) (4.3) Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years – 0.4 Deferred income tax (3.9) 5.5 Total income tax (7.3) 1.6 The following reconciliation explains the difference between the expected and the actual income tax charge: Analysis of income tax rate CHFm 2017 2016 Ordinary result 32.3 (1.6) Weighted average expected income tax rate 22.6% (14.0%) Non-operating and extraordinary result 0.9 (145.7) Weighted average expected income tax rate 21.8% 22.5% Profit/(loss) before income tax 33.2 (147.3) Weighted average expected income tax rate 22.6% 22.1% Expected income tax (7.5) 32.6 Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards 1.0 0.3 Effect from recognition of previous years’ tax losses – 0.5 Effect from first-time recognition of previous years’ temporary differences 1.7 0.2 Effect of non-recognized current-year tax losses (0.3) (1.8) Effect of change in applicable tax rate (1.7) 0.4 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years – 0.4 Effect of income/(expenses) taxed with a different rate or not taxed – (31.0) Effect of expiry/impairment of capitalized tax losses/tax credits (0.5) – Total income tax (7.3) 1.6 The total weighted average expected income tax rate of 22.6% (previous year: 22.1%) is calculated using the expected tax rates, based on earnings before income tax of the individual Group companies in each jurisdiction. These rates vary significantly and accordingly, changes in the relative contribution of individual Group companies to total Group earnings before income tax may impact the weighted average expected income tax rate. In 2016, the significant effect of income (expense) taxed with a different rate or not taxed relates mainly to the tax effect of the divestment (or disposal) of the Network Testing Division. The deferred income tax assets and liabilities pertain to the following line items of the balance sheet: CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Intangible assets (2.3) (2.0) Inventories and work in progress 0.7 0.9 Tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits 1.9 2.6 Other assets and liabilites 1.2 4.2 Total 1.5 5.7 Recognized as deferred income tax assets 7.7 12.3 Recognized as deferred income tax liabilities (6.2) (6.6) 72 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tax losses amounting to CHF 2.3 million (previous year: CHF 4.5 million) are recognized for Group companies which incurred losses and where future tax benefits are expected and supported by increased future profitability and synergies as a result of restructuring. Tax loss carry-forwards which are not recognized amount to CHF 339.9 million (previous year: CHF 324.0 million) and expire in the following years: CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Within 12 months – – Between 1 and 5 years 0.1 1.6 Later 339.8 322.4 24. EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the Group profit for the period attributable to ­owners of the parent by the time-weighted number of shares outstanding during the financial year. Own shares are not considered as outstanding shares. 2017 2016 Group profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (CHFm) 25.9 (145.7) Weighted-average number of outstanding shares 35,943,735 35,838,486 Earnings per share from Group profit (CHF) 0.72 (4.07) For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the weighted-average number of ordinary shares is adjusted by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares which would be issued on the conversion of all potential dilutive share options into ordinary shares. 2017 2016 Group profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (CHFm) 25.9 (145.7) Weighted-average number of outstanding shares 35,943,735 35,838,486 Adjustment for the dilutive number of outstanding share options 59,208 63,417 Weighted-average number of diluted shares 36,002,943 35,901,903 Diluted earnings per share from Group profit (CHF) 0.72 (4.06) 25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Ascom Share Matching Plans 2015, 2016 and 2017 In 2013, the Board of Directors decided to introduce a share matching plan for Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive instead of options plans. The following table shows the development of outstanding investment shares: Number of Number of Number of investment investment investment shares shares shares 2017 2016 2015 Investment shares outstanding at 1.1. 108,555 154,572 97,147 Granted 32,956 42,630 60,550 Exercised (49,354) (87,247) – Forfeited (10,010) (1,400) (3,125) Investment shares outstanding at 31.12. 82,147 108,555 154,572 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 2017 2016 2015 Resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 21.08. 19.08 21.08. Number of Ascom senior management members who decided to participate 19 19 42 Vesting period (years) 2.76 2.78 2.79 Remaining contractual life of the matching shares outstanding at 31.12. (years) 1 1.72 1.65 1.00 Fair value of the matching shares granted during the year (CHF) 1 18.03 16.12 15.36 Personnel expenses for equity-settled matching shares recognized (0.1) (0.4) (0.2) as other reserves (equity) (CHFm) 1 At weighted average. Ascom Stock Option Plan 2012 At 31 December 2017, there are no options outstanding. In the following table, the development of the options is presented: Number Exercise Number Exercise of options price (CHF) 1 of options price (CHF) 1 2017 2017 2016 2016 Options outstanding at 1.1. 39,768 9.00 98,000 11.39 Exercised (39,768) 9.00 (58,232) 13.02 Forfeited – – – – Options outstanding at 31.12. – – 39,768 9.00 Options exercisable at 31.12. n/a n/a 39,768 9.00 1 At weighted average. 26. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES A legally independent fund provides for Swiss pensions (see note 2.18). In 2017 and 2016, no lease payments were disbursed to the Swiss pension fund for premises occupied by the Group and no administrative and facility management services (previous year: nil) were charged to the Swiss pension fund in the year under review. The Swiss pension fund did not own any Ascom shares in 2017 (previous year: nil). In 2017, there was no other transaction with related parties (previous year: nil). 27. RISK MANAGEMENT As an international company, Ascom is exposed to a variety of financial and non-financial risks that are directly associated with the Group’s business operations. The Group’s overall risk management is an integral part of corporate management and the long-term corporate strategy, and is correspondingly incorporated in the overall risk and control framework of our business processes and procedures. The Board of Directors of Ascom reviews the Group-wide risk assessment annually and determines suitable measures to address the risks. Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury and is ensured by the rele­vant written principles and guidelines laid down by management and approved by the Board of Directors. The Group’s financial risk capacity and appetite for the various financial risk factors are defined in the treasury strategy. The treasury strategy specifies the limit architecture and thereby defines the extent to which risk exposures will be hedged, and the instruments and time frame for implementation. The treasury strategy is reviewed annually and revised, as appropriate, by the Audit Committee. Transactions without underlying core business and all forms of speculation are prohibited with rare exceptions approved by the Group CFO and by the Audit Committee where required by local circumstances. Risk management also involves centrally securing comprehensive and efficient insurance protection for the Group. 74 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.1 Liquidity risk The objective of liquidity risk management is to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available at any point in time in order to be able to completely and timely fulfill all payment obligations of the Group and to secure working capital financing in the ordinary course of business. As part of its integral budgeting and forecasting process, Group Treasury monitors the planned liquidity position and centrally manages the procurement of loans for the Group. A description of available credit facilities and outstanding borrowings can be found in note 11. 27.2 Foreign currency risk Due to the global nature of its activities, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk. Foreign exchange gains or losses arise from transactions as well as from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies (mainly EUR, USD, SEK and GBP) if these are not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for managing Group-wide foreign exchange transaction risk on an ongoing basis. Analyses of past and expected future cash flows in foreign currencies are regularly carried out which is the basis for hedging transactions. Respective forward contracts are stated at fair value. All hedging activities are carried out centrally by Group Treasury. The Group periodically reassesses its net foreign currency risk, evaluating the extent of natural foreign currency hedging achieved through ongoing development of Ascom’s businesses. ­Accordingly, Group Treasury may propose to adapt the Group’s hedging approach. The Group has certain investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. These types of translation risk are currently not hedged. The currency-related sensitivity of the Group at year-end is shown in the following table: CHFm Reasonable Impact Impact Reasonable Impact Impact shift on net result on equity shift on net result on equity 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2016 31.12.2016 EUR/CHF +/− 15% −/+ 3.3 −/+ 8.9 +/− 15% −/+ 1.9 −/+ 5.9 USD/CHF +/− 15% +/− 2.3 +/− 3.1 +/− 15% +/− 2.0 +/− 2.7 SEK/CHF +/− 15% −/+ 0.2 +/− 8.7 +/− 15% −/+ 1.5 +/− 1.8 GBP/CHF +/− 15% +/− 0.0 −/+ 0.1 +/− 15% +/− 0.0 +/− 0.2 EUR/SEK +/− 15% +/− 0.1 +/− 0.1 +/− 15% +/− 0.1 +/− 0.1 USD/SEK +/− 15% +/− 0.1 +/− 0.1 +/− 15% +/− 0.1 +/− 0.1 27.3 Interest rate risk Every interest position is subject to either a cash flow interest risk (associated with floating ­rate positions) or a market value risk (from fixed-interest positions). The revolving multi-currency loan ­facility of the Group (see note 11) is the main interest rate risk position in the balance sheet of Ascom. This risk is currently offset with cash surpluses. Accordingly, interest rate risk is currently not hedged. Financing and related interest are managed centrally by Group Treasury. 27.4 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. Credit risk may result in a financial loss if one party in a transaction is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations. It is Ascom’s objective to limit the impact of a default. Credit risk of financial counterparties is managed centrally by Group Treasury. Each Group company is responsible for analyzing the credit risk for each of their new customers and managing the quality of their trade receivables on an ongoing basis. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 27.5 Capital risk The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for the shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimally leveraged capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. Ascom aims to maintain a stable investment grade rating level as perceived by bank partners and debt investors. For its capital management, the Group monitors the following ratios: CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Net debt/(cash) including outstanding bank guarantees 1 (8.2) (18.5) EBITDA 43.6 16.9 Debt service ratio (0.2) (1.1) Total assets 229.6 225.1 Shareholders’ equity 83.1 80.9 Equity ratio 36.2% 35.9% 1 Borrowings and outstanding bank guarantees less cash and cash equivalents. 28. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Foreign currencies are purchased and forward contracts are entered into at Group level as an economic hedge against foreign currency risk. The open contracts comprise the following forward contracts in various currencies: CHFm 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Contract volume 31.2 16.8 Positive fair value 1 0.7 0.1 Negative fair value 2 0.8 0.4 1 Refer to note 6. 2 Refer to note 12. Breakdown by currency (CHFm) 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 EUR/CHF 13.3 7.4 SEK/CHF 17.9 9.4 Total 31.2 16.8 29. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a) Lease commitments – Group as lessee The future minimum payments under non-cancellable lease obligations fall due as follows: CHFm Operating leases 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Within 12 months 5.9 5.9 Between 1 and 5 years 9.4 9.8 Later 0.3 0.7 Total 15.6 16.4 76 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b) Lease commitments – Group as lessor The future minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: CHFm Operating leases 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Within 12 months 1.2 1.0 Between 1 and 5 years 0.7 0.5 Later – – Total 1.9 1.5 c) Contingencies Ascom is exposed to a multitude of legal risks internationally in the normal course of business. These relate particularly to risks associated with product liability, patent law, tax law, competition law and executed business acquisitions and disposal. The Company has indemnified certain purchasers of divested businesses for potential claims arising from the operations of the divested businesses. There are currently no ongoing proceedings in relation to such indemnification. Some Group companies are involved in legal proceedings. The results of currently pending and threatened law suits cannot be predicted with certainty which means that decisions of courts or other authorities can cause expenses that have significant consequences for the business and on future results. Wherever a reliable estimate of the financial consequences of a past event is possible and an outflow of resources is more likely than not, a corresponding provision is made. At 31 December 2017, contingent liabilities amount to CHF 3.2 million (previous year: CHF 4.7 million). There is no indication that these liabilities will lead to fulfillment payments. 30. PLEDGED ASSETS At 31 December 2017, property, plant and equipment with a total carrying amount of CHF 2.4 million (previous year: CHF 2.2 million), and cash and cash equivalents with a total carrying amount of CHF 0.2 million (previous year: CHF 0.2 million) were pledged. 31. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Since the balance sheet date, no other subsequent adjusting events have occurred that impact the 2017 consolidated financial statements. 32. PROPOSAL OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2018 a dividend of CHF 0.45 per share entitled to dividends. This represents a total distribution up to CHF 16.2 million. In 2017, a total dividend of CHF 28.8 million was distributed to the shareholders of Ascom Holding AG. 33. TIME OF RELEASE FOR PUBLICATION The Board of Directors approved the 2017 consolidated financial statements on 23 February 2018 and authorized them for publication at the media conference on 1 March 2018. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 34. CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Country Company Registered office Business Share capital Parent company Group’s activities interest Australia GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. Chippendale ● AUD 3 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Alexandria NSW ■ AUD 3,000,000 GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. 100% Belgium Ascom (Belgium) NV Zaventem ■ EUR 1,424,181 Ascom Holding AG 100% Brazil Ascom Soluções em Telefonia São Paulo ■ BRL 1,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 100% Móvel Limitada 2 China Ascom (Beijing) Network Testing Beijing ■★ CNY 17,000,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 100% Service Co., Ltd. 2 Denmark Ascom Danmark A/S Glostrup ■ DKK 1,200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Finland Ascom Miratel Oy Turku ■ EUR 33,638 Ascom Holding AG 100% France Ascom Holding SA 3 Nanterre _ EUR 80,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (France) SA Nanterre ■ EUR 2,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Germany Ascom Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt a.M. ■ EUR 2,137,200 Ascom Unternehmensholding 100% GmbH Technologiepark Teningen GmbH Emmendingen ☐ EUR 6,136,000 Ascom Unternehmensholding 94% GmbH Ascom Solutions Ltd. 6% Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH Frankfurt a.M. ● EUR 5,113,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% India Ascom Network Testing Private Limited 2 Mumbai ■ INR 64,929,938 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 100% Italy Ascom UMS S.r.l. Scandicci ■ EUR 100,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Malaysia Ascom Network Testing Sdn Bhd 2 Subang Jaya ■★ MYR 500,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 100% Ascom (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Petaling Jaya ■ MYR 1,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Netherlands Ascom (Nederland) BV 4 Utrecht ■ EUR 1,361,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Norway Ascom (Norway) A/S Oslo ■ NOK 1,250,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Poland Ascom Poland Sp. z o.o. 3 Warsaw _ PLN 2,405,200 Ascom Holding AG 100% Singapore Ascom Solutions (Singapore) Pte Ltd Singapore ■ SGD 50,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% South Africa Ascom Network Testing (PTY) Ltd. 2 Durban ■ ZAR 1,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 100% Sweden Ascom (Sweden) AB Gothenburg ■★ SEK 96,154,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 Gothenburg ● SEK 70,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Network Testing AB 2 Skellefteå ♦■★ SEK 100,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 100% Switzerland Ascom Holding AG Baar ● CHF 18,000,000 n/a 100% Ascom Management Ltd. 1 Baar ● CHF 200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Mocsa AG in Liquidation Berne _ CHF 100,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Solutions Ltd. Mägenwil ■ CHF 10,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% United Ascom Network Testing Ltd. 2 Elstead ■★ GBP 2 Ascom UK Group Ltd. 3 100% Kingdom Ascom (UK) Ltd. Lichfield ■ GBP 50,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Ascom UK Group Ltd. 3 Birmingham ● GBP 600,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% UAE Ascom MEA FZ-LLC 2 Dubai ■ AED 50,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 100% Ascom MEA FZE 2 Dubai ■ AED 50,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 2 100% USA Ascom Holding Inc. 3 Rockaway NJ _ USD 10 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (US) Inc. Morrisville NC ■★ USD 1 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Ascom Network Testing Inc. 2 Reston VA ♦■★ USD 1 Ascom Holding AG 100% 1 Ascom Management Ltd. was merged into Ascom Holding AG in January 2017. 2 This company was sold in September 2016 (refer to note 3). 3 This company was liquidated in 2016. 4 Ascom Tateco BV was merged into Ascom (Nederland) BV in January 2016. The following describe the various types of entities within the Group: ● Holding/Finance: This entity is a holding company and/or ★ Research and Development: This entity performs research performs finance functions and provides management services. and development activities. ■ Sales: This entity performs sales, installation, maintenance ☐ Real estate: This entity performs real estate activities. and marketing activities. – Other: This entity is dormant or in liquidation. ♦ Production: This entity performs manufacturing and/or production activities. 78 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG, Baar Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Ascom Holding AG and its subsidi­ aries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 and the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements pages 48 to 77 give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2017 and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER and comply with Swiss law. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Overview ■■ Overall Group materiality: CHF 1,660,000 ■■ We concluded full scope audit work at 5 reporting units in 5 countries. Our audit scope addressed over 58% of the Materiality Group’s revenue. ■■ In addition, specified procedures were performed on a further 2 reporting units in 2 countries representing a further Audit scope 20% of the Group’s revenue. As key audit matter sales and revenue recognition (multiKey audit matters element contracts) has been identified as an area of focus. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 Audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgements were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. In 2017, the Group was structured as a “one company” functional organization. The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 20 reporting entities. We identified 5 reporting entities that, in our view, required an audit of complete financial information. To obtain appropriate coverage over all material financial statement line items, we identified 2 additional reporting units that, in our view, required specified audit procedures over significant balances and transactions including revenue. For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to test or assess that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in these components in relation to the Group financial statements. To ensure sufficient and appropriate involvement of the Group team, we held conference calls with selected component teams responsible for full scope audits during the different phases of the audit. We discussed the risks identified and challenged the audit approach in significant risk areas relevant to those components. Furthermore, we obtained a memorandum of examination from all full scope component teams and assessed the results and impact on the Group financial statements and challenged their conclusions. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. 80 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overall Group materiality CHF 1,660,000 How we determined it 5% of profit before tax Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured, and it is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 166,000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Report on key audit matters based on the circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Sales and Revenue recognition (multi-element contracts) Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter As described in note 2.6 “revenue recognition” the consoliWe obtained an understanding of processes and internal dated financial statements include revenues from multi-elecontrols around revenue recognition of multi-element conment contracts including goods and services. Those rev­ tracts and tested key controls in place to assess the approprienues are allocated to the separable components based on ate application of the group accounting policies. the relative fair value of the separable components. Service revenue is then accrued over the service period outlined in We challenged management’s assessments around multi-­ the contract. We focused on this area due to the size of revelement contracts and the allocation of revenues of goods enues earned from multi-element contracts, and the fact that and services, particularly where judgement is involved. contract accounting involves assessing and allocating the separable components based on the underlying terms of inWe also assessed whether management’s policies and prodividual contract. cesses for making these estimates continue to be appropriate and are applied consistently to the contracts of a similar As part of our work we focused on management’s processes nature. Furthermore we performed a comparison of this in applying the methodology. year’s data with the previous year’s data. Risks mainly include: We selected a sample of contracts (or revenue transactions) ■ Improper allocation of service revenues and revenues from to test the appropriateness of the separation of revenue of components. goods and services and to assess whether the revenue on ■ Incorrect recognition of revenues of service components service contracts for multi-element contracts was recorded in (cutoff and matching of revenues and efforts). the correct period. The combination of the procedures carried out above gave us sufficient evidence to address the risk identified around revenue recognition on multi-element contracts and had no significant findings as a result of our work. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER and the provisions of Swiss law, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements is located at the website of EXPERTsuisse: http://expertsuisse.ch/en/audit-report-forpublic-companies. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Daniel Wyss Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 23 February 2018 82 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GROUP SUMMARY OF KEY FINANCIAL DATA Summary of key financial data CHFm 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 1 Incoming orders 324.8 360.4 412.5 450.4 478.0 Order backlog 2 143.3 121.8 135.2 150.4 137.3 Net revenue 309.7 354.3 410.8 437.7 459.7 EBITDA 43.6 16.9 43.8 64.8 67.6 Earnings before interest and income tax (EBIT) 33.2 1.3 27.3 47.6 47.6 Personnel expenses (128.3) (172.5) (178.9) (183.1) (190.0) Depreciation, amortization and impairment 6 (10.4) (15.6) (16.5) (17.2) (20.0) Group profit/(loss) for the period 25.9 (145.7) 24.3 37.5 36.9 Net cash flow from operating activities 16.2 6.0 33.3 46.5 63.3 Capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment 2.5 4.1 4.2 4.4 2.8 Capital expenditures on intangible assets 7.8 18.3 9.0 9.2 5.8 Research and development expenditures 3 (34.5) (46.4) (47.8) (48.7) (46.4) Balance sheet total 2 229.6 225.1 286.4 313.4 477.8 Shareholders’ equity 2 83.1 80.9 116.7 107.9 246.4 Shareholders’ equity in % of balance sheet total 2 36.2 35.9 40.7 34.4 51.6 Net cash or (net debt) 2, 4 12.3 24.1 37.3 27.1 (2.9) Gearing in % 5 21.7 12.6 17.2 21.4 24.8 Dividends paid/distribution of share premium 28.8 16.1 15.8 14.0 12.2 Number of employees (FTE) 2 1,223 1,188 1,658 1,696 1,586 1 Key figures according IFRS based on income, expenses or cash flows are derived from continuing operations. 2 At 31 December. 3 Contains research and development expenditures either charged to profit or loss or recognized as intangible assets. 4 Cash and cash equivalents less borrowings. 5 Borrowings/shareholders’ equity. 6 Excludes depreciation, amortization and impairment from non-operating result. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG BALANCE SHEET 83 Balance sheet Assets CHF 1,000 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Cash and cash equivalents 7,196 6,319 Other current receivables Group companies 5,595 1,319 Third parties 26 7,929 Prepaid expenses 86 – Total current assets 12,903 15,567 Financial assets Group companies 19,830 22,922 Third parties 12,211 11,758 Investments in Group companies 424,693 424,846 Total non-current assets 456,734 459,526 Total assets 469,637 475,093 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity CHF 1,000 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Other current liabilities Group companies 14 1,231 Third parties 391 2,080 Accrued expenses 1,532 397 Total current liabilities 1,937 3,708 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Group companies 46,552 38,407 Third parties 18,000 10,000 Non-current provisions 4,298 4,298 Total non-current liabilities 68,850 52,705 Share capital 18,000 18,000 Legal reserve from capital contribution 1,123 1,123 Other legal reserve 5,400 5,400 Retained earnings available for distribution at the end of the year Retained earnings 367,584 453,417 Profit/(loss) of the period 7,218 (58,214) Treasury shares held by Ascom Holding AG (475) (1,046) Total shareholders’ equity 398,850 418,680 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 469,637 475,093 84 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG INCOME STATEMENT Income statement CHF 1,000 2017 2016 Investment income from Group companies – 6,346 Other income 16,568 3,505 Total ordinary income 16,568 9,851 Administration expenses (9,401) (6,547) Value adjustments on investments and loans – (4,131) Total operating income 7,167 (827) Financial expenses (1,712) (4,142) Financial income 1,743 1,898 Loss from disposal of business – (55,039) Profit/(loss) before tax 7,198 (58,110) Income taxes 20 (104) Profit/(loss) for the period 7,218 (58,214) ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 Notes to the annual financial statements 1. General Ascom Holding AG, Baar, which is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange in Zurich (Switzerland), is the holding company of the Ascom Group. The financial statements comply with the requirements of the Swiss accounting legislation of the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO). Ascom Holding AG is presenting consolidated financial statements according to Swiss GAAP FER. As a result, these financial statements and notes do not include additional disclosures and cash flow statement. 2. Accounting policies Non-current assets, namely investments and financial assets, are recognized at cost less ne­cessary value adjustments. Currency differences resulting from the revaluation of loans in foreign currencies are charged to the income statement. Provisions are recorded for unrealized net currency gains. The valuation of investments in Group companies is performed according a group assessment as opposed to at individual Group company level. Current assets are valued at nominal value less necessary value adjustments. Liabilities are valued at nominal value. Effects from foreign currencies are charged to the income statement. Provisions are made to cover general business risks of the Group. Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging purposes. These instruments are valued at fair value. Treasury shares are initially recognized at cost, deducted from equity and are valued at historical acquisition value without subsequent valuation adjustment. Gains or losses related the disposal of treasury shares are recorded in the income statement. Investment income consists mainly of dividend paid by Group companies and is recognized on approval’s date of the Annual General Meeting. 3. Contingent liabilities Outstanding parent guarantees in respect of third parties total CHF 26.0 million (previous year: CHF 47.8 million). 4. Investments Direct and indirect investments are listed in note 34 of the consolidated financial statements. 5. Pledged assets At 31 December 2017, no directly held assets are pledged (previous year: nil). 6. Foreign currencies The exchange rates used for balance sheet items are the rates prevailing on 31 December; the exchange rates used for transactions conducted during the course of the year and for items in the profit and loss statement are closing rates of the previous corresponding month. 7. Number of full-time equivalents The number of full-time equivalents exceeded 10, but did not exceed 250 on an annual average basis. 86 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8. Treasury shares Treasury shares held by Ascom Holding AG (Swiss Code of Obligations Art. 659) have developed as follows: CHFm Number 2017 Amount 2017 Average Number 2016 Amount 2016 Average transaction price transaction price Balance at 1.1. 98,075 1.0 10.66 220,894 2.3 10.62 Additions – – – 975 – 17.92 Disposals (53,528) (0.5) 10.66 (123,794) (1.3) 10.64 Balance at 31.12. 44,547 0.5 10.66 98,075 1.0 10.66 9. Significant shareholders The following significant shareholder (holding 5% or more of voting rights, as defined by Art. 663c of the Swiss Code of Obligations) was recorded in the share register at ­31 December 2017: ■■ Veraison SICAV, Zurich, Switzerland (7.62%). ■■ UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel, Switzerland (5.41%). This does not cover shares, which are not registered in the share register (dispo shares). Dispo shares amounted to 39.12% as of 31 December 2017 (previous year: 35.23%). In accordance with the disclosure announcements made, the following parties are regarded as significant shareholders as defined by Art. 663c of the Swiss Code of Obligations: Announcement date Shareholder % of voting rights held in Ascom securities 04.03.2016 Veraison SICAV, Zurich 5.0176% 13.09.2016 Credit Suisse Funds AG, Zurich, Switzerland 3.30% 24.09.2016 BlackRock Inc., New York, USA 2.69% 24.01.2017 UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel, Switzerland 5.13% 13.05.2017 Norges Bank, Oslo, Norway 3.11% 24.05.2017 Schroders plc, London, UK 4.962% 24.08.2017 Cologny Advisors LLP, London, UK 3.07% 10.11.2017 Patrik Schmitz-Morkramer / Patrick Bierbaum (PSquared Master SICAV), Zurich 3.04% There are no known shareholders’ agreements. Additional details are disclosed in the first chapter of the Corporate Governance Report (refer to page 16). ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87 10. Participations Number of participations which were held by members of the Board of Directors Shares 1 2017 2016 Andreas Umbach, Chairman 41,750 41,750 Christina Stercken 1,000 – Dr Harald Deutsch 2,000 2,000 Juhani Anttila, former Chairman n/a 80,000 Dr J.T. Bergqvist, former member n/a 20,000 Total Board of Directors 44,750 143,750 1 Acquired by the Board members from the market. Number of participations which were held by members of the Executive Board Shares 1 Shares 1 2017 2016 Holger Cordes, CEO 35,700 18,500 Anette Weber, CFO 5,200 n/a Claes Ödman, COO – 595 Francis Schmeer, EVP of Marketing & Business Development 1,050 550 Bianka Wilson, former CFO n/a 5,870 Total Executive Board 41,950 25,515 1 Acquired by the members of the Executive Board from the market. No members of the Executive Board and no members of the Board of Directors or closely related parties hold any conversion or option rights. Additional details are disclosed in in section III of the Remuneration Report (refer to pages 41 to 42). Shares or options on shares for members of the Board of Directors and employees In 2017, no options on shares were allocated to members of the Board of Directors or to employees (previous year: nil). The following information relates to the allocation of shares): Quantity Value Quantity Value CHF 1,000 Shares 2017 Shares 2016 Allocated to members of the Board – – – – Allocated to employees 8,733 168 n/a n/a Total 8,733 168 0 0 11. Events after the balance sheet date Since the balance sheet date, no subsequent adjusting events have occurred that impact the 2017 financial statements. 12. Time of release for publication The Board of Directors approved the 2017 statutory financial statements on 23 February 2018 and authorized them for publication at the media conference on 1 March 2018. 88 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG COMMENTS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the financial statements Assets Investments include shares in Group companies amounting to CHF 424.7 million (previous year: CHF 424.8 million). In 2016, value adjustments on investments and Group loans in the amount of CHF 4.1 million were performed. In the year under review, the loans to Group companies are mainly denominated in CHF, EUR, and USD. Financial assets from third parties comprise mainly the subordinated vendor loan amounting to CHF 12.2 million at actual value (having a nominal value of USD 15 million, a 7-year maturity and a stated interest rate of 4% p.a.) granted in connection with the disposal of the Network Testing Division. Other current receivables from Group companies consist mainly of short-term receivables denominated in CHF, EUR, USD and SEK. In 2016, other current receivables from third parties comprised mainly the final purchase adjustments (denominated in USD) related to the disposal of the Network Testing Division, in accordance with the share and purchase agreement, and was settled in 2017. Liabilities and equity In the year under review, total loans from Group companies increased by CHF 8.1 million. Bank loans comprise amounts drawn under available revolving multicurrency loan facilities in an aggregate amount of CHF 35.0 mil­lion denominated in CHF. The final maturity date of the loan facilities is 24 May 2020. Accrued expenses are mainly related to derivative financial instruments and personnel related accruals. Income statement Other income comprises trademark and management fees charged to Group companies of CHF 16.6 million ­(previous year: CHF 3.5 million). Administration expenses include CHF 7.2 million (previous year: CHF 1.8 million) of personnel-related costs. The increase of other income and administration expenses is mainly due to the merger with Ascom Management AG. In the year under review, there were no value adjustments on investments and loans in Group companies (previous year: CHF 4.1 million). Financial expenses consist mainly of interest of CHF 0.2 million paid to banks (previous year: CHF 0.2 million) and Group companies, as well as bank charges of CHF 0.2 million (previous year: CHF 0.5 million) and foreign exchange losses on Group loans and other current receivables of CHF 1.3 million (previous year: CHF 3.4 million). Financial income consists mainly of interest income from loans to Group companies of CHF 0.4 million (previous years: CHF 1.2 million) and from the subordinated vendor loan of CHF 1.1 million (previous year: CHF 0.3 million). Profit for the period In 2017, Ascom Holding AG records a net profit of CHF 7.2 million (previous year: net loss of CHF 58.2 million), while Ascom Group records a consolidated net profit of CHF 25.9 million (previous year: consolidated net loss of CHF 145.7 million). ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG PROPOSAL FOR THE APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS & 89 RESERVES FROM CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION 2017 Proposal for the appropriation of retained earnings 2017 CHF 2017 Retained earnings from previous year 395,202,758 Merger gain 1,132,170 Distribution of dividends (28,751,070) Result for the period 7,218,103 Retained earnings at 31.12.2017 374,801,961 Distribution of CHF 0.45 per share entitled to dividends (16,200,000) Balance to be carried forward 358,601,961 Proposal for the appropriation of reserves from capital contribution 2017 CHF 2017 Distributable reserves from capital contribution from previous year 1,123,243 Distribution of reserves from capital contribution – Distributable reserves from capital contribution at 31.12.2017 1,123,243 Balance to be carried forward 1,123,243 90 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG, Baar Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Ascom Holding AG, which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, income statement and notes for the year then ended, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements (pages 83 to 89) as at 31 December 2017 comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the entity in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Overview ■■ Overall materiality: CHF 1,995,000 ■■ We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the finanMateriality cial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the entity, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the entity operates. Audit scope As key audit matter the valuation of investments in Group companies has been identified as an area of focus. Key audit matters Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgements were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole. Overall materiality CHF 1,995,000 How we determined it 0.5% of net assets Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose net assets as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark against which the performance of the entity is most commonly measured, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 100,000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Report on key audit matters based on the circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Valuation of investments in Group companies Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter As at 31 December 2017, investments in Group companies of We performed the following audit procedures: Ascom Holding AG amounted to CHF 425m. These are di■ We assessed the appropriateness of the grouping of the rectly held investments, which may hold other subsidiaries of investments as one segment based on their level of vertithe group. cal integration. We did this by critically reviewing the different elements of Management’s assessment and valiDue to the strong vertical integration of Ascom's business, dating them with evidence and our understanding of the the valuation of investments in Group companies is pereconomic links amongst the Ascom Group companies. formed according a group assessment as opposed to indi■ We then verified the valuation of the group of investments vidual Group com-pany level. This accounting policy is referbased on a discounted cash-flow model performed by enced in note 2. Accounting Policies. management. Due to the large headroom the results from model were not sensitive to any changes in assumptions We consider the impairment assessment, in particularly the and hence our work was limited. Additional comfort was divisional grouping as a key audit matter, due to the signifiprovided by the market capitalisation of the Group. cance of the investments position on the balance sheet of Ascom Holding AG and because of the level of judgement On the basis of the audit procedures above, we have gained involved in concluding on the single divisional grouping for sufficient evidence to address the risk of material misstatevaluation purposes. ments in valuation of investments in subsidiaries. We have no findings to report. 92 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at the website of EXPERTsuisse: http://expertsuisse.ch/en/audit-report-for-public-companies. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings complies with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Daniel Wyss Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 23 February 2018 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 ASCOM HOLDING AG KEY FINANCIAL DATA ON THE SHARE CAPITAL 93 Key financial data on the share capital CHF 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Dividend/distribution per share Registered shares CHF 0.50 0.80 0.45 0.45 0.40 0.35 Equity per share 1, 2 Registered shares CHF 0.50 2.31 2.25 3.24 2.96 7.12 3 Earnings per share 1, 2 Registered shares CHF 0.50 0.72 (4.07) 0.69 1.07 1.07 3 Share price (high/low of the period under review) Registered shares CHF 0.50 25.40/15.45 18.30/14.36 20.75/12.80 18.29/11.85 15.00/8.60 Taxable values 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 25.20 16.00 15.90 15.25 15.00 Number of shares 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 Of which own shares 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 44,547 98,075 220,894 890,894 1,073,169 1 At 31 December. 2 Based on the consolidated financial statements. 3 Based on the consolidated financial statements according to IFRS. 94 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WORLDWIDE CONTACTS Worldwide contacts Australia/New Zealand, Sydney Germany, Frankfurt a. M. Sweden, Gothenburg Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Ascom Deutschland GmbH Ascom (Sweden) AB au-sales@ascom.com info.ws-de@ascom.com info.se@ascom.com Austria, Vienna Italy, Florence Switzerland, Baar Ascom Deutschland GmbH Ascom UMS S.r.l. Ascom Holding AG Branch Austria it.info@ascom.com investor@ascom.com info-at@ascom.com Malaysia, Ampang Switzerland, Mägenwil Belgium, Bruxelles Ascom (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Ascom Solutions AG Ascom (Belgium) NV sales-my@ascom.com info.ws-de@ascom.com info.be@ascom.com Netherlands, Utrecht United Arab Emirates, Dubai Denmark, Glostrup Ascom (Nederland) BV Ascom Solutions AG Ascom Danmark A/S info.nl@ascom.com Branch Dubai info.dk@ascom.com info.mea@ascom.com Norway, Oslo Finland, Turku Ascom (Norway) A/S United Kingdom, Birmingham Ascom Miratel Oy firmapost@ascom.com Ascom (UK) Ltd. myynti@ascom.com uksales@ascom.com Romania, Cluj-Napoca France, Nanterre Ascom Mobile Solutions Romania SRL USA, Morrisville NC Ascom (France) SA info.ro@ascom.com Ascom (US) Inc. fr-info@ascom.com info.us@ascom.com ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DATES AND CONTACTS 95 Dates and contacts Important dates 11 April 2018 Annual General Meeting Theater Casino, Zug 16 August 2018 2018 Half-Year Results Conference Restaurant Metropol, Zurich Contact address Ascom Group Communications & IR Ascom Holding AG Daniel Lack Company Secretary & Legal & Communications/IR Zugerstrasse 32 | CH-6340 Baar +41 41 544 78 00 | Fax +41 41 761 97 25 info@ascom.com | investor@ascom.com Declaration of forward-looking statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements relating to Ascom. Because these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, the reader is cautioned that actual future results may differ from those expressed in or implied by the statements, which constitute projections of possible developments. All forward-looking statements are based only on data available to Ascom at the time of preparing the Annual Report. The complete 2017 Annual Report of the Ascom Group is available in English only and can be viewed online at: https://www.ascom.com/Investor-Relations/Financial-information/Reportsand-presentations.html Publishing details Publisher Ascom Holding AG, Baar Financial Statements Ascom Group Finance, Baar Editorial Tolxdorff Eicher Häberling, Horgen Translation CLS Communication AG, Zurich Photos Severin Jakob, Zurich, Cover Fotolia/Westend61 Concept, Design & Realization Linkgroup AG, Zurich © Ascom Holding AG 2018 WWW.ASCOM.COM
