Clean Air Everywhere Through Sustainable Transportation Solutions UN Global Compact Communication on Progress for the Year Ended July 31, 2018 August, 2018 RE: United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress To all our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm Agility Fuel Solutions’ continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. This represents our fifth annual Communication on Progress (COP) in which we describe our actions to continue the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This report covers the period from July 31, 2017 through July 31, 2018. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders by posting it to our corporate website. Sincerely Yours, KATHLEEN LIGOCKI Chief Executive Officer www.agilityfs.com 2 01 Human Rights Principles PRINCIPLE 01 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 02 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. www.agilityfs.com 3 01 Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Agility has a vested interest in human rights and workplace practices. We are supportive of the policies set forth by the UN Global Compact. We have a published code of conduct which is meaningful and embraced by our executive management. Agility places a contractual requirement on our suppliers to be compliant with social responsibility issues. Implementation Agility has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its facilities and facilities of critical suppliers: ■■ We maintain an open-door policy for addressing Procedures are in place to ensure that any suspicions of employee concerns about their job, working inappropriate conduct can be voiced. All employees are conditions, or the treatment that they have received. systematically made aware of the Codes and the related Regular businessor employment related concerns Standards of Business Conduct and are reminded of the which do not require anonymity are directed to the whistle blowing procedures annually. employee’s immediate supervisor or to our Human Resources department. The internal guidance sets out examples of the types of wrongdoing which should be raised by employees, ■■ We have implemented a whistle blower policy, and including non-compliance with legal obligations or a associated hotline and email, and communicated it breach of human rights, and also identifies the key contact to the entire organization through meetings, email as the Vice President of Human Resources. blasts, postings in public areas, and posting on the corporate SharePoint site. This policy provides an We incorporated our standards for corporate social outside reporting vehicle for individuals to raise responsibility, and our core values that reflect that concerns using the company’s whistle blower hotline commitment, in our controlled Supplier Quality Manual and reassurance that good faith reports submitted by and Supplier Code of Conduct Manual to drive consistency employees or temporary and/or contract workers will throughout the supply chain, and have posted them on our be protected from reprisals or retaliation. website to communicate these positions broadly to all our stakeholders. ■■ We’ve published our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility through the following 15 general principles; Ethics, Leadership, Employees, Environment, Quality and Continuous Improvement, Suppliers and Business Associates, Customers, Specific Social Responsibilities, Health and Safety, Worker Rights, Child and Forced Labor, Freedom of Association, Discrimination, Environment, and Ethical Conduct. A copy of our Corporate Social Responsibility policy is prominently displayed on our website and in each of our facilities. Measurement of Outcomes All concerns raised during the year were addressed in line with the company’s aforementioned policies, including concerns raised by employees in partner and supplier organizations. www.agilityfs.com 4 Delivering Cost-Effective Clean Transportation Solutions Worldwide The Customer The Solution Waitrose, a leading British supermarket chain, has Agility introduced our higher-pressure carbon fiber sustainability goals of reducing its carbon intensity 65% composite fuel storage systems to the UK. These fuel from 2010 to 2020 and keeping its food and agricultural systems hold more fuel, are 54% lighter than existing waste out of landfills completely by the same date. steel tank systems, and enable a driving range of up to 500 miles. This allows Waitrose to complete round-trip One way to achieve those goals is by switching the fuel deliveries on a single fill on all of its routes throughout the used in Waitrose’s logistics truck fleet from diesel to UK. compressed natural gas. In particular, Waitrose seeks to power its trucks using renewable biomethane generated With Waitrose’s new truck fleet running entirely on from its own food and agricultural waste. This results in an biomethane, the company will be able to run five CNG84% carbon emissions reduction compared to diesel, and powered trucks for the same overall emissions as one in a significant reduction in waste being sent to landfills. diesel truck. And in Waitrose’s case, that biomethane is a product of its own waste stream, which is now used to The Challenge power its fleet rather than sent to landfills. Technologies available in Europe for storing compressed biomethane on board vehicles in steel tanks only enabled enough fuel on board to run a truck 300 miles before refueling. This limited the number of truck routes that could be switched from diesel to biomethane. www.agilityfs.com 5 02 Labor Principles PRINCIPLE 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 04 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 05 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 06 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. www.agilityfs.com 6 02 Labor Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Equal opportunity means creating a work environment which allows all of our employees to fulfill their potential. We seek to foster a culture in which our employee-related decisions, whether they be in hiring, training or promotion, are taken based solely on an individual’s ability and contribution to Agility’s success. This is irrespective of gender, age, ethnicity, disability, or sexual orientation. This is fully described in our Employee Handbook. Implementation As communicated in our Employee Handbook, Agility does applies to their ethical, legal, environmental, and social not tolerate harassment or any behavior which creates responsibilities. The Code covers labor relationships, a hostile, offensive, or intimidating environment for its employment practices, human rights, and ethical business employees. We make it clear that any breaches of this principles. policy may lead to an investigation and, when appropriate, dismissal. We encourage all employees to report any In addition, Agility has expanded training regarding incidents of harassment forbidden by the policy and unconscious bias as it relates to hiring and employment we provide the appropriate phone number and website practices from our executive management team to include address to take action. all departmental managers and employees who regularly interact with different business units within the company. Agility’s Supplier Code of Conduct requires that our suppliers perform in a manner that is appropriate, as it Measurement of Outcomes Agility requires our suppliers and business partners to acknowledge and sign the Supplier Code of Conduct. Our goal is to increase the number of signatories to this Code of Conduct each year. Further, departments within Agility require such suppliers and business partners to provide diversity initiatives and demographic information on an annual basis to evaluate a continuing relationship. Data on population diversity is reviewed periodically by our Human Resources Department and executive leadership team to aid in diversity planning and decision making. www.agilityfs.com 7 Training to Foster a Safe and Diverse Workplace Agility continues to foster a continued education Costa Mesa and Fontana, California; Lincoln, Nebraska; environment to improve upon labor and safety principles. and Salisbury, North Carolina. In addition, a Learning After initiating a training program regarding unconscious Management System was developed and implemented bias to our Executive Management Team in 2017, Agility across the company to meet safety training requirements, expanded this training in 2018 to include all department to provide scheduling of training, and to track safety managers and employees who regularly interact with training objectives. This resulted in an improvement in different business units within the company. This training regulatory compliance and the overall safety culture within has now been taken by managers from our offices in our organization. www.agilityfs.com 8 03 Environment Principles PRINCIPLE 07 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 08 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 09 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. www.agilityfs.com 9 03 Environment Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Environmental responsibility is core to who we are and what we do: it is our stated corporate vision to achieve clean air everywhere through sustainable transportation solutions. We manufacture energy storage, conversion, and delivery systems that enable commercial vehicles like school buses, transit buses, trucks, and vocational vehicles to run on natural gas, propane, or hydrogen instead of diesel. These clean fuels reduce the carbon emissions and smog-causing emissions in the commercial transportation sector. In addition, Agility is passionately committed to providing a safe and healthy environment for its employees, contractors, visitors, or anyone who may be affected by our business operations, and to protecting the environment by managing our business in an environmentally sensitive and responsible manner. Implementation To achieve our goals, we have implemented a Director of Environmental, Health & Safety (“EH&S”) position who is responsible for global EH&S, which includes further developing our systems, policies, programs, and procedures in support of our goal to create a Zero Incident Culture and to have a positive impact on the environment. To ensure that we meet this objective, we are: ■■ Continually developing policies, programs, and ■■ Encouraging personal accountability and emphasizing procedures to ensure compliance with applicable laws standards compliance, policy conformity, and best and regulations and drive continuous performance practice advancement through training, coaching, and improvement. performance reviews. ■■ Ensuring that employees are properly trained and ■■ Communicating and foster the expectation that provided with appropriate safety and emergency everyone on Agility premises follow this policy and equipment. report any environmental, health, or safety concern to management. ■■ Ensuring that all work activities are done safely by taking action to eliminate unsafe acts and conditions ■■ Monitoring, measuring, and communicating our that endanger health, safety, or the environment. progress to all levels of the organization. ■■ Making safety and environmental factors a priority in ■■ Using resources responsibly and efficiently. all operating decisions. We implemented ISO14001 in our Salisbury, North Carolina facility in 2017, are already certified to this standard in our Raufoss, Norway facility, and are continuing the implementation of this standard throughout our organization. Measurement of Outcomes We are fully compliant with all applicable environmental standards, statutes, and regulations. We measure and track aspects of our business that have environmental impacts, e.g. energy usage, and have implemented projects to reduce waste through recycling and reuse. For example, we have designed and implemented a reclamation system for used acetone solvent that results in recapture and recycling of 98% of used acetone and disposal of the remaining byproduct as nonhazardous solid waste. We are also continuously evaluating our use of disposable materials in our supply chain and are replacing such packaging where possible with reusable pallets and shipping racks. Environmental impact data will be reviewed annually on an ongoing basis. We estimate that there are over 36,000 vehicles in operation using Agility’s clean fuel solutions. We estimate that by running on cleaner fuels instead of diesel these vehicles avoided emitting over 760 thousand metric tonnes of CO2 in the twelve months ended July 31, 2018. www.agilityfs.com 10 Finding Opportunities for Efficiency and Reduced Environmental Impact Agility is passionately committed to providing a safe and financially expensive. Agility’s Lincoln team recognized the healthy environment by managing our business in an duty of being a responsible manufacturer and took action environmentally sensitive and responsible manner. Agility’s by designing and implementing an acetone reclamation cylinder manufacturing facility in Lincoln, Nebraska uses system which resulted in recapture and recycling of 98% acetone as a solvent for cleaning resin off tooling used of used acetone. This improved safety, reduced hazardous in cylinder production. Once used, acetone cannot be waste, reduced disposal costs, and reduced purchasing reused, and needs to be disposed of as a hazardous liquid costs. waste, which poses safety and environmental risks and is www.agilityfs.com 11 04 Anti-Corruption Principles PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. www.agilityfs.com 12 04 Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Agility has published an internal Standard of Conduct. The Standard of Conduct has been made available to all employees upon hiring and will be reaffirmed each year. The Standard includes Agility’s clear opposition to all forms of bribery and corruption. Implementation Reporting procedures are in place to ensure that any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. All employees are systematically made aware of the Standard of Conduct. We train employees from time to time to ensure that an ethical culture is developed within the company and integrated in our management systems. We also implement an anonymous hotline in each region we operate to facilitate reporting by all employees. Measurement of Outcomes All concerns raised during the year were addressed in line with Agility’s Standard of Conduct, including concerns raised by employees in partner organizations, such as suppliers. We conduct comprehensive training of new employees and annually reconfirm that all employees are familiar with our Standard of Conduct. The responsibility and accountability for the implementation of the anti-corruption commitment rests with senior management. www.agilityfs.com 13 www.agilityfs.com sales@agilityfs.com +1 949 236 5520
