Solutions for Sustainable Urbanisation Sustainability Report 2017 Page Proof Draft 02.05.2018 17.05.2018 3 2 Vision Mission Keppel Group’s Contents Operating Principles Overview Empowering Lives About this Report 2 Health and Safety 34 A leading real estate company, Guided by our operating principles 1 Best value propositions Corporate Profile 3 People Matter 40 shaping the best for future and core values, we will create to customers. Letter to Stakeholders 4 generations. value for all stakeholders through Driving Sustainability 7 2 Tapping and developing best innovative real estate solutions. Sustainability Framework 8 Nurturing Communities talents from our global workforce. Commitment to Stakeholders 9 Community and Society 48 Managing Sustainability 10 3 Cultivating a spirit of innovation and enterprise. Other Information Sustaining Growth 4 Executing our projects well. GRI Standards Content Index for Environment 14 ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive 53 Solutions for 5 Being financially disciplined to Innovation and Product Excellence 30 Independent Assurance Statement 59 earn best risk-adjusted returns. International Network 63 6 Clarity of focus and operating Sustainable within our core competence. 7 Being prepared for the future. Urbanisation Keppel is a multi-business company committed to providing robust solutions for sustainable urbanisation. A multi-faceted real estate player, Keppel Land provides innovative urban living solutions in its sterling portfolio of residential developments, integrated townships and commercial properties, while placing sustainability at the heart of our strategy and operations. Page Proof Draft 18.05.2018 17.05.2018 3 4 Overview Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 About this Report* Corporate Profile Keppel Land reaffirms its commitment This Sustainability Report demonstrates Keppel Land is the property arm of Responsible Design Values Sustainable Development Goals towards sustainability with the publication Keppel Land’s commitment to keep Keppel Corporation, a multi-business To encapsulate Keppel Land’s conscious As a leading sustainable company, of this Sustainability Report 2017. its stakeholders, including employees, company providing robust solutions effort to deliver the best standards Keppel Land operates profitably yet customers, business partners, partner for sustainable urbanisation, with in liveability, quality, aesthetics and in a socially and environmentally Global Reporting Initiative agencies and community members abreast key businesses in offshore and marine, sustainability, a set of Responsible responsible manner. This report has been prepared in of the Company’s efforts and developments property, infrastructure and investments. Design Values was developed in 2016. accordance with the GRI Standards: in sustainability. Keppel Land has adopted six of the United Comprehensive option. Keppel Land is recognised for its sterling These guidelines are based on four key Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals This Report supplements Keppel Land’s portfolio of award-winning residential principles which include innovative which are most aligned with its business. This Report focuses on topics that Annual Report 2017. Limited copies developments and investment-grade designs to differentiate Keppel Land’s They are Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being; have been identified as material to of this Report have been printed to commercial properties as well as high properties, integration of values, cost Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; Keppel Land’s business and its key minimise the impact on the environment. standards of corporate governance effectiveness and the marketability of Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities; stakeholders, which are detailed in the Both reports can be accessed and and transparency. the development projects. Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and section on Managing Sustainability. downloaded at Keppel Land’s corporate Production; Goal 13: Climate Action; and website, www.keppelland.com. The Company is geographically diversified Keppel Land will adopt these design Goal 17: Partnership for the Goals. This Report has successfully completed in Asia, with Singapore and China as its core values for all new developments in the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. Independent Assurance markets as well as Vietnam and Indonesia Singapore and overseas: An independent corporate social as its growth markets. This Report has been reviewed and responsibility (CSR) consulting company, 1. Liveability approved by Keppel Land’s Sustainability Ere-S Pte Ltd, was appointed to provide Keppel Land is Asia’s premier home developer, • Health and Well-Being Committee, which ensures that all external assurance on this Report. with a pipeline of more than 60,000 homes • Inclusiveness material issues are addressed. The content of this Report was reviewed in Singapore and overseas. It brought • Safety and Security and the accuracy and reliability of all waterfront living to a whole new level with Reporting Period and Scope statements have been validated. iconic residences at Keppel Bay and Marina 2. Quality This is Keppel Land’s tenth Sustainability Bay in Singapore. The Company is also a • Fit for Purpose Report since 2008. It details the Company’s The assurance standard includes the leading prime office developer in Singapore, • Maintainability approach and initiatives taken in integrating evaluation of the Company’s sustainability contributing to enhancing the city’s skyline sustainability into its policies, structure and behaviour and performance, based on the with landmark developments such as Marina 3. Aesthetics daily operations. AA1000 Assurance Standard. All underlying Bay Financial Centre, Ocean Financial Centre systems and processes that support the and One Raffles Quay. 4. Sustainability It provides an account of Keppel Land’s Company’s sustainability framework were • Design for climate responsiveness, sustainability performance as well as its reviewed in adherence to the AA1000 Keppel Land is committed to grow its resource efficiency and ecological strategies and practices, while highlighting AccountAbility Principles of inclusivity, commercial portfolio in key Asian cities conservation the economic, environmental and social materiality and responsiveness. such as Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin • Productivity impacts of the Company’s activities and in China, Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam, developments across its properties The independent assurance statement Jakarta in Indonesia, Yangon in Myanmar in Singapore and overseas. provides a summary of the audit and Manila in the Philippines. 1. report findings. As a leading sustainable The Report is based on Keppel Land’s company, Keppel Land creates live-work-play fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December Feedback environments of enduring 2017. Where possible, the Report Your feedback is valued to help us improve value, celebrated for their innovation and provides up to three years of historical on our future reporting. Please send us green designs. information to allow sufficient basis your feedback and comments at for comparison. csr@keppelland.com. * GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-48, GRI 102-49 1 2 3 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Overview Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Letter to Stakeholders Dear Stakeholders, Keppel Land is committed to minimising the carbon footprint from the development I am pleased to present Keppel Land’s of our properties and operation activities. Sustainability Report for 2017. Under Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Plan, the Company had aimed to reduce Driving Sustainability its carbon emission intensity by 16% below The year 2017 saw increased momentum in 2010’s level by 2020. We met this reduction the sustainability arena as more corporates target in 2016, four years ahead of schedule. worked towards aligning their business We have since set a new target of reducing strategy, practices and operations with the our carbon emission intensity by 40% below Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2010’s level by 2030. To achieve this, we will undertake carbon reduction measures In 2016, Keppel Land adopted six SDGs1 which include developing high-performance which are most aligned with our business. commercial buildings, improving energy Further steps were taken in 2017 to establish efficiency of existing buildings and tapping stretch targets, including goals to achieve on renewable energy. Meeting the 40% reduction in waste, water and energy, reduction target will result in a cumulative as well as align our existing strategies with reduction of almost 140,000 tonnes of carbon these six SDGs. emissions, which will yield potential savings of over $75 million, from 2010 to 2030. Recognising the importance of integrating Keppel’s sustainability principles across its For our strong commitment and continuous supply chain and to positively influence the improvements in environmental environmental, social and governance performance, we were awarded 12 1 performance of its suppliers, the Keppel accolades at the BCA Awards in 2017, Supplier Code of Conduct was implemented including the coveted BCA Quality 1. Saigon Sports City is a in 2017. Champion (Gold) Award for developers. 64-hectare township philosophy of ‘Thinking Unboxed’ and our that Keppel Land is developing in District 2 in Championing the Environment Over the years, we have continued to unwavering approach to think and see Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, Keppel Land has set the benchmark2 for all collaborate with partners to engage and things from a different angle. in collaboration with new Singapore developments and overseas raise eco-consciousness among our staff, Keppel Urban Solutions. It is envisaged to be a commercial projects to be certified to the tenants and the wider public through Capitalising on the rising demand of bustling hub, combining Building and Construction Authority of strategic initiatives, regular activities and shared workspace globally, we launched modern and sustainable urban living with vibrant Singapore’s (BCA) Green Mark GoldPLUS events. In 2017, we continued to lend our KLOUD, a new generation of serviced and healthy lifestyles. standard, or its equivalent, and for all support to environmental campaigns such co-offices catering to companies looking overseas residential developments to as Ricoh Asia Pacific’s Eco Action Day, for flexible spaces, from hot-desks to be certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold World Water Day and Earth Hour, in the bid fully-furnished office suites. The flagship standard, or its equivalent. All newly to encourage our stakeholders to adopt a serviced co-office at Keppel Bay Tower acquired completed commercial buildings sustainable lifestyle. offers 18,000 sf of smart office space. are also to be certified to the BCA Green Since its opening, it has attracted start-ups, Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, We have also been screening environmentalsmall and medium-sized enterprises, as well within two years. themed movies for our stakeholders as as multinational companies from a diverse part of our outreach efforts since 2008. mix of industries. To-date, Keppel Land has garnered a total In support of Earth Day 2018, Keppel Land of 75 BCA Green Mark awards, of which 13 and Keppel REIT Management jointly Keppel Land plans to operate at least one are Platinum. The total estimated reduction organised the public screening of A Plastic KLOUD centre in each of the markets where in energy consumption from all of our Ocean, a documentary which highlights it operates. To-date, KLOUD has been Loh Chin Hua Green Mark-awarded projects when they the impact of plastic waste on marine life, introduced in Saigon Centre Tower 2 in Executive Chairman are fully completed will be over 160 million at the Singapore Botanic Gardens. With the Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, and Junction City kWh per annum, which is the equivalent Singapore Government having designated Tower in Yangon, Myanmar, bringing the energy required to power more than 2018 as the Year of Climate Action, the Company’s total serviced co-office footprint Keppel Land believes that sustainability is key to 28,000 homes in Singapore for one year. 1,000 members of the audience were also encouraged to pledge to take steps to do to about 60,000 sf. This translates to cost savings of about future-proofing our business, and is committed $32 million annually. This is in addition to their part to combat climate change. Upholding Good Safety Practices to building a cleaner, greener tomorrow. We will annual water savings of about two million m3 Our public outreach sponsorship fund, Safety is a core value at Keppel Land and forms an integral part of our business and annual carbon emissions reduction of continue to align ourselves with best practices and almost 70,000 tonnes. GreenSeeds, which is jointly funded by operations. Our approach to safety is international benchmarks to shape a sustainable Keppel Land and the BCA, also supported nine schools to create eco-corridors to raise guided by the Keppel Zero Fatality Strategy, which outlines actionable items to reduce future for generations to come. environmental awareness and inculcate a workplace fatalities to zero. 1 The six Sustainable Development Goals which green mindset among schoolchildren. Keppel Land has adopted are Goal 3: Good Health Recognising the importance of fostering and Well-Being, Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Embracing Innovation a culture of safety in our supply chain, Infrastructure, Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities, Goal 12: Responsible Consumption As new technologies and business models we set up our first Safety Awareness Centre and Production, Goal 13: Climate Action and continue to disrupt many traditional (SAC) in China in 2017. Located in Tianjin, Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals. businesses, Keppel Land continually seeks this is Keppel Land’s fourth SAC, following 2 Keppel Land’s environmental targets apply to all projects where it has a majority stake and/or innovative solutions for its products and the success of our three other SACs in operational control. services. This reflects the Company’s brand Ho Chi Minh City, Jakarta and Johor Bahru. 4 5 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Overview Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Letter to Stakeholders Driving Sustainability The SACs were set up to increase safety offices in China, Vietnam and Indonesia. Yunnan Province, giving the gift of sight to awareness among contractors’ employees, To facilitate staff deployment across cities, those with cataract – a result of years of toil as well as to provide mandatory training a uniform global grading structure has been under the harsh Yunnan sun. Since 2006, Net Prof it before they are allowed to work onsite. established for employees based overseas. staff volunteers have reached out to over $701.4m To-date, we have trained a total of over 200 underprivileged villagers, providing 54,000 workers. Another SAC in Wuxi, China, Nurturing Communities critical medical aid such as cataract surgery will be launched in 2018. We believe in doing good as we do well. and limb deformity surgeries. Over 100 In 2017, Keppel Land staff in Singapore and villagers have had their eyesight restored Keppel Land is also one of only ten overseas dedicated a total of about 6,600 through this project. Net profit increased by 19.6% 1 year-on-year to $701.4 million. companies in Singapore to be recognised as hours to community outreach activities. a bizSAFE Mentor by the Workplace Safety Shaping a Better Tomorrow and Health (WSH) Council to lead contractors In Singapore, we continued to work closely We are encouraged that we have continued in developing and implementing safety with strategic partners such as the North to receive international recognition for initiatives at worksites, as well as to provide West Community Development Council to corporate excellence, quality and stewardship and support to meet the safety uplift the lives of residents living in rental sustainability. We clinched a total of nine Return on Equit y Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) standards set by the WSH Council. flats in the North West district of Singapore, awards at the Euromoney Real Estate 14.6% 6 SDGs with regular activities including the packing Awards 2017, including Best Overall 1 Cultivating an Engaged Workforce and distribution of festive packs as well as Developer in Myanmar, Best Office Recognising that people are our greatest educational excursions. Developer in Vietnam and Indonesia, and asset, we are committed to nurture and Best Residential Developer in Vietnam. Keppel Land achieved average Set targets in support of empower a diverse, competent and Overseas, we extended our partnership with return on equity of 14.6% over six SDGs that are most aligned dedicated talent pool to drive further the Singapore International Foundation with In the Global Real Estate Sustainability the last 10 years. with its business. growth and create value for the Company. the launch of the second phase of the Words Benchmark 2017, Keppel Land topped four on Wheels (Ho Chi Minh) mobile library categories, namely, the Global/Developer/ We continued to step up staff communication programme in Vietnam in March 2018. Residential, Developer/Residential, Asia and engagement during the year. Our efforts This follows the success of the first phase, Pacific/Residential and Asia/Developer have helped to keep staff engaged as shown which saw more than 200 volunteers from categories. The Company also maintained its Volunteerism Safet y Training Employee Engagement in the Employee Engagement Survey where across the Keppel Group participating in the third position globally among developers. 6,600 hrs 54,000 workers 86% Keppel Land’s overall score edged up from programme since 2014. To be rolled out over 85% in 2016 to 86% in 2017. the next three years, the second phase of The journey towards sustainability is a Words on Wheels (Ho Chi Minh) is expected continuous one. We look forward to your We will continue to sharpen our focus on to positively impact over 7,000 Vietnamese continued support as we strive to shape a A total of 6,600 hours were clocked Trained 54,000 workers to-date at Overall employee people development through job rotation students, including those from Keppel Land sustainable future for generations to come. by staff for community outreach Keppel Land’s Safety Awareness Centres in engagement score edged and enlargement, localisation, performance Vietnam’s adopted Anh Phu Secondary activities in Singapore and overseas, China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia. up from 85% in 2016 to management and manpower planning School, by 2020. Believing in empowering 1,000 hours more than in 2016. 86% in 2017. to bolster our bench strength, and at the same through education, our volunteers have time, groom a new generation of Keppelites also developed a sustainability-themed who are innovative, collaborative and nimble. curriculum to instil environmental consciousness among the schoolchildren. Localisation is a key pillar of our people strategy for overseas offices, with locals In China, for over a decade, Keppel Land Loh Chin Hua accounting for 66% of all department China staff have been reaching out to Executive Chairman head positions at our key overseas underprivileged villagers in Kunming, 25 May 2018 Energy Savings Carbon Emission Reduc tion $32m 70,000 tonnes Total energy savings of $32 million or Total carbon emission reduction 160 million kWh per annum can be of 70,000 tonnes per annum. achieved from its BCA Green Markawarded developments. 1. Keppel Land collaborates with strategic partners such as the North West Community Development Council to spread cheer in the community through events such as the 1 Net profit/return for 2016 excluded the $563 million gain from the divestment of Keppel Land’s fund management business to Keppel Capital. 1 distribution of festive packs. Including this, the average return on equity over the past decade would be 15.2%. 6 7 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Overview Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Framework Commitment to Stakeholders* Keppel Land is committed to delivering value to all our stakeholders through Sustaining Growth in our businesses, Empowering Lives of our people and Nurturing Communities wherever we operate. Our Partner Agencies Our Business Partners To work closely with regulatory and To integrate our strong non-governmental agencies to further the regional network and cause of achieving higher environmental, knowledge with the health and safety standards. strengths of our partners to capitalise on opportunities. Sustainability Framework Sustaining Empowering Nurturing Our Employees Growth Lives Communities Our Customers To help employees realise their full potential and To develop quality homes and products cultivate employees with good investment value and build on who are motivated and our brand equity to enhance our dedicated, as well as promote competitive edge. Value for workforce welfare. all our Stakeholders Our commitment to business People are the cornerstone As a global citizen, Keppel Our Community excellence is driven by our of our businesses. believes that as communities To be a committed unwavering focus on strong thrive, we thrive. and responsible corporate corporate governance and As an employer of choice, citizen, contributing to prudent risk management. we are committed to grow We engage and nurture communities wherever we operate. and nurture our talent pool communities wherever we are, Resource efficiency is our through continuous training and with the aim of achieving a responsibility and makes good development to help our people sustainable future together. business sense. reach their full potential. As leaders in our businesses, Innovation and delivering quality We want to instil a culture of we support industry initiatives products and services sharpen safety so that everyone who and encourage open dialogue our competitive edge. comes to work goes home safe. to promote growth. As a leading real estate company, shaping the best for future generations, we are guided by our operating For more information, For more information, For more information, principles and core values to create positive impact and go to: p14–33 go to: p34–47 go to: p48–52 shared value for all our stakeholders through innovative real estate solutions. We believe that driving meaningful dialogue and regular engagement with our stakeholders is crucial to our success as a company. The above key stakeholder groups have been identified. * GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42 8 9 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Overview Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Managing Sustainability As a leading sustainable developer framework, implementing initiatives and Defining Report Content* Sustainability-Related Key and responsible corporate citizen, monitoring its sustainability performance. Materiality Assessment and Performance Indicators (KPIs) Keppel Land operates profitably yet in a Stakeholder Engagement Keppel Land has systems in place to link socially and environmentally responsible The Sustainability Committee reports to Keppel Land has identified and the remuneration of senior executives manner. It adopts a proactive and holistic the Board of Directors, which has oversight prioritised issues that are most relevant and relevant employees to the achievement approach towards sustainability. of environmental, social and governance and significant to the Company and its of pertinent sustainability-related goals (ESG) matters. The key material ESG issues stakeholders. Adopting a matrix-based and performance. Keppel Land is committed to sound for Keppel Land have been identified and approach, materiality was assessed corporate governance practices and robust reviewed by the Board of Directors. by the Sustainability Committee and For staff from the Project Management and enterprise risk management processes. senior management from its different Sustainable Design unit, as well as project The Company actively builds and promotes Benchmarks of Excellence business units based on the importance managers across the Company, between a strong safety culture to achieve a Keppel Land aligns itself with the International of an issue to internal as well as external 5% and 30% of their individual performance zero-harm workplace. Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) stakeholders, using clearly defined appraisal is linked to environmental targets, standards including ISO 9001 on quality threshold criteria. including improving energy efficiency and The Company strives to be an employer management and ISO 14001 on environmental reducing carbon emissions. of choice, nurturing a competent, management, as well as OHSAS 18001 on These criteria are based on AA1000 Standard’s skilled and engaged workforce to drive occupational health and safety management. five-part Materiality Test comprising: For project managers, safety accounts sustainable growth. 1. Issues that have direct short-term for an additional 10-20% of their KPIs. In terms of sustainability reporting, financial impact; Of this, safety performance, including Sustainability Management Keppel Land has adopted and aligned its 2. Issues where the Company has policy accident frequency rate and accident Driving Keppel Land’s sustainability Sustainability Report 2017 with the Global statements of strategic nature; severity rate, as well as fatal accidents, efforts is the Sustainability Committee, Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 3. Issues that comparable organisations accounts for 50%. Any fatality at the end which includes senior management Reporting Standards: Comprehensive option. consider material; of the supply chain will also affect the personnel. The Committee is responsible for It is also externally assured in accordance 4. Issues important to stakeholders; and bonuses of key staff. formulating the Company’s Sustainability with the AA1000 Assurance Standard. 5. Issues that are considered to be social norms. Innovation and change, collaboration and teamwork, as well as risk management This allows Keppel Land to review form part of executives’ competency the significance of such issues assessment in the staff appraisal and periodically, based on changing performance management framework, stakeholder expectations. and carry a 30% weightage. Sustainability Committee Structure The table on page 13 shows how the Sustainability Data Management Company’s key material issues are Keppel Land, together with other business BOARD OF DIRECTORS linked to its overall strategy and risk units within the Keppel Group, has a data management approach. management system which captures * GRI 102-46 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE 1. The Company adopts a proactive and integrated approach in the design, development and Singapore Property Management management of its buildings, including The Glades. Project Management and China Sustainable Design Vietnam Risk Management Corporate Services and Indonesia Corporate Social Responsibility Regional Investments Finance and Administration Workplace Safety and Health Human Resources Group Internal Audit 1 10 11 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Overview Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Managing Sustainability Supporting Six Relevant Sustainable Development Goals Keppel Land’s Material Issues* SDG Goal Objective Targets1 Material Topics Topic Boundary and Impact Ensure healthy lives and promote • To maintain an incidentand injury-free work environment. Level 1: well-being for all, at all ages. • To equip all frontline managers with the knowledge and skills of safety leadership. Key Material Issues • To have all new commercial developments certified to a recognised standard that supports and promotes the health and well-being of building occupants. Economic Performance and Sustainable financial performance, occupational and customer health and safety, as well as compliance Health and Safety Compliance with national or international standards in areas including corporate governance, environment, safety, Build resilient infrastructure, • To invest, on average, 2% of the Company’s profit in innovations to support product responsibility and society, are material to both internal (employees) and external (customers, promote inclusive and sustainable development by 2030. business partners, partner agencies and the community) stakeholders. sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation. This applies to Keppel Land’s operations in Singapore and overseas. Make cities and human • To have all new Singapore developments and overseas commercial projects settlements inclusive, safe, certified to the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS standard (or its equivalent). resilient and sustainable. • To have all overseas residential developments certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent. • To have all newly acquired completed commercial buildings certified to the Level 2: BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. Highly Critical Issues Ensure sustainable consumption • To reduce energy and water usage intensities by 30% from 2010’s levels by 2030. Environmental Impact Environmental aspects, including the use of environmentally-friendly materials, energy and water conservation, and production patterns. • To increase the amount of green materials used (e.g. green-labelled products, • Materials use reducing carbon emissions, efficient effluents and waste management as well as sustainable performance of low-emission products, or products with recycled content) to 50% by 2030. • Energy efficiency products and services, are important elements in addressing climate change. • Water management • Carbon emissions reduction These aspects are relevant to the Company’s internal and external stakeholders. • Effluents and waste management Take urgent action to combat • To reduce carbon emission intensity by 40% from 2010’s level by 2030. • Sustainable products and services Environmental guidelines relating to these areas apply in all geographical locations where the Company operates. climate change and its impacts. Labour Practices Positive employment practices are critical in attracting, retaining and developing its talent pool as the Company • Employment strives to be an employer of choice. These practices directly impact employees in Keppel Land’s offices in • Training and education Singapore and overseas. Strengthen the means of • To continue collaborating with partners and stakeholders in the communities • Labour-management relations implementation and revitalise where we operate to build a sustainable future. the global partnership for sustainable development Social Responsibility The Company is committed to be a responsible corporate citizen, contributing and enriching the lives of local • Local communities communities wherever it operates. • Business ethics Community engagement as well as business ethics are material to all internal and external stakeholders, 1 Keppel Land’s environmental targets apply to all projects where it has a majority stake and/or operational control. and apply to Keppel Land’s operations in Singapore and overseas. environmental as well as workplace and anti-corruption. The Company also health and safety-related data for the communicates its progress in implementing Company’s projects in Singapore, China, these principles to the UNGC annually. Level 3: Vietnam, Indonesia and Myanmar. Emerging or Moderately Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Material Issues Streamlining of data collection, analysis and At the UN Sustainable Development reporting processes reduce manpower costs Summit in 2015, the UN released a set of as well as improve business intelligence. 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Market presence As Keppel Land seeks to integrate sustainable policies, strategies and practices into its business operations, Market communications its market presence, as well as adherence to standards relating to marketing communications, prohibition Regular measuring and monitoring also and specific targets that aim to tackle Anti-child labour of child labour and policy of non-discrimination are important and relevant to all its operations. enable Keppel Land to better manage its the world’s biggest sustainable development Non-discrimination sustainability performance. challenges by 2030. The SDGs call These aspects have an impact on all of the Company’s stakeholder groups. for worldwide collaboration among United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) governments, businesses and the Since 2011, Keppel Land has been a community to mobilise their efforts to signatory to the UNGC, a United Nations (UN) achieve a common set of goals. initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially Keppel Land is committed to contribute to responsible policies, as well as report on advancing sustainable development through * GRI 102-47, GRI 102-49 their implementation. aligning its activities with selected goals. In 2016, the Company adopted six SDGs Sharing the same conviction that business which are most aligned with its business practices which are rooted in universal operations and material issues. Further principles help the global marketplace to steps were taken in 2017 to establish stretch be more socially and economically inclusive, targets and align its existing strategies with Keppel Land has pledged its commitment these six SDGs, which were identified based to the UNGC’s 10 universal principles in the on the Company’s potential impact on and areas of human rights, labour, environment contribution to these goals. 12 13 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Environment The Committee also leads Keppel Land’s implementation of the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) as well as the Eco-Office and Go Green Keppel Land adopts a proactive and holistic approach with Keppel Land outreach programmes. towards environmental management and strives to Environmental Management System continually improve its sustainability performance. Keppel Land has implemented an EMS in accordance with the internationally-recognised ISO 14001 standard for managing and controlling As a responsible green developer, environmental sustainability strategy corporate activities to achieve Carbon Emission Keppel Land is committed to the highest which focuses on five main areas, continuous improvement in Intensity Reduction standards of environmental protection. including the formulation of corporate environmental performance. 20% The Company also strives to continually improve its environmental performance. policies and programmes, development of new projects, management of The EMS better enables the Company In 2017, Keppel Land’s carbon completed buildings, implementation to identify aspects of its activities that emission intensity was about The Company adopts a holistic and of management systems, as well as may have significant impact on the 20% below 2010’s level. proactive approach towards environmental organisation of outreach initiatives. environment. Targets are then established, management and is focused on creating with procedures and processes in place to BCA Green Mark Awards properties that harmonise with and The Sustainability Committee, achieve these objectives. enhance the environment. It undertakes which includes senior management 75 To-date, Keppel Land has rigorous measures to ensure that both new and existing developments comply personnel, oversees Keppel Land’s sustainability efforts which include ISO 14001 Certification The Company achieved the ISO 14001 with regulatory requirements and are environmental management and certification for its property development garnered a total of 75 BCA Green Mark Awards for its properties aligned with internationally-recognised protection. The Committee formulates and property management operations in in Singapore, China, Vietnam, environmental guidelines. Keppel Land’s eco-policy, principles, Singapore in 2008 and 2009 respectively. Indonesia, Myanmar, the Philippines targets and framework for action, The scope of certification was extended and India, including 13 Platinum Environmental Sustainability Strategy implements green initiatives, as well to its property development operations Awards. Recognising key environmental challenges as sets performance benchmarks for in China and Vietnam in 2009, which and risks, Keppel Land has adopted an continuous improvement. obtained independent certifications in 2011 and 2013 respectively. In 2013, the scope was further extended to include Keppel Land’s property development operations in Indonesia. The Company renewed its certification 2 for its operations in Singapore, China, Vietnam and Indonesia in 2014. To further enhance its management performance, Keppel Land has manage its consultants, main contractors 1. Keppel Land develops implemented an Integrated Management and subcontractors, as well as diverse properties that are System (IMS) which combines the services, materials and equipment required lauded for excellence in sustainable design, such as ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 to deliver large-scale developments in a Corals at Keppel Bay, which standards on environmental management, complex supply chain environment. has garnered the Green quality management and occupational Mark GoldPLUS Award by the Building and Construction health and safety management In selecting its main contractors for Authority of Singapore. respectively into a single framework Keppel Land’s new projects in Singapore, 2. for its operations in Singapore, China contractors are assessed based on The Company is committed and Vietnam in 2014, 2015 and 2016 stringent criteria, which include track to creating properties that harmonise with and respectively. record, financial strength as well as enhance the environment, commitment towards high standards such as Marina Bay In 2017, Keppel Land implemented the of quality, environmental management Financial Centre. new ISO 14001:2015 standard for its and safety. Contractors with ISO 9001, Singapore operations. Implementation of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications these new standards for the Company’s are preferred. operations in China, Vietnam and Indonesia will be completed by 2018. For all project sites covered under the scope of Keppel Land’s EMS, Supply Chain contractors are required to conduct As a sustainable property developer, an impact assessment based on activities Keppel Land is committed to managing at the project site prior to construction. its supply chain across the whole life The assessment covers potential cycle of the project, from its initiation and negative environmental impacts, design development stages to subsequent including depletion of resources, construction and operation stages. biodiversity disturbance, as well as 1 This allows the Company to effectively air, water and noise pollution. 14 15 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Environment Environmental Objectives* Objectives To develop environmentallyTo adopt an integrated To meet national or To raise environmental awareness To underscore importance of To develop green capabilities, Preserve biodiversity in friendly properties that approach in the design, international standards on among stakeholders.* environmental ownership knowledge and skills to enhance local environments. minimise pollution and construction and development environmental protection. among stakeholders. building performance. other adverse impacts on of sustainable developments. the environment. Targets To have all new Singapore Reduce carbon footprint and Expand the scope of the Engage staff, tenants and Promote green practices among Build a core team of in-house Preserve biodiversity and developments and overseas implement sustainable practices ISO 14001 environmental the wider public through tenants and employees through the green building specialists through maintain high standards of commercial projects certified to the when developing new buildings management system certification environmental initiatives including Green Mark for Office Interior and courses on sustainability and environmental protection in BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS standard, and managing existing properties. to include the Company’s business the Go Green with Keppel Land Eco-Office programmes. green building technology. native environments to ensure a or its equivalent, all overseas operations overseas. outreach programme. balanced and intact ecosystem. residential developments certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, as well as all newly acquired completed commercial buildings certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. Performances in 2017 • Clinched the BCA Quality • Implemented the Keppel Supplier • Implemented the new • Sponsored the Singapore leg of • Successfully assisted two office • To-date, about 40% of the • Keppel Land was conferred Champion (Gold) Award Code of Conduct to influence ISO 14001:2015 standard the National Geographic Earth tenants in achieving the BCA Company’s project and the Special Recognition Award for developers. and encourage its suppliers to for its Singapore operations. Day Run 2017. Green Mark for Office Interior property managers in Singapore for Land Use, Biodiversity and • Attained a total of 75 BCA Green operate responsibly, improve • Implementing conversion to the • Sponsored the International Award through the adoption of and overseas have been Environment at the Sustainable Mark Awards to-date for its their energy efficiency and new ISO 14001:2015 standard for Green Building Conference green office operational standards. trained and equipped with Business Awards 2017. properties in Singapore and reduce overall carbon emissions. its operations in China, Vietnam 2017 and collaborated with • 38 of Keppel Land’s commercial, green certifications. • Implemented green initiatives overseas, including 13 Platinum, • Established a set of and Indonesia. BCA to plant 50 trees to help residential and hospitality such as enhancing water quality, nine GoldPLUS and 47 Gold Awards Sustainable Design Standards the Conference achieve carbon developments in Singapore and as well as increasing plant density in Singapore, China, Vietnam, for new developments. neutrality in 30 years. overseas participated in Earth Hour. and natural habitat areas at the Indonesia, Myanmar, • Conducted annual reviews • Organised the premiere screening • Cultivated urban farms in its Eco-City International Country the Philippines and India. to track the progress of of An Inconvenient Sequel: corporate office and residential Club in Tianjin, China. Environmental Operations and Truth to Power for 500 buildings in Singapore to Carbon Management Plans to stakeholders including tenants encourage sustainable farming ensure they remain relevant and tertiary students. among staff, tenants and residents. and up-to-date. • Attained recertification of the • The public outreach sponsorship Singapore Environment Council’s fund, GreenSeeds, jointly funded Eco-Office Programme for by Keppel Land and the BCA, Keppel Land’s corporate office supported nine schools to create for another three years from 2017. eco-corridors to inculcate a green • Supported Ricoh’s Eco Action Day mindset among schoolchildren. as Strategic Partner. • Partnered the Singapore Green • Engaged suppliers and Building Council to organise a contractors through a sharing sharing session titled ‘Better session on sustainability issues Places for People’ for staff and and greening the supply chain. tenants on the impact of green • Hosted secondary school students buildings on the health, well-being on a marine conservation tour at and productivity of its occupants. Marina at Keppel Bay. Plans Ahead • To have all new Singapore • Implement guidelines comprising • Roll out the IMS to cover all • To continue to contribute to the • To achieve optimal levels of • To have all project managers • To partake in good stewardship developments and overseas stretch targets in the areas of overseas operations. green scene through partnerships energy, paper and toner usage trained as Green Mark Managers of the natural environment and commercial projects certified environmental certification, with related agencies and bodies at the corporate office. within two years of joining the adopt best practices and policies to the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS energy, water, landscaping in Singapore and overseas. • To encourage more tenants Company, so as to develop a that support healthy ecosystems, standard, or its equivalent, and materials use in new • To continually engage and to renovate their premises pool of in-house professionals promote biodiversity and sustain and all overseas residential developments in Singapore inculcate a green mindset among in accordance with the with expertise in sustainable natural resources. developments to be certified and overseas. various stakeholder groups BCA Green Mark for Office design processes, to encourage to the BCA Green Mark Gold through sharing best practices Interior requirements. integrated designs and enhance standard, or its equivalent. at environmental conferences, the environmental performance • To have all newly acquired organising outreach programmes of its buildings. completed commercial buildings and supporting eco-related certified to the BCA Green Mark events. Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. * GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 16 17 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Environment Supply Chain Management Compliance Overseas, International Financial Centre In 2017, the main contractor appointed Jakarta Tower 2 in Indonesia and Marina by the Company for a residential project at Keppel Covei in Zhongshan, China, were Project Initiation Design Development Tender Construction Operation in Singapore was fined $5,000 for noise awarded Platinum. pollution at the construction site. Mitigating actions have since been Launched in 2005, the BCA Green Mark Sustainable Concept and Schematic Tender taken to prevent recurrence. scheme drives Singapore’s construction Design Brief Design Review Documentation Construction Procurement industry towards achieving a sustainable Benchmarks of Excellence built environment by incorporating best Set minimum BCA Appoint consultants to Select contractors Ensure Environmental State ISO 14001 Keppel Land adopts a proactive approach practices in environmental design and Green Mark target for conduct environmental based on their track Aspects Impact specifications in the new developments. impact assessment. record, financial strength, Assessment is conducted contracts for procurement towards environmental protection through construction, as well as encouraging the commitment towards to identify and mitigate of services. harnessing human capital, technology adoption of green building technologies. Issue Sustainable Design high standards of environmental issues. and innovation. It provides a comprehensive framework Standards to design team quality, environmental for assessing the overall environmental and consultants. management and safety. Encourage contractors It has set the benchmark for all new performance of new and existing buildings to source green-labelled Singapore developments and overseas in terms of energy and water efficiency, Preference for materials responsibly. commercial projects to be certified to the indoor air quality, as well as other green ISO 9001-, ISO 14001Building and Construction Authority of and innovative features. and OHSAS 18001Monitor contractors’ certified contractors. Singapore’s (BCA) Green Mark GoldPLUS energy, water standard, or its equivalent, and for all Energy and Cost Savings and construction Set out standards of materials usage. overseas residential developments to When fully completed, the total reduction conduct for contractors, be certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold in energy consumption from all of Keppel including in the areas standard, or its equivalent. All newly acquired Land’s BCA Green Mark-awarded projects of legal compliance, completed commercial buildings are also will be over 160 million kWh per annum, health and safety, to be certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold which is the equivalent of energy required as well as environmental standard, or its equivalent, within two years. to power more than 28,000 homes in management. Singapore for one year ii. This also translates State environmental and BCA Green Mark to cost savings of about $32 million ISO 14001 specifications To-date, Keppel Land has garnered a total of annually iii. This is in addition to total annual in tender documents. 75 BCA Green Mark Awards for its properties water savings of about two million m3 in Singapore, China, Vietnam, Indonesia, and annual carbon emission reduction of Myanmar, the Philippines and India. almost 70,000 tonnes iv. They include 13 Platinum, nine GoldPLUS, 47 Gold and six Certified Awards. In Singapore, Keppel Bay Tower, Ocean Financial Centre, Marina Bay Financial Centre Contractors are required to establish Towers 1 and 2, Marina Bay Financial Centre Key Challenges Strategies and Actions i The Keppel Cove project has been and implement appropriate measures Tower 3, One Raffles Quay, Bugis Junction divested in 2018. to mitigate and/or prevent significant Towers, as well as Keppel Datahub 2 and 4 ii Average consumption of a Housing environmental impacts identified. in Singapore have attained the BCA Green Development Board five-room flat Climate change and global warming • Legal compliance is 471 kWh/month (Source: SP Services) Mark Platinum Award. Additionally, Keppel iii Energy cost: 1kWh = $0.2030 More stringent regulatory • Carbon Management Plan In alignment with the Keppel Group, Datahub 2 and 4 have both garnered the (Source: SP Services, 4Q 2017) requirements to address carbon • Minimum BCA Green Mark iv Energy conversion ratio: emissions are expected. the Company has in place the Keppel Supplier BCA-IDA Platinum Award. Keppel Land’s standards, or their equivalent, 1kWh electricity = 0.4244 kg CO2 for new developments Code of Conduct, which was developed to corporate office also received the BCA Green (Source: Energy Market Authority, • Sustainable Design Standards integrate Keppel’s sustainability principles Mark Platinum Award for Office Interior. Energy Statistics, 2017) across its supply chain and positively influence the environmental, social and governance performance of its suppliers. Limited natural resources • Legal compliance All new suppliers that provide Keppel with Cost of energy is expected to rise in the • Minimum BCA Green Mark standards products and services valued at $200,000 long run, leading to higher expectations for completed buildings or more per contract or over cumulative to source for materials responsibly. • Environmental Operations Plans purchase orders in the prior calendar year • Green procurement policy are expected to sign and abide by the Code, • Supply chain management which covers areas pertaining to business conduct, labour practices, safety and health, and environmental management. All Keppel Group companies, including Ecological conservation • Legal compliance Keppel Land, are required to include the Greater emphasis is placed on the • ISO 14001 Environmental acknowledgment and signing of the Code protection of ecosystems and Management System well-being of the community. as part of their supplier selection procedure. • Environmental outreach programmes • Stakeholder engagement programmes Through such efforts, Keppel Land • Public communications plan aims to influence and encourage its 1. suppliers to operate responsibly, Keppel Land garnered multiple awards at improve energy efficiency and reduce the BCA Awards 2017, overall carbon emissions. including the coveted BCA Quality Champion (Gold) 1 Award for developers. 18 19 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Environment Sustainability Benchmarks In 2017, for the second time, Marina at at its offices and encouraging staff to be central focal point to reinforce the national 1. Bugis Junction Towers’ Keppel Land continues to gain Keppel Bay was conferred the 5 Gold eco-conscious, the Singapore Environmental drive towards greater energy efficiency, eco-features include solar recognition both regionally and Anchor status from the Marina Industries Council has recertified Keppel Land’s as well as to streamline, coordinate and panels which enhance the building’s sustainability internationally for its stewardship in Association, an international accreditation. corporate office as a Green Office for disseminate building energy efficiencyperformance. environmental sustainability. The marina also underwent an independent another three years from 2017. related activities. audit of its environmental standards as an 2. Ocean Financial Centre For its commitment and achievement eco-friendly marina. Within its offices, eco-friendly products As part of the GBIC programme, stands tall as an eco-icon in delivering high-quality, sustainable such as Totally Chlorine-Free or Elemental Keppel Land will be exploring ways to in the heart of Singapore’s central business district. developments, Keppel Land was awarded In recognition of his leadership in several Chlorine-Free printing paper and Energy achieve further energy savings of over 12 accolades at the BCA Awards in 2017, building innovation and sustainability Star-labelled computers are used. 20% above the best-in-class BCA Green including the coveted BCA Quality initiatives in residential and commercial Mark Platinum standard at Keppel Bay Champion (Gold) Award for developers. projects, Keppel Land’s General Manager A recycling company has been contracted Tower. Several innovative and emerging for Project Management and Sustainable to collect and recycle waste paper. technologies, including a smart building Testament to its continual improvements Design was conferred the Ministry of Keppel Land uses energy-efficient management system and smart in its environmental, social and National Development Medallion in 2017 light emitting diode (LED) lightings in lighting system will be test-bedded governance (ESG) standards, at the for his contributions to Singapore’s green all its offices, which consume less than at Keppel Bay Tower. Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark building sector. half the energy of fluorescent tubes. (GRESB) 2017, Keppel Land topped four Energy consumption was reduced to Green Capabilities categories, namely the Global/Developer/ As part of the Keppel Group, the Company 295,000 kWh in 2017, with energy usage Keppel Land is committed to inculcating Residential, Developer/Residential, continued to participate in the Carbon per gross floor area at about 64 kWh/m2.iv in its employees a sound understanding Asia Pacific/Residential and the Asia/ Disclosure Project (CDP) on a voluntary of green technologies and knowledge Developer categories. The Company basis in 2017. The CDP is an international In 2017, paper usage increased marginally of sustainability management as part also maintained its third position among non-profit organisation that encourages from 10 reamsv per employee in 2016, of the Company’s plan to improve its developers globally. companies and cities to disclose and to 10.7 reams. Toner usage decreased environmental performance. share vital environmental information. marginally from 0.9 tonereqvi per employee Keppel Land also achieved an outstanding It currently holds the largest global collection in 2016 to 0.8 tonereq in 2017. To-date, about 40% of all project and score in its ESG performance, surpassing of self-reported climate change, water property managers in Singapore and its peers. and forest-risk data, and is a key source of Green Innovation overseas have been trained as Green Mark environmental performance database for Keppel Land is a partner in the Green Managers, Green Mark Facilities Managers To recognise the Company’s leading green many partners worldwide. Buildings Innovation Cluster (GBIC) or Green Mark Professionals, or have practices, Keppel Land was conferred programme, initiated by the BCA. undergone the Singapore Certified Energy the Special Recognition Award for Land Eco-Office Programme The GBIC comprises academic institutions, Manager programme organised by the Use, Biodiversity and Environment in the In recognition of Keppel Land’s continuous developers and other professionals in the National University of Singapore’s Energy Sustainable Business Awards in 2017. efforts to implement green initiatives green building industry and serves as the Sustainability Unit. Keppel Land supported the International 2 Green Building Conference 2017 held in Singapore. The conference, attended by thought leaders and industry players from over 50 countries, provided insights in green building development. Staff from The Company is also a founding member the Company’s project management of the Singapore Green Building Council, team attended the event to keep abreast which propels Singapore’s building of green business strategies and and construction industry towards best practices. environmental sustainability by promoting green building design, practices and Public Communications Plan technologies, integrating eco-initiatives Keppel Land has in place a Public into mainstream design, construction and Communications Plan. The plan includes operation of buildings, as well as building gathering feedback and communicating industry capabilities and professionalism mitigating measures, wherever possible, to support wider adoption of green to minimise inconvenience to residents building development and practices. living near its developments which are The Council complements and supports undergoing construction. For instance, the government’s efforts to accelerate the the Company will proactively inform greening of the city’s buildings by 2030. residents of any upcoming construction works in the vicinity during the design and construction stage of its new developments, as well as obtain feedback from them. Green Business Associations Keppel Land is a founding member of the iv Energy usage intensity in Keppel Land’s World Green Building Council Corporate corporate office increased in 2017 due to Advisory Board and works with the global a reduction in office space. network of green building councils to v Paper usage excludes Keppel Land Hospitality Management. implement strategies, ideas and projects vi Tonereq refers to the equivalent toner that 1 for a green built environment. prints 6,000 copies. 20 21 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Environment Environmental Performance Water Use Total Indirect Energy Consumption (million kWh) Total Water Consumption (‘000 m3) This section reports on Keppel Land’s Water Consumption energy and water use, waste discharged In 2017, Keppel Land’s total water 72 720 and recycled, materials used as well as consumption was about 567,000 m3. 60 emission to air for major properties in 600 Singapore and overseas. In Singapore, water is drawn from public 48 supply sources such as local catchment 480 It covers data for its corporate office vii, areas, imported water, reclaimed water 36 Singapore viii and overseas ix properties (NEWater) and desalinated water. 360 24 under Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s Potable water is consumed at Keppel Land’s 240 portfolios, as well as hospitality investment properties for drinking, 12 developments x managed by Keppel Land sanitation, irrigation and general washing. 120 Hospitality Management. 0 Estimated water consumption at the 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 Residential developments have been corporate office is about 3,000 m3 per 2014 2015 2016 2017 Corporate Office 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 excluded unless otherwise stated as they annum or 9.1 m3/person per annum, Corporate Office 3 3 3 3 Singapore Commercial a,b 23.6 21.4 22.1 22.2 are trading properties, which the Company based on the recommendations set by Singapore Commercial a,b 217 168 166 192 eventually will not own. the Singapore Standard SS CP48:2005 Overseas Commercial d 15.9 15.6 12.4 25.0 Overseas Commercial d 131 130 104 170 for water services. Hospitality Properties e 22.7 19.4 21.4 16.6 To account for the variation in the type, Hospitality Properties e 271 343 284 203 Total 62.6 56.7 56.2 64.1 number and construction stages of projects Water conservation measures include Total 622 644 557 568 undertaken every year, Keppel Land the use of water-efficient fittings certified measures the energy consumption of under PUB’s Water Efficiency Labelling each project over the period of its entire Scheme, such as self-closing taps and Energy Usage Intensity (kWh/m2) construction. The information is disclosed flow regulators. All of Keppel Land’s Water Usage Intensity (m3/person) upon the completion of the project to investment buildings in Singapore have 480 allow for more meaningful comparisons won the PUB Water Efficient Building 90 between developments. Silver Award for outstanding efforts in 400 water conservation. 75 320 Energy Use 60 In 2017, total direct energy consumption Water Discharge 240 from the use of diesel (over 850,000 litres) Water drawn from public utilities at 45 was about 28,400 GJ xi, while total the construction sites of Keppel Land’s 160 indirect energy consumption from use developments in Singapore is generally 30 of electricity (64 million kWh) was recycled and reused for washing vehicles. 80 15 about 230,800 GJ xii. With appropriate earth control measures, 0 discharged water contains a lower amount 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 Energy conservation measures undertaken of total suspended solids than the legal 2014 2015 2016 2017 by the Company in 2017 include developing allowable limit of 50 mg/litre. Corporate Office 82 60 60 64 Corporate Office 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 energy-efficient buildings, as well as Singapore Commercial a,b 101 97 101 101 upgrading and optimising chiller plant In Singapore, discharged water is Singapore Commercial a,b,c 18.7 17.5 17.3 19.3 Overseas Commercial d 173 170 149 138 systems and replacing conventional lightings conveyed by a network of pipelines Overseas Commercial d 20.8 20.6 16.2 45.9 Hospitality Properties e 123 105 115 93 with LED tubes at its investment properties. nationwide to waterworks or wastewater Hospitality Properties e 1.5 1.9 1.5 1.1 treatment plants where it is chemically treated, filtered and disinfected. The treatment frees the water of harmful bacteria and makes it clear, odourless Total Carbon Emissions g (tonnes CO2) Energy Usage Intensity at Completed Construction Sites f (GJ/m2) and colourless. The treated water is then pumped into the distribution system 40,000 0.6 and service reservoirs. 32,000 0.5 Similarly, overseas, wastewater is recycled 24,000 0.4 for use whenever possible. 16,000 0.3 Waste Management vii Keppel Land’s corporate office occupies 0.2 about 50,000 sf spread across four floors Waste Recycled 8,000 at Bugis Junction Towers. Total waste generated at Keppel’s viii Includes Keppel Towers and Keppel Towers 2, 0 0.1 Keppel Bay Tower, Ocean Financial Centre, completed properties in Singapore and 2014 2015 2016 2017 as well as Bugis Junction Towers. overseas in 2017 was estimated at about 0.0 ix Includes Saigon Centre in Vietnam and 9,600 tonnes. Of this, about 270 tonnes Fuel (scope 1) h 1,100 1,100 2,410 2,290 International Financial Centre Jakarta in Indonesia. Ocean Reflections of waste, including paper, plastics and The 77 King Street Office Tower in Australia Refrigerants (scope 1) h 750 750 750 640 Financial at Keppel Madison Lakefront Corals at Centre Bay Residences Residences Keppel Bay and International Centre in Vietnam were divested cans, was recycled at Keppel Land’s in 2016. Electricity (scope 2) h 35,100 27,000 24,350 28,510 investment buildings. Direct Energy x Includes Sedona Hotel Yangon in Myanmar and Business Travel (scope 3) h 1,500 1,600 1,330 1,910 (Diesel) 0.19 0.45 0.28 0.37 0.30 Spring City Golf & Lake Resort in Kunming, China. Sedona Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar Tenants at these buildings are also Staff Commuting (scope 3) h 200 200 200 180 Indirect Energy and Sedona Suites Hanoi in Vietnam were divested encouraged to recycle. For instance, at (Electricity) 0.09 0.12 0.13 0.00 0.14 in 2017 and 2016 respectively. Water Consumption (scope 3) h 250 250 200 200 xi 1 litre of diesel = 0.0331 GJ Ocean Financial Centre, a central paper Total 38,900 30,900 29,240 33,730 xii 1 kWh of electricity = 0.0036 GJ recycling chute complete with a paper 22 23 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Environment shredder for disposing confidential office buildings. This is to better reflect the Overall Carbon Emission Intensity (kg/m2) documents within their premises Group’s actual sustainability efforts. enables tenants to recycle used paper. 72 Recycling bins, including those for Based on this new methodology, and 60 electronic waste, are also centrally considering only scope 1 and 2 emissionsh, provided within the buildings, making it its carbon emission intensity in 2017 was 48 convenient for tenants to recycle. about 20% below 2010’s level. 36 In 2017, Keppel Land’s corporate offices Implementation of energy conservation recycled about 20,000 kg of waste paper measures, including the upgrading and 24 in total. Waste generated at Keppel Land’s optimisation of chiller plant systems, 12 corporate office consists mainly of paper. as well as replacement of conventional The Company has a systematic paper lightings with LED tubes at its investment 0 management and recycling programme. properties, have improved the Company’s 2014 2015 2016 2017 These include setting printers to print environmental performance. Keppel Land Total 69.3 67.9 62.5 63.3 double-sided by default, encouraging will continue to implement similar the use of e-mails and the intranet for the energy conservation measures in all its broadcast and storage of documents, properties, including those overseas. utilising smaller printouts, as well as switching to electronic greeting cards. The Company also advocates Embodied Carbon Emission Intensity at Completed Construction Sites i (kg/m2) communication via audio or video Employees are encouraged to recycle conferencing, where possible, so as to 1 1,200 used paper, with recycling bins placed at minimise overseas travel. 1,000 convenient locations in all departments. 1. Keppel Land incorporates A recycling company has been contracted Construction Projects green features in the 800 to collect used paper regularly. While emissions due to construction properties that it develops, including those overseas, activities that occur within the boundaries such as The Podium, 600 Direct and Indirect Emissions of a development site are a result of the in Manila, the Philippines. 400 Emission to Air contractor’s direct and indirect emissions, The Company’s carbon emissions include Keppel Land recognises the significant 200 direct emissions from fuel used in power environmental impact of construction generators and loss of refrigerants in air activities. The Company measures and a Energy data for Singapore commercial buildings 0 includes energy for mechanical and electrical conditioning systems, indirect emissions monitors energy and emission data from services such as air-conditioning, lifts and lightings Ocean Reflections due to purchased electricity consumed its construction sites. in all common areas, but excludes tenants’ energy Financial at Keppel Madison Lakefront Corals at Centre Bay Residences Residences Keppel Bay at investment properties and hotels, consumption as tenants are charged separately for use of electricity within their tenanted space. as well as other indirect emissions Construction Materials b Includes Keppel Towers and Keppel Towers 2, Embodied Carbon arising from Energy Use arising from water usage at investment Materials Usage Keppel Bay Tower, Ocean Financial Centre, (Direct + Indirect) 27.7 51 40 31 42 properties, business travel and employees The construction and real estate sector as well Bugis Junction Towers. Prudential Tower and Equity Plaza were divested in 2014. commuting to and from the workplace. consumes a considerable amount of Water intensity figures for Singapore commercial Embodied Carbon arising c from Materials Use 510 860 920 970 530 materials. However, the amount of buildings are computed based on the number of In 2017, total carbon emissions was about materials used within a reporting year occupants in each respective year. d Includes Saigon Centre in Vetnam and International 33,730 tonnes. The largest source of is not comparable over the years as the Financial Centre Jakarta in Indonesia. The 77 King emissions was the use of electricity in its number of projects varies every year Street Office Tower in Australia and International investment buildings, which accounted and the construction stages of each Centre in Vietnam were divested in 2016. Materials Used at Completed Construction Sites (kg/m2) for about 85% of the Company’s project differ. To meaningfully track such e Energy and water intensity for Hospitality Properties is expressed in terms of carbon footprint. data, Keppel Land discloses the usage kWh/room-night and m3/room-night respectively. 4,800 of materials over the entire construction Includes Sedona Hotel Yangon in Myanmar and Spring City Golf & Lake Resort in Kunming, China. Under Keppel Land’s Carbon Management period of a project instead of on a yearly Sedona Hotel Mandalay in Myanmar and Sedona 4,000 Plan, the Company aims to reduce its basis. For comparison purposes, total Suites Hanoi in Vietnam were divested in 2017 and 3,200 carbon emission intensity by 16% below materials used per project is reported 2016 respectively. f Data for construction sites are disclosed on 2010’s level by 2020, and a further 40% upon project completion. a project basis instead of by year, to allow for 2,400 by 2030. Keppel Land has since achieved meaningful comparison. Energy data represent its 16% reduction target ahead of A total of ten most commonly-used the total energy consumed during the entire 1,600 construction period of the project. schedule, in 2016. Normalising the carbon materials in building construction have g Energy conversion ratio for 2017 : 1kWh electricity = 800 emissions by the total floor area of all its been identified and measured. The 0.4244 kg CO2 (Source: Energy Market Authority, investment properties, its carbon emission materials are cement, sand, concrete, Energy Statistics 2017). h Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions 0 intensity in 2017 was about 63.3 kg/m2 aggregate, bricks, steel, aluminium, glass, from fuel used in power generators and loss of Ocean Reflections gross floor area (GFA). This is about 16% paints, as well as ceramic and granite tiles. refrigerant in air-conditioning systems. Financial at Keppel Madison Lakefront Corals at below 2010’s level. Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions due Centre Bay Residences Residences Keppel Bay to purchased electricity consumed at investment Keppel Land has in place a set of properties and hotels. Year of Completion 2011 2011 2012 2014 2016 Moving ahead, Keppel Land’s Sustainable Design Standards for its new Scope 3 emissions include other indirect emissions Materials Intensity performance in terms of emission developments which include stretch arising from water usage at investment properties, (kg/m2 GFA) 2,200 2,900 3,600 3,800 330 business travel as well as commuting to and from reduction will be based on the weighted targets in the areas of environmental the workplace of employees from corporate office. Emisson Intenstity average (normalised by GFA) of each certification, energy, water, landscaping i The emission data represent the project’s total (kg/m2 GFA) 510 860 920 970 530 country’s emission reduction. GFA figures and materials used to improve resource embodied carbon from materials used and energy consumed at the construction site. Embodied for hospitality/retail projects will also efficiency and building productivity. The carbon index of materials are sourced from be adjusted to account for their higher Company aims to reduce materials usage The Inventory of Carbon and Energy 2011, based on energy consumption as compared with intensity and embodied carbon emissions. cradle-to-grave boundaries. 24 25 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Environment marinas across Asia, is committed to along the natural contours of the Environment Protection Expenditure good environmental stewardship at undulating landscape. Description Estimated Expenditure ($) all its properties. Originally an arid and mountainous Total cost of green building features in all Green Mark-awarded projects in Singapore and overseas to-date* 150,000,000 Sedona Hotel Yangon has successfully site afflicted by poor surface drainage achieved significant waste and emission and severe soil erosion, Spring City Environment Protection Expenditure in 2017: reduction, as well as energy and water is home to two world-class golf conservation with the incorporation of courses today. Indigenous flora like Green building features in Green Mark-awarded projects in 2017 6,252,000 sustainable features and green practices. the eucalyptus trees and wildflowers Training (including environmental courses, seminars and conferences) 12,000 were carefully preserved during and External certifications (including ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001) 170,000 Annual water savings amounted to after construction to ensure that the Outreach programmes^ 45,739m3, which is equivalent to ecosystem remained balanced and 18 Olympic-sized swimming pools, intact. Spring City also features a • Environmental outreach and management ~ 85,000 resulting in annual cost savings 1.7-km nature trail with over 300 plant • Sponsorship of the International Green Building Conference 2017+ 30,000 of US$29,730. species, most of which are native to the Total 6,549,000 Yunnan province. Information boards The hotel is the first in Myanmar to have have also been placed along the * Total cost includes cost of projects developed in joint ventures which will be borne by Keppel Land and its joint venture partners. ^ Excludes Keppel Land’s share of contribution at Keppel Group level. achieved the BCA Green Mark Gold Award trail to help spread the message on ~ Includes sustainability framework expenditure. for its Garden Wing. Sustainable features the importance of preserving the + Includes contributions from Keppel Group. include real-time water usage monitoring local biodiversity. of public areas including the swimming pools, the use of energy-efficient LED The Ocean and Forest Courses at lights, an innovative new “waste heat” Ria Bintan Golf Club are constructed recovery system which heats water while around existing natural contours so as to regenerating heat thereby increasing preserve wildlife corridors. The integrated energy efficiency, the use of recyclable design allows a one-with-nature theme materials, as well as an extensive guest throughout the resort. Ria Bintan Golf and staff education program to promote Club has also embarked on a programme In addition, it is also committed Carbon Management Plan and encourage sustainable practices. to reduce water usage and fertilisers to conserving global resources by Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Plan in maintaining its golf courses. Local minimising the carbon footprint from its outlines the initiatives and programmes Sedona Hotel Yangon’s Inya Wing, which species of shrubs and groundcovers are construction and operation activities, that the Company will undertake to reduce opened in May 2016, also boasts myriad planted to minimise maintenance work. as well as from the production and its emissions. eco-friendly features. The Inya Wing is distribution of building materials. Myanmar’s first building to be certified At the Eco-City International Country Club Having met its target to reduce its carbon with the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS Award. (ECICC) in the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Targets emission intensity by 16% below 2010’s Eco-City, initiatives for preserving Recognising the twin benefits of level by 2020 ahead of time, Keppel Land Preserving Biodiversity biodiversity are in place. They include environmentally-friendly business has set a new target of reducing its carbon Conscious efforts are made to preserve enhancing water quality with additional practices on the environment and its emission intensity by 40% below 2010’s the biodiversity in Keppel Land’s re-circulating streams so as to increase bottom line, Keppel Land has set strategic emission level by 2030. properties. Its golf courses such as plant density along the water’s edge, plans for continual improvement. Spring City Golf & Lake Resort (Spring City) conserving water through better controls, To achieve this, Keppel Land will undertake in Kunming, China, and Ria Bintan Golf as well as increasing the natural habitat Environmental Operations Plans carbon reduction measures which include Club in Indonesia were sculpted areas and migration corridors. Keppel Land has implemented developing high-performance commercial environmental operations plans for buildings, improving energy efficiency the management of its completed of existing buildings and tapping on commercial buildings in Singapore and renewable energy. hospitality properties overseas since 2012. In 2014, the scope was expanded Meeting the 40% reduction target will to include completed commercial result in a cumulative reduction of almost buildings overseas. 140,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, which will yield potential savings of over These plans outline environmental $75 million, from 2010 to 2030. Beyond targets and programmes to yield 2030, an annual reduction of about 17,000 measurable reductions in waste as well as tonnes of carbon emissions, or annual energy and water usage at each property. savings of about $9 million, are expected. These include adhering to Keppel Land’s environmental policy and green Overseas procurement guidelines. Keppel Land’s commitment towards the management and protection of the Annual reviews are conducted to monitor environment goes beyond Singapore to the progress and implementation of the countries overseas where it operates. 1. plans as well as the corresponding cost Keppel Land is committed to good savings. These measures will continue Hospitality Management environmental to help the Company achieve its goal Keppel Land Hospitality Management, stewardship at all its properties, of maintaining at least the BCA Green which operates and manages a portfolio including hospitality Mark GoldPLUS rating for all its completed of properties including hotels, serviced projects such as Sedona Suites Ho Chi commercial buildings in Singapore. residences, golf courses, resorts and 1 Minh City in Vietnam. 26 27 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Environment 1. Keppel Land’s golf Environmental and Sustainability Milestones courses, including those at Ria Bintan Golf Club in Indonesia, have all met stringent guidelines on 2007 Won Best Sustainability Award at Achieved the ISO 9001 certification for environmental protection, Formed the Environment Management ACCA’s Singapore Awards for property developments and project and have attained Committee to spearhead environmental Sustainability Reporting. management in Singapore. Audubon International certification. initiatives for the Company. 2012 2015 2008 Founding member of World Green Building Ranked 4th in Corporate Knights’ Ocean Financial Centre became the first office Council’s Corporate Advisory Board. Global 100, the first time an Asian development in Singapore’s CBD to obtain company made it into the top 10 the highest BCA Green Mark Platinum Award, Included as a constituent of the MSCI in the ranking’s history. while The Estella was the first in Vietnam to Global Sustainability Index. receive the BCA Green Mark Award. Bagged the BCA Quality Champion International Financial Centre Jakarta Gold Award (Developer) and Achieved the ISO 14001 certification Tower 2 became the first development in BCA Built Environment Leadership in Singapore. Indonesia to receive the BCA Green Mark Gold Class Award. Platinum Award. One Raffles Quay emerged Winner in the Office category at the FIABCI Prix 1 d’Excellence Award. 2016 Audubon Certification The Audubon Classic Programme is 2013 Keppel Land’s corporate headquarters The Company owns and operates three targeted at existing golf courses that are Conferred the Most Admired ASEAN at Bugis Junction Towers became the Audubon International-certified golf courses being redeveloped or going through Enterprise Award for CSR at the first Green Mark-awarded office to use in China and Indonesia. ECICC was the first refurbishments while maintaining its use. 2009 ASEAN Business Awards. renewable energy generated offsite to in the world to achieve the prestigious Ocean Financial Centre became the first fully power its operations. Audubon Classic Sanctuary status in 2009, To achieve the status, certified courses must office development in Southeast Asia to Included as a constituent of the achieve the LEED Platinum certification. MSCI Global Sustainability and Keppel Land China received the Top 10 followed by Spring City and Ria Bintan meet stringent programme requirements Socially Responsible Indices. ASEAN Companies in China Award by in 2010. as well as any additional site-specific Expanded the ISO 14001 certification the China-ASEAN Business Council for requirements identified by Audubon. scope to China and Vietnam. Named Regional Sector Leader for Asia the fourth consecutive year. Audubon is a global environmental These include environmental planning, (Office Category) in the Global Real Estate organisation which champions wildlife wildlife and habitat management, outreach Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB). Clinched the BCA Quality Champion Published inaugural Sustainability Report protection as well as provides education and education, reduction of chemical-use (Gold) Award for Developers. in accordance with GRI guidelines. and conservation assistance for responsible and safety, water conservation as well as Keppel Land China received the Top 10 management of natural resources. water quality management. Eco-City International Country Club in ASEAN Companies in China Award by Bagged Best Overall Developer for China became the world’s first Audubon the China-ASEAN Business Council. Singapore, Vietnam and Myanmar at International-certified Classic Sanctuary the Euromoney Real Estate Awards. golf course. Winner of the Services category Environmental Targets at the Singapore Environmental Ranked 1st in Residential (Global), China Achievement Awards. and East Asia sectors, and 3rd among 2010 developers globally in GRESB. Included as a component of Dow Jones Won the Sustainable Business Award Sustainability Index (DJSI) Asia Pacific. (Large Enterprises) at the Singapore Sustainability Awards. Named Most Admired ASEAN Enterprise for corporate social responsibility (CSR) Garnered Singapore Compact’s 2020 2030 at the ASEAN Business Awards. Green Champion Award. 2017 2017 To reduce carbon To reduce carbon Attained Audubon Classic Sanctuary Topped four categories including 2012 the Global/Developer/Residential, emissions intensity emissions intensity status for golf courses in Kunming, China, 2014 2008 Committed to achieve by 16% below 2010’s by 40% below 2010’s and Bintan, Indonesia. Ranked 17th in Corporate Knights’ Developer/Residential, Asia Pacific/ Committed to train all at least the BCA Green emission level. emission level. Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations Residential and the Asia/Developer Committed to achieve Project Managers as Mark GoldPLUS Award, Green Mark Managers. in the World (Global 100). categories, as well as ranked 3rd at least the BCA or its equivalent, To reduce energy Green Mark Gold for new commercial among developers globally in and water usage Included as a component of both DJSI World the GRESB. Award, or its equivalent, 2015 developments overseas. intensities by 30% and Asia Pacific Indices for the fourth and for new developments below 2010’s level. in Singapore and Committed to Committed to fifth consecutive year respectively. Conferred 10 awards at the BCA Awards, overseas. maintain at least the achieve at least the 2011 including the BCA Quality Champion BCA Green Mark BCA Green Mark Joined the United Nations Global Compact. Constituent of MSCI Global Sustainability (Gold) Award for Developers. 2012 GoldPLUS Award Gold Award, or its and Socially Responsible Indices for for completed equivalent, for Included as a component of both DJSI World the third and second consecutive Won nine awards at the Euromoney Committed to achieve commercial buildings newly acquired and Asia Pacific Indices. year respectively. Real Estate Awards, including at least the BCA Green in Singapore. commercial buildings Best Overall Developer in Myanmar, Mark GoldPLUS Award within two years. for new developments Included in RobecoSAM Sustainability Conferred the Most Admired ASEAN Best Office Developer in Vietnam in Singapore. Yearbook 2012 and named Sector Mover Enterprise Award for Corporate Excellence and Indonesia, and Best Residential for real estate. at the ASEAN Business Awards. Developer in Vietnam. 28 29 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Innovation and Product Excellence Sustainability Benchmarks Certification/ Number of Type of Rating Developments Development Location Keppel Land incorporates innovative designs and LEED Platinum 1 Commercial Singapore thoughtful features in its developments to meet Total 1 the needs of its homeowners and tenants. BCA Green Mark – Platinum 7 Commercial Singapore 1 Residential Zhongshana, China Sustainability Benchmarks Integrated Management System (IMS) 1 Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia Serviced Co-office Footprint 4 Data Centre Singapore Keppel Land continually strives towards Keppel Land implemented the IMS for its 60,000 sf Keppel Land’s smart serviced excellence in quality, environmental protection, occupational health and safety, social responsibility and operations in Singapore, China and Vietnam in 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively. The IMS combines the ISO 9001 quality management – GoldPLUS 5 3 Commercial Residential Singapore Singapore 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar co-offices in Singapore, Ho Chi sustainability reporting. system, the ISO 14001 environmental – Gold 10 Residential Singapore Minh City and Yangon offer a management system and the OHSAS 18001 total of 60,000 sf of quality 3 Commerical Singapore The Company aligns with and occupational health and safety management shared workspaces. 22 Residential Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu, Wuxi, Jiangyin, benchmarks its business practices systems into a single framework, thereby Nantongb, Shenyang and Kunming, China against global standards. streamlining processes and increasing 1 Commercial Tianjin, China Sustainability Benchmarks overall operational efficiency. 1 Commercial Manila, The Philippines 79 These include the United States Green 5 Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Building Council’s Leadership in Energy To improve its processes for higher 2 Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam and Environmental Design (LEED), the efficiency and increased productivity, Keppel Land’s properties 1 Residential Jakarta, Indonesia in Singapore and overseas Building and Construction Authority of the Company has adopted the latest 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar have garnered a total of 79 Singapore’s (BCA) Green Mark scheme, ISO 9001:2015 standard for quality 1 Retail Johor Bahru, Malaysia sustainability certifications. the Audubon International certification, management and ISO 14001:2015 standard – Certified 1 Data Centre Singapore the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS for environmental management for its 4 Residential Shanghai, Jiangyin and Shenyang, China 18001 standards, the Global Reporting Singapore operations in 2017, while its 1 Residential Kolkata, India Initiative guidelines as well as the operations in China, Vietnam and Indonesia Total 75 AA1000 Assurance Standard. will be adopting these standards in 2018. 1. An icon of modern architecture, Audubon Classic Sanctuary 3 Golf Course Tianjin and Kunming, China, as well as Reflections at Keppel Bay Bintan, Indonesia epitomises world-class waterfront living in Singapore Total 3 and the region. a The Keppel Cove project in Zhongshan, China has been divested in 2018. b The Waterfront Residences project in Nantong, China was divested in 2017. Sustainability Management Standards Standard Development Location ISO 14001 Residential Singapore Commercial Singapore Residential Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu, Wuxi, Jiangyin, Shenyang and Kunming, China Commercial Shanghai and Tianjin, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Residential Jakarta, Indonesia ISO 9001 Residential Singapore Residential Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu, Wuxi, Jiangyin, Shenyang and Kunming, China Commercial Shanghai and Tianjin, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam OHSAS 18001 Residential Singapore Commercial Singapore Residential Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu, Wuxi, Jiangyin, Shenyang and Kunming, China Commercial Shanghai and Tianjin, China Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 1 30 31 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Sustaining Growth Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Innovation and Product Excellence Innovation* Compliance Customer Focus* As a keen advocate of eco-initiatives, China: The Springdale (Plot 1), The Springdale In 2017, two independent Tenant Satisfaction To drive innovation and collaboration Keppel Land is committed to best In alignment with Keppel’s core value of the Company also aims to raise (Plot 4-1), 8 Park Avenue and Seasons Studies were also conducted by Nielsen, within the Keppel Group, Keppel Technology practices and complies with relevant ‘Customer Focus’, the Company has a environmental awareness by organising Residences in Shanghai; Serenity Cove the global measurement and data analytics & Innovation (KTI) was launched in 2018 to legislations and requirements. There dedicated Customer Focus Unit (CFU) recycling initiatives and eco-related activities Phase 3, Seasons Park, Seasons Garden company, for tenants at Bugis Junction be a change agent and innovation catalyst were no instances of non-compliance that provides strong after-sales support. such as commemorating Earth Hour and and Waterfront Residences in Tianjin; Park Towers and Ocean Financial Centre. for the Group. KTI serves as a platform with laws, regulations and voluntary This has contributed to repeat purchases World Environment Day at its properties. Avenue Heights in Chengdu; Spring City Golf For these two buildings, tenants’ overall for Keppel Land and business units across codes concerning the provision and by customers over the years. Over the years, these events have been and & Lake Resort in Kunming; Stamford City in satisfaction scores were higher than the the Group to harness technology and use as well as the health and safety continue to be well-supported. Jiangyin; and The Seasons in Shenyang. average score for Grade A commercial innovation to create value for stakeholders, of its products and services. The CFU continually engages homeowners buildings in Singapore. thereby co-creating and incubating ideas to ensure a high level of satisfaction for its Service Quality Surveys* Through these surveys, the Company towards tangible outcomes. Comprising The Company abides by the Singapore homes. Regular feedback obtained from Annual service quality surveys are conducted garnered feedback on matters in areas of In 2017, Keppel Land handed over 2,400 four key pillars, namely, InnovateKeppel, Code of Advertising Practice (SCAP) customers on issues including design, at Keppel Land’s residential and commercial cleanliness, security, car parking, building homes in Singapore, China and Vietnam. IncubateKeppel, TechKeppel, and set out by the Advertising Standards fittings and materials used are reviewed, buildings. In 2017, these were conducted maintenance, management personnel PartnerKeppel, KTI will focus on creativity Authority of Singapore. In line with this, with relevant improvements incorporated at 14 completed projects, namely, Keppel Bay as well as green features and facilities. and capability-building to drive innovation all of Keppel Land’s advertisements are during the design development of Tower and Caribbean at Keppel Bay in On average, more than 95% of the respondents projects within the Group. legal, decent, and truthful. The SCAP was new projects. Singapore; and the following properties in were satisfied with the services rendered. * GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 formulated against the background of In line with Keppel Land’s brand philosophy national as well as international law and Residents of Keppel Land’s properties of ‘Thinking Unboxed’, Keppel Land China practices, including the International Code in Singapore and China can log in to a launched the mobile e-learning platform, of Advertising Practice published by the centralised system to report and track Ji Xue Tang (吉学堂, “Keppel Classroom”), International Chamber of Commerce. defects within their units. This facilitates for staff in 2017. The innovative platform the coordination and follow-up of Special Feature aims to spur innovation among Keppelites In 2017, there were no incidents of rectification works. In Singapore, the as well as facilitate learning and knowledge sharing among staff. As at end-2017, non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning communication system also facilitates the collection of keys for new homeowners. Workplace of Tomorrow Ji Xue Tang has close to 600 active users. efforts, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. The management team continually engages Complementing the conventional training tenants of commercial buildings to address courses conducted by external and in-house During the year, there were no instances security concerns and conducts security Leveraging the rising demand of quality new growth businesses before they take unveiled in Saigon Centre Tower 2 trainers, learning materials available on the of non-compliance with regulations lockdown drills with tenants’ participation. shared workspace globally, in 2017, up permanent and possibly, longer leases in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, and portal range from job-related topics to useful and voluntary codes concerning Keppel Land launched a new generation at the ofﬁce tower. Junction City Tower in Yangon, Myanmar. IT and self-improvement tips to help staff to product and service information and The property management team regularly serviced co-office, KLOUD, to cater to The developments in which the new be more effective and efficient in their roles. labelling. There were also no complaints engages tenants and residents through users looking for flexible space solutions. KLOUD combines the beneﬁts of KLOUD serviced co-offices are housed Staff are also encouraged to create their own regarding breaches of customer privacy events such as golf tournaments, festive KLOUD’s 18,000 sf flagship centre is serviced ofﬁces and co-working spaces. are strategically located in prime materials and share them on the portal. and loss of customer data. celebrations and residents’ gatherings. located on the 13th floor of Keppel Bay Its ﬂexible shared ofﬁce space ranges CBD areas that are within close Tower and boasts panoramic sea views. from fully-furnished ofﬁce suites to proximity to transportation nodes hot-desks, which are available for and retail amenities. This follows the successful pilot of shortor long-term leases. Users will Workspace at Keppel Towers, located also be able to scale the growth of This brings Keppel Land’s total regional * GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-48, GRI 102-49 in Tanjong Pagar. their business within Keppel Land’s serviced co-office footprint to about Number of homes handed over by the Customer Focus Unit Singapore and regional portfolio. 60,000 sf. Plans are underway to roll Country 2017 As both landlord and operator of KLOUD out more KLOUD serviced co-offices in Keppel Bay Tower, Keppel Land is able to As part of Keppel Land’s regional overseas markets where Keppel Land Singapore 831 meet supplemental space requirements expansion strategy, two new smart operates, namely, China, Indonesia China 1,114 of existing building tenants and incubate serviced co-offices have been and the Philippines. Vietnam 523 Total 2,468 1. Keppel Land China launched the Ji Xue Tang mobile e-learning platform which allows learning on-the-go. 2. KLOUD, Keppel Land’s new generation serviced co-office, combines the benefits of serviced offices and co-working spaces. 1 2 32 33 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Empowering Lives Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Health and Safety The Key Safety Principles were developed The BSC regularly monitors and evaluates In 2017, the BSC visited the worksites of in 2008 to encourage and drive safe the Company’s compliance and Seasons City and Seasons Heights Phase 4 behaviour among all employees across effectiveness of its health and safety (H&S) in Tianjin, China. The MSC visited the the Keppel Group to guide them in their policies and safety management system worksites of West Vista and The Riviera Safety is one of Keppel’s core values. Keppel Land daily operations. To ensure that the safety to ensure alignment with industry best at Puri in Jakarta, Indonesia. framework and strategies remain relevant practices. Safety reports on the Company’s is committed to create a safe and healthy workplace in an ever-changing business environment, operations in Singapore and overseas are These visits provided the committees with for all its stakeholders. and as part of the regular review of the submitted to the BSC on a monthly basis. a better understanding of the operating Group’s safety practices and measures, environment and the effectiveness of safety these principles were re-launched in 2017. The BSC convenes quarterly to discuss safety initiatives that are implemented. The visits standards, practices and any related matters also enabled the BSC to better align safety Strong Safety Culture Several key initiatives were implemented 1. Every incident is preventable; that may have strategic, operational and practices across Keppel Land’s operations. Key Safety Principles Safety is one of Keppel’s core values in 2017 to make headway in our 2. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) reputational implications on the Group. At the same time, the BSC also used the 5 Keppel Group adopts five Key and forms an integral part of its business operations. Zero Fatality Strategy. These include the following: is an integral part of our business; 3. HSE is a line responsibility; 4. Everyone is empowered to stop The BSC is supported by the Management Safety Committee (MSC) and the opportunity to reinforce the importance of safety at the worksites visited. There were also discussions during such visits on Safety Principles to drive safe Keppel Land’s safety approach is guided • Establishment of a Group-wide any unsafe work; and Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) unit. effective ways of encouraging contractors behaviour among all employees. by the Keppel Zero Fatality Strategy global standard for managing 5. Strong safety culture is achieved Formed in 2006, the 10-member MSC onsite to report near misses. which outlines actionable items to reduce High Impact Risk Activities; through teamwork. comprises management representatives Trained Workers workplace fatalities to zero through • Implementation of a standardised from key business units and spearheads Safety Management System five strategic thrusts, namely, building incident investigation and root cause All new employees are required to undergo all safety initiatives. The WSH unit A safety management system is incorporated 54,000 More than 54,000 workers have a high-performance safety culture, adopting a proactive approach to analysis technique; • Global safety leadership coaching a safety induction course as part of their orientation programme. Staff are also develops and implements H&S systems and initiatives, as well as monitors safety at the development stage of all of Keppel Land’s projects and continues through the design, safety management, leveraging programmes to train and empower regularly updated on matters including performance and engages stakeholders development and management stages. been trained at Keppel Land’s technology to mitigate safety risks, frontline managers; and safety action plans, accident and/or incident on all safety-related matters. This inculcates a strong safety mindset in Safety Awareness Centres to-date. harmonising global safety practices • Reinforcement of the five Key reporting procedures, relevant training all employees and stakeholders, including and competency, and streamlining Safety Principles and Life-Saving Rules programmes, as well as related articles, As part of the Keppel Group Inter-Strategic its consultants, suppliers and contractors learning from incidents. through videos and campaigns. which are available on the intranet. Business Unit Safety Committee, Keppel Land for all its projects in Singapore and overseas. participates in regular dialogue sessions Board Safety Committee (BSC) with other business units to promote Contractors and Keppel Land project staff are Keppel Land’s BSC reviews and develops the exchange of safety knowledge encouraged to collaborate and come up with 1. safety policies and management systems. and experiences. This includes site visits innovative ideas to improve safety. In 2017, Keppel Land is It currently comprises three members where business units take turns to host a total of five projects were conferred Safety committed to create an incident-free including two independent Directors. safety personnel from across the Innovation Awards which were presented workplace, where Formed in 2007, the BSC has oversight Keppel Group and share their respective at the Keppel Group Safety Convention in everyone goes home safely every day. of the safety programmes and budget. safety systems. November. The award-winning projects are: New Safety Horizon, Suction-Type Anchorage for Balcony Work-At-Height, Tower Crane Life Saver, Golf Cart Emergency Power-Off Protection Function and Braking System and “Fall No More!”. Build a A comprehensive design checklist is also high-performance safety culture implemented for every project. Rigorous assessments are incorporated to identify and analyse potential hazards and risks. Controls are also in place to eradicate or minimise exposure to hazards. Adopt a All worksites in Singapore and overseas have Streamline learning proactive a site safety and health committee helmed from incidents approach Our Climate Action Keppel to safety by the main contractor’s project manager and Goals for 2018 Zero Fatality management supported by Keppel Land’s project team. Strategy An average of about 13% of the total workforce is represented on the committee for all Singapore and overseas projects. The committee monitors safety performance Harmonise global Leverage and submits monthly reports. Members safety practices & technology to meet at least once a month to discuss safety competency mitigate safety risks inspection findings, incidents and injuries, work and activities, as well as organise onsite H&S events. All accidents and near misses are investigated and findings are discussed 1 during BSC meetings. 34 35 Page Proof Draft 18.05.2018 17.05.2018 3 Empowering Lives Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Health and Safety Compliance BOARD SAFETY COMMITTEE Singapore In keeping with the Company’s commitment in ensuring that its operations as well as major suppliers are not involved in unethical labour practices such as child or forced labour, a human rights clause MANAGEMENT SAFETY COMMITTEE China on the prohibition of child labour has been incorporated since 2012 in all H&S specifications to contractors. WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH UNIT Vietnam The H&S specification is a comprehensive document for contractors, which includes a safety policy and its objectives as well as information about the organisation and its responsibilities. Planning and 1. Indonesia The Company received implementation guidelines including the OHSAS 18001 hazard identification and risk assessment; certification for successfully implementing the information, training and supervision; system in its properties Regional Investments safe work systems; hazard controls; in Singapore, China and Vietnam, including Estella permits to work; equipment inspection, 1 Heights in HCMC. testing and maintenance; personal protection equipment; first-aid facilities and emergency plans are also included Property Management in the specifications. Safety Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) ConSASS Remuneration of management is linked to Keppel Land has conducted the Construction In addition, the document details the sustainability-related KPIs, which includes Safety Audit Scoring System (ConSASS) audit monitoring and measuring mechanisms such safety. Safety is also a KPI in the performance at all its development projects in Singapore. Hospitality Management as workplace inspections, accident recording appraisal of all frontline managers. Any fatality and reporting, accident investigation, at the end of the supply chain can affect the ConSASS is an audit tool that provides internal and external audits as well as safety bonuses of key executives and staff. an independent assessment on the improvements. Legislations and standards effectiveness and development status of Project Management and as well as performance measurement Project managers’ safety KPIs include the a worksite’s WSH management system. Sustainable Design indicators are also incorporated. Company’s safety performance which It is administered by the WSH Council and encompasses accident frequency and supported by MOM for the construction To ensure that all its contractors remain severity rates as well as fatal accident industry in Singapore. Since August 2011, Retail Management vigilant and comply with the specifications occurrences. The KPIs also include the all construction sites in Singapore with a as well as relevant regulatory requirements individual manager’s participation in safetycontract sum of $30 million and above are and safe work practices, Keppel Land’s WSH related activities and training programmes, required to have its WSH management unit conducts weekly safety walkabouts such as compulsory attendance and system audited every six months. at its Singapore worksites and inspects certification for courses conducted by Human Resources overseas worksites at least once every Ministry of Manpower (MOM)-approved Conducted by MOM-approved WSH quarter. In 2017, safety walkabouts were training providers. auditors, the audit involves document conducted at the project sites of The Glades reviews, site inspections and interviews and Highline Residences in Singapore; OHSAS 18001 with key personnel. A total of 17 elements the following project sites in China: In 2012, Keppel Land received the are assessed, with each being graded using Hill Crest Villa Phase 1 in Shanghai; Seasons Occupational Health and Safety Management four bands, with each band having a score Garden Phase 2, Seasons City, Seasons System (OHSAS) 18001 certification for the between 1 and 100. MOM requires sites to Residences Phase 3 and Seasons Heights successful implementation of the system meet a minimum score of 75% at Band III. Any incident of non-compliance with Phase 4 in Tianjin; Park Avenue Heights in at all development projects and properties safety standards and accidents involving Chengdu; and Park Avenue Heights Phases under its management in Singapore, China In 2017, Keppel Land conducted quarterly employees and/or subcontractors are also 1 and 2 as well as Waterfront Residences and Vietnam. audits for its Singapore worksite at Highline reported to management on a timely basis. Phase 2 in Wuxi; Saigon Centre Phase 2 and Residences. The Company conducts two Lessons learnt from incidents and near Estella Heights Phases 1 and 2 in Ho Chi Minh An international standard, OHSAS 18001 additional ConSASS audits on top of the misses are shared with other business units City (HCMC), Vietnam; West Vista in Jakarta, enables organisations to manage, control and two mandatory audits per year, bringing to prevent recurrence. Indonesia; and the SM-KL project Phase 2 in improve its occupational H&S performance. the total number of audits to four a year. Manila, the Philippines. Projects in Singapore, China and Vietnam Keppel Land also believes in partnering currently account for about 80% of Keppel The ConSASS audit allows cross-comparison contractors and suppliers who share its Proactive Actions Land’s total ongoing developments. All of its of worksites’ effectiveness in managing commitment to quality as well as high Over the years, Keppel Land has projects in these countries are in compliance WSH risks. standards in environmental, health and implemented numerous initiatives to with OHSAS 18001. safety issues. inculcate a strong safety culture. Completed Buildings Audit In 2017, independent third-party audits were Keppel Land also conducted audits A set of stringent criteria is applied and Business Unit HSE Improvement Plan carried out at projects sites in Singapore, for all of its completed buildings for the adhered to when selecting contractors The Company has in place a Business Unit China and Vietnam to ensure compliance fifth consecutive year. A total of 14 of its for each of the Company’s projects. HSE Improvement Plan with set targets and with OHSAS 18001. An internal audit was commercial, retail and hospitality properties All potential contractors are put through benchmark indicators that address the conducted for the Company’s projects in Singapore, China, Vietnam, Indonesia a pre-qualifying evaluation to assess areas of safety leadership, structure and to ensure that the various parameters and Myanmar were audited by the their competencies. work processes. pertaining to OHSAS 18001 were met. WSH unit in 2017. 36 37 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Empowering Lives Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Health and Safety bizSAFE Mentor the risk of work-related injuries. It stems set up in 2011, 2013 and 2016 respectively. Training topics included first aid, safety The event also recognises and rewards Keppel Land is one of only 10 companies in from the belief that the personal adoption The SACs provide trainings to improve induction, site regulation, HSE risks, project teams and contractors with excellent Singapore to be named the bizSAFE Mentor of safe working practices, through the the safety performance of contractors’ safety awareness, construction safety, safety performance, which are assessed Safety in Action for its exemplary WSH management and inculcation of a set of defined behaviours, employees. To-date, the total number of risk management implementation and awarded by the respective heads of the performance. This is the highest recognition will reduce the risk of work-related accidents workers trained at the four SACs is more as well as specialised subjects such as business units. attainable by a company under the WSH and strengthen a company’s safety culture. than 54,000, comprising 6,619 workers safe use of electrical equipment and Council’s bizSAFE programme. This is achieved through data collection on trained in Vietnam, 408 workers trained working at height. In 2017, about 200 consultants, The inner red core of the frequency of critical safety behaviours in Malaysia and1,339 workers trained in contractors and staff attended the the Keppel Safety logo As a bizSAFE Mentor, Keppel Land leads as well as providing regular feedback and Indonesia in 2017. Rewards and Recognition event to exchange best practices in represents the five and guides contractors in developing counselling to reinforce safe behaviour. Keppel Land collaborates with its safety. Eight teams from Keppel Land’s Key Safety Principles, and implementing safety initiatives at the The SACs were set up to increase safety main contractors to ensure that all Singapore and overseas business units, while the outer workplaces. The Company also provides Safety Talks awareness among contractors’ employees stakeholders and workers are committed including the project teams for Highline strokes demonstrate stewardship and support to meet the Keppel Land actively engages its on pertinent topics such as working at to maintaining high safety standards at Residences in Singapore; Serenity Villa its action plan. safety standards set by the WSH Council. consultants and contractors through height, lifting procedures, working within all project sites. Safety programmes in Chengdu, China; Saigon Centre various communication modes to instil confined space, proper use of equipment that reward and encourage safe work Phase Two in HCMC, Vietnam; International Since 2010, as part of Keppel Land’s tender the importance of safety at the workplace. and scaffold erection. All workers have to practices are organised to promote Financial Centre Jakarta Tower Two and 5 Key Safety requirement, main contractors have to be certified as bizSAFE Partners. This in turn All workers undergo safety orientation attend the mandatory safety training before they are allowed to work at any safer work environments. Ria Bintan Golf Club in Indonesia; Tanah Sutera in Johor Bahru, Malaysia; Principles 1. Every incident is requires their subcontractors to have at least courses on site. Weekly talks on different of Keppel Land’s project sites. Safety Performance Keppel Land Property Management; and preventable bizSAFE Level 3 certification, which entails topics including the control of mosquito The Company achieved zero fatalities Keppel Land Retail Management, were 2. HSE is an integral the implementation of risk management and breeding and working at heights are also To extend its reach to contractors’ in 2017. presented awards for their contribution part of our business assessment to eliminate or reduce injuries conducted by the main contractors for employees in China, Keppel Land is setting to safety excellence. their workers. In China, campaigns such as up a mobile SAC in Wuxi in 2018. Accident frequency rate was 0.09 3. HSE is a line responsibility and illnesses at worksites. Fire-Fighting Safety and Heat Stress Safety reportable cases for every million In China and Vietnam, a similar event was 4. Everyone is empowered Communication* were carried out in 2017 to raise awareness Training and Education man-hours worked in 2017, compared held in the same year. Over 240 employees, to stop any unsafe work Behavioural Management among workers about these risks. Workers Employees undergo training courses to 0.43 in 2016. Consequently, accident customers and contractors exchanged 5. A strong safety culture of Safety (BMOS) were also provided tips on the prevention of and seminars to enhance their severity rate was 1.38 in 2017, compared experiences and ideas to strive for an is achieved through Keppel Land also has in place the BMOS heat stress and fire risk. knowledge and skills in managing to 190.25 in 2016 and total man-days incident-free workplace. teamwork programme to integrate behavioural H&S risks. Staff at Keppel Land’s corporate lost was 47 in 2017, compared to strategies and processes into its H&S Training headquarters in Singapore underwent 6,136 man-days lost in 2016. Safety Award management system. Safety Awareness Centre (SAC) a total of 1,395 hours of safety training Testament to the Company’s continual 5 Key Actions In 2017, Keppel Land opened its first in 2017. Overseas, employees in China, Sharing Best Practices efforts to ensure safe environments, 1. Board/management BMOS promotes safe behaviour and SAC in China. Located in Tianjin, this is Vietnam, Indonesia, Myanmar and Keppel Land organises the WSH Recognition Keppel Land’s SAC in Tianjin, China, clinched leadership positive environmental conditions to deliver Keppel Land’s fourth SAC, following the Malaysia committed a total of 6,794, event annually to reinforce the importance the Honorary Award at the Global Trends 2. Safety as a line function continuous improvement in health, safety success of its other three SACs in HCMC, 52,157, 3,105, 1,595 and 595 hours of of safety training and practices among Awards 2017, organised by a subsidiary of 3. Stakeholder and business performance, thereby reducing Jakarta and Johor Bahru, which were training respectively. projects teams, contractors and workers. People’s Daily Online. involvement 4. Leading safety indicators * GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 5. Positive reinforcement Keppel Land’s Cumulative Accident Frequency Rate (per million man-hours) 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 0.90 0.51 0.31 0.43 0.32 0.26 0.22 0.24 0.25 0.37 0.33 0.31 2014 0.00 0.00 0.51 0.58 0.52 0.49 0.53 0.61 0.58 0.55 0.57 0.55 1. Contractors’ workers 2015 0.00 0.62 0.53 0.56 0.49 0.40 0.38 0.33 0.29 0.29 0.30 0.27 undergoing safety training at Keppel Land’s first 2016 1.08 0.60 0.48 0.52 0.42 0.46 0.40 0.40 0.51 0.47 0.47 0.43 safety awareness centre in 1 China, located in Tianjin. 2017 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.09 38 39 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Empowering Lives Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 People Matter Profile of Employees The overall turnover rate for Keppel Land Regional Distribution (%) Keppel Land employs 3,369 staff across in 2017 was about 12% or 394 employees, its 14 countries of operation. 350 employees compared to 12.7% or 488 employees in are based at Keppel Land’s corporate 2016. Of the 394 employees, about 41% or Keppel Land will continue to build on its open, collaborative, office in Singapore, of which 239 or 163 staff were below 30 years old, while 68.3% are executives and 111 or 31.7% another 49% or 192 staff were aged between entrepreneurial and innovative culture, while developing are non-executives. 327 or 93.4% are 30 and 50 years. The remaining 10% or and engaging its workforce to create value and drive further permanent employees, while 23 or 6.6% 39 staff were over 50 years old. Turnover growth for the Company. are contract staff. 27 or 7.7% of Keppel Land’s by gender was 175 or 44% male and 219 Singapore-based staff are from the or 56% female. minority ethnic groups. The turnover rate for the Company’s The Company recognises that people engage its staff through various A total of 3,019 staff are based overseas, headquarters in Singapore in 2017 stood Singapore 10.4 Employee Engagement are its greatest asset and that every initiatives such as post-results of which 2,628 or 87% are permanent at 17.7% or 66 staff, below the national China 41.3 86% staff represents the Keppel Land brand. Thus, Keppel Land is committed to nurturing a diverse, competent and communication sessions, lunches and tea with senior management, as well as employee perception and staff. Of these, 50.9% are located in China, 23.2% in Myanmar, 9.6% in Indonesia, 9.1% in Vietnam, 5.6% in Malaysia and 1.6% in average of 21.6%. Policy of Non-Discrimination Vietnam Indonesia 15.8 8.7 Employee engagement score edged up from 85% in dedicated talent pool that will drive engagement surveys. India, the Philippines and Taiwan. Of the Keppel Land upholds human rights Myanmar 18.0 2016 to 86% in 2017. further growth and create value for permanent staff overseas, 708 staff are principles and adheres to fair employment The Philippines 1.0 the Company. Profile of Board of Directors employed under joint-venture companies. practices. The Company provides equal India 0.3 Localisation Strategy The Company has a total of six opportunities with regards to recruitment They are attached to the hotels and resorts Malaysia 4.4 66% In 2017, locals accounted for 66% Talent management and succession planning rank highly on Keppel Land’s priority list. The Company continues directors on its Board, of whom four are independent non-executive directors. which are managed by Keppel Land Hospitality Management in Vietnam and Myanmar. and career development of its employees. Keppel Land is a signatory of the Employers’ Taiwan Total 0.1 100.0 of all department head positions to bolster its bench strength in its key These directors contribute with Pledge of Fair Employment Practices and at its key overseas offices of markets of Singapore, China, Vietnam experience and competency in areas Of the employees in Singapore, 62.6% are abides by the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair China, Vietnam and Indonesia. and Indonesia through staff promotion, such as industry knowledge, legal, finance female, while 37.4% are male. Overseas, Employment Practices. redeployment, job rotation, job and risk management. 45.3% of employees are female, while enlargement and selective new hires. 54.7% are male. The Keppel Group adheres to the principles The Board has one female director, of non-discriminatory and merit-based Building on its open, collaborative, Mrs Koh-Lim Wen Gin, who has been In Singapore, 58% of its workforce are employment practices. It is committed 1. Keppel Land carries out entrepreneurial and innovative culture, an independent director on the Board between 31 and 50 years of age, with 27.4% to the five guiding principles of fair various green activities Keppel Land continues to actively since 20 January 2010. and 30.6% in the 31–40 and 41–50 age employment. They are: to do good for the environment and foster groups respectively. Overseas, 67.7% of its bonding among its employees are aged 40 years and below. a. Recruit and select employees on the employees at the same time. basis of merit (such as skills, experience In terms of educational profile, 64.3% of its or ability to perform the job), regardless Singapore-based employees have tertiary of age, race, gender, religion, family qualifications and above. Of these, 52.3% status or disability; hold a Bachelor’s degree, professional b. Treat employees fairly and with respect certification or graduate diploma, while 12% and implement progressive human have a Master’s or post-graduate degree. resource (HR) management systems; c. Provide employees with equal Overseas, about 48.4% of its staff hold a opportunity to be considered for Bachelor’s degree, professional certification training and development based on or graduate diploma and about 4.8% have their strengths and needs, to help them a Master’s or post-graduate degree. achieve their full potential; Evolution of Employment 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Singapore 493 497 443 402 350 International* 3,476 3,429 3,652 3,324 3,019 Total 3,969 3,926 4,095 3,726 3,369 1 * Including Keppel Land and Sedona Hotel International operations. 40 41 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Empowering Lives Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 People Matter d. Reward employees fairly based on In 2017, the Company embarked on the Professional Profile (%) Gender Profile (%) their ability, performance, contribution OneKeppel Compensation Framework (Singapore) (Singapore) and experience; and which is based on the following principles: Executive 68.3 e. Comply with labour laws and abide by Male 37.4 Non-Executive 31.7 the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair a. Greater alignment with Female 62.6 Employment Practices. shareholders’ interests; Total 100.0 Total 100.0 b. Linkage to performance of the There were no reported incidences of individual, business unit and the discrimination by employees in 2017. Keppel Group; c. Internally relevant to the Keppel Group’s Remuneration and Benefits vision and strategies; and Staff at Keppel Land’s corporate office d. To attract, retain and motivate talents. enjoy the benefits stipulated in the Employment Act of Singapore which is Since January 2018, staff have been the key legislature governing employment able to access information on their leave contracts. It includes the basic terms entitlements, salaries updates as well Professional Profile (%) and conditions of employment that as their expenses claim status via the Gender Profile (%) (Overseas) organisations must abide by. OneKeppel Portal which replaced (Overseas) Executive 45.6 such functions previously offered in Male 54.7 Central Provident Fund (CPF) the K2Portal. Non-Executive 54.4 Female 45.3 The CPF is a comprehensive national Total 100.0 social security savings plan that ensures Keppel Land values the knowledge, Total 100.0 working Singaporeans have a secure experience and expertise of exemplary retirement fund. Keppel Land and its staff who are beyond the retirement age employees contribute to its employees’ of 62. The Company retains and extends CPF accounts on a monthly basis. their employment annually on a contract basis, taking into account the employee’s CPF contributions go into the Ordinary, health, productivity and performance. Special and Medisave Accounts. Savings in the Ordinary Account can These employees enjoy the same be allocated for housing, investment, benefits as those working full-time. insurance and education purposes, In 2017, a total of seven of Keppel Land’s Educational Profile (%) Age Profile (%) while those in the Medisave Account Singapore-based employees were (Singapore) (Singapore) can be used for hospitalisation expenses above the retirement age. Master’s Degree/Post-Graduate 12.0 as well as approved medical insurance. Less than 31 years 20.0 Bachelor’s Degree/Professional Special Account savings are for old age Remuneration From 31 years to 40 years 27.4 Certification/Graduate Diploma 52.3 and investment in retirement-related In Singapore, the ratio of basic salary From 41 years to 50 years 30.6 Diploma/GCE ‘A’ Levels 18.0 financial products. of male to female in the executive category, including members of senior From 51 years to 62 years 20.0 GCE ‘O’ Levels/Industrial Certification 12.9 Together with employees’ contribution management and excluding expats More than 62 years 2.0 Others 4.8 of 20% of monthly wages into the CPF, who were recruited in Singapore and Total 100.0 Total 100.0 the total contributions by both employers based overseas, is 1.59, while that for and employees are 37% based on the non-executive category is 0.84. a monthly salary ceiling of $6,000. The ratio of the entry-level salary of Contributions are lower for employees male to female in the executive category above 55 years of age as well as is 0.81. There were no female entry-level those earning monthly wages of non-executives in 2017. Educational Profile (%) below $750. Age Profile (%) (Overseas) The ratios of the entry-level salary of (Overseas) Master’s Degree/Post-Graduate 4.8 Staff Benefits male to female in the executive category Less than 31 years 25.3 Besides the mandatory CPF contributions in China and Vietnam are 1.06 and Bachelor’s Degree/Professional by employer and employees, Keppel Land 1.02 respectively. For non-executives in From 31 years to 40 years 42.4 Certification/Graduate Diploma 48.4 offers all full-time employees a comprehensive China, the ratio is 1.01. In Vietnam, From 41 years to 50 years 23.7 Diploma/GCE ‘A’ Levels 10.8 benefits package including health and there were no female entry-level From 51 years to 62 years 8.5 GCE ‘O’ Levels/Industrial Certification 6.2 welfare allowances, maternity and non-executive in 2017. More than 62 years 0.1 Others 29.8 paternity leave entitlements as well as coverage under the Company’s health At Keppel Land, basic salary refers to Total 100.0 Total 100.0 insurance plan. the fixed amount actually paid to an employee for performing his or her duties, Information on these entitlements is excluding variable pay such as payment disseminated to all staff via the K2Portal, for overtime work or bonus. which is the portal for welfare and benefits on the Company’s intranet. Entry-level salary, on the other hand, The portal serves as a one-stop virtual refers to the fixed amount paid to an centre for information on employee employee of the most junior grade of benefits and entitlements in healthcare, each respective employee category, insurance, welfare, telecommunications, for performing his or her duties. transport and recreation. This excludes variable pay. 42 43 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Empowering Lives Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 People Matter 1. In addition, six participants attended Engagement platforms such Training Expenditure Distribution (%) as Annual Staff Conferences the inaugural Advanced Leaders (Singapore) improve communication Programme (ALP) organised by the and interaction between Conferences 15.0 management and staff. Keppel Leadership Institute. Over a period of six months, the ALP brought Industry-related and job-specific 2. together key leaders from across the External Courses 38.5 Keppel Land supports various activities to Group, during which they took part in Skills Training 18.0 promote a healthy lifestyle. dialogues with senior management, Leadership Courses 25.8 external company visits as well as worked on case studies and action learning Language Courses 2.7 projects designed around the key theme Total 100.0 of change and transformation. Succession Planning In Keppel, potential assessment of staff takes place biannually using the Keppel Group Leadership potential Indonesia. To facilitate staff deployment Helmed by senior management, the assessment framework. In 2017, the across cities, a uniform global grading CRCs focus on specific developmental first review was completed in March structure has been established for interventions for high-potential and the second review was completed employees based overseas. employees based on the Company’s in August for staff in Singapore, China, shortand long-term business needs. Vietnam and Indonesia. Inputs from The progress of localisation is reviewed Career plans for 34 high-potential staff these assessments were used to refresh annually by top management. In China, were reviewed in 2017. There were also 1 the succession plans for leadership the MAP continues to attract young talents 14 staff rotations to various business units positions. These plans were subsequently from reputable universities to join the to familiarise staff with different aspects submitted to the Keppel Group Company through the Employee Value of the business. Management Development Committee Preposition branding exercise. The Company for endorsement. The biannual review also reaches out to Vietnamese and At the same time, the New Hires ensures effective succession planning. Indonesian students in Singapore who Milestone Programme was implemented Career Planning and Recognition work processes and drive productivity. LEAD programme progress through a are keen to work in their home countries to help new employees assimilate into Performance Management System Overseas employees can also access the structured learning roadmap. This includes Management Associate upon graduation. the organisation. It includes various Keppel Land has in place a structured staff system via the intranet. taking on stretch assignments, overseas Programme (MAP) workshops to familiarise them with appraisal and performance management postings and job rotations to help them The two-year MAP comprises job Training and Development the Group’s businesses, core values, system which allows all staff to receive An integral part of the performance develop core competencies aligned with rotation opportunities, core training Keppel Land adopted the Keppel Group’s functions of different departments, regular performance feedback and career appraisal is the employee’s exemplification the Company’s strategic thrusts. They and mentoring for fresh graduates. leadership potential assessment framework. real estate industry, as well as the development reviews. of the Group’s core values which are are also guided by trained mentors who Candidates benefit from the exposure, All of Keppel’s business units use this Company’s performance management Can Do, integrity, customer focus, will coach and share experiences as well knowledge and networks necessary to framework to assess potential leadership framework. The Keppel Competency model allows people-centredness, safety, agility and as provide insights and perspectives embark on a fulfilling and rewarding and facilitate deployment of talent across for greater consistency across Keppel’s innovation, collective strength and throughout the programme. career with Keppel Land. the Group. Recognising the importance of business units in areas such as succession accountability. continuous training and development, planning and talent management, while In 2017, eight of Keppel Land’s LEAD In 2017, the MAP was revised to allow The CRCs identify and groom promising various training roadmaps and courses the Keppel Leadership Potential model Alignment with these core values is assessed staff attended the Emerging Leaders staff with consistent performance to be employees for future leadership positions. are made available to employees. ensures that a consistent leadership based on observed behaviour during daily Programme (ELP). Organised by the made eligible for mid-year promotions. potential assessment model is applied interactions with the employee’s supervisor, Keppel Leadership Institute, the ELP for all executives across Keppel’s peers, subordinates and other stakeholders focuses on developing potential leaders Localisation Strategy business units. to achieve work goals. across the Keppel Group who exemplify In view of Keppel Land’s expansion the Keppel core values and operating overseas, a number of mid-career locals Keppel Land fosters a performance-based Leadership Development principles, as well as display strong have been hired to helm key positions, reward culture. Compensation includes (LEAD) Programme leadership skills. It also focuses on creating as well as to enhance the capability of a base salary that commensurates with The LEAD programme, which comprises a unique learning experience which the Company’s overseas management skills and experience, along with an LEAD 1 for Emerging Leaders and LEAD 2 involves learning through action, group team. Keppel Land also participated incentive bonus programme based on the for Operational Leaders, aims to accelerate work, business visits, case studies and in university career fairs and talks to Company’s performances via the Corporate the development of strong performing engaging with senior management. attract fresh graduates to join the Scorecard, and the individual employee’s employees regardless of nationality. Company upon graduation. The selected performance via the Balanced Scorecard or Some of the activities that were carried candidates were rotated to different the performance appraisal form. LEAD 1 seeks to develop high-potential out to enhance the development of LEAD departments to gain on-the-job training. executives to become effective managers, staff include personality report debriefs, The Corporate Scorecard is used to while LEAD 2 aims to nurture promising development action plans and leadership In order to better manage and monitor holistically assess Keppel Land’s corporate managers to become effective functional programmes for Keppel Young Leaders. the career development of its local performance. Apart from financial and operational leaders. talents in its key overseas markets, performance, performance in areas The LEAD 3 development roadmap local Career Review Committees (CRC) such as people development, process A stringent selection process, which includes for senior staff includes a coaching have been set up in China, Vietnam and management and stakeholder psychometric testing, has been instituted to component with a 360° assessment, as Indonesia to provide leadership training engagement are evaluated. ensure rigour and objectivity in identifying well as enrolment in structured courses for the local managers. staff for the programme. and programmes. In 2017, a total of seven Staff performance appraisals are Singapore and overseas-based leaders In 2017, locals accounted for 66% of all conducted online. This is part of the In 2017, a total of 15 staff were selected for went through 360° assessments followed department head positions at its key Company’s ongoing efforts to automate the LEAD programme. Participants in the by executive coaching. overseas offices of China, Vietnam and 2 44 45 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Empowering Lives Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 People Matter Each staff is encouraged to attend at Through KLink, a bimonthly e-newsletter, Annual Staff Conference (ASC) In 2017, Keppel Land was granted a total bargaining agreement signed with the least three training programmes per year. employees are kept informed on the The ASC 2017 held in May was attended amount of $59,007.83 for eligible female SISEU, the notice period for consultation and The Keppel Core Values The HR department works closely with Company’s latest developments through by over 500 Singapore-based staff and employees. negotiation between the Company and the unit heads to recommend relevant feature stories as well as interviews with key executives from Keppel Land’s Union shall be no later than six months prior courses for their staff. Efforts are also management and staff. overseas operations. Attendees of the Male employees with Singapore citizen to the expiry of the agreement. made to identify training programmes for plenary sessions included non-executives births are entitled to two weeks of non-executive staff, including both soft In 2017, Keppel Land’s HR department in Singapore. The ASC facilitates strategic government-paid paternity leave. In 2017, As specified in the collective agreement, Can Do and functional skills. In addition, course participated actively in various Keppel Group collaboration and exchange of best practices there were 145 eligible male employees reasonable notice periods are given to Passion and Vigour materials are made available on the intranet. initiatives to drive synergy across HR. Some and ideas, as well as provides cross-learning under the scheme. Keppel Land grants one affected staff in the event of significant of the key projects include: opportunities among staff. It also serves day of paternity leave to its male employees operational changes. The Union will be In Singapore, employees at the executive as a key platform for Management to with non-Singapore citizen births. advised before changes in the general Integrity level clocked an average of 41.5 training a. Driving the design and development of share the Group’s strategic directions conditions of employment, such as rates Act with Ethics hours in 2017, as compared to 54.0 hours the inaugural ALP, which was launched in and provide updates on the various In addition, employees with children who of pay, hours of work and other general and Honesty in 2016, while non-executive staff attended April 2017; business units. Overseas staff also are Singapore citizens and aged below terms and conditions of employment, an average of 14.2 hours of training in b. Supporting the setup of Keppel People attended customised training sessions seven years are entitled to six days of are put into effect. 2017, as compared to 20.7 hours in 2016. Services to improve work efficiency for for programmes that are not readily paid childcare leave per year, borne jointly Customer delivering employee services; available in their home countries. by the Company and the government. In addition, the agreement also covers Focus Overseas, the average training places per c. Supporting the implementation of In 2017, Keppel Land was granted a total of medical benefits including annual coverage employee was 12.79 in 2017, as compared Workday, a cloud-based HR system In 2017, a teambuilding segment was $39,074.89 for 40 eligible employees under limit, extension of coverage to dependents, Forge Value-Added Partnerships to 9.7 in 2016. Executive and non-executive which is part of the OneKeppel Portal incorporated as part of the event itinerary to the government-paid childcare leave scheme. as well as Group Term Life and Group staff clocked an average of 27.11 and 25.64 that was launched in January 2018. strengthen bonding and teamwork among Critical Illness insurances for corporate training hours respectively in 2017, as Four roadshows jointly organised by employees from different business units. Employees with children who are Singapore office employees. Peoplecompared to 27.5 and 11.8 training hours HR and Finance were held in 4Q 2017 citizens aged between seven and 12 are respectively in 2016. to introduce the suite of digital solutions The ASC was well-received by staff, and entitled to two days of extended childcare Besides forging closer relations with Centredness to staff; and culminated in the Company’s annual leave annually. In 2017, Keppel Land was the Union, the agreement reinforces Value and Employee Engagement* d. Participating in the various HR Networks Dinner and Dance. granted a total amount of $12,242.17 for the Company’s commitment to fair Nurture People Staff Engagement Platforms (for Learning, Resourcing, Engagement, 19 eligible employees under the extended remuneration and employee retention. Senior management takes the lead Total Rewards and HR Capability) which Workforce Welfare childcare leave scheme. in encouraging staff to adopt an look into the harmonisation of policies, Keppel Land continues to implement There were no grievances reported by Safety entrepreneurial mindset to be open and tools, processes and ways to drive better initiatives that promote family cohesiveness Workplace Health Promotion employees in 2017. Zero Accident, agile in adapting to change as well as collaboration across the Keppel Group. and workforce welfare. In 2017, Keppel Land continued to Zero Loss to innovate for growth. Employees are collaborate with the Health Promotion Board updated on the Company’s performance Employee Engagement Survey (EES) The Singapore government encourages (HPB) to run a series of health and fitness and strategic directions at the annual A total of 3,049 employees across and supports Singaporeans to work towards programmes for staff. These programmes Agility & staff communication session with senior Keppel Land participated in the EES which fulfilling their marriage and parenthood include Zumba, Loopz Tabata, Running Clinic Innovation management. Overseas staff participate was launched in July 2017. Keppel Land aspirations. In 2015, the government and Fitness Bootcamp which were carried Adapt to Change and in the session through a ‘live’ webcast. achieved an overall engagement score of introduced the Jubilee Marriage and out throughout the year at the open space Innovate for Growth 86%, edging up from its score of 85% in Parenthood Package in support of a on the roof top at the fourth floor of Bugis The HR department, the Sustainability 2016. This was also higher than the global pro-family environment in Singapore. Junction Towers. Committee and the Welfare Committee norm of 77% across different company These include: Collective also work together closely to foster an types, industries and geographies with To cater to employees’ different interests, Strength open and collaborative culture among employees. the top quartile of high performing companies averaging at 84%. The survey a. Enhanced Maternity Protection for Pregnant Employees; the Welfare Committee also organised educational workshops such as health and Global Mindset responses were used to formulate b. Shared Parental Leave allowing fathers wealth management talks, as well as events and Teamwork Various engagement platforms are used intervention programmes to build a to utilise up to one week of the mothers’ such as an excursion to a durian farm in throughout the year as part of Keppel more engaged workforce. maternity leave; Malaysia and a movie screening. Land’s continuous efforts to improve c. Enhanced Paternity Leave for working Accountability communication and interaction between Inculcating Core Values fathers to receive one additional week, Keppel Land’s employees also participated Responsible to management and staff. These include To align employees with the Keppel Group’s on top of the existing one week of actively in Keppel Games, which is a series all Stakeholders breakfast and afternoon tea sessions eight core values, creative activities that government-paid paternity leave; of sports competitions organised by the with senior management. A total of two expound these values were organised d. Each parent is entitled to six days of paid Keppelite Recreation Club. Employees breakfast and five afternoon tea sessions regularly. The Values-In-Action programme childcare leave for children aged below across the Keppel Group compete in a range were held in 2017. has been included as one of the orientation seven years and extended paid childcare of sports including badminton, dragon events for new hires since 2011. It aims to leave of two days for children aged boating, golf, track and field, table-tennis In addition, management interaction help staff understand the values through between seven and 12 years; and and bowling. sessions were held where members of experiential activities. At the same time, e. Provision of four weeks of governmentsenior management took turns to host the core values portal on the intranet helps paid adoption leave for adopted infants Labour Relations* lunch on a regular basis. In 2017, a total of to sustain awareness and promote the aged below 12 months. In 2017, Keppel Land engaged the Singapore seven lunch sessions were held, through actualisation of the values in a fun and Industrial and Services Employees’ Union which senior management reached interactive manner. The portal features In line with the government’s pro-family (SISEU) through dialogues and other out to about 70 staff. Other informal a segment called Hall of Fame, which legislations and the Child Development communication modes. All non-executive platforms of employee engagement recognises employees that exemplify the Co-Savings Act, employees who have staff at Keppel Land’s Singapore include interaction at the staff lounge, Keppel core values. Behavioural attributes been with the Company for more than headquarters are covered under the Kloud, Company-wide staff get-togethers, of the winners as well as staff pledges three months are eligible for parental collective agreement signed between as well as Mid-Week Chill-Out sessions can also be found on the portal. A total of and childcare leave benefits. Female SISEU and the Company. to foster greater interaction and rapport 11 staff and three teams received the Hall employees with Singapore citizen births are among staff from across the Singapore of Fame Awards at the Annual Dinner and entitled to 16 weeks of government-paid To-date, a total of 24 employees are * GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 business units. Dance in 2017. maternity leave. members of the SISEU. Under the collective * GRI 102-41 46 47 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Nurturing Communities Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Community and Society In addition, the programmes supported Truth To Power, in August 2017. The first time, visitors can enjoy a freshwater should reach out to the local communities event was graced by Mr Masagos Zulkifli, forest wetland in the heart of the city. in countries where Keppel Land operates, Singapore’s Minister for the Environment Since its launch, over 600,000 people have provide sufficient opportunities to involve and Water Resources, boards and visited the Wetlands. Keppel Volunteers Keppel Land nurtures local communities and leverage the skillsets of its employees, senior management of Keppel Land serve as ambassadors for the Wetlands by as well as have long-term positive impact on and Keppel REIT, as well as about 500 leading tours for students and seniors to and creates positive economic and social impact the communities. invited guests including office tenants, promote conservation. wherever it operates. Keppel’s employees, business partners Currently, Keppel Land supports and and beneficiaries. Empowering through Education implements local community engagement Keppel Land firmly believes that knowledge programmes in about 60% of its countries Keppel Land has organised screenings of is fundamental in equipping communities As a responsible corporate citizen, workforce. Through this, the staff are of operations. other environmental-themed movies over with skills for a sustainable livelihood. Volunteerism Keppel Land engages and contributes encouraged to be socially responsible and the years since 2008, including Beyond In line with this, the Company collaborates 6,600 hours In 2017, Keppel Land staff to communities wherever it operates. The Company adopts a multi-faceted approach towards corporate social embrace Keppel’s core values of Can Do, people-centredness and collective strength, while making a positive impact Caring for the Environment National Geographic Earth Day Run Keppel Land was the title sponsor for the Beauty in 2014, A Dolphin Tale and Big Miracle in 2012, Earth in 2010, Home in 2009 and An Inconvenient Truth in 2008 for its with strategic partners on various educational initiatives and reading programmes in Singapore and overseas. dedicated a total of 6,600 hours responsibility (CSR) and aligns its on the lives of beneficiaries. Singapore leg of the National Geographic stakeholders. to community outreach activities community outreach efforts with its focus Earth Day Run in April 2017, Singapore’s Words on Wheels in Singapore and overseas. areas of environment and education. At In 2017, Keppel Land committed a total of first mass run powered solely by renewable Singapore Green Building Week Following the success of the Words on the same time, it continues to support 6,600 hours to various community outreach energy, and driven by zero-waste initiatives. Volunteers from Keppel Land, including its Wheels (WoW) mobile library in Hanoi, Words on Wheels various community programmes including activities in Singapore and overseas. The run raised funds in support of the World senior management, participated in a tree Vietnam, in 2011, Keppel Land continued its the arts, healthcare initiatives and other Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)’s education planting activity organised by the Building partnership with the Singapore International 7,000 students Over 7,000 students are expected charitable causes. The Sustainability Committee assesses strategic partnerships and support of initiatives on climate change. and Construction Authority of Singapore in August 2017 as a lead-up to the Singapore Foundation (SOF) to extend the project to Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) in May 2014. The Employees are given two days of outreach programmes based on a detailed The Company rallied over 170 of its Green Building Week 2017. A total of 50 trees Company extended its support again for to benefit from Phase Two of Words on Wheels (Ho Chi Minh), volunteer leave annually to participate in set of criteria. These include alignment tenants and staff across the Keppel Group were planted in the Kranji Marshes which Phase Two of WoW (Ho Chi Minh) in March which Keppel Land supports. community-related activities. This is in line with the Company’s CSR focus, continuity as well as members of Running Hour, aimed to help the International Green 2018, which is expected to positively impact with the Company’s efforts to inculcate and scalability of the initiative, extent of a running club which promotes integration Building Conference 2017 achieve carbon over 7,000 Vietnamese students in District 2 and nurture a spirit of volunteerism stakeholder engagement, as well as of people with special needs, to participate neutrality in 30 years. and District 8 of HCMC by 2020. among staff, while cultivating an engaged the track record of the organisation. in the event. Keppel Discovery Wetlands WoW is a signature programme led by the Screening of environmental-themed The Keppel Discovery Wetlands at the SIF which provides students better access to documentaries Singapore Botanic Gardens was officially educational materials including books, As part of its environmental outreach opened in March 2017 by the Prime Minister the internet and multimedia facilities viaa efforts, Keppel Land and Keppel REIT of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong. Established roving mobile library. Management jointly supported the premiere with a $2.08 million commitment from screening of the environmental-themed Keppel, the Wetlands includes a plant Read more about Keppel Land’s support of documentary, An Inconvenient Sequel: collection of over 200 species, and for the this initiative on page 52. 1. Keppel Land regularly collaborates with the North West CDC to uplift the lives of residents in Singapore’s North West District. 2. Volunteers from Keppel Land hosted beneficiaries on an excursion to the Lee Kong Chian National History Museum to learn about Singapore’s rich 1 2 biodiversity in June 2017. 48 49 Page Proof Draft 18.05.2018 17.05.2018 3 Nurturing Communities Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Community and Society My Library variety of activities at the art spaces which about Singapore’s rich biodiversity in a guided Sutera Mall, the retail component of were refreshed in May 2017 with more museum tour, beneficiaries also participated Keppel Land’s integrated township of immersive and interactive exhibits. in a naturalist workshop guided by about 20 Taman Sutera in Johor Bahru, Malaysia,has Keppel Land volunteers, during which they housed My Library since 2013. My Library is Supporting Community Causes created personalised art souvenirs. Johor Bahru’s first full-fledged community Collaborating with the North West CDC library and is a collaboration between Keppel Land continues to work closely with Donation Drives Singapore’s National Library Board and the North West Community Development In December 2017, Keppel Land collaborated Tanah Sutera Development. It spans Council (CDC) to enrich the lives of residents with the Metropolitan YMCA to spread 35,000 sf with a wide collection of books living in rental flats in the North West district Christmas cheer to the less fortunate. and audio-visual materials. My Library has of Singapore. About 30 Keppel Land staff, together with an average of 34,000 visitors monthly and their family members, packed, distributed a total of 6,500 registered members as at In January 2017, Keppel Land partnered and delivered festive goodie bags to end-2017. the North West CDC in its WeCare@North 140 low-income families. The Company West – Service Weeks campaign to reach also sponsored grocery vouchers to 100 For promoting the culture of reading in the out to over 6,000 underprivileged families disadvantaged families during the Hari Raya community, My Library was awarded the living in Singapore’s North West district. Puasa and Deepavali festive seasons. Iskandar Malaysia Social Hero Award in 2017. Keppel Land volunteers, led by Minister Ong Ye Kung, then-Minister for Education In June 2017, Keppel Land partnered Championing the Arts (Higher Education and Skills) and Second the South West CDC to organise a donation On 7 June 2017, the CEO of National Gallery Minister for Defence and Adviser to drive for needy families in the Taman Jurong Singapore, Chong Siak Ching, hosted Gambas GROs, as well as senior area. Keppel Land volunteers visited 2 Dr Lee Boon Yang, Chairman of Keppel management of Keppel Land, packed and 14 families to distribute over 30 household Corporation, together with members of delivered festive packs which included items sponsored by staff. During the Keppel Corporation’s Board of Directors and vouchers sponsored by the Company. visit, volunteers also interacted with the senior management on a tour of the refreshed Keppel Land continued its support of the beneficiaries. A Gift of Sight In Indonesia, in support of the Bintan of Ho Chi Minh City, with regular outings spaces at the Keppel Centre for Art Education. same campaign in January 2018. Since 2006, Keppel Land China has been hospitality industry, Keppel Land’s Ria Bintan and provisions of milk, school uniforms and Reaching Out to Overseas Communities reaching out to underprivileged villagers in Golf Club provided 15 high school students backpacks for all students. In December Also present were about 40 beneficiaries In conjunction with World Environment Day Beyond philanthropic efforts, Keppel Land Kunming, Yunnan Province, China, giving the from various vocational institutes with 2017, Keppel Land invited its staff and from New Life Community Services, who in June 2017, Keppel Land hosted over seeks to empower lives for sustainable gift of sight to those with cataract – a result internships. tenants of Saigon Centre to grant the wishes were guided by about 20 Keppel Volunteers 40 beneficiaries from the North West CDC change and improvement, creating positive of years of toil under the infamously harsh of over 100 underprivileged children from through the various exhibits. The volunteers on an excursion to the Lee Kong Chian and meaningful impact in communities Yunnan sun. In Myanmar, Sedona Hotel Yangon Vinh Son Primary School and Mai Tam House facilitated and engaged the children in a National History Museum. Besides learning overseas where it operates. continues to support the hospitality of Hope, which houses patients who are Keppel Land volunteers, in collaboration with industry through its partnership with the HIV-positive. non-government organisation Bless China Singapore-Myanmar Vocational Training International, have reached out to over 200 Institute to provide on-the-job training During Ramadan, Keppel Land’s Indonesia underprivileged villagers, providing critical opportunities for the institute’s students. team hosted a breakfast event for staff medical aid such as cataract surgery and In 2017, two students who have completed as well as 40 orphans from the Yayasan limb deformity surgeries. Over 100 villagers their internships were offered employment Panti Asuhan Nusantara orphanage in have had their eyesight restored through with the hotel. June 2017. Staff also donated stationery this project. sets to the children. Community Engagement To commemorate a decade of its ongoing In January and April 2017, staff volunteers In the Philippines, a visit by staff to volunteer efforts, Keppel Land, in partnership from Keppel Land China’s Tianjin office Keppel-Gawad Kalinga Eco Village, a with Eco-Business, produced a compelling engaged physically challenged children village community housing 52 families, short documentary titled ‘A Gift of Sight’ and underprivileged elderly in society. was organised in April 2017. The Eco Village in 2017. This included spring cleaning to spruce was converted from a parking garage and up the rooms of the elderly living in Hangu dumpsite by Keppel Batangas Shipyard with In October 2017, over 40 staff volunteers Social Welfare Home and interactive games support from the local government. from Keppel Land China’s Kunming with 80 children from the Sunshine Welfare office organised a visit to engage needy Home in Tianjin Binhai New Area. In Bangalore, India, staff volunteers engaged elderly beneficiaries living in the rural the elderly residents of Sri Sai Old Age villages of Yi Liang and Fu Min. The staff In Vietnam, over 200 staff volunteers Home Orphanage in March 2017. Apart from volunteers sponsored basic necessities for visited the Thien Binh Orphanage in educating the residents on good healthcare the beneficiaries, as well as helped with October 2017 to clean and refurbish its practices, volunteers also donated bedding restoration works in the village. facilities. Keppel Land Vietnam also and toiletries. Separately, volunteers from donated over $3,000 worth of cash and Keppel Puravankara Development donated Grooming Talents amenities to the orphanage. Separately, school bags, pre-loved educational books In Vietnam, since 2015, Keppel Land has been staff also visited the Deaf School at Hy Vong and stationery to over 300 school children 1. supporting Anh Phu Secondary School with Binh Thanh District in November 2017 to from a government municipality primary Keppel Land nurtures local communities and makes a scholarships to underprivileged students deliver cooking necessities and gifts to the school in the city. positive impact wherever who have excelled academically. In addition, school, which supports over 130 students it operates. together with its main contractor for Saigon with vocational education. 2. Centre, Hoa Binh Construction & Real Estate Keppel Land supports Corporation, Keppel Land Vietnam presented Since 2015, Keppel Land Vietnam has been campaign and programmes in Singapore and overseas sports equipment to the school. Scholarships supporting Vinh Son Primary School, a which instil environmental were also offered to 12 underprivileged school for underprivileged children from consciousness among 1 children and the youth. students who excelled academically. low-income migrant families in District 7 50 51 Page Proof Draft Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 18.05.2018 17.05.2018 4 3 Nurturing Communities Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Community and Society GRI Standards Content Index For ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive Special Feature Window to the World FOR POSITIONING ONLY. CLIENT TO PROVIDE GRI LOGO. Following the success Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance of earlier runs of the GRI Indicator General Disclosures Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Words on Wheels (WoW) GRI 101: Foundation 2016 mobile library project GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 in Hanoi and Ho Chi Organisational Profile Minh City (HCMC) in 2011 GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation – 3 Y 57-62 and 2014 respectively, GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services – 3 N – Keppel Land has once again extended its GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 6.2 3 N – support for Phase Two GRI 102-4 Location of operations – Annual Report (AR) at N – www.keppelland.com of WoW (Ho Chi Minh). page 4-5 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form – 3 N – GRI 102-6 Markets served – AR (4-5) N – GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation – 3 N – GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers – 42-43 Y 57-62 GRI 102-9 Supply Chain 6.4.1, 6.4.2 AR (28),18, 35 Y 57-62 PHOTO WILL BE ADJUSTED BY CHUI LING. 1 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and – AR (3), 18, 35 N – its supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach – 26-27 Y 57-62 As one of Vietnam’s largest and pioneer access to educational materials, IT resources GRI 102-12 External initiatives 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 10, 13 Y 57-62 foreign real estate developers, and learning facilities. Over the three years, 6.4.5, 6.8.5, 7.8 Keppel Land strives to enrich the lives sixteen volunteer trips were conducted GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations 6.4.5 13, 21 Y 57-62 of the local communities. which involved over 200 staff volunteers from Keppel Land’s Singapore and Vietnam Strategy Following the success of the Words on offices, as well as other business units GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 4-6 Y 57-62 Wheels (WoW) mobile library project in across the Keppel Group. Keppel staff GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 AR (25) N – Hanoi, Vietnam, in 2011, Keppel Land volunteers travelled with the mobile library continued its partnership with the to engage children from the schools in Ethics and Integrity Singapore International Foundation (SIF) rural villages through reading and games. GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms 4.4, 6.6.3 AR (21-22) N – to extend the project to HCMC in May 2014. of behaviour The Company extended its support again Phase Two of WoW (Ho Chi Minh) is expected for Phase Two of WoW (Ho Chi Minh) in to positively impact over 7,000 Vietnamese GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 4.4, 6.6.3 AR (21-22) N – March 2018. students in District 2 and District 8 of Governance HCMC, including Keppel Land Vietnam’s The programme, led by SIF in partnership adopted Anh Phu Secondary School over GRI 102-18 Governance structure 6.2 AR (19) N – with the General Sciences Library in HCMC its three-year span. GRI 102-19 Delegating authority 6.2, 7.4.3 10 N – and Hanoi Public Library, promotes literacy GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 6.2, 7.4.3 10, AR (19) N – and a culture of self-learning among In addition, Keppel Volunteers, together environmental and social topics villagers in rural communities. To-date, more with Singapore International Volunteers, than 7,000 primary and secondary school will conduct English language and IT literacy GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (28) N – children in HCMC and Hanoi have benefitted workshops at the schools. The curriculum environmental and social topics from the mobile library programme as well will be specially designed to cultivate GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (19) N – as the English and information technology students’ interest in reading and learning, and its committees 1. Keppel Land is the sponsor workshops provided under this initiative. while facilitating cross-cultural exchanges. GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (19) N – of Phase Two of the Words Staff volunteers from Keppel Land have on Wheels (Ho Chi Minh) programme, which is Phase One of WoW (Ho Chi Minh), which also developed English lessons on green expected to positively was held from 2014 to 2017, saw the mobile living and financial literacy with the aim to impact over 7,000 Legend Fully reported Partially reported Vietnamese students from library provide over 3,000 children aged inculcate values on sustainability among the 2018 to 2020. between six and 15 in the Binh Chanh district local community, particularly the youths. 52 53 Page Proof Draft 18.05.2018 17.05.2018 3 4 Other Information Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Standards Content Index For ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External External Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance GRI Indicator General Disclosures Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference GRI Indicator General Disclosures Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (19-20) N – GRI 103: Management Approach 2016* governance body GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary* 7.3.3, 7.3.4 11 Y 57-62 GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (21-22) N – GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components* 6.2, 6.8 10-11, 15-17, 34-35, 40, Y 57-62 GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (19-21) N – 48, AR(6-9, 22, 25) purpose, values and strategy GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach* 7, 12, 18-19, 36-37, 46, Y 57-62 GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (19) N – AR(6-9, 20-21, 23) GRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 AR (19) N – Topic-Specific Standards Disclosures own performance – Material Topics GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (19-22) N – Category: Economic environmental and social impacts GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (23-25) N – GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 6.8.3, AR (2-3) N – GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (19) N – and distributed 6.8.7, 6.8.9 social topics GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 6.5.5 19, 26 Y 57-62 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body's role in 6.2, 7.4.3 2 N – opportunities due to climate change sustainability reporting GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and 6.8.7 42-43 Y 57-62 GRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 6.2, 7.4.3 50, AR (22) N – other retirement plans GRI 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 6.2, 7.4.3 50, AR (22) N – GRI 201-4 Significant financial assistance received – 47 Y 57-62 from government GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (20) N – GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (20) N – GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 43 Y 57-62 GRI 102-37 Stakeholders' involvment in remuneration 6.2, 7.4.3 AR (20) N – compared to local minimum wage 6.8.1, 6.8.2 GRI 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 6.2, 7.4.3 – Information is N – GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 45 Y 57-62 confidential the local community 6.8.5, 6.8.7 GRI 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total 6.2, 7.4.3 – Information is N – Category: Environmental compensation ratio confidential GRI 301: Materials 2016 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 25 Y 57-62 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 5.3 9 Y 57-62 GRI-301-2 Recycled input materials used 6.5.4 25 Y 57-62 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 6.3.10 47 Y 57-62 GRI-301-3 Reclaimed products and their packing materials 6.5.5 Disclosure is not Y 57-62 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 5.3 9 Y 57-62 applicable as input GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 5.3 17, 33, 38, 46 Y 57-62 building materials including packaging are GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 5.3 17, 33, 38, 46 Y 57-62 purchased directly by the main contractors. Reporting Practice GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 7.3.2 2, AR (3, 6-7) Y 57-62 financial statements GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 6.5.4 22 Y 57-62 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 5.2, 7.3.2 2, 11 Y 57-62 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 6.5.4 22 Y 57-62 GRI 102-47 List of the material topics 5.2, 7.3.2 13 Y 57-62 GRI 302-3 Energy Intensity 6.5.4 22 Y 57-62 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information – 2 Y 57-62 GRI 302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption 6.5.4, 6.5.5 22 Y 57-62 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting – 2, 13 Y 57-62 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 6.5.4, 6.5.5 22 Y 57-62 and services GRI 102-50 Reporting period – 2 Y 57-62 CRE1 Building energy intensity 6.5.4 22 Y 57-62 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent previous report – 2 Y 57-62 GRI 303: Water 2016 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle – 2 Y 57-62 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 23 Y 57-62 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 7.5.3 2 Y 57-62 GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by 6.5.4 23 Y 57-62 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 7.5.3, 7.6.2 2 Y 57-62 withdrawal of water the GRI Standards GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6.5.4 Amount of water recycled Y 57-62 GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index 7.5.3, 7.6.2 53-58 Y 57-62 mainly for irrigation use is GRI 102-56 External assurance 7.5.3, 7.6.2 2, 59-62 Y 57-62 insignificant. CRE2 Building water intensity 6.5.4 23 Y 57-62 Legend Fully reported Partially reported Legend Fully reported Partially reported * Management Approach for Topic-specific Standards: GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016, GRI 202 Market Presence 2016, GRI 301 Materials 2016, GRI 302 Energy 2016, GRI 303 Water 2016, GRI 305 Emissions 2016, GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016, GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 2016, GRI 401 Employment 2016, GRI 402 Labour Management Relations 2016, GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2016, GRI 404 Training and Education 2016, GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016, GRI 408 Child Labour 2016, GRI 413 Local Communities 2016, GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 2016, GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling 2016, GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 2016. 54 55 Page Proof Draft 18.05.2018 17.05.2018 4 3 Other Information Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Standards Content Index For ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External External Level of Reporting, External External ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance GRI Indicator General Disclosures Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference GRI Indicator General Disclosures Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 6.5.5 24 Y 57-62 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 4.6 18 Y 57-62 and regulations GRI 305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 6.5.5 24 Y 57-62 Category: Social GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 6.5.5 24 Y 57-62 GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 6.5.5 24 Y 57-62 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3 41 Y 57-62 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 6.5.5 24 Y 57-62 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 6.4.4, 6.8.7 42 Y 57-62 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 6.5.5 Disclosure is not Y 57-62 that are not provided to temporary or applicable as the part-time employees Company does not have ozone-depleting GRI 401-3 Parental leave 6.4.4 47 Y 57-62 substances. GRI 402: Labour Management Relations 2016 GRI 305-7 NO, SO, and other significant emissions 6.5.3 Disclosure is not Y 57-62 applicable as the GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 6.4.3, 6.4.5 47 Y 57-62 Company is not operational changes Partial disclosure regulated by national as duration of laws, regulations or minimum notice environmental permits period is confidential to report significant GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 air emissions for its operations. GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 6.4.6 35 Y 57-62 management-worker health and CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings 6.5.5 24 Y 57-62 safety committees CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from 6.5.5 24 Y 57-62 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 6.4.6, 6.8.8 39 Y 57-62 new construction and redevelopment activity diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 number of work-related fatalities GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3 23 Y 57-62 GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk 6.8.8, 6.8.8 38 Y 57-62 Partial disclosure of diseases related to their occupation as wastewater is GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal 6.4.6 47 Y 57-62 discharged into the agreements with trade unions public sewerage system or sewage CRE6 Percentage of the organisation operating 6.4, 6.4.6 37 Y 57-62 treatment plant. in verified compliance with an internationally recognized health and GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 6.5.4 23 Y 57-62 safety management system Partial disclosure as wastewater is GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 discharged into the public sewerage GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year 6.4.7 45 Y 57-62 system or sewage per employee treatment plant. GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 6.4.7, 6.8.5 21, 38, 45 Y 57-62 GRI 306-3 Significant spills 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not Y 57-62 and transition assistance programs applicable as Keppel GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 6.4.7 43-44 Y 57-62 Land does not have regular performance and career significant spills. development reviews GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 6.5.3 – Disclosure is not Y 57-62 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 applicable as waste on-site is managed by GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 41 Y 57-62 the main contractors actions taken 6.3.10, 6.4.3 and the Company does not transport, GRI 408: Child Labour 2016 import, export or treat GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 36 Y 57-62 hazardous waste. for incidents of child labour 6.3.5, 6.3.7, GRI 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 – Disclosure is not Y 57-62 6.3.10, 6.6.6, and runoff applicable as waste 6.8.4 water is discharged into the public sewerage Legend Fully reported Partially reported system or sewage treatment plant. Legend Fully reported Partially reported 56 57 Page Proof Draft Page Proof Draft 18.05.2018 4 17.05.2018 3 Other Information Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Standards Content Index Independent Assurance Statement For ‘In Accordance’ – Comprehensive Level of Reporting, External External To the management of Keppel Land Limited ISO 26000 Page Reference and/or Assurance Assurance GRI Indicator General Disclosures Clauses Explanation for Omissions Yes (Y)/No (N) Reference Keppel Land Limited (“Keppel Land”, the “Company”) engaged Ere-S Pte Ltd (“Ere-S”) Society to provide independent assurance of its Sustainability Report 2017 (the “Report”). The engagement took place in February and March 2018. GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 413-1 Operations with implemented local community 6.3.9, 6.5.1, 6.5.2, 48 Y 57-62 Scope and limitations engagement, impact assessments, 6.5.3, 6.8 The assurance scope covered all figures, statements and claims related to sustainability and development programmes. during the reporting period January 2017 to December 2017. This includes the information GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.8 48-52 Y 57-62 provided with reference to the following GRI Standards disclosures, as listed in the GRI negative impacts on local communities. Content Index of the Report: CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily – – Disclosure is not Y 57-62 displaced and/or resettled by development, applicable as impacts on • GRI general disclosures: Organisation profile and strategy (102-8, 102-9, 102-11 to 102-14), broken down by project. local communities in the stakeholder engagement (102-40 to 102-44) and reporting practice (102-46 to 102-56) countries that Keppel • Economic GRI disclosures: Economic performance (201-2 to 201-4), market presence Land operates in are (202-1, 202-2) guided by the respective • Environmental GRI disclosures: Materials (301-1 to 301-2), energy (302-1 to 302-5), authorities’ land water (303-1 to 303-3), emissions (305-1 to 305-5), effluents and waste (306-1 to 306-4), planning regulations. compliance (307-1), supplier environmental assessment (308-1) GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 • Social GRI disclosures: Labour/management relations (402-1), occupational health and GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.4, 37 Y 57-62 safety (403-1, 403-2), training and education (404-1, 404-2, 404-3), diversity and equal of product and service categories 6.7.5, 6.8.8 opportunity (405-1, 405-2), non-discrimination (406-1), child labour (408-1), forced or compulsory labour (409-1), human rights assessment (412-1), local communities (413-1), GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 18 Y 57-62 the health and safety impacts of products 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.8.8 supplier social assessment (414-1), public policy (415-1), customer health and safety (416-1) and services • Disclosures on management approaches (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) associated with the above topics GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 The assurance did not cover information related to financial performance, technical GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.0 32 Y 57-62 descriptions of equipment, buildings, resorts, software and production processes. information and labeling The assurance also excluded the following information: GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.1 32 Y 57-62 product and service information and labeling • Information not related to sustainability or already supported by existing documents, such as third-party audits, certifications or awards (e.g. BCA Green Mark, ISO, Green Office) and GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 4.6, 6.7.1, 6.7.2 32 Y 57-62 Keppel Land’s Annual Report. marketing communications • Historical information and performance data already verified in previous sustainability GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 reports GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 4.6 18 Y 57-62 • Estimated future savings of new properties in the social and economic area • Career development initiatives Legend Fully reported Partially reported Ere-S did not check the content of Keppel Land’s Annual Report that is referred to in the GRI Content Index. Neither did Ere-S check whether all elements provided in the GRI Standards guidance (what to report) on each indicator had been fully reported and whether Keppel Land’s efforts and initiatives were aligned with the identified Sustainability Development Goals. Type of assurance and criteria The assurance process was conducted under a moderate (or limited) level of assurance in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). A moderate assurance is limited to desktop review and management-level evidence gathering and data verification with restricted sampling at lower levels in the organisation. The assurance also conforms to the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type 2, which requires evaluation of the Company’s overall sustainability framework with regard to material issues assessment and stakeholder engagement. This was conducted using the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (AA1000APS 2008) of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. AA1000 Assurance Standard also requires an evaluation of the quality of the reported sustainability performance information. For this, Ere-S employed the GRI Standards Reporting Principles (reliability, accuracy, balance, comparability, timeliness, clarity, sustainability context and completeness). Assurance methodology The assurance procedures and principles used for this engagement are compliant with ISAE 3000 and were drawn from a methodology developed by Ere-S, which consists of the following steps: 1. Identify and classify statements and data sets according to the scope, data ownership and type of evidence required for the verification process. 58 59 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 Other Information Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Independent Assurance Statement 2. Carry out interviews with key functional managers and data owners at Keppel Land’s corporate office in Singapore to verify data. The verification of the information was done Evaluation of the adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles through the following activities: Inclusivity – How the organisation engages with stakeholders and enables their participation • Enquiring about the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the Report disclosures, in identifying issues and finding solutions. including performance information, policies, procedures and underlying management systems. Through the assurance process, evidence of mutual dialogue between Keppel Land and • Requesting evidence of the data sources and explanation of relevant collection and its stakeholders could be observed during the reporting year. As for previous reporting calculation methods to substantiate the figures and claims. This includes sampling of periods, the engagement appeared more sustained for employees, customers and quantitative data to validate relevant sources and other supporting documents. investors. Implementation of the diverse engagement channels was evidenced at global • Challenging claims made in the Report and, where possible, confirming the presented levels. These included meetings, surveys, online platforms, events, conferences and visits evidence, including calculation methods, criteria and assumptions, with multiple to construction sites. There was also some evidence of efforts by Keppel Land to adapt and data owners and other documentation from internal and external sources, such as strengthen the way it interacts with its stakeholders, such as more consistent use of online previous Keppel Land sustainability reports. platforms to seek feedback and share information. 3. Assess the collected information and develop recommendations for immediate correction (where required) or future improvement of the Report content. As Keppel Land’s interaction with all key stakeholder groups during the reporting period was overall more observable for Singapore operations, more reporting could be done for For statements on the number (or absence) of complaints, incidents, fatalities, environmental its overseas efforts. Besides employees, contractors and the community (for philanthropic spills, impacts and cases of non-compliance to regulations (GRI 303-2, 306-1, 306-5, 306-3, activities), there can be more evidence to show active participation with stakeholder 307-1, 403-2, 406-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3), Ere-S assessment was essentially based on confirmation representatives in decision-making related to specific concerns. from heads of units, key data owners and, where applicable, internal documents from Keppel Land’s audit, feedback and reporting systems. Materiality – How the organisation recognises issues that are relevant and significant to it and its stakeholders. There was evidence of ongoing management approaches applied during the reporting Findings and Observations period to identify and measure issues that are material to Keppel Land and its stakeholders. The observed approaches were similar to previous years and included, in Evaluation of the adherence to the GRI Reporting Principles for defining addition to the engagement channels described above, the CSR Committee, meetings report quality involving managers and stakeholders, the risk management system, internal control In general, the content of the Report is clear and comprehensive, presenting both new and mechanisms and benchmarks. historical data aligned with previous sustainability reports. This facilitates the evaluation and comparison of performance through the years and, for some indicators, between Efforts were also made by Keppel Land during the reporting period to further standardise types of operations. Approaches to the identification and management of material these management approaches at Keppel Group level. For example, the Company issues, standards used and engagement with stakeholders as well as the relevant policies intensified its engagement with the Group’s Sustainability Steering Committee to align and targets are also described in the Report. In Ere-S opinion, these disclosures and the its sustainability strategy with Group policies, frameworks and targets, covering topics environmental and social topics covered through the Report appear consistent within such as safety strategy, security, environment (energy, water, emissions), supplier code of the sustainability context of Keppel Land’s industry sector and the countries in which the conduct, the Sustainability Development Goals and innovation. Company operates. Based on the assurance interviews, regular materiality assessments conducted by overseas Based on the assessed source documents and data trails, the statement and performance business units to identify material topics that are specific to their local operations could figures found in the Report and within the scope of the assurance show an overall good not be observed. That said, there was robust evidence showing mechanisms to ensure level of accuracy. Due to some incomplete measurement procedures, a small number compliance levels with internal policies and local environmental and social regulations are of performance figures may, however, not fully reflect the global performance of the maintained by the overseas business units and reported to the headquarters. Company. Although it appears that, in most cases, the missing data would have minor impact on the figures disclosed in the Report, the gap in the waste data for one hotel Responsiveness – How the organisation responds to stakeholder issues and feedback is estimated to represent a non-negligible part of the reported figure on total waste through decisions, actions, performance and communication. generated. In this particular case, the lack of waste data was beyond the control of the Company and was due to the unavailability of waste processing infrastructures by the Actions taken by Keppel Land to address concerns expressed by key stakeholders relevant local authorities. were observed during the reporting period. These concerns encompassed property construction quality, energy and water efficiency, and biodiversity. An example of the Overall high quality and traceability of data collection and reporting procedures were Company’s response to a concern raised by stakeholders in 2017 is the setting up of a observed for all covered topics and operations. Data quality control procedures and further security team (to assess security issues at properties). efforts in normalising the data collection and calculation processes were also observed this year. This confirmed the reliability of Keppel Land’s reporting mechanisms. During the Other observed ongoing initiatives to mitigate material issues included the implementation assurance process, some minor errors were identified, including inaccurate transcription of of innovative technologies and management approaches, setting short-term and information from sources provided by the data owners, inconsistencies in the formulation long-term targets, workforce and contractor training, and changes in processes to align of final figures and misstated details of initiatives. All key recommendations by with the latest environmental and safety standards. Ere-S for improving the clarity and accuracy of the statements have been applied by Keppel Land’s reporting team. Ere-S crosschecked the final version of the Report to Overall, the Report’s disclosures on Keppel Land responsiveness in Singapore outweigh confirm the application of the required corrective actions. those of the overseas operations. In terms of balanced content, the Report presents figures on cases of non-compliance, Communication channels to inform stakeholders about Keppel Land’s sustainability incurred fines, work-related accidents and injuries. However, content balance could still initiatives and performance have remained consistent with previous reporting periods. be improved with specific cases studies detailing the Company’s negative impacts, During 2017, these consisted of internal reports, newsletters, portal, external publications engagement with affected stakeholders and actions taken to mitigate these impacts. and social media, as well as the usual engagement channels. 60 61 Page Proof Draft Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 3 17.05.2018 2 3 Other Information Keppel Land Limited | Sustainability Report 2017 Independent Assurance Statement International Network Responsibility and Independence This statement represents the independent opinion of Ere-S. The management of Singapore China Shanghai Keppel Land was responsible for the preparation of the Report and all statements and figures contained within it. The responsibility of Ere-S was to provide the assurance, Keppel Land China Limited to express conclusions in relation to the agreed scope and to prepare the assurance Keppel Land Limited Beijing (Head Office) report and this assurance statement for the management of Keppel Land alone and for no 230 Victoria Street 39th Floor Wheelock Square other purpose. Ere-S was not involved in the development of the Report or the disclosed #15-05 Bugis Junction Towers Beijing Kingsley Property 1717 Nanjing West Road Singapore 188024 Development Co. Ltd. Shanghai, China 200040 management processes; neither has Ere-S been engaged by Keppel Land for other projects. Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Unit 706 Tel: (86) 21 6171 2121 The activities of Ere-S are independent of Keppel Land and entail no financial interest in Fax: (65) 6337 7168 Fax: (86) 21 6171 2122 Keppel Land’s business operations. Ere-S is not responsible for any actions taken by other China World Office 2 No. 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue parties resulting from the findings presented in this assurance statement. Keppel Land Retail Keppel Land (Shanghai) Chaoyang District Management Pte Ltd Beijing, China 100004 Management Co., Ltd Conclusion 1 Fifth Avenue Tel: (86) 10 6505 0866 Room 2001 Park Place On the basis of a moderate assurance engagement according to the above-listed criteria, #02-06/07 Guthrie House Fax: (86) 10 6505 0865 1601 Nanjing West Road nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that, in all material respects, Singapore 268802 200040 Shanghai, China Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report 2017 provides: Tel: (65) 6466 2555 Beijing Aether Property Tel: (86) 21 6288 3066 Fax: (65) 6466 0578 Development Co. Ltd Fax: (86) 21 6288 2799 – a credible and fair representation of the Company’s sustainability profile and application Block A, Room 701, Hanwei Plaza of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles, and No. 7 Guanghua Road Chaoyang District Shenyang − statements and figures that achieve an adequate level of reliability and accuracy. Beijing, China 100004 Tel: (86) 10 6561 8822 Keppel Township Development Within the scope of the assurance, the findings also provide confidence that the Report has Fax: (86) 10 6561 3322 (Shenyang) Co Ltd been prepared in accordance with the reporting principles of the GRI Standards. No. 26 Puxin Road Shenbei New District Moving Forward Chengdu Shenyang To further improve the quality of sustainability reporting by Keppel Land, Ere-S recommends Liaoning Province, China 110135 the following: Chengdu Hillstreet Development Co., Ltd. Tel: (86) 24 8972 7567 Unit 903 New Hope Tower Fax: (86) 24 8972 7599 • Keppel Land is encouraged to continue improving and standardising the data collection 45 Ren Min Nan Lu Section 4 and calculation methods to ensure strong coherence of reported performance figures Chengdu for all operations and locations, particularly for overseas units, hotels and the supply Sichuan Province, China 610041 Tianjin chain. In some cases, particular effort may be required to communicate the Company’s Tel: (86) 28 8702 6688 Fax: (86) 28 8701 5599 Keppel Hong Da (Tianjin Eco-City) data management and reporting procedures to data owners who are responsible Property Development Co., Ltd for pre-processing and calculating data prior to submitting it to the reporting team. No. 2018 Zhong Tian Da Dao RBO Block 13, Standardisation and traceability of data should be strengthened for both environmental Jiangyin Level 1 Unit 101, and social performance indicators. Ere-S commends the on-going efforts in this direction Eco-Business Park, Sino-Singapore Tianjin made by Keppel Land during the last reporting periods and the plans for future periods, Jiangyin Evergro Property Co Ltd Eco-City, such as in the refining of calculation methods for energy intensity, water intensity and #7 Clubhouse, Stamford City Tianjin 300467, China embodied carbon emissions. Wenhua Lu (Opposite Jiangyin Tel: (86) 22 6633 1088 • The Report would also benefit from more disclosures on negative performance to Tianhua Cultural Centre) Fax: (86) 22 6537 6025 improve the balance of content and reinforce proof that Keppel Land adequately responds Jiangyin to material issues and continuously progresses on its sustainability journey. Disclosure Jiangsu Province, China 214400 on negative performance and the relevant mitigating action should focus on significant Tel: (86) 510 8683 9999 Wuxi Fax: (86) 510 8641 0780 concerns raised by stakeholders during the reporting period. Reporting on negative Keppel Lakefront (Wuxi) performance may also include describing gaps identified in the Report’s disclosures, Property Development Co., Ltd based on GRI reporting requirements for example, and the improvement made in the Kunming Keppel Waterfront Residence Sales Gallery reporting approaches during the year. Northeast of West Gaolang Road & Jinshi Road Spring City Golf & Lake Resort Binhu District, Wuxi The above findings and additional suggestions for improvement have been presented to the Tangchi, Yiliang, Jiangsu Province, China 214121 management of Keppel Land in a more detailed assurance report. Kunming Tel: (86) 510 8562 3083 Yunnan Province, China 652103 Fax: (86) 510 8562 2213 Singapore, 25 May 2018 Tel: (86) 871 6767 1188 Fax: (86) 871 6767 1119 Jean-Pierre Dalla Palma Director and Lead Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner Ere-S Pte Ltd is a consulting company specialising in business sustainability and provides services in the domains of sustainability reporting, sustainability report assurance, stakeholder engagement and CSR training. Our assurance team is composed of assurance practitioners with expertise in CSR and each member is required to follow Ere-S’ assurance code of conduct, which can be found at http://www.ere-s.com/assurance-code-of-conduct/. 62 63 Page Proof Draft 17.05.2018 2 Other Information International Network India Myanmar Bangalore Yangon Keppel Puravankara Development Pvt Ltd Sedona Hotel Yangon #21/30, Prestige Craig House No. 1 Kaba Aye Pagoda Road 3rd Floor, Craig Park Layout Yankin Township M.G. Road, Bengaluru 560 001, India Yangon, Myanmar Tel: (91) 08 4150 5000 Tel: (95) 1 860 5377 Fax: (91) 08 4150 5008 Fax: (95) 1 860 5366 Indonesia The Philippines Batam Ortigas, Manila PT Nongsa Point Marina Keppel Philippines Properties, Inc. Jl. Hang Lekiu Units 2203-2204 Nongsa, Batam 29466, Batam, Indonesia Raffles Corporate Center Building Tel: (62) 778 761 333 F Ortigas Jr. Avenue Fax: (62) 778 761 474 Ortigas Center Pasig City 1605 Tel: (63) 2 584 6170/71 Bintan Fax: (63) 2 584 3915 PT Ria Bintan Jl. Perigi Raja Lagoi North Bintan Vietnam Kepulauan Riau Bintan Resorts Indonesia 29152 Tel: (62) 770 692 868 Hanoi Fax: (62) 770 692 883 Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd (Hanoi Branch Office) Jakarta Unit 05B, 2nd Floor, International Centre 17 Ngo Quyen Street, Trang Tien Ward, PT Keppel Land Hoan Kiem District PT Kepland Investama Hanoi, Vietnam PT Harapan Global Niaga Tel: (84-24) 3936 7745 PT Puri Land Fax: (84-24) 3936 7680 International Financial Centre Tower 2, 20th Floor Jln. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 22-23 Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) Jakarta 12920, Indonesia Tel: (6221) 571 2238 Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd Fax: (6221) 571 1813 (Head Office) Unit 2, 8th Floor, Saigon Centre 65 Le Loi Boulevard, Beng Nghe Ward, District 1 HCMC, Vietnam Malaysia Tel: (84-28) 3821 8000 Fax: (84-28) 3821 3540 Johor Bahru Keppel Land Watco Co. Ltd Tanah Sutera Development Sdn Bhd Level 3M Floor Saigon Centre No. 2 Jalan Sutera Merah 2 65 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 Taman Sutera HCMC, Vietnam 81200 Johor Bahru, Malaysia Tel: (84-28) 3823 2500 Tel: (60) 7 289 9009 Fax: (84-28) 3822 9822 Fax: (60) 7 289 9119 Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh City Saigon Centre, 67 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 HCMC, Vietnam Tel: (84-28) 3822 9666 Fax: (84-28) 3822 9229 64
