UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Table of Contents 2 Message from the CEO 3 Who we are 4 How we work 7 Data Protection 8 We Care 9 For You 13 For Society 16 For the Environment 18 What we achieved in 2017 Message from the CEO At Printec, the principles of corporate responsibility and sustainability go beyond compliance and philanthropy. Sustainability isn’t an initiative for us; it is integrated into our core strategy and embedded in our business, processes and ways of working. Our sustainability vision is formulated around three basic pillars and is focused on creating sustained value for our people, the society and the environment. These ongoing efforts are also aligned with the principles of the UN Global Compact concerning human rights, working life, environmental affairs, and anticorruption which we support and implement. These principles become an integrated part of our business strategy, culture and daily operations. While we are proud of the progress we have achieved, we know there is still much work to be done. With our technologies and innovative culture, I am confident that we will further accelerate our progress over the coming years and fully integrate sustainability practices into our business plans. Marina Mavrommati Chief Executive Officer 2 Who we are Our story so far Printec is a leader in business-to-customer transaction technologies in 17 countries in Central and Eastern Europe, offering a wide range of technology solutions that help improve human interactions, making everyday life easier. Vision Mission Through our wide range of technology solutions and services we enable To be the technology brand of choice for We exist to provide innovative technology based businesses to leverage innovative technology in order to provide superior easy and secure interactions, anytime, solutions & services, which enable efficiency, customer experience and at the same time achieve operational efficiencies and anywhere. effectiveness and convenience. regulatory compliance. Our solutions are behind everyday transactions: from cash transactions via ATMs, to card transactions, self-service time optimize their operations, creating cost efficiencies. Values With our presence of 30 years and with more than 900 highly qualified and trained professionals, Printec is one of the fastest growing information technology groups in Central and Eastern Europe. Diversity We provide customers with a wide range of industry-leading innovative We embrace diversity in all of its forms and respect individuality. We give people room to solutions also through partnering with the world’s leading information think and act differently. technology organizations such as NCR, VeriFone, FICO-Tonbeller, Glory and many others. Drive for Results We pursue our goals with passion and with unrelenting focus on performance. Established in 1988, in Athens Greece, Printec’s initial business focused on providing computer peripherals. Realizing the potential of payment technologies, the company’s founders soon expanded the business scope and Entrepreneurship introduced electronic payments in the Greek market, making Printec one of the We encourage our people to act on opportunities, take initiatives, and go beyond boundaries most innovative IT companies in the country. The company soon transcended state boundaries. The strategy to form partnerships with leading global IT Customer focus vendors, in tandem with the commitment towards the enhancement of We diligently service our customers. We understand what drives our customers’ business and Printec’s in-house expertise, soon enabled Printec to extend its reach, exploit we create innovative solutions tailored to their needs. its core potential and enter the markets of South-East Europe. Trust Printec Bulgaria Ltd, founded in 1992, was the first subsidiary outside Greece, followed by Printec Cyprus Ltd in 1995. The beginning of the new century We trust our people to do the right thing and conduct business with competence, expertise, marked the group’s further expansion through the acquisition of NCR Corp. positive attitude and cooperation on all levels. business units in Croatia, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia, becoming the largest distributor of NCR products in Europe. 3 How we work UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES The numbers opposite refer to the following Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact to illustrate our undertaking to operating in a responsible manner in the Respecting the UN Principles areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Printec is committed to protecting and promoting HUMAN RIGHTS human rights and basic freedoms for all its Principle 1: Businesses should support and employees. The Company encourages all employees respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and and business partners to respect human rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not prevent potential abuses. This commitment is clearly complicit in human rights abuses stated in the written policies found in the company’s code of conduct, “One Group, One Code”, which has LABOR been published on the company website and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the intranet and is translated in all local languages of freedom of association and the effective our jurisdiction. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; According to Printec’s Code of Conduct, each Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; employee should conduct company business with Principle 5: the effective abolition of child integrity and in compliance with applicable laws. The labor; and Company will not tolerate victimization, bullying or Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination harassment in the workplace. Any such behavior is in respect of employment and occupation. facing disciplinary repercussions and even termination of employment. All Printec employees ENVIRONMENT are required to read and confirm that they have Principle 7: Businesses should support a understood and commit to abide by the Code. precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote In Printec we follow the rules and regulations of the greater environmental responsibility; and jurisdiction in which we operate and in our Principle 9: encourage the development and company’s policies, we ensure that our employees diffusion of environmentally friendly and stakeholders are treated fairly and equally. technologies. Printec’s commitment to the UN Global Compact ANTI-CORRUPTION has also been published on the company’s Principle 10: Businesses should work against corporate website reflecting Printec’s ethical corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. business performance and positive engagement with stakeholders e.g. employees, partners, 4 customers and communities. How we work Freedom of association & child labor Printec believes in the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining and adheres to sectional collective agreements in all countries of its operations, and, where applicable, allows the formation of Labor Unions. All employees are made aware that any forms of Hiring forced or compulsory labor are not supported. Printec does not condone any forms of child labor or human The “Hiring Policy” available for all HR department trafficking. Due to the nature of the business and the countries personnel and Managers involved in the hiring of operations, there have not been any recorded instances process, provides all the necessary tools and relevant where the company has had to deal with any issues of this kind processes for an objective candidate assessment. Equal pay Printec will never advertise a job referencing if this was to become apparent, Printec would take immediate action. The Company ensures equal pay for equal work and discriminatory criteria such as race, gender or age. equal opportunities for training and development for Likewise, the company ensures job applicants are not Printec has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases all employees, without distinction based on grounds asked to give information about their marital status, or other relevant events related to contravention of the Global of race, color, sex, language, religion, political or pregnancy, intent to have children or similar Compact Labor principles. other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth information which may lead to discriminatory hiring or other status such as ethnic origin, disability, age, decisions. health status, parental or marital status or sexual Performance Management Diversity orientation, taking into account differences in wages Upon hiring, a written contract is presented to Through our Performance and Development Program, we Printec’s commitment to Global Compact’s principles on by region of expertise. Printec ensures that hiring, employees, stating their terms and conditions, maintain alignment with our core business objectives, monitor Labor is reflected in its Code of Conduct, in policies promotion or termination are based on legitimate including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. progress bi-annually to identify strengths and such as the Hiring Policy, as well as in processes such as non-discriminatory business reasons and provides a Based on their job description, Printec employees are individual development needs and training requirements. As the Performance and Development Process which safe, healthy & comfortable working environment to informed of the relevant Compensation Policy in part of this process, Printec employees receive written and describe how employees are selected and regularly all employees. place. Additionally, a comprehensive job description is verbal feedback on their individual performance against their evaluated. communicated ensuring employees are fully aware of set of objectives & competencies respective to their role. The All employees receive at least the minimum wage. their roles and responsibilities, before signing the desired results and behaviors are encouraged and recognized The company supports and is committed to the practice This is communicated in the contract provided to all agreement prior to employment. through Printec's People Awards, nominated every quarter. of equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and new employees prior to employment. This contract advancement. contains among others the terms and conditions of Printec implements for the third year an Onboarding Discrimination in the development and advancement of employment and the working time regulations based Program that allows new employees to assimilate employees has been mitigated through Printec's Career With Diversity as one of its Values, Printec prides itself on the specific job position. All employees are paid within their working environment, and informs them Framework that classifies each job role in Bands based on on having an authentically diverse culture: our holiday leave, sick leave and parental leave in of all Printec Policies & Procedures, including, but not unique contribution and benchmarks of industry standards, workforce spans countries, cultures, languages, accordance with international minimum standards. limited to, the Code of Conduct, Compensation & therefore eliminating any issues of discrimination in generations, perspectives, backgrounds and educational Benefits, Company’s Vision, Mission & Values, compensation. experiences. Printec understands that employees with For cases where –according to specific support Performance & Development Process, Risk disabilities share the same general employment rights contracts with customersthe Customer Services Management Process etc. Through this process, which Within 2017 we performed internal “refresher” sessions to as other workers. Printec has a good mix of female and employees might be required to work after office is continuously enhanced when a new or an update of existing employees for the Performance & Development male although our industry is an area which is by nature hours, there is a “Stand-by and Call-out” Policy in existing policy is released, Printec’s new employees System online platform, initially launched in 2015, and special male dominated. This however, in no way reflects our place ensuring that employees who might be are immediately informed about all relevant trainings for the new members of Printec team in order to approach to encouraging and promoting staff within required to work overtime, are compensated information on equal opportunities, employee rights educate them on the principles and optimum use of the the organization. accordingly. & responsibilities. performance management system. 5 How we work Monitoring Compliance We span in more than 15 countries but we maintain an open and supporting working environment. Printec enables employees to freely communicate in cases where they feel their rights are being compromised or breached. Grievance Mechanism: Through the implementation of Printec’s Code of Conduct and the relevant policies, Health & Safety the company keeps human rights violation to a With regards to the Health and Safety of Employees, minimum. However if violations were to occur, then Printec is in full compliance with the relevant laws appropriate action would be taken. Employees are and regulations in the countries of its operations. The encouraged to speak with the senior members of the company makes sure that the necessary procedures team and/or communicate directly with the Group and precautions are in place with regards to Printec Ethics Committee (via telephone, email or traditional Corruption facilities, providing a safe and sanitary working mail) if they feel treated unfairly. It is Printec’s policy to conduct all of our business in environment. Additionally, the company has achieved an honest and ethical manner. We take a zeroThe Ethics Committee: Printec’s Ethics Committee is and continues to maintain the OHSAS 18001:2007 & tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are responsible for the review of issues regarding human OHSAS 18001:2008 certification which relates to committed to acting professionally, fairly and with rights, or other ethical issues that have or may arise in occupational health and safety in Bulgaria and integrity in all our dealings wherever we operate. The conjunction with Printec activities. Romania respectively, and the “Employer as Partner Company has in place policies and procedures Certificate” in Croatia. designed to prevent corruption as it is clearly stated Regular controls: The Chief Compliance Officer, on an in its Code of Conduct. annual basis, performs on-site audits in each of the All parameters of health and safety in the workplace are covered by local legislation such as: company’s locations of business operations and “No company can operate cut-off from Regular internal and external auditing of financial investigates if the company policies and procedures accounts ensures Printec’s expectations & policies in society. Social Responsibility must relation to corporate governance are maintained.  Controls by a dedicated safety engineer are are being meticulously followed, providing feedback and ensuring realignment in case of discrepancies derive from conscious social ethics, held on a regular basis (policies are being reviewed for suitability, sensitivity, and culture. All staff are aware that they can communicate with sustainability and effectiveness on a regular or also the Group Ethics Committee should they become  Scheduled visits by an occupational doctor For this reason we are constantly concerned for the welfare or operations of the ad-hoc basis should a significant change occur)  A detailed evacuation plan is upheld by organizing actions related to our daily business or if they detect a violation of the company’s During 2017, three incidents were raised, which were frequent fire and earthquake drills operations that promote a responsible corporate governance policy. Should any issues arise, treated and solved with utmost discretion for all sides. Printec would seek legal advice and deal with them way of doing business and embrace the immediately. All employees are covered by the state medical All employees have been made aware of Printec’s broader society. Printec Financial Statements are audited locally by insurance and supplementary private medical policies in this area and have been required to read external auditors each year and submitted for insurance is provided as a benefit for employees in We are proud of what we have the majority of Printec. We plan to extend this and familiarize themselves with the Code of Conduct. consolidation at Group Level to a separate achieved so far and we strive for independent external auditor in Austria. benefit to all countries. To improve the quality of life All policy documents are available to access at any time via the company’s intranet, and employees are greater results in the future.” of employees and their families, they are granted encouraged to submit questions, feedback and any Printec had not been involved in any legal cases, flexible time & place work arrangements, rulings or other events related to corruption or encouraged to take all their annual paid time off, concerns through the listed individuals with special 6 -Printec CSR Team bribery. exercise and live a healthy lifestyle. responsibility and oversight in this area. Data Protection Data Risk Management Data risk management requires understanding the threats, vulnerabilities and risks associated with processing (e.g., collecting, exchanging, storing, deleting) the specific types of personal data we handle. By conducting Data Privacy Impact Assessments (DPIA) for our own internal business processes, measuring the effectiveness of policies, processes and controls, we constantly try to manage risks to an acceptable level and identify the current strengths and opportunities in the data protection practices of Printec. Incident response We have implemented a thorough, organization-wide data incident response process that is integrated in Our Program​ our business continuity processes. Our crossfunctional incident response team consists of personnel from multiple departments. Our team Policies and Standards provides guidance and takes responsibility for We have updated our existing privacy and remedial actions based on members’ business data protection policies and internal standards function and role. Any data breaches will be handled and governance with particular regard to by a subgroup of the incident response team since personal data lifecycle, individual rights, data due to possible legal/regulatory implications, a Our Commitment​ breaches, data access, and security. The main principles of our policy are reflected in our different management process may be required. privacy statement and our Code of Business Training & Awareness Protecting the security and privacy of personal Conduct and Ethics. Printec conducts a Data Protection Awareness data, no matter where they come from or where program (including campaigns) in a variety of multithey flow, is important to Printec. Printec Data Inventory media (on-line, print, video, live sessions) and complies with mandatory privacy laws languages, which aims at providing general training Knowing what data we hold is key in worldwide, and is working to be ready for the to all personnel and specific training to personnel managing them appropriately and GDPR by implementing a Group-wide Program who have permanent or regular access to personal consistently. Based on a cross-functional, that: data. Specific modules taking into account local company-wide effort, we inventory and map the data that each unit within Printec specificities are also being developed. The attendance  is based on a risk based approach following processes. We also inventory our products and to the Data Protection Training is mandatory and in services. This allows us to identify and order to facilitate the participation of Printec uniform methodology in all Printec entities understand how we handle data, including employees we maintain an active intranet for  examines every aspect of our operations what we have, how are we protecting them, collaboration and communications at all levels within what we are doing with them, where they are, the company. Beyond basic awareness training,  ensures everyone’s involvement and Printec encourages & supports employees to pursue where they flow, who has access to them, and 7 commitment why. further training opportunities. In Printec, WE CARE. Our CSR vision and strategy is formulated around three basic pillars seen below and We rebranded our CSR program is translated into integrated solutions that deliver greater convenience and enhanced value to people’s lives. in 2017 and created new logos To that end, Printec is aiming at long-term maximization of its financial value, through sound and a new CSR policy. We also corporate governance and ethical conduct, ensuring that its employees act with integrity, launched our first Group transparency, ethos and environmental consciousness in their relationship with the Company’s stakeholders and society in general. Printec’s targets are to generate continuous growth and campaign promoting our economic value through long term performance improvement, provide innovative & optimal solutions responding to customer’s requirements and sustain longstanding relationships with collective actions of 2016. key vendors/partners and behave with transparency towards them. FOR YOU (OUR PEOPLE) We are committed to: Respecting human rights and health & safety procedures. Treating employees as they are our most important asset. Maintaining a respectful rewarding and safe working environment. Creating an environment where diverse people can come together and offer their best thinking, ideas and performance. Providing performance-based rewards and career development opportunities. Safeguarding the wellbeing of all employees through various athletic events and workshops that promote healthy nutrition and work-life balance. FOR SOCIETY We follow a shared value approach that aims at: Working with local, national and international charities, NGOs and authorities. Accelerating education & entrepreneurship in the community. Supporting vulnerable groups or individuals through volunteerism. FOR THE ENVIRONMENT We develop environmental consciousness to our employees, suppliers and clients enabling the long-term success and sustainability of our own business and of our clients’ businesses by: Designing and promoting “green” products that reduce the consumption of resources. Complying with all EU and local laws and regulations pertaining to the recycling of electronic equipment. Being at least environmentally neutral in all our operations. Reducing our impact on the natural environment from energy, business travel and waste. 8 We Care | For You is our group-wide program that introduces and encourages our colleagues to participate in creating a better work life. WorkLife @Printec programs are about:  Improving our workplace Transform offices into comfortable & creative places, where people can meet and collaborate on projects  Encouraging flexibility on how we deliver our work Fitness & Health @Printec Flexible Time & Place Arrangements, when focuses on our physical and mental health, appropriate stress release and nutrition; company programs in various countries, among Grow @Printec  Emphasizing teamwork & collaboration others, include: encourages accountability on personal Organize “know-us-better” sessions, where and professional growth by providing a EnJoy @Printec is about having fun! Let’s teams could share what they do, their  Employee Assistance Program with 24/7 robust Individual Development Plan & celebrate our achievements, embrace challenges achievements or challenges realizing it with the organization's and support our colleagues. In many Printec availability countries our colleagues, among others: support.  Introducing meaningful perks such us:  On-site pilates classes Discounts on Products & Services, Meal & Team and individual learning and  Participate in Team building activities  Marathons development opportunities occur for Transportation subsidies, tickets for museums and theaters  Blood banks technical and non-technical fields  Create on-site play/relax rooms 9  Have fun in Christmas parties & celebrations We Care | For You Employee engagement In 2017, we carried out our first “Employee Engagement Survey” across our entire workforce worldwide. The survey is conducted online using a respected third-party provider and is “Printec is committed to being a completely anonymous and best employer everywhere it confidential. Although run for the first operates. Measuring Employee time, the participation rate reached Engagement is vital to 85%, higher than expected. The Survey understanding how to best support helps us to assess the people, improve the workplace and psychological commitment to the create an environment that organization, concerns and aspirations enables management and of our employees as a whole. The employees to remove any barriers group leadership team examines the to success, transforming Printec findings in great detail to identify areas into the technology brand of choice through the power of its people.” for action to address shortcomings highlighted by our people. The same -Ifigenia Assimaki scrutiny, analysis and discussion takes Group Talent & place for individual teams by their line 10 Development Manager manager. We Care | For You Legion Run For the first time ever we participated in the Legion Run in Bulgaria. We raced in the mud, we bonded as a team Athens Marathon | and he had lots of fun. The Authentic The before and after pictures say it all… In November 2017, Printec participated in the Authentic Marathon in Athens, for the first time! Our colleagues from Greece were joined by marathon runners from Romania and Slovenia in a celebration of the strength of human will, friendship and solidarity. Our 2017 Heroes 4 of our colleagues run the full 42,195 m, an act that requires preparation, confidence, discipline and focus. Healthy breakfast What’s better than a healthy start of the day? We are having healthy smoothies and macha Pilates classes coffee in our offices and we fill up with energy for the rest of For the second year in a Printec 2017 the workday. row, we organize Pilates classes in our offices. Some days our trainer helps 1 Team us relax, and others she pushes us to our limits. 3 Countries No matter the workout, it is the best way to end the 24 Runners workday and release all the stress. 318.780 m in total 11 We Care | For You Christmas around Printec All around Printec we celebrate the holiday season with many events. We decorated our offices, hosted office parties, we invited friends and family, we went out to dinner and we exchanged gifts. The holiday season is an First-aid training Blood donation opportunity to get to know one Knowing how to respond quickly in Twice a year we donate blood. We are partnering another and reflect on the year an emergency is a skill that can save with a public hospital and we have established a that has passed. lives. blood bank for our people. For this reason we organized a firstThis is a combined For You-For Society action aid training in our offices where since each time we give blood, we donate a employees learnt how to perform percentage of it to the hospital that coordinates CPR and respond to other forms of the donation. Ice Age emergency (e.g. allergic reaction). Exhibition Each year the Company Van Gogh Alive arranges a cultural event for the children of the The Experience employees. Last year we As the children visited the Ice Age we went to the theater, this year took a trip to the art world. As part of our we went to the Ice Age. Christmas celebrations, the Company The kids learnt about the Ice arranged a cultural visit to the Van Gogh Age and the animals that exhibition. lived during that era through an interactive exhibition with We had the chance to get to know about lots of games. the life and work of Van Gogh through multimedia presentations and exhibits. 12 We Care | For Society we volunteer, we share, we have fun. Supporting society and the communities in which we operate is an endeavor that is being accomplished through the selfless help of our colleagues. Throughout the years volunteerism has spread across Printec and in 2017 we noted the highest involvement and participation in social actions among Printec employees. We support children Throughout Printec our employees have been active towards helping children in need. For the last 4 years Printec has been supporting the NGO The Friends of the Child intending to take care and protect not only sick or abused children, We embrace diversity but any child who lives in conditions that are below the threshold of relative poverty. Printec is a multinational, spanning in over 15 Each year volunteers donate food supplies, clothes, toys & books but most importantly their time and countries around Europe. We are proud to say that We share the knowledge we embrace diversity in every form. Religion, positive attitude in order to put a smile on the face gender, age and disability. of these children. A high percentage of managerial positions is Technology is the future and in Printec we share covered by women and many positions are filled our knowledge and expertise with the next Each year volunteers donate food supplies, clothes, by employees that are 35 years old and younger. negation in order to educate them and inspire toys & books but most importantly their time and Additionally, the number of interns that we train them to become the future developers or We raise awareness on health positive attitude in order to put a smile on the face of these children. increases steadily each year. Last year we participated for the first time at the engineers that will change the world. issues Thanks to the generous donations of Printec and Career Fair.4all an initiative aiming to bring the We regularly participate in educational events like our volunteers' we continue to cover the speech Greek labor market close to people with the Athens Science Festival or the Finance Printec Races for the Cure. therapy expenses and the breakfast supplies of the disabilities. Presentation for SOS Villages and we arrange Every year, for the past 5 years, Printec Greece has children for a whole year. During the event we had the school visitation days where children can visit our been participating in the Race for the Cure hoping opportunity to interact with candidates and discuss offices and learn from our employees first-hand to raise awareness on breast cancer. Additionally, we donate school supplies and with them job prospects and what a position at what it means to work for a company like Printec. This is a “friends & family” event and every year the equipment to local schools, we provide hygiene Printec entails. Printec family has been steadily increasing. In 2017 products and clothes and we offer meaningful We actively support the inclusion of people with Additionally, me visit schools and offer career we noted the highest numbers of participation and Easter and Christmas presents to children that disabilities in the labor market and we have already advice and guidance to teenagers to help them we believe that in 2018 we will break that record need a bit of joy in their lives. renewed our participation for next year. shape their future paths. once again. 13 We Care | For Society Race for the Cure We are very proud that once again Printec supported Race for the Cure. On October 1st, Printec employees along with friends and family were gathered in the center of Athens to run, walk, laugh and spread the message of breast cancer awareness! Career Fair.4all In April 29th Printec participated for the first time at the Career Fair.4all an initiative 2017 2016 2015 aiming to bring the Greek labor market close to people with disabilities. 190 participation 130 participants 33 participants s During the event we had the opportunity to interact with candidates and 7th out of 169 11th out of 137 38th out of 89 discuss with them job prospects and what a corporate teams corporate teams corporate teams position at Printec entails. 40 children 20 children 6 children We actively support the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labor market and we 16 volunteers 9 volunteers 3 volunteers have already renewed our participation for next year! Athens Science Festival Easter Giving Based on our experience we shared our Our annual tradition of giving stands view on the reasons, challenges and strong. This year we baked cookies, facts around how people have been we gathered sweets and Easter eggs, trying to move away from the use of we made personalized baskets, we paper and cash and into a digital world. created Easter candles, and we Lately there has been an effort towards delivered them to the children. cashless living and with the introduction 15 volunteers made up the of contactless technology, mobile coordination team and many more wallets and IoT, it seems like an easy contributed by baking or offering step to take. monetary donations in order to purchase the sweets. 14 We Care | For Society Meaningful Christmas presents Before the holidays, Furthermore, we Finally, we we managed to participated in the activity continued our gather clothes and Donate books and schools annual tradition of monetary supplies for children in purchasing gifts donations in order need organized by the and sending them to purchase food non-profit organization to the Help Center and cleaning Timeheros . We managed for Children and School supplies donation supplies for the to collect materials and Humanitarian This year we participated in the action Let school children of the create six big packages Association Oaza be a joy for everyone! initiated & led by the civil charity association containing books, which helps organization Zagrebački humanitarci . We collected The Friends of the notebooks, puzzles and children without and delivered school supplies for 15 children in Child . school supplies. parents. need. Donating equipment to Food & local schools clothes Continuing the donation of school supplies in Q3, Printec once again helped donation In 2017, we continued in facilitating education. In Q4 our our efforts to support colleagues donated a projector to a local “The Friends of the school in Croatia that could not afford Child” by gathering one in order to enrich the way lessons are delivered and increase student Educating the youth winter and summer clothes and shoes and engagement. Our colleagues delivered a presentation for purchasing breakfast Management of Personal Finances to young supplies with money Additionally Printec donated 2 PCs to individuals without parents in the SOS gathered by employee local schools in Greece. Through this Children's Village Skopje. donations. donation young students will have the They gave advice on managing personal opportunity to gain technological budget, using banking services and shopping literacy which is necessary in the modern securely online. At the end, they demonstrated era as the headmistress of the schools how POS terminals and ATMs operate. says in her thank you letter. 15 We Care | For the Environment Recognizing the importance of the environment, Printec continuously proceeds to the necessary actions to ensure responsible and environmental-friendly conduct in the entire company. The main activities of the company’s Environmental program are focused on minimizing the environmental impact from the company’s operations, as well as from its products and solutions, by reducing energy consumption in company's facilities and applying reuse/recycle practices.​ We promote sustainability Throughout Printec we are all committed to switching to energy conservation practices in all facilities e.g.  Install LED light bulbs in the offices​  Establish a preventative maintenance program for We create green solutions heating, venting and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment and systems​ The following environmental-friendly  Install locking devices on thermostats to maintain solutions are included in the company’s We work efficiently desired temperature settings ​and product portfolio:  Recycle e.g. paper, lead & household batteries, light Since 2015 we are using Skype for Business for internal bulbs, plastic, cartridges and electric/electronic  Printec Watch4 family of products communications having reduced the travelling abroad for equipment. Many of our recycling efforts have a  Branch automation & Green IT initiatives physical meetings with teams and clients to the absolutely We are responsible double impact, on the environment and on society.  Transaction automation & Energy required. The company car fleet consist where applicable of For example in Croatia at the end of each month we reduction hybrid or diesel cars (either owned or leased depending on Printec has not had any reportable send bottles caps to a humanitarian association that  Building Internet of Things solutions the options available in the countries of operation)​ environmental incidents within the last buys medication for people with leukemia and  Cash management solutions & reduction year and has not been subject to any lymphoma who cannot afford it.​ of CTI travel E-billing application was implemented for the first time in statutory notices or prosecutions. The  InfoKiosks & Digital signage solutions 2017 in one of Printec subsidiaries. Three subsidiaries have company’s line of business do not pose a We also promote environmental consciousness through  Managed print services solutions already replaced hardcopy working orders forms with serious threat to the environment, our products that reduce resource consumption and  Smart water solutions electronic application process and default printer settings are therefore there are no serious promote sustainability.  E-signature solution applied throughout the organization. environmental risks to be considered. 16 We Care | For the Environment Recycling campaign In Printec, we recycle, but we wanted to boost our efforts and increase awareness amongst all of our employees. This is why we launched this recycle campaign, in order to inform everyone of our efforts and invite them to join us in case New framework they were not aware of our activities. We Along with the creation of our new CSR policy we want recycling to become a part of our created also the Environmental & Recycling everyday life and that is why we created Policy that applies to the entire Group. In this the posters and hung them around our policy, we state our commitment to doing offices. business responsibly and we set guidelines regarding recycling and using sustainable practices in order to minimize our impact on the environment and our society. Office waste separation Since we do not operate in the industrial sector our impact on the environment is very small, but we are doing our best to reduce it even further. We want our offices to work efficiently, therefore we have introduced waste separation points, as well as battery recycling points. Bottle caps for a good cause At the end of each month we send bottles caps to a humanitarian association that buys medication for people with leukemia and lymphoma who cannot afford it. 17 Our goals for sustainable development evolve around our people, the environment and the community we live in. This is what we achieved in 2017. We promote well-being. We save energy. We reduce emissions. We are switching to Our leasing car fleet We participated in 7 Fitness & Health activities LED lamps in all of consists of hybrid or in 5 countries like the Marathon, Legion Run, our facilities. diesel cars. pilates, healthy breakfast in the office, football & basketball games. We recycle. We encourage culture. We actively follow our We support those in need. processes for safe 54 Printec employees We donate blood. visited Van Gogh Alive | The We secured breakfast and speech therapy for 35 underprivileged disposal and recycling of We gathered 24 experience and children for 1 full year. paper, toners and 69 employees with their bottles of blood for batteries. + We expanded our outreach. children attended the Ice our blood bank and We provided school supplies, Christmas and Easter gifts and hygiene Age exhibition. the hospital. products to 71 underprivileged children in 4 countries. We embrace youth & diversity. We conducted interviews with young people with disability We support through action. in the Career Fair.4all 190 Printec people ran in the Race 31% of our workforce was under 35 for the Cure supporting women fighting breast cancer. We increased our internship opportunities introducing the +26% increase from 2016 Summer Internship Program for employees’ children. We are a member of the United Nations Global Compact, stating that we remain committed to UN's universal principles and that we do business 18 responsibly.
