Annual Review & Sustainability Report Midroc Europe 2017 Photo: Teodor Axlund, Hans Berggren, Teresa Carlsten, Peter Hoelstad, Adam Ihse, Ulf Palm, Johan Sellén, My Vestlund, Adam Jernberg, Rickard Johnsson, Heliospectra, Crunchfish, SolarWave, Horisont arkitekter, Juul Frost Architects, Pixprovider, Nordiclightlab, Studio E Helsingborg. Content Midroc – the company 4 Midroc in brief 5 2017 in brief 6 A sustainable road to the future Contributing to a better future 10 Our management approach 11 Sustainability management 12 Defining what matters 13 11 material topics 14 A sustainable way to paint 16 Engaging with our stakeholders 17 Finding the hotspots 18 Responsible business 20 How culture can boost performance 22 Sustainable use of earth’s resources 24 Creating jobs for the future 26 Nurturing culture and people 28 Making room for everyone 30 GRI Index Business areas 34 Investments 36 Properties 39 Contracting 40 Midroc Electro Gruppen AB 40 Midroc Electro AB 40 Midroc Automation AB 41 Midroc Rodoverken Group 41 Metalock Engineering Group 41 Alucrom Group 42 Midroc Project Management AB 43 Midroc Ställningar AB 43 BAC Corrosion Control Ltd 43 Midroc Environment Group AB 45 Hackholmssund Konferens AB Financial statements 48 Midroc Europe 50 Midroc Europe AB 51 Granitor Invest AB Management and ownership 54 Group management 54 Ownership 55 Board of directors 4 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Midroc in brief Midroc Europe is a privately owned Swedish INVESTMENTS company with operations the world over and Financial investments group head quarter in Stockholm. In 2017, we had Midroc Invest AB and development sales of more than SEK 6.7 billion and employed 3,600 people. Midroc Europe AB PROPERTIES The Midroc Europe group includes a variety of companies operating in several different industries. Granitor Property Properties AB development The group is organized in three business areas: Contracting, Properties, and Investments. Property development, Midroc property management, Properties AB Our mission: 49,7 % conference We make a positive difference every day. Our vision: Granitor CONTRACTING Invest AB Our vision is a better future, in which we help create a community Midroc Industry, civil, where people can live, grow and prosper. Contracting AB infrastructure Legal structure: Our business activities are conducted through a number of comGranitor Industry, civil, Contracting AB infrastructure panies, each offering their specific services. The Midroc Europe brand consists primarily of two groups of companies headed by Midroc Europe AB and Granitor Invest AB respectively. Group management Midroc AB and support Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Midroc – the company 5 2017 in brief Key figures* (Including Granitor Invest AB, SEK) Net sales ......................................... 6.7 billion Income before taxes ................... 305 million Total equity ..................................... 4.2 billion Total assets ....................................10.1 billion Owner’s financing ......................... 4.8 billion Employees .............................................3,600 *Key figures constitute the sum of Midroc Europe AB and 100 % of the Granitor Invest AB operations as well as surplus value of property. Sales Assets MSEK 6,700 MSEK 10,100 66 % Properties 69 % Contracting 25 % Contracting 31 % Properties 9 % Investments Employees Income before taxes 3,600 MSEK 600 500 89 % Sweden 400 300 11% Outside Sweden 200 100 0 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 6 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 A sustainable road to the future If one word could catch the essence of Midroc during 2017, “together” would be a good choice. We firmly believe that the foundation to our growth and profitability is our ability to work in partnership on many levels: As co-workers, as partners to our clients and as part of society as a whole. When we entered 2017, we had good reasons to expect the best trend during 2017. All suppliers need to keep up with clients’ from Midroc. We were poised for growth: The reorganization into increasing demand on efficiency. The key is to understand our clients’ three major portfolios represented by our business areas – contracting, needs as well as the challenges they face. We are confident that properties and investments – was finalized, and we had also started Midroc, with our decentralized organization, unique partnering to systemize our work within sustainability, in order to strengthen model and flexible solutions, has a very competitive market position. our position as the developer of tomorrows’ community and industry. We have also focused on communication and developing the In retrospect, we can conclude that we had another good year. Midroc brand. A strong emphasis on environmental, cultural and Net sales increased by 20 percent to a total of 6,7 billion SEK, and societal matters has always been a natural part of our work, but we we could clearly see that the reorganization into need to show our external stakeholders what our real portfolios was increasing our efficiency and busicontributions are. Among those are for example “We will continue ness pace. Midroc has evolved fast the last few creating good working environments, developing new to improve our years, and the speed of this development has been technologies, building local industries, creating local inspiring in itself. But the most inspiring part of sustainability work” jobs and in other ways helping societies and people 2017 was perhaps our people – their trust and to prosper. Today, these contributions are essential ability to work together forms the culture that is the foundation to aspects of the Midroc brand. We know that we are being awarded Midrocs’ performance. Every day, 3,600 employees strive to enable contracts because of our responsible approach. More and more us to step by step secure our long-term goals: Creating the best clients, as well as employees, value our ambition to make a longprofitability for all stakeholders, using the earth’s resources responterm difference. sibly and to make Midroc the first choice for our clients and future employees. In search of innovations We have increased our efforts to keep up with new technologies, not Shifting market conditions least in order to find new investment opportunities. Historically, we Our people are incredibly important, so we will get back to them have a very good track record, and are proud to say that investments later. But first, we would like to briefly comment on some further such as Minesto and Powercell, made about ten years ago, turned strategic issues. out to be really timely. Now, their innovative technology is truly Firstly, our markets. In general, they developed well during last coming into demand. year, in line with the Swedish industry’s performance. That said, the When it comes to digitalization, we are constantly on the lookout year was not without challenges for our business areas. For example, for smarter tools. For example, in 2017 we decided to implement properties saw pressure on pricing and a downshift in demand in CheckProof, a digital platform that will enable us to secure and the housing market. To address this, we adjusted our products simplify for example quality checks and self-assessments in our accordingly. Our belief is that by offering sustainable and attractive operations, with better overview and less administration as benefits. products, we can be profitable also when the residential market is cooling off. Moreover, the sharpest decline in housing prices has Increased focus on sustainability been in the largest urban areas, whereas Midroc Properties can A third strategic issue is operational development and follow-ups. balance this with its additional focus on smaller city areas, with less Sustainability is at the center here too. If we say we act sustainably, market volatility and better predictability. we should also be able to prove it. Consequently, in 2017, we Regarding the contracting business area, there was a very clear strengthened our routines and now assess our internal work three Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Midroc – the company 7 times a year, with a forward-looking perspective. We are already necessary flexibility to create the best possible conditions to keep seeing the advantages that these new routines bring. performing well. In order to build trust towards society we should also be transparent about progress. We have therefore identified a number Cultivating progress of Key Performance Indicators to be measured according to the And what about 2018? Going forward, we are optimistic. We see Global Reporting Initiative going forward, with 2017 as our base some market challenges, particularly in housing, but the Swedish year. We believe that this kind of transparency will help us to industry is still performing well and we can identify really interesting continue to act responsibly, identify what is important to us, and opportunities in all our business strategies. We will continue to to our key stakeholders, and make us even more relevant to the improve our sustainability work, asking ourselves and our stakeoutside world. holders what we can do in our own operations and together with our clients, short term and long term. In every project we start, we A broader skill set will raise questions like: Can we reduce our negative environmental This brings us back to the importance of our people. In 2017, we impact further? Are we doing everything we can to prevent corrupdecided to strengthen the Midroc executive management group with tion? Are we encouraging diversity and creating healthy workplaces? Pernilla Börjesson, Olle Kylinger, David Sundin and LiseLotte Most of all, we will continue to build on our strong business Jernberg Bate. Together, they add important specialist perspectives culture. We have a proven and appreciated ability to achieve results on finance, human resources, legal and other support functions. The working together with our customers, and we look forward to understanding that better results are achieved when differing skills continue to cooperate and develop together with our co-workers, are combined is a core belief at Midroc, and the basis on which our clients and society as a whole. model “the competence puzzle” is built. We think this will be crucial for us going forward. Midroc needs all these skills in order to maintain a strong and positive business culture. We are already attracting the right employees, and have particularly noted that people tend to like our culture and feel at home quite quickly. That is of great importance to us. No matter where you work within the Christer Wikström Midroc group, you should always feel like you are part of the “Midroc family” and empowered to make the necessary everyday decisions that ultimately will help us reach our goals. Similarly, we have increased our efforts to encourage our three portfolios of companies to become more self-sufficient when it Roger Wikström Thomas Mårtensson comes to governance. A decentralized model will give them the Contributing to a better future 10 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Our management approach Midroc’s business is rooted in the vision of a better future. We create long-term value both economically, environmentally and socially by helping society to create communities where people can live, grow and prosper. The Midroc group strives to be a good force in society. We develop an extensive and complicated task. It was finalized in 2017 and properties where people can create a good life, we support industry the process involved all Midroc companies, who systematically clients in their efforts to grow in a sustainable way, and we invest in assessed sustainability issues and engaged in dialogue with their key clean technology to society’s benefit. stakeholders. This has in turn triggered our co-workers to discuss, At Midroc, the connection between a sustainable approach and analyze and reflect on the company’s sustainability approach, leading prosperous business has been a vital part of our business idea since to an even higher level of engagement among our staff. inception. Openness and transparency towards society is deeply rooted in the company culture. Yet, 2017 marks an important Midroc Management Platform milestone. It was the first year for the group to start reporting on its To pave the way for GRI compliance, several strategic measures sustainability work in compliance with GRI, Global Reporting have been taken. Midroc joined the UN Global Compact in 2016. Initiative. This allows us to frame the sustainability work in a better, During 2017, the ten Global Compact principles were fully incorpomore systematic way. It increases transparency and identifies acrated in all company policies, including our Management Platform, Sustainability Policy and Code of Conduct. Our Management Platform outlines the objectives and strategies “To us, sustainability is not a separate strategy, or that ensure responsible business and management on all levels. It something that is being handled by a particular describes our market approach, our value propositions and how we organizational department.” create efficient teams and organizations. As an extension, our Code of Conduct guidelines all day-to-day business operations and the demands we place on partners and suppliers across our value chain. countability across the group, thus making the business significance It covers the areas of business ethics, anti-corruption, working of sustainability even clearer to all stakeholders. environment, human rights, environmental impact as well as The Midroc culture is a central part of the sustainability approach, compliance and monitoring. explains Niclas Lövfelt, co-ordinator for the group’s sustainability reporting. “To us, sustainability is not a separate strategy, or something that is being handled by a particular organizational department. Sustainability is integrated in every part of our decision-making, from management to co-worker. Everyone in the group has a responsibility in daily life and is an ambassador for our ambitions”, he says. Identifying the sustainability issues that matters the most to the diverse group of Midroc companies and our stakeholders was Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Contributing to a better future 11 Sustainability management Objectives and strategies that Identifies and ensure responsible Management Sustainability monitors status business and Platform Assessment in all management on sustainability all levels. focus areas. Describes how International Midroc conduct principles concerning work on sustainability Sustainability human rights, labour, and which our Policy environment and guiding values and anti-corruption. principles are. Guidelines all day-to-day business operations and the demands we place on Code of partners and suppliers Conduct across our value chain concerning business ethics and sustainability. Code of conduct: Business Partners 12 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Defining what matters During 2017, Midroc built the foundation for the group’s sustainability reporting by identifying the sustainability issues that matters the most to our key stakeholders. This kind of analysis – called a materiality assessment – was Mapping materiality performed for the first time, in order to identify our priority issues The process of defining our material sustainability issues started and lay the foundation for our GRI report. The materiality assesswith internal workshops in the Midroc group. The result of these ment will be reviewed and updated every two years to make sure it discussions identified our key stakeholders as well as what their reflects any change in our business as well as socio-economic and expectations and assessments concerning Midroc’s impact on environmental impact. The next materiality assessment will be sustainability might be. Based on these results, Midroc conducted conducted in 2019. a sustainability survey targeting a broad group of stakeholders. In In our current assessment, shown in the matrix on opposite total, 158 respondents based in Sweden took part of the survey. page, we have identified the 11 most relevant sustainability issues to The results were then prioritized and validated by Midroc’s our stakeholders across our business areas’ value chains. These are all management team. When the next materiality assessment is in turn grouped into three focus areas, Responsible business, conducted in 2019, it will include stakeholders on all the geoSustainable use of earth’s resources and Nurturing People and graphical markets where Midroc conducts business. Culture, aligned with our management platform. Starting 2018, we will report and disclose 12 adhering material GRI topics as outlined in the index on pages 30 – 31. We define issues to be material to our business in terms of the following: • The importance of an issue to our key stakeholders • The potential impact on our operations and key stakeholders • The extent of Midroc’s influence on the issue • The degree to which an issue is aligned with our vision, long-term objectives and the business areas’ targets Our materiality assessments have adjusted the group’s performance targets and corresponding indicators that we include in our Scenario Reporting, which we undertake three times per year. Whilst our reporting focuses on the issues that matter most to our business and our stakeholders, we have not yet set targets for every material issue. This will be accomplished during 2018. Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Contributing to a better future 13 11 material topics Counteracting corruption Promoting fair competition Counteracting discrimination Promoting health and well-being Ensuring a safe work environment among employees Following international rules and regulations Providing skills development for employees Following local rules and regulations Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Promoting diversity and equality Waste disposal management Improve or communicate Continue How important it is for stakelholders that Midroc work with Maintain Educate How actively Midroc work with, according to stakeholders 14 Contributing to a better future A sustainable way to paint Better for the environment, better for business and better for clients. Alucrom had all the good reasons to build a brand new powder paint shop in Poland. A green and lush area, close to a large number of recreational allotment produces drive shafts for the automotive industry, including gardens – that might not seem like the best choice of location for a big brands such as Volvo, Maserati and Fiat. GKN was looking to industrial paint shop, handling a substantial amount of automotive increase its use of powder painting, but wanted to integrate the parts. Yet, this is exactly what it looks like where the new Alucrom supplier in the process, for sustainability reasons. Since GKN powder painting facility is located in the small town of Olesnica in already knew and trusted Alucrom, asking them to develop the the southwest of Poland. service came naturally. To Alucrom, the decision was not difficult to “You could safely say that the local authorities suffered a small make. Compared to wet paint, powder paint has several advantages shock when we told them where we wanted to build the plant. But in term of sustainability. Firstly, it’s safer. Powder paint emits once we explained what we were trying to do, and they got to see the negligible amounts of so called VOCs, volatile organic compounds, details in the process, the feedback was very positive”, says and is also free of HAPs, hazardous air pollutants, meaning that Piotr Bylicki, site manager for the new plant. there is no need for expensive filtration and respiration systems to protect the people working with the paint. Secondly, it’s more economical. Overspray can be collected and reused, saving both “Our main idea is quality. We are not the only money and reducing waste. Thirdly, it can add durability, providing a one doing powder painting, but if we offer a better coating with better protection from mechanical stress, temperaway to think, organize and cooperate, we can ture shifts and corrosion. become the first choice of supplier.” In order to manage the clients’ needs, Alucrom needed a new facility, and the paint shop in Olesnica was completed at record speed. A safer and smarter solution “The contract was signed in 2017, and we were ready to start The new facility is not like an old-school paint shop full of solvents production after just eight months. It is such an amazing achieveand chemicals. This is a modern powder painting plant, virtually ment by our team. We have been working as if we were a family free from smell and pollution. It is the result of a long relationship – I am not sure where else I would meet such people”, says Piotr with the company’s largest client in Poland, GKN Driveline, who Bylicki. 15 Powder painting has several advantages, such as a safer work environment and reduced environmental impact. Sustainable means profitable Alucrom has had operations in Poland since 2003 and is the biggest player on the market, with five paint shops in total. But if powder paint is better, shouldn’t Alucrom give up entirely on wet paint? Not necessarily, says Agata Szwec, management system director at Alucrom. “Some clients still prefer wet paint for various reasons. However, we do try to educate them as we go, helping them to choose alternatives less harmful to the environment, for example water based wet paint. We are often quite successful in our guidance, as our clients know that we have the expertise and therefore trust our advice”, Agata Szwec explains. Her main take-away from the construction of the paint shop is that sustainability and profitability will always be connected. “I have spent more than ten years at Alucrom, and I know from experience that you cannot separate environmental issues from business aspects. To be profitable, you must consider the environmental costs from the start, otherwise it will just cost you money later. It will come back to bite you”, Agata Szwec says. “Our main idea is quality. We are not the only one doing powder painting, but if we offer a better way to think, organize and cooperate, we can become the first choice of supplier. When the clients think of painting, they should think of Alucrom. That’s what will help us to continue to grow”, Piotr Bylicki concludes. The new paint shop was completed in just eight months. 16 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Engaging with our stakeholders An ongoing dialogue with our key stakeholders is essential to our sustainability work. By including their perspectives, we gain insights into what they expect from us, both as a business and as part of society. Their views are an important foundation in our materiality assessment. The table below outlines who our key stakeholders are, how we engage them in conversation and which three sustainability topics that are most important to them: Most prioritized material Group Definition Dialogue via topics. Customers/Clients Long-term, existing and Ongoing dialogue, meetings, Health and safety, potential clients that request customer support, website, anti-corruption, our products and services social media, customer events, anti-competitive behavior surveys Co-workers Current co-workers and Daily meetings, union Health and safety, leaders, and potential meetings, staff events, intranet, economic performance, co-workers annual progress meetings, non-discrimination surveys, social media Partners Actors with which we have Ongoing dialogue, project Economic performance, short-term or long-term meetings, website, social health and safety, business collaborations media, partner events, training effluents and waste and education, surveys Suppliers Current and potential actors, Ongoing dialogue, meetings, Anti-corruption, who’s products and services training and education, anti-competitive behavior, are strategically important to website, social media, surveys economic performance our business Community Government agencies, Open house events, site visits, Energy, authorities, municipalities and meetings, collaboration emissions, county councils, interest projects, social media, effluents and waste organizations and associations website, surveys Owners/financiers Owner, owner representatives, Meetings, board meetings, Economic performance, banks, investors and financiers conferences, website, social emissions, media, surveys diversity and equal opportunity Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Contributing to a better future 17 Finding the hotspots All business operations involve sustainability risks. Midroc is a diverse group with operations in many parts of the world, with numerous subcontractors engaged in our projects. This brings both opportunities and challenges. We must take both uncertainties and risks, from both known and Our sustainability risk assessment and reporting tools are integrated unforeseen events, into account when evaluating marketing opporin our scenario reporting process conducted three times per year. This tunities and managing our business operations. will provide us with early warnings of the potential risks that our We have launched a systematic and structured process to assess, business operations are exposed to. analyze, report, mitigate and follow-up on the risks that might Besides executing the scenario reporting process, we frequently have an impact on our ability to comply with our own sustainability ask both our clients and co-workers how well we live up to our principles and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Our sustainability ambitions and goals. We have in addition to this also objective is to continuously improve business performance and to implemented a whistle-blowing system ensuring anonymity and protect our core values as well as the principles of the Global integrity of anyone that would like to report any violation or deviation Compact. from our sustainability principles. 18 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Responsible business If we want to be in business tomorrow, we have to do the right things today. We believe the best prerequisites for future profitability is to develop and maintain a responsible business approach. Conducting business in a responsible way is more than compliance Equally important is our ability to work together with our clients to laws and regulations. At Midroc, we believe that long-term and suppliers over longer time periods. We expect them to act financial success is closely intertwined with being part of society responsibly as well, and as business partners we can support and trusted by our stakeholders. By for example investing in improvement and learn from each other. companies that improve the environment, or deliver outstanding Throughout the business process, we specify, measure and follow-up sustainable services, we know that we attract both new clients on everything we do. Responsibility issues are integrated in our and the best talent, as well as benefit our future profitability. regular scenario reports since 2017, making it a natural part of our We have a set of high ethical standards, framed in our Code long-term forecasts and short-term action plans. Reflection and of Conduct. We respect human rights, have zero tolerance for analysis are important parts of the process, as we use the reports to corruption and put responsibility at the core of every part of our mitigate business risks and investigate new business opportunities. operations. We strive to prevent anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices. All employees are introduced to our Code of Conduct during Employee Training days arranged by our own Midroc Business School. Financial target 2018 (Return on Equity) An important tool is our mindset “Always sustainable”. It has been part of our culture for a long time. We have a decentralized Investments 15% organization and by encouraging every co-worker to constantly Properties 10% look for the most sustainable and responsible solution, at all levels of decision making, we create engagement and a constant flow of Contracting 15% improvement ideas. Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Contributing to a better future 19 20 Contributing to a better future How culture can boost performance If you know how to build a high-performance culture, why not share it with everyone? That´s how LiseLotte Jernberg Bate, responsible for Midroc Business School, reasoned when she was asked to be the partnering manager in the Office One-project for Swedavia, owner and operator of Sweden’s national basic infrastructure of airports. Right in the middle between the cities of Stockholm and Uppsala, “I have to say that every expectation has been exceeded. I have the development of Arlanda Airport is in full progress, with an personally never before experienced a partnering process that has increasing number of travellers and ongoing construction of gone so deep and resulted in such trust and high performance terminals. In front of the terminals, there is also a new city block between the stakeholders. We have been on budget, on time, we in progress. It is a project truly aimed at the future. Uppsala and have targeted all the goals that was set initially, you name it”, says Stockholm are expected to keep growing until they connect, and at Magnus Imland. that point, Stockholm Arlanda Airport will be ready as a natural What makes this case special is perhaps that LiseLotte Jernberg focal point for business and gateway to the rest of the world. Bate was not really intending to work as partnering manager. She was fully busy developing the inhouse Midroc culture as responsible A complex operation for Midroc Business School. But after a first meeting with SweIt is hard to imagine a project more large-scale and complex than davia, she felt that there was a match. forming a sustainable city. That makes the first building a prominent “What I did was to describe how we create high-performing milestone. In this case, that building is Office One, a 15, 000 square teams at Midroc. I told them about building trust, our emphasis meters large building that will rise ten floors high, right next to on communication, our sustainable approach and how we use the Clarion Hotel. The building is named Office One because it is, diverse competences to create innovation in a group. Basically, you of course, first in line. could say that I just took the existing Midroc culture and put it in In building Arlanda City Stockholm, the developer Swedavia the Office One context”, she says. faces very complex responsibilities, environmentally as well as commercially and regulatory. Add to that a variety of stakeholders People powered projects involved in a construction site – from main contractor to suppliers Midroc has since inception built its culture on the philosophy that – and tight budgets and schedules to keep, and you have very successful projects focus on the people in the project, nurturing challenging tasks at hand. their relations and directing their behaviors. LiseLotte Jernberg Bate has seen numerous examples of how this approach is very Culture as a tool profitable. To efficiently manage cases like this, Swedavia uses independent “High-performing teams create value at so many levels. They partnering managers, to facilitate processes between different save time, money and material and keep people safe. I am quite stakeholders. In this particular project, a previous partnering convinced that this is the way every industry will work going manager recommended Swedavia and its representative Magnus forward.“ Imland to bring in someone from Midroc: LiseLotte Jernberg The Midroc culture was exactly what Magnus Imland was Bate. Today, he has not regretted that decision. looking to import. 21 Office One in the new city block under construction at Arlanda Airport. “Every Swedavia project is unique and has different goals and tion workers to talk about wolves and giraffes, but used correctly needs. Looking at the Office One challenges, with all the comwith other communication tools, it really works”, she assures. plexities and groups involved, this was exactly what we wanted to “The key is to remember that we are all humans. One of the achieve”, he says. finest compliments given during the whole process came from The first step was to gather the different stakeholders, from one of the site leaders who said to me: “We should have you on developer to contractor NCC, in a series of structured workshops. site all the time, we would never have any conflicts here!” “Trust is a key concept for us, because we know that people To LiseLotte Jernberg Bate, this has also been a rewarding expeperform better in trusting climates. In order to create that, it is rience, bringing further proof that the Midroc way really works. essential to make the tasks clear and define the goals. Doing this She is definitely prepared to share it with others in the future. together in a workshop will also kick-start group dynamic, as “Ultimately, Midroc wants to contribute to a better future. If we people get to know each other. And when you know each other, have a model that we know really works when it comes to creating it is easier to communicate, focus on the right things and high-performing teams, I simply feel that we should share it”. use the entire group’s different competences efficiently”, says LiseLotte Jernberg Bate. About wolves and giraffes The workshops resulted in a mutual platform, a partnering declaration that everyone signed, stating the goals and rules everyone had agreed on. But during the process the group also got new tools to communicate efficiently. “We know that good communication increase efficiency, simply because it reduces the risk of misinterpreting intentions or conflicts, which could cause setbacks in production”, says LiseLotte Jernberg Bate. Among the tools was education in NVC, Non Violent Communication. NVC is a communication method using metaphors. For example, it teaches the differences between communicating like a wolf, who is focused on fight, and communicating like a giraffe, who has an ability to see beyond the obvious. “It might seem odd to gather a group of highly skilled construcLiseLotte Jernberg Bate 22 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainable use of earth’s resources To sustainably use earth’s resources is critical for all economies and all global citizens. Midroc’s focus is on decreasing energy use and carbon emissions, phasing out hazardous substances and contributing to sustainable innovations. At Midroc, we approach environmental issues from two perspectives: into a residential building in the future without using too much How we can contribute in our own operations and what we can do resources. together with others. In our own operations, we focus on reducing energy use, waste Investing in innovation as well as greenhouse gas emissions. We are now in the process of In our business area Investments, we contribute by focusing on aligning our reporting on these indicators across the group. Some early investments in companies that have the potential to develop of our companies are already measuring energy consumption in new and groundbreaking technologies, to the benefit of society as a great detail while others still have a way to go. The next step will be whole. One example is Powercell, a company that develops a modular to measure our use of renewable and non-renewable energy on a system of fuel cell platforms producing electricity from hydrogen group level. with only heat and water as emissions. With hydrogen, produced Moreover, we strive to work closely with our suppliers. It is not through renewable energy, this clean technology has the potential just that we want to make sure they behave according to our values to transform the mobility sector, which is still heavily dependent – we also want to take the opportunity to learn from their expertise on fossil fuels. and find new, more sustainable ways of collaborating. We also contribute through the projects we manage with our The human-centric approach clients, suppliers and partners. For example, our business area When working with environmental issues, we have found that a Contracting offers maintenance solutions that increase efficiency, human-centric approach is usually most effective. By focusing on helping clients to significantly increase the life span of equipment the end-user perspective and need, we can better address the and systems. complexity of the situation and identify new, innovative solutions. For example, what temperatures would residents in a building prefer, Building to last and which heating solution would do the job best? Or, if we invest In our property businesses, we make sure that the residential in a new technology: How could this innovation potentially improve properties and office buildings we construct have the smallest everyday life for end users? environmental footprint possible, thus enabling residents to live This human-centric approach has several advantages. It enables more sustainably in a healthy environment. We also want our long-term efficiency and it can be applied more or less across the buildings to be resilient and last for a long period of time. To whole diverse Midroc group. It allows us to combine the group’s increase their life span even further, we strive to make them need for coordination with the business areas’ particular preferences. transformable – for example, an office should be possible to change Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Contributing to a better future 23 24 Contributing to a better future Creating jobs for the future Pioneering marine energy technology is not just about creating new sources of energy – it is also about creating new jobs. In the city of Holyhead in North Wales, Swedish marine energy company Minesto is quickly becoming an integral part of the future. In late March 2018, two tugboats from roc’s investment portfolio for almost ten and create qualified jobs, it sort of sealed Liverpool arrived to the port of Holyhead years and is also listed on Nasdaq First the deal”, says Osian Roberts, business in Anglesey, North Wales. They were towNorth, had been looking for a suitable developer and controller at Minesto in ing a long-awaited cargo: The gravity base place to commercialize Deep Green, its Holyhead. After receiving the grant, things structure for Minesto’s planned underwapioneering new technology for tidal energy. started to move quickly. ter power plant Deep Green at Holyhead The Deep Green, looking somewhat like “The tasks were pretty huge. We had to Deep, eight kilometers off the shore. an underwater kite flying 15 meters below do everything from scratch: Find an office, The arrival of the gravity base structure the sea surface, is the first technique that find local supply chain providers, recruit marked a significant milestone for both can manage low-flow tidal energy, opening people and so forth”, says Osian Roberts. Minesto and the region of Anglesey. Annew opportunities to create efficient, clean Louise Marsden, a business administraglesey is a so-called peripheral economy, energy. The coast of Anglesey offered just tor, was hired to get the Minesto office up situated far from the urban areas in the the right conditions, with the Holyhead and running in Holyhead. It was challengUK. During the last decades, particularly port and close proximity to other resources ing, but fun. following the downturn of the UK steel in the area. “I was literally working out of a box for industry, the region has increasingly strugthe first days – but in a week, we had an gled with recessions and high unemployA boost for the community office and three people working in it”, she ment rates. What also sparked Minesto’s interest was says. the option to finance part of the project by Clean energy, green growth joining forces with the Welsh government, Opportunities closer to home However, the Welsh government has for and apply for a grant from the European The pace has not slowed down since. several years actively been looking to create Regional Development fund. In 2015, the Moreover, the promise to contribute with jobs and growth by becoming the globally Welsh European Funding Office granted qualified local jobs has been kept. Minesto leading region in sustainable energy – and Minesto 13 million Euros to commercialize now has 16 employees in Holyhead, workwhen it comes to marine energy, it´s hard a power plant at Holyhead Deep. ing with everything from finance and IT to to beat the oceanic qualities offered by the “I think the key thing was that Minesto engineering. Currently, every employee coast of North Wales. was really able to demonstrate a commitment save one is from the local area – including The excellent natural conditions were to Wales. These funds have a socio-economic Louise Marsden and Osian Roberts. also what attracted Minesto to the area. intention, and when we showed how we Louse Marsden says that they first actuThe company, who has been part of Midcould actually develop the local economy ally doubted whether they would be able to 25 Minesto’s Deep Green technology harvests low-flow tidal energy 15 meters below the surface find local applicants with all the necessary is putting in a lot of efforts to be as transnities waiting for them as they grow up”, qualifications. parent as possible. For example, a visitor says Osian Roberts. “But we were really blown away with center has been established, with informaAnd the children are really engaged in what we found – we received applications tion on the Deep Green technique and the project, Louise Marsden says. from local people with just the right skillstudies on safety for marine wildlife. “It’s really fun meeting them. They love sets. They were here all along, but because Minesto also hosts stakeholder events and the concept with underwater kites and ask there had been so few jobs around, they regularly visits the local schools. very clever questions. We also ask them to had been forced to work abroad”, she says. “It is really important for us to tell kids come up with names for the first Deep that they have this innovative technology Green kite. By now, we have a whole wall at Inspiring a new generation at their doorstep, something that could the visitor center with sticky notes full of Once the first power plant is installed at become very beneficial for the whole world. suggestions.” Holyhead Deep, the long-term plan is to We want them to feel that great things are gradually expand to a total installed capahappening and that there will be opportucity of up to 80 megawatts. This will generate enough clean energy to power 70,000 Welsh households. The growth will also continue to create jobs in the region. Osian Roberts points out that the contribution is not just Minesto jobs – the whole supply chain benefits from the activities, which really excites the people in the region. “Being from Anglesey myself, I can say that people just love to see this happen. They have suffered in economic terms for about two generations, and most of them probably can´t even remember the last time a foreign investor committed to the region”, says Osian Roberts. To underline the commitment, Minesto The coast of North Wales offers unique resources for renewable energy generation. 26 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Nurturing culture and people There is one thing that unites everyone across the Midroc group: Our strong culture. It underlines everything we do and helps us steer towards a sustainable future. People who feel trusted, acknowledged and Core cultural components to take the next step in their personal develare assigned clear roles will thrive both perDiversity and communication are imporopment. sonally and professionally. That is, simply tant cornerstones in our culture, because put, the straight-forward formula behind individual differences make us unique. We Midroc Business School the Midroc culture. Since inception, we believe that a group benefits from multiple Another important part of our culture is have been prioritizing our strong and perspectives and experiences, and strong the Midroc Business School, which offers unique company culture, encouraging the communication is the tool to bring out the training in leadership and management, as behaviors we believe is the key to business potential. For example, we put great emphasis well as specialized education programs for success, and ultimately a better future. Our on our ability to give and receive feedback. skills such as sales and negotiations. It is culture defines how we do business, how We have zero tolerance for discrimination important for Midroc to offer our employwe treat each other and how we interact and harassment and we work to report and ees opportunities to increase skills and with the rest of the world. handle any incident. We have also implecompetencies that will support them in mented a whistle-blowing system to ensure their current positions. All employees also Management a support anonymity and integrity for anyone that have access to transitional training through system the collective labor agreement. The foundation for this is a trusting work From a company perspective, our goal is environment that helps our co-workers to “Our culture defines how we do to be the first choice not only for customers reach their full potential of innovation, creabusiness” – we also want to be the kind of company tivity and expertise, so they in turn can that people recommend when family and contribute by performing at their best. To friends are looking for a new job. Because of do this, we avoid hierarchies. Instead, we would like to report an incident. During this, we were very proud when we 2017 were work in horizontal structures, like partners in 2017, one instance of discrimination and voted number three in the organization what we call the Midroc management arrow. one of harassment were reported, investiUniversum’s annual survey of Sweden’s best At the front end of the arrow, we have the gated and concluded. employers, in the large companies’ category. people meeting our clients. On the opposite Diversity is a broad term, and could end, we have the people supporting them also be applied to competence. A group Safety: a priority and ensuring that they have all the tools benefits from different skills and areas of Creating a safe working environment for our they need in order to perform. All units have expertise. This is managed in our structured staff and a secure delivery of projects for our the flexibility to work in a way that optimizes “competence puzzle”. The model is based clients is a key priority. Our operations cover their every-day business and allows them to on the idea that a group of people pera wide array of industries and many of our make quick and efficient decisions. On forms better together, compared to what employees work in potentially hazardous group level we coordinate, structure and they would achieve if the individuals environments, requiring a systematic approach look for synergies, and make sure we keep worked alone. It allows Midroc to make to safety based on high risk awareness, experon track with our targets regarding health, sure that the right competence is always at tise and experience. Since 2016, Midroc has safety, environment and quality. We are in hand. It is also a tool for the employee been working on implementing a common constant dialogue with our employees and when discussing individual development management system for Health, Safety, regularly perform for example employee plans – all employees can use the puzzle to Environment and Quality issues across the surveys to track progress. think about what they would need in order group. The project is still in progress, which Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Contributing to a better future 27 Executive management Age average Gender balance means there are no available data on group level for 2017. For our Swedish companies, the LTIF indicator for 2017 is 7,2. No fatal accidents occured during the year. 56 Men Women Our impact on society As contractors and community builders we Employees have a significant impact on society as a whole as well as the local communities where Age distribution Gender balance we do business. Our approach to social responsibility is based on collaborative efforts -30 24 % and being a positive force for real change. Men Using our technology and innovative 31 – 50 40 % entrepreneurship, Midroc has the capacity to Women make a positive and real difference. We have 5136 % principles and programs for how we do responsible business in place, but in order to be successful, presence and commitment to Type of employment Sick leave the local community is also necessary. Midroc has a long tradition of supporting 5 the communities in which we operate, from 4 sponsorships to offering summer jobs for Permanent 95,5 % 3 local high school kids as well as participation 2 in projects where our expertise and solutions Temporary 4,5 % contribute to sustainable development. 1 As property developers, building sustain0 Short term 1,80 % Long term 2,45 % able cities and communities is a vital part of our role. The social impacts of our projects are carefully considered and we strive to deNew hires Employee turnover Lost Time Injury velop properties that appeal to a wide array Frequency 547 17,6 7,2 of households with differing needs. We work systematically to create communities * ** and environments that are built to last. % * Including retirements, acquisitions and reorganizations. ** LTIF is expressed in terms of the number of lost time work injuries (per 1 million hours worked), i.e. work-related accidents resulting in absence longer than one day, and accidents resulting in fatality. The number pertains only to Midroc’s staff employed in Sweden with the exclusion of Alucrom. 28 Contributing to a better future Making room for everyone Not every city uses property development as a tool to counter social segregation. However, in Helsingborg, a Midroc project is aiming to do exactly that. Thanks to an innovative lease idea, the new apartments in the SeaU Helsingborg project will be available to tenants with varying levels of income. A hotel, a congress center and four stateparticular case, the social aspects carry Consequently, it is difficult for people with of-the-art residential buildings, located in extra weight. The city of Helsingborg lower income to afford living in the new what is considered to be one of Sweden’s wanted to build the congress center and areas. most attractive properties, right between hotel because of the commercial potential But what if there was a way to create the city and the waterfront. Those are the – but equally important was making SeaU tenancy agreements within the private basic features of SeaU Helsingborg, the Helsingborg a natural meeting point for the housing cooperatives? Together with the much-awaited meeting point that Midroc locals, encouraging meetings and bridging local Erik Banck Foundation, an innovais developing at a spectacular location in social gaps. This was entirely in line with tive solution was created. The foundation’s the Helsingborg harbor area. Midroc’s existing development philosophy. mission is to provide housing for people SeaU Helsingborg will be completed in “Ultimately, it is the mix of people that with low income, such as elderly or young 2020, significantly strengthening Helsingwill make an area come to life and prosper. people. Now, the foundation decided to buy borg’s position as an attractive destination Hence, we knew from the start that we about 50 of the 155 planned apartments. for meetings and events in the larger Skåne wanted to attract different categories of The idea is to then let people rent from the area. It is a prestigious and strategic project, people, not least when it came to residents”, foundation in accordance with the statutes. involving some major industry names such says Johan Svedström. “It is really a unique solution. A lot of as Clarion Hotels, that will operate the people, who otherwise would not have hotel, and Gert Wingårdh Architects, who Creative ideas for diversity been able to afford the rents, will now have have designed the residential buildings. Looking at a project from the end-user’s an opportunity to find an apartment in one “It is an amazing property, which we are perspective is a development technique of the city’s best locations”, says Johan developing with all sustainability aspects in that Midroc has been using successfully for Svedström. mind the environment as well as economic years. This time, a substantial focus was put and social dimensions”, says Johan Svedström, on socio-economic dimensions. A common A decade of planning Property Development Manager at Midroc challenge when developing residential In 2019, the first residents will move into Property Development. properties is that the financing models the SeaU Helsingborg apartments, marking usually favor private housing cooperatives the end of a long journey. The plans have A natural meeting point over rented apartments. Moreover, even if been developing ever since 2010, and A sustainable approach is always at the you do develop a property with tenancy along the way, the project has had its fair heart of Midroc’s projects, but in this agreements, the rents tend to be high. share of media attention, with political 29 The waterfront view of Helsingborg´s new meeting point. discussions as well as thoughts on the choice of the name SeaU Helsingborg. However, Johan Svedström has a positive view on the attention the project has attracted. “It is not so surprising really – we are building in a very attractive spot, so of course people will be engaged. At the end of the day, we think engagement is a good thing, and we are really proud of what we are achieving”, says Johan Svedström. Midroc’s plan for Helsingborg does not stop at SeaU Helsingborg. The next step is already underway – to develop another area in the harbor, called Oceanhamnen. Midroc is building an office at the end of the pier, with magnificent panorama views of the area. That project will have a pioneering environmental quality, using the latest technique. “It will be a natural next step for us after SeaU Helsingborg. We are really looking forward to it – it’s incredibly exciting to continue our collaboration with the city of Helsingborg and its citizens”, says Johan Svedström. From left: Peter Danielsson, Chairman of the municipal executive board of Helsingborg, Petter Stordalen, Chairman of the board of Nordic Choice Hotels, Magnus Skiöld, Chairman of the board of Midroc Properties. 30 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 This index indicates where information about Midroc’s reporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative can be found in the Annual Review and Sustainability Report. 2017 was the starting point for the Midroc group to align its reporting with the guidelines for GRI Standards. This means that targets for our material topics have not yet been set, and that data will be reported and disclosed for the fiscal year 2018. This report covers all of Midroc group’s operations, unless indicated otherwise, and the figures provided pertain to the 2017 fiscal year. The report has not been externally assured. Midroc reports on an annual basis. GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments and Omissions ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4, 54 102-6 Markets served 4 102-7 Scale of the organization 5 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 5 102-9 Supply chain No data on group level for 2017 Significant changes to the organization and its supply 102-10 2017 is the first year of reporting chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 10 102-12 External initiatives 10 102-13 Membership of associations No data on group level for 2017 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 10 – 11 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 10, 12 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements No data on group level for 2017 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12, 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12, 16 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13, 16 REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 48 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 12, 30 102-47 List of material topics 13 102-48 Restatements of information 2017 is the first year of reporting 102-49 Changes in reporting 2017 is the first year of reporting 102-50 Reporting period 30 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 is the first year of reporting 102-52 Reporting cycle 30 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 31 Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 10 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 30 102-56 External assurance 30 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Index 31 Contact person for the report: Roger Wikström, CEO, roger.wikstrom@midroc.se GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments and Omissions ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES 201: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 18 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 17, 18 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 17 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 17, 18 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 206-1 None during 2017 anti-trust, and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES 301: ENERGY 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 22 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization No data available for 2017 305: EMISSIONS 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 22 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions No data available for 2017 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions No data available for 2017 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 22 306-1 Waste by type and disposal method No data available for 2017 SOCIAL DISCLOSURES 401: EMPLOYMENT 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 26 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 27 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 26 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number 27 of work-related fatalities 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 26 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 26 transition assistance programs 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 26 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 27 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2017 103-1 103-3 Management Approach 26 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 26 Business Areas 34 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Business area Investments Business area Investments invests in growing companies with pioneering technologies, primarily clean technology and life science. The philosophy is to be an active, long-term owner, looking for sustainable solutions with a OSCAR AHLGREN GÖRAN LINDER global relevance. Assets MSEK 906 38 % Development companies 34 % Listed assets 28 % Financial holdings A good start, a slow-down during summer, and then a strong from a commercial and a sustainability perspective, for example finish. That’s how one could sum up the development during 2017 environmentally neutral energy, increased efficiency in food for the portfolio in business area Investments. The business area production, water purification using solar energy, and treatment comprises three categories of investments: of previously untreatable diseases. 1. Early investments in companies that have not yet begun to generate cash flow, through the subsidiary Midroc New Technology AB. Active investor philosophy 2. Investments in more mature businesses with potential for rapidly When Midroc invests, it is with the intention to stay for a long increasing cash flows, through Midroc Invest AB. time and contribute on many levels. 3. Financial allocation of capital in bonds and other assets with “Our philosophy is to take a very active role as long-term low risk through Midroc Finans AB. owners. We can bring our whole group expertise to the companies What unites all the companies in the portfolio is that they have we invest in. Access to our unique governance and business promising technological solutions that could significantly contriperspectives has proven to be valuable for our growing companies”, bute to society, and that they are in need of capital in order to grow. Göran Linder explains. That´s where Midroc come into the picture. To better adapt to both sustainability ambitions and commercial “We definitely have an important role to play. Society has a potential, Midroc has during 2017 worked to further streamline the constant demand for innovation and new technologies, particularly portfolio. regarding cleantech and life science. By bringing companies with “We have during the last couple of years moved from focus on new and groundbreaking ideas to the market, we contribute in a investing in early phases to focus on a number of companies that very direct way to a better tomorrow”, says CEO Göran Linder. have reached a more mature phase. This means that the portfolio About half of the companies are classified as cleantech compahas become more balanced as several companies have completed nies. Life science companies represent about a quarter, and the the product development phase and are entering a commercial rest of the companies are primarily IT-related. Together, they phase. That said, we will still be interested in start-ups, as a spice in possess a wide range of solutions with interesting potential both the portfolio.” Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Business areas 35 A good transaction climate ahead Company Sector Listed The portfolio value shifted quite heavily over the year, and a strong Air to Air Sweden AB Cleantech start was followed by a slow-down during the summer, to then Arenabolaget i Ängelholm AB Property shift up again. However, this is not surprising as it mirrors the CareDx Inc Life science X stock markets view of young and growing companies. At the end of 2017, there were 18 actively managed companies Crossborder Technologies AB Cleantech in the portfolio, seven of them listed. Over the last three years, five Crunchfish AB IT X companies have been listed, and during 2017 another IPO was EffRx Pharmaceuticals S.A. Life science added – Promore Pharma. Taking companies public has several advantages for Midroc. It is a way to visualize the company value, Heliospectra AB Cleantech X and it also brings valuable attention from external stakeholders. Jensen Devices AB Cleantech Moreover, it mitigates financial risks, as a listing increases the Lamera AB Cleantech company´s capital base. Minesto AB Cleantech X Göran Linder is over all satisfied with the portfolio development during the year and expects an active market ahead. Nilsson Special Vehicles AB Automotive X “Like everyone else, we are affected by the stock market and Powercell Sweden AB Cleantech X macro development in general, but going forward, we do see plenty of Promore Pharma AB Life science X opportunities and a generally good transaction climate. We are Q-Group IT definitely looking to take advantage of this with future transactions.” SolarWave AB Cleantech Xenella AB Life science Västra Hamnen CF Investment 36 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Business area Properties With a clear focus on long-term community needs, business area Properties buys, develops, constructs and manages properties at all stages. The project portfolio covers both residential and commercial properties in several MAGNUS SKIÖLD PETER SYRÉN Swedish regions. Sales: 2,053 MSEK Employees: 112 Offices: 4 Figures include Midroc Construction AB. In spite of frequent reports on slow-downs in the real estate sector, visible in the market. For example, we have to adapt to digital Midroc Properties had quite a productive 2017, with a continued marketing needs. Our market expects us to be present and very high transaction pace. active on the web as well as in social media, which is something “We have increased revenues significantly, and we keep on that differs from most other companies in the Midroc Group.” growing. In 2016, we had a turnover of 1,2 million SEK, and by 2019, we expect to have at least tripled that figure. Of course, we Continued demand for housing noticed the downturn in Swedish housing prices during the year, To use resources in the best way, Midroc decided to re-organize but it mostly affected the Stockholm area. We were less exposed the business area in 2017. Magnus Skiöld became working since we historically have been focusing on our expansion in chairman and Peter Syrén took over as CEO. Going forward, Skåne and Småland”, says Magnus Skiöld, CEO during 2017 and Peter Syrén has an optimistic market view. now working chairman of the board at Midroc Properties. “We may have to face a surplus of certain types of residential Midroc Properties have a vast project portfolio, covering the projects, which might prompt us to consider shifting towards whole real estate cycle: Buying, developing, selling and managing tenancies in some cases. That said, I am convinced that things will residential and commercial properties at all stages. During 2017, stabilize further on. There will still be demand for housing, parseveral important projects were added to the portfolio, for examticularly in the areas where we are expanding”, says Peter Syrén. ple a construction start of the extension at World Trade Center in There are also several interesting projects in the pipeline. For Malmö, and of new office spaces in Malmö, The Edge in Hyllie. example, Midroc Properties will launch a brand new concept named Lyckos, aimed at a different residential segment. Planning for the citizens’ needs “We have developed a concept aimed at people looking for cost A clear differentiator in all Midroc projects is the strong sustainability efficient living. They might not have the biggest budget, and are focus and understanding of community needs. A good example of prepared to live in an apartment with less square meters, but they this unique mindset is the new project Embassy of Sharing in still want quality, good architecture and design. We think this has Hyllie, Malmö, where Midroc Properties will develop 55,000 been missing on the market”, explains Peter Syrén. square meter of both commercial and residential spaces. The market outlook for Midroc’s office value propositions, “I think we were awarded the project because we decided to see marketed under the concept World Trade Center in Malmö, everything from the citizens’ perspective: What people need in Lund and Helsingborg, is also looking bright. There is a clear order to thrive, how they would like to meet, what resources could trend towards increased demand for so called “serviced offices” with be shared and so forth. It is a very modern way of developing opportunities to share resources, which facilitates networking and properties that we are really proud of ”, says Magnus Skiöld. social interactions. Previously, activities have primarily been focused to the Great“The work place has become a key representation of a company’s er Stockholm and Öresund regions. Now, Småland, the rest of brand and is an important competitive edge to attract the best Skåne and Uppsala are also being explored. However, expansion talent. Midroc is a partner that is committed to the development also requires a lot of work, Magnus Skiöld points out. of our clients’ brands by offering inspirational work spaces with a “If we want to keep growing, we need to be more active and high service level”, says Peter Syrén. Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Business areas 37 Assets Development portfolio MSEK 6,687 TOTAL AREA 894,708 m 2 65 % Properties 61 % Residential 30 % Property overvalues 39 % Commercial 5 % Financial holdings Property management TOTAL AREA 109,225 m 2 65 % Offices 11 % Other 9 % Hotel 9 % Retail 6 % Residential 38 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Business areas 39 Business Area Contracting The companies in business area Contracting offer unique and sustainable solutions to the energy, industry, infrastructure and BJÖRN WIGSTRÖM construction sectors. The services range from contracting, services and maintenance to consulting. With expanding markets, increasing sales and a strong rating among – how can we as a portfolio best serve our clients? Thirdly, there is customers and employees, 2017 was a good year for Contracting. the Midroc perspective, where we are always looking to increase “Looking back, we benefited in general from the very active efficiency across the group regarding sharing of best practice and industrial sector in Sweden. We also gained momentum due to better coordination.” the many large infrastructural projects in the expanding city areas. Contracting measures client satisfaction on a regular basis and We are involved in the execution of several large infrastructure has an ambition to achieve more than 85 percent satisfied clients. projects and there is a strong pipeline of new projects lining up in Sustainability is a key business driver for Midroc as a group, particular in the Stockholm and Gothenburg areas”, says business and in Contracting, it is particularly tangible. There are a number area CEO Björn Wigström. of tools in place where Midroc helps clients to improve their operThe business area consists of nine companies offering contracting ations from a sustainability perspective. One example is the and services across four sectors: industry, infrastructure, energy, guidance on “Best choice”, making it easier for the client to pick and construction and real estate. Together, the companies offer the most sustainable material. Midroc also contributes by trimming solutions covering a wide range of expertise areas – from mining, industrial plants to become as efficient as possible, both saving steel mills, petrochemicals, district heating and nuclear power money and reducing environmental impact. utilities, to commercial and public buildings and transportation. Many of the Contracting clients are also required to meet extra There is also a consulting business that focuses on services within high standards regarding health, safety and quality. This in turn project management, engineering and design. requires that Midroc can meet stringent client demand regarding Historically, the companies have primarily been run as standalone co-workers’ safety and well-being in general. The outlook for 2018 is businesses. During 2017, Midroc started to implement a stronger positive. portfolio approach. “There are definitely challenges. The growth pace in the energy “We still aim to develop the companies individually, but we are sector has slowed down, the market for construction has been put also looking to increase intragroup trading and leverage joint value under pressure, and as always, we are dependent on how the world propositions. Aligning interests within the portfolio is entirely in economy develops. That said, we see a steady inflow of assignments line with our group ambitions to be One Midroc”, explains Björn from industry and infrastructure clients. By leveraging what we Wigström. can do together to improve internally and share best practice as A portfolio view brings several advantages, Björn Wigström says: well as for our clients, I would say we are well positioned for the “First of all, offering multidisciplinary services will lead to new year to come”, Björn Wigström concludes. business opportunities. Secondly, it encourages a client perspective 40 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Midroc Electro Gruppen AB KARL-IVAR JÖNSSON Midroc Electro Gruppen AB is one of Sweden’s and mechanical maintenance. Midroc Electro Sales: 2,771 MSEK Employees: 1,990 leading electrical installation and automation Gruppen AB comprises the companies Midroc Offices: 62 companies, with services in areas such as electrical Automation AB and Midroc Electro AB. The task installation, industrial automation, building autoof the parent company is to ensure continuity and mation, crane systems, elevators, security systems, competitiveness in joint projects. Midroc Electro AB MIKAEL VESTLUND Midroc Electro is the third largest electrical branch offices all over Sweden, with a strong local installation company in Sweden – and it is one of affiliation. Among its expertise areas are projects in Sales: 2,305 MSEK Employees: 1,820 the fastest growing. The company offers services businesses such as the automotive, food and Offices: 54 in electrical installation, instrumentation, security, pharmaceuticals, iron and steel, forest, petrochemical, elevators, building automation and mechanical construction, energy and mining. maintenance. The strategy is to operate profitable Midroc Automation AB JONAS BERGMARK Midroc Automation is one of Sweden’s leading tunities are explored in partnership with well Sales: 466 MSEK renowned international companies, and the company industrial automation companies. Customers are Employees: 170 Offices: 8 found in most industrial sectors and infrastructure, is the first in the world to be certified as a Siemens in Sweden and elsewhere. The mining business Solution Partner in the mining industry. is one of its major areas of operations. Global opporAnnual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Business areas 41 Midroc Rodoverken Group Midroc Rodoverken offers comprehensive services unique and superior spiral construction method. KARL-ERIK in prefabrication and erection of complete industrial The customers often operate within the energy, AUGUSTSSON piping and tanks. The company offers extensive pulp and petrochemical industries. Operations Sales: 613 MSEK experience in maintenance of piping and mechaniare headquartered in Sweden, with subsidiaries Employees: 330 cal installations inside its customers’ facilities. The in Norway and Poland. Beyond these markets, Offices: 5 company is a market leader in site-built structures Rodoverken is also active with large tank projects of atmospheric tanks and pressure vessels using its across mainland Europe. Metalock Engineering Group MARTYN GREEN The Midroc Metalock group comprises several over the world. Subsidiaries are based in Sweden, Metalock units that market themselves jointly as Germany, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Sales: 574 MSEK Employees: 580 Metalock Engineering. The group provides on-site France, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia Offices: 11 maintenance and engineering service solutions to and Russia. Metalock also has offices with local clients in the steel, power, paper, petrochemical, partners in India and the United States. manufacturing, mining, and marine industries all Alucrom Group TOMASZ GAJEK Alucrom AB is Sweden’s leading contractor when in a wide array of sectors, including the manufacturit comes to surface treatment, corrosion protection ing steel industry, oil and gas, petrochemical, paper Sales: 368 MSEK Employees: 320 and industrial coatings. Operations are conducted and pulp, bridges and other infrastructure as well Paint plants: 15 at permanent paint shops in Sweden, Poland and as heavy vehicles and automotive. Finland, as well as on-site, mainly at project locations in Sweden and Finland. Customers are found 42 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Midroc Project Management AB STEFAN KRONMAN Midroc Project Management takes on complex delivering services within project management, Sales: 148 MSEK Employees: 100 consulting assignments within the fields of energy, maintenance development, engineering, mainteOffices: 3 petrochemical, construction and infrastructure, nance shutdowns, HSE-Q and concepts for using new technical solutions and with the enviunderground storage facilities. ronment in focus. The company is specialized in Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Business areas 43 Midroc Ställningar AB LEMBIT LAKS Midroc Ställningar is a fullservice partner in the area of scaffolding. The company offers services in Sales: 118 MSEK Employees: 100 drawing, calculating, assembling and letting of Offices: 3 scaffolding constructions. Customers are located mainly in the west coast of Sweden and the focus is on the industrial sectors. BAC Corrosion Control Ltd STEVE GORING BAC Corrosion Control Ltd is a UK based market CP products and engineering services to projects in Sales: 90 MSEK Employees: 40 leader in cathodic protection (CP), internal the oil, gas, utilities, steel in concrete, marine and Offices: 2 corrosion monitoring, pin brazing and transformer other sectors where critical metallic structures rectifiers for the corrosion control industry. The require corrosion monitoring and protection. company operates worldwide providing specialized Midroc Environment Group AB ERIK BÄCKLUND Sales: 24 MSEK Employees: 10 Midroc Environment Group operates in the field The company works with customers’ projects from Offices: 3 of environmental remediation. The subsidiary preparations and implementation, to soil treatment Miljöteknik AB provides contracting and services and land rehabilitation. for treatment of contaminated soil and water. 44 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Business areas 45 Hackholmssund Konferens AB LISE-LOTTE SVENSSON To be the preferred place to meet. That’s what Hackholmssund Konferens AB, Sales: 55 MSEK Employees: 21 an exclusive hotel and conference venue, is aiming for. Hackholmssund Konferens is situated in beautiful rural surroundThe vision is to be the preferred venue for high-level meetings ings just outside Stockholm. The venue has a unique profile that among the world’s leading companies. combines a sustainable approach with privacy and luxury. The “What differentiates us from our competitors is our ability to guests are primarily of two categories: Companies looking for sebe a strategic partner. We can help our guests make the most out cluded and exclusive conference opportunities, and private guests of their meetings, by understanding what kind of support and who prefer security and confidentiality. services they need in order to focus fully on their own agenda”, Up until a couple of years ago, the venue was primarily used by the says Lise-Lotte Svensson. Midroc companies. However, Hackholmssund has since clarified its During 2018, the focus will be on becoming more internationally concept and also increased marketing efforts, now also offering its visible, via for example social media and business press. services to external clients. Consequently, the share of external “I am very optimistic about the future. We know that we are guests has started to rise. a first class alternative, both regarding meetings and recreation. “When we started to implement our new marketing plan, we I am really looking forward to show this to new guests”, Lise-Lotte saw immediate effect. Just during 2017 the number of external Svensson concludes. guests increased by 25 percent”, says CEO Lise-Lotte Svensson. Financial Statements 48 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Midroc Europe The marketing concept “Midroc Europe” comprises the two INVESTMENTS sister groups Midroc Europe AB and Granitor Invest AB. As a society and industry developer, the Midroc Europe business Midroc Invest AB Financial investments and development operations are mainly found in the areas of contracting and consulting services for the industrial and civil sector, in property development with related management and in investments Midroc in business ideas that contribute to a positive development of Europe AB PROPERTIES our society. With operations principally in Sweden, Midroc Granitor Property Europe is also locally established in several other European Properties AB development countries, Russia, the Middle East, South Africa, the US, India and Indonesia. Property development, Midroc Europe AB holds a 49,7 % stake in Granitor Invest Midroc property management, Properties AB AB and therefore reports the operations of that company as 49,7 % conference an associated company in line with the adopted equity method in its Annual Report. To provide the reader a better understanding Granitor CONTRACTING of the sales, result, assets and equity structure derived from Invest AB the joint efforts of the business operations carried out under Midroc Industry, civil, the brand “Midroc Europe”, the adjoining tables have been Contracting AB infrastructure prepared. They show the consolidated but fictitious statements assuming that Granitor Invest AB would have been consolidated Granitor Industry, civil, as a subsidiary of Midroc Europe AB. Contracting AB infrastructure Group management Midroc AB and support Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Financial statements 49 Year-end statement 2017 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT MSEK 2017 2016 Net sales 6,700 5,600 Operating expenses -6,406 -5,309 Operating income 294 291 Financial items 11 -1 Income before appropriations and taxes 305 290 Taxes -42 -50 Net income 263 240 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Assets CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Equity and liabilities MSEK 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 MSEK 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 FIXED ASSETS Intangible assets 76 41 EQUITY Tangible assets 2,823 2,710 Restricted equity 0 0 Financial assets 1,266 1,236 Unrestricted equity 2,345 2,631 Non-controlling interest 10 15 Total fixed assets 4,165 3,987 Total equity 2,355 2,646 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 70 54 LIABILITIES Property for resale 747 772 Shareholder’s loan 617 456 Accounts receivable, etc 2,039 1,515 Interest bearing liabilities 2,828 2,415 Liquid assets 735 727 Non-interest bearing liabilities 1,956 1,538 Total current assets 3,591 3,068 Total liabilities 5,401 4,409 TOTAL ASSETS 7,756 7,055 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,756 7,055 50 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Year-end statement 2017 — consolidated group figures Midroc Europe AB Midroc Europe AB (registration number 556622-8838) holds a CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 49,7 % stake in Granitor Invest AB and therefore reports the operations of that company as an associated company in line with MSEK 2017 2016 the adopted equity method. Net sales 3,965 3,053 Operating expenses -3,794 -2,936 Income from associated companies 44 88 Operating income 215 205 Financial items 17 2 Income before appropriations and taxes 232 207 Taxes -9 -15 Net income 223 192 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Assets CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Equity and liabilities MSEK 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 MSEK 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 FIXED ASSETS Intangible assets 3 2 EQUITY Tangible assets 2,411 2,357 Restricted equity 0 0 Financial assets 1,312 1,280 Unrestricted equity 2,118 2,396 Non-controlling interest 13 15 Total fixed assets 3,726 3,639 Total equity 2,131 2,411 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 61 46 LIABILITIES Property for resale 747 772 Shareholder’s loan 504 343 Accounts receivable, etc 1,405 957 Interest bearing liabilities 2,566 2,196 Liquid assets 518 526 Non-interest bearing liabilities 1,256 990 Total current assets 2,731 2,301 Total liabilities 4,326 3,529 TOTAL ASSETS 6,457 5,940 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 6,457 5,940 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Financial statements 51 Year-end statement 2017 — consolidated group figures Granitor Invest AB Midroc Europe AB holds a 49,7 % stake in Granitor Invest AB (registration number 556615-2491). Although the financial reporting of Granitor Invest is separated from Midroc Europe AB, the daily business of the group is seamlessly integrated with Midroc Europe AB and operations are carried out under the Midroc brand. As Granitor Invest contributes significantly to the overall CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Midroc Europe concept but is not reported in the Midroc Europe AB financial statement, the reporting of Granitor Invest AB is MSEK 2017 2016 presented separately. Net sales 2,819 2,606 The sub-group Granitor Contracting AB (registration number Operating expenses -2,699 -2,471 555620-6768) and its subsidiaries (Midroc Electro Gruppen AB Operating income 120 135 and Midroc Environment AB) are primarily active in contracting work in business areas such as electrical installations and related Financial items -6 -3 services, industrial automation and environmental services. The Income before appropriations and taxes 114 132 sub-group WP International AB (registration number 556355Taxes -33 -35 2628) and its subsidiaries are mainly active in consulting services and property management. Net income 81 97 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Assets Equity and liabilities MSEK 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 MSEK 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 FIXED ASSETS EQUITY Intangible assets 73 39 Restricted equity 0 0 Tangible assets 412 353 Unrestricted equity 450 467 Financial assets 177 188 Non-controlling interest -3 0 Total fixed assets 662 580 Total equity 447 467 CURRENT ASSETS LIABILITIES Inventories 9 8 Shareholder’s loan 113 113 Accounts receivable, etc 634 558 Interest bearing liabilities 262 219 Liquid assets 217 201 Non-interest bearing liabilities 700 548 Total current assets 860 767 Total liabilities 1,075 880 TOTAL ASSETS 1,522 1,347 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,522 1,347 Management and Ownership 54 Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Group Management Olle Kylinger (finance), Pernilla Börjesson (group support), Roger Wikström, (CEO), David Sundin (legal) and LiseLotte Jernberg Bate (culture). Ownership Mohammed H. Al-Amoudi controls Midroc Europe AB, which in turn holds a 49.7 % share in Granitor Invest AB, where the remainder is held by the Swedish Wikström family. Al-Amoudi is an international business investor. As one of the largest foreign investors in Sweden, he has been honored twice with the Swedish Royal Order of the Polar Star in recognition of his investments in Swedish trade and industry. Midroc Europe is part of Mohammed H. Al-Amoudi’s global business operations, which employ more than 70,000 people of various nationalities in the Middle East, Europe and Africa, and cover a wide spectrum of activities, including engineering and construction, petroleum, mining, manufacturing, tourism, real estate, industrial services and trade. Annual Review & Sustainability Report 2017 Management Financial andstatements ownership 55 Board of Directors Christer Wikström Thomas Mårtensson Roger Wikström Active director of the boards related to the Active director of the boards related to the Active director of the boards related to the Contracting and Investments portfolios. Contracting and Investments portfolios. Properties and Investments portfolios. Responsible for short-and long-term group Responsible for short-and long-term group Responsible for short-and long-term group development, financing and strategy. development, financing and strategy. development, financing and strategy. Waddah Al-Alem Abdullah Al-Amoudi Dr. Al-Alem, based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, Based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and Director has held the position of Deputy Director General of the Midroc Holding company General at the Midroc Holding company since 1998, Al-Amoudi is responsible for the since 1998. global strategies of Midroc. Midroc Europe Telegrafgatan 6A S-169 72 Solna Sweden midroc.se info@ midroc.se +46 ( 0)10-470 70 00 Together to get there
