Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 VALNEVA SE CONTENTS 1 CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT............................................................................................................................2 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT ................................................................................................3 VALNEVA’S CSR APPROACH ...............................................................................................................4 PROTECTING LIVES ...............................................................................................................................5 ETHICS...................................................................................................................................................10 PEOPLE .................................................................................................................................................17 ENVIRONMENT .....................................................................................................................................29 VALNEVA’S CSR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS..............................................................................34 THE FRAMEWORKS USED TO DRAW UP THIS REPORT ................................................................42 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE ..................................................................................................................43 DEFINITIONS .........................................................................................................................................45 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS .........................................................................................................46 SOCIAL INDICATORS...........................................................................................................................46 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT .................................................................................................47 CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ABOUT THIS REPORT 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT This 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report offers an in-depth account of Valneva’s Corporate Social Responsibility, or CSR, activities and priorities. It describes not only the challenges faced by the Group to achieve its CSR goals, but also shows the progress made in 2017. As in 2016, Valneva’s CSR strategy has been developed upon four pillars which are reflected in the organization of this report: Protecting Lives, Ethics, People and Environment. Valneva: A Global Vaccine Company Valneva develops innovative, lifesaving vaccines, guided by its vision to contribute to a world in which no one dies or suffers from a vaccine-preventable disease. The Group does not take this role lightly, especially in the current climate where new infectious diseases are emerging globally. In 2017, Valneva dedicated more than 15% of its revenues to Research & Development (“R&D”), focusing efforts on clinical candidates against infections for which preventative treatments are urgently needed, including Lyme disease and the Chikungunya and Zika viruses. In addition to dedicating resources towards the development of new vaccines, Valneva has continued the expansion of its commercial network to increase the availability of its products around the world. In the United States, the newly-renamed and wholly-owned subsidiary Valneva USA Inc. now controls sales and marketing activity in the country. Worldwide, the Group remains dedicated to protecting lives and plans to pursue its efforts to create innovative preventions against infectious diseases in the years to come, ensuring the sustainability and responsibility of its operations from development to commercialization. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT BOARD 3 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT The values of Corporate Social Responsibility are interwoven with Valneva’s mission to advance innovative vaccines to protect people’s lives. With that goal in mind, our daily activities are guided by a concern for protecting lives, conducting business ethically, developing our workforce and preserving the environment. In this moment when epidemic emergencies are happening at an increasing frequency around the world, Valneva’s business is as important as ever. Creating vaccines with the potential to protect the global population from diseases like cholera, encephalitis and Lyme disease has been our focus since Valneva’s creation in 2013. We continue to dedicate a large portion of our budget to research & development which bring us ever closer to this objective. Doing business in an ethical manner is a matter of the utmost importance at Valneva, where internally and with our partners we aim to be an exemplary business in terms of reporting, compliance and transparency. From the research and development stage into product marketing and beyond, Valneva is a compliance leader in France for companies of similar size. Fostering a working atmosphere built on encouragement and acceptance is a priority for the Group. Our growing workforce is provided with multiple tools to learn and apply new skills in their current roles, as well as opportunities to explore their career options within the Group. Wherever our over 450 employees are located, we are proud to offer a positive workplace environment in every one of our nine offices in Europe and North America. Valneva is also acutely aware of the need to preserve the environment. Sustainability is an important aspect of our CSR approach and informs our work around the globe. From the production line to our support functions, reducing our carbon footprint, lowering the consumption of energy and raw materials, and limiting the creation of waste are responsibilities that Valneva has worked actively to meet this year. As Valneva expands its reach in Europe and North America, we pride ourselves on taking these four factors into account looking forward. In 2018, we plan to grow sustainably and responsibly, led first and foremost by our CSR values. Thomas Lingelbach, President & CEO Franck Grimaud, President & CBO David Lawrence, Chief Financial Officer Wolfgang Bender, Chief Medical Officer Frédéric Jacotot, General Counsel CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE VALNEVA’S CSR APPROACH 4 VALNEVA’S CSR APPROACH A Four-Pillar Strategy The Group’s commitments to responsible and sustainable business reflect global health needs and are concentrated across four key focus areas. The four pillars defined by Valneva form the foundation of the Group’s CSR approach. Valneva devotes particular attention to its first pillar, Protecting Lives, which is a main driver of the Group’s work. The second pillar covers Ethics, both in R&D and in business. The third pillar focuses on the Group’s employees or, more specifically, on People development. Finally, Valneva’s fourth pillar is dedicated to protecting the Environment through the prevention of pollution, effective waste management and the control of the Group’s energy consumption. The United Nations Global Compact In line with its CSR approach, Valneva supports the United Nations Global Compact and incorporates its ten principles into its strategies, policies and procedures. As part of the Group’s participation in the UN Global Compact, a version of this Report will be submitted as Valneva’s official Communication on Progress and will be available on the UNGC website. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PROTECTING LIVES 5 PROTECTING LIVES Valneva is engaged in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative vaccines against infectious diseases to help protect people around the world. The Group provides vaccines to consumers across the globe and ensuring their safety is one of Valneva’s most important requirements. Presence and Impact of the Group in Terms of Access to Healthcare ® ® Valneva’s two commercialized vaccines, IXIARO and DUKORAL , address life-threatening diseases. ® ® IXIARO /JESPECT is a next-generation vaccine indicated for active immunization against Japanese encephalitis; about 70,000 new cases are recorded every year, of which 20% to 30% are fatal. ® DUKORAL is indicated against cholera (and in some countries, against Enterotoxigenic escherichia coli, or “ETEC”. About 3 to 5 million cases occur every year, leading to 100,000 to 120,000 deaths. Valneva is continuously expanding its marketing and distribution network to ensure its vaccines are available all over the world. After the successful establishment of three new commercial offices in Canada, the United Kingdom and Austria in 2016, Valneva’s wholly-owned US subsidiary took over ® control of the sales and marketing of IXIARO in 2017, changing its name to Valneva USA Inc. in the process. Through the continued development of its commercial network, Valneva also distributes other thirdparty products to protect people against diseases such as typhoid and influenza. Fighting Specific Diseases in Valneva’s Areas of Expertise In 2017, Valneva spent more than 15% of its revenues on the development of innovative lifesaving vaccines. The Group is currently working on the development of vaccines against diseases for which no preventative treatments currently exist, including Lyme disease and the Chikungunya and Zika viruses. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PROTECTING LIVES 6 In 2017, Valneva continued developing its Lyme disease vaccine candidate, with the initiation of a Phase I clinical trial of the vaccine in the US and in Europe. In July, the Group received Fast Track designation from the US Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for this vaccine, which could potentially accelerate the development of the vaccine through frequent interactions with the FDA. Currently, there is no licensed vaccine available to protect humans against Lyme disease, a multi systemic tick-transmitted infection that can cause serious health problems and disabilities. Each year, an estimated 400,000 Americans and 200,000 Europeans develop Lyme disease; according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”), it is the fastest growing vector-borne infectious disease in the United States. Valneva is currently the only company in clinical development on a vaccine to prevent Lyme. The Group has dedicated its resources towards advancing other clinical projects that focus on lifethreatening diseases of unmet medical need. Having partnered with American company Emergent BioSolutions in July 2017, Valneva is making solid progress with its Zika vaccine candidate. The Group has also advanced development of its Chikungunya vaccine, with hopes of providing singleshot protection to those at risk of contracting the virus. In addition to developing proprietary vaccines, Valneva continues to share its technologies and expertise with other companies seeking to develop innovative vaccines that prevent the spread of infectious diseases. The Group has continued to play an important role in the process development and manufacturing of GMP material for Janssen/Johnson & Johnson’s work with the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, a public-private partnership led by national governments with partners such as the World Health Organization, Rotary International, the US CDC and UNICEF whose goal is to eradicate polio worldwide. In order to advance their Inactivated Polio Virus (“IPV”) vaccine candidate, Valneva was entrusted with setting-up and running the production process from its Sweden site, with an aim of decreasing the price per dose. The Phase I Clinical Trial Application was approved by Belgian authorities in early 2017 and human tests of vaccine are ongoing. Valneva produced IPV material in 2017 and Janssen/Johnson & Johnson is currently preparing for Phase II trials using this material. In 2017, Valneva also signed a commercial license allowing Danish company Bavarian Nordic to produce poxvirus-based vaccines using the EB66® platform, with the potential to update certain candidate vaccines to the cell-based platform from their current egg-based process. Patient Safety All medicinal products are subject to strict testing and assessment of their quality, efficacy and safety before being authorized. Once placed on the market, Valneva continues to monitor its products to ensure that any potential impacts to the safety profile are detected and assessed. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PROTECTING LIVES 7 Valneva’s Pharmacovigilance (“PV”) department oversees all activities related to product safety monitoring around the globe, ensuring the appropriate flow and management of safety-related information according to applicable regulations. Healthcare professionals and vaccine users have direct access, by phone and email, to Valneva’s Medical Information Professionals who provide timely and accurate information on the Group’s products. Where Valneva’s products are distributed by third-parties, individually-adapted pharmacovigilance agreements are put in place to ensure the proper processing of all safety-related information. PV audit plans are also used to verify that Valneva’s partners operate according to both the terms set up in these agreements and current safety regulations, in line with the PV processes used for products distributed in-house. Valneva’s Pharmacovigilance department maintains a Global Safety Database for its licensed products and submits individual case safety reports to national authorities. On a quarterly basis, signal CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PROTECTING LIVES 8 ® ® detection reports are compiled for the Group’s licensed products, IXIARO /JESPECT and ® DUKORAL , for identification of any peculiarities or unusual trends. These reports are then shared with the Product Safety Review Board, Valneva’s internal decision making body for safety-related ® ® ® matters. On a regular basis (yearly for IXIARO /JESPECT and every three years for DUKORAL ), Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSUR) are compiled and submitted to the relevant authorities. Expanding Valneva’s Patient Safety Activities In mid-2016, Valneva insourced the role of Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance (“QPPV”) to ensure that the QPPV had full oversight of Valneva’s pharmacovigilance system as well as sufficient authority to influence the performance of the quality system and other PV activities. Since September 2017, the QPPV has reported to the Group’s Chief Medical Officer. Additional pharmacovigilance responsibilities, such as signal and risk management, PV auditing and literature searches, were also insourced in 2017. Valneva’s pharmacovigilance processes were improved and streamlined across the Group following a voluntary audit. In December 2016, the Group arranged a PV audit carried out by external consultants to identify gaps, further improve the system and to ensure inspection readiness. The relevant findings were addressed over the course of 2017. Supporting Healthcare-Oriented Charities around the World Through corporate sponsorships, social media campaigns and joint events with charities around the world, Valneva shows its support for access to healthcare and awareness initiatives within and outside of the Group’s areas of expertise. Shining a Light on Encephalitis: World Encephalitis Day On February 22, 2017, Valneva joined forces with UK registered charity The Encephalitis Society to bring awareness to the disease, which affects 500,000 people globally every year. In addition to ® issuing a press release showing support as the manufacturer and supplier of IXIARO vaccine, three Valneva offices were lit up in red to bring attention to the devastating condition. Employees in all eight of the Group’s offices donned red apparel in solidarity with the “Illuminate Encephalitis” campaign. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PROTECTING LIVES 9 Renewed Support of the Baan Dek Foundation In 2016, Valneva became an official sponsor of the Baan Dek Foundation, a Thai charity which aims to foster children’s education, health and safety in Thailand. Continuing its dedication to increasing access to healthcare, Valneva extended this sponsorship into 2017. To complement its annual donation as a corporate sponsor, Valneva also raised awareness of the Foundation’s work through the distribution of the Group’s official Christmas card. The e-card, for which Valneva donated an additional sum to Baan Dek, was specially designed for this occasion by the Foundation. Valneva also created a new corporate event in 2017 to raise money for the Foundation: Cook4Good. In the style of an international potluck dinner, employees at all sites were invited to bring in a dish from th home to be shared at lunchtime on September 12 . For every dish prepared, Valneva pledged to donate €10 to Baan Dek. In total, employee participation in the event allowed the Group to raise €1,360 in additional funding for the Foundation. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ETHICS 10 ETHICS Because developing new vaccines means that the Group has a responsibility to its consumers, Valneva maintains the highest ethical standards, protecting trial subjects through solid R&D processes and the continuous improvement the Group’s business integrity and transparency to preserve the trust of the patients and the communities it serves. Ethics in R&D As Valneva conducts research to develop new healthcare solutions, the Group must continually examine its practices from an ethical standpoint and comply with constantly-evolving regulatory requirements. At the discovery stage, Valneva’s R&D process begins with the search for essential and viable vaccine candidates to bring to clinical testing. The Group’s Vaccine Research and Discovery teams pursue much-needed candidates through internal research and scouting, with the goal of finding potential treatments for the most threatening diseases emerging worldwide. Valneva’s in-house committee, the Research & Development Operational Committee (“RDOC”), then guides the conduct of clinical trials for vaccine candidates that reach this stage of development. The RDOC committee meets every month to carry out a thorough review of Valneva’s clinical and preclinical pipeline and ensure that the Research to be carried out by the clinical teams corresponds to a clear medical need. To complement the scientific review from Valneva’s internal experts, the Group also refers to external experts to confirm that the approaches it adopts for its clinical trials are the most appropriate and effective. When recruiting patients and healthy subjects for Valneva’s clinical trials, the Group selects study sites with sound clinical Research infrastructures and verifies that all study participants enrolled in any Valneva clinical trial conducted have given their free and informed consent to participate. Individual CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ETHICS 11 informed consent is obtained prior to any procedure or change in the procedure required by the study protocol, and before any data is collected. This consent process is the cornerstone of ethical participant recruitment for Valneva’s clinical trials. Valneva’s ethics mindset extends across its R&D activities and the Group constantly looks for ways to improve its processes, which are monitored and regularly audited through quality control and assurance. + Quality Control evaluates the performance of the manufacturing process to ensure adherence to specifications and limits, and assesses the suitability of incoming raw materials, components, containers, closures, labelling, in-process materials and final vaccine lots. + Quality Assurance involves the systematic and independent examination of all trial-related activities and documents. This includes sites audits, vendor audits and system/process audits, as well as inspections and pre-approval inspections. Business Ethics With an outlook focused on integrity in its daily business, Valneva conducts its commercial activities with high ethical standards and maintains positive business relationships that meet these criteria. The Group has created an internal framework of policies that incorporate its ethical principles into tangible business processes and allow employees to conduct themselves ethically, including the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy instituted in 2016. Since creating this policy, Valneva has continued to grow its set of rules, guidelines and training activities to further realize its standards of integrity in accordance with new and evolving legal requirements. Valneva’s Code of Conduct As stated in its official Code of Conduct, Valneva is committed to conducting business responsibly and in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Valneva commits itself and expects every employee to live up to the highest standards of integrity in the common mission to develop new vaccines. The Group shares the vision to serve the medical community’s needs and to seek significant returns to its stockholders in continued pursuit of excellent science for the fight against infectious diseases. Valneva tries to motivate and help every employee to contribute to the Group’s success in CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ETHICS 12 achieving its goal and its Code of Conduct applies to all Supervisory Board Members, Management Board Members, directors and employees of Valneva SE and its subsidiaries. Valneva’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy In 2016, Valneva instituted its Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABAC”) to align its business with the best practices in the industry and the highest compliance and ethics standards. The ABAC policy builds upon the Code of Conduct by providing standards to ensure Valneva’s business activities are conducted ethically and do not attempt to improperly influence others (including by paying, offering, or accepting bribes in any form, directly or indirectly). This policy was designed in compliance with all global anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws including, but not limited to, the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and the Canadian Criminal Code and Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act. Valneva has zero tolerance for bribery or corruption of any kind. Since 2016, Valneva has used external software allowing the Group to screen potential or existing counterparties, including distributors, consultants, business partners, and key suppliers. These screenings include financial and background checks identifying and prioritizing risks related to adverse media, issued sanctions, and politically exposed persons, among others. Valneva’s Anti-Bribery Procedure All Valneva employees have 24/7 access to a secured compliance helpline system. If an employee has a concern or believes in good faith that a law, a rule or one of the principles in Valneva’s Code of Conduct has been, or is about to, be violated, such employee can inform his or her manager, one of Valneva’s internally-designated Compliance Officers, or use the compliance helpline. Since the 2016 decision to use this helpline service, Valneva has vowed to ensure that employees are not disciplined or discriminated against for reporting any possible incident, even if the facts reported prove to be inaccurate, provided that they have acted in good faith. In late 2017, Valneva was selected as one of six finalists for the Leem organization’s CSR Trophy in the “Governance, Ethics and Responsible Management” category for the creation of its ABAC policy. Leem, the leading professional organization for pharmaceutical companies operating in France with over 260 member companies, awards the CSR Trophies annually. Expansion of Valneva’s Corporate Compliance Policies Maintaining a Positive Work Environment: Valneva’s “Global Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Bullying” Policy Effective February 23rd, 2017, Valneva expanded its set of in-house ethics guidelines with a new policy geared towards the preservation of a respectful and healthy working atmosphere across the Group. The “Global Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Bullying” Policy provides standards – CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ETHICS 13 applicable worldwide – to reinforce Valneva’s commitment to a workplace where all employees are treated fairly, with dignity and with respect, sustaining an environment free from harassment, discrimination, and bullying. The “Global Professional and Personal Relationships in the Workplace” Policy On the same day as its Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Bullying Policy, Valneva established a separate guideline to make clear the ways in which the Group handles personal relationships that overlap with those in the workplace. The goal of this policy is to protect employees from a situation where an actual or potential conflict of interest could arise or where individuals may become vulnerable to accusations of bias, prejudice, or misuse of authority. Additionally, the Global Professional and Personal Relationships in the Workplace Policy helps to prevent the interference or conferring of an unfair advantage or disadvantage – real or perceived – on employees as a result of a personal relationship. For the past four years, Valneva has designated each September as Compliance & Ethics (“C&E”) Month to bring greater awareness of compliance and ethics matters to employees. In 2017, employees received a refresher course on C&E principles in the form of a digital scavenger hunt. Employees were encouraged to uncover the wealth of C&E “riches” and resources on the Compliance section of Nevanet (the Group’s intranet) in order to complete a questionnaire. The 2017 C&E Month event garnered over 53% voluntary employee participation. Participants provided feedback stating that they had become more familiar with the compliance and ethics information available to them and where to find these resources. In addition, Valneva’s Corporate Compliance team published three issues of its periodic compliance newsletter, “The Booster: A dose of Compliance & Ethics News” in 2017. In the first quarter of 2017, “The Booster” focused on preventing harassment, discrimination and bullying in tandem with the CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ETHICS 14 launch of two related internal policies. In the second quarter, “The Booster” was dedicated to the introduction of Valneva’s newest Local Compliance Officers (“LCOs”). The LCOs are ambassadors for the Compliance team at each Valneva site, providing a presence and a source of information and advice at each of the Group’s locations. Finally, the October 2017 issue of “The Booster” was used to discuss ethical decision making and to introduce a new tool: The Ethical Decision Booster. Tough Calls Made Easier with the Ethical Decision Booster The Group is aware that despite laying out its values and expectations in the official Code of Conduct and its various compliance policies, it’s impossible to govern every decision employees must make in the workplace. To facilitate difficult decision making, the Group shared the Ethical Decision Booster th with its employees on October 25 , 2017. The Ethical Decision Booster is an internal tool created for employees whenever they may encounter a difficult decision in their daily work that extends beyond official policies. In such a case, the employee can consult this tool as a guide for independently evaluating the situation at hand with nine simple questions. After using the tool, the employee will be able to decide if a decision meets Valneva’s ethical standards. Transparency with Stakeholders: A Key Component of Valneva’s CSR Approach Valneva’s Commitment to its Stakeholders The Group seeks to maintain close relationships with its stakeholders. Representatives from all areas of Valneva’s business, such as the R&D division, the industrial and commercial operations team, the Medical Affairs team and the Investor Relations department, engage with the Group’s stakeholders in order to understand the expectations of patients, healthcare professionals, investors, and authorities, among many others. Vital to building trust with its stakeholders, transparency is one of the key components in Valneva’s CSR approach. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ETHICS 15 Valneva’s Main Stakeholders Building a sustainable business is the foundation of Valneva’s engagement to its stakeholders and has been at the heart of the Group’s strategy since its creation in May 2013. Valneva’s Main Stakeholders Valneva’s Suppliers: Engaged with CSR In the last quarter of 2017, Valneva’s France-based Legal team sought to evaluate the CSR approaches of the Group’s service providers (Logistics; Maintenance; Environment, Health and Safety (“EHS”); and Human Resources (“HR”) in Nantes. This first survey of these business partners was carried out as a way to determine a formal evaluation process and gauge the feasibility of an examination of Valneva’s service providers on a Group level. This audit of Valneva’s French suppliers took place over the course of approximately three months and in three main stages. The first step was to identify suppliers and their contact information, followed by the selection of 50 suppliers to be contacted. The second step was to verify the existence or absence of structured CSR initiatives within these companies, via a survey of their websites. The final step was to send an electronic questionnaire to suppliers who either did not have a website or who did not have a clearly indicated CSR approach on their websites, in order to learn what companies were doing in terms of corporate social responsibility. The analysis of the results provided the team with trends and comparisons between Valneva and its suppliers in terms of CSR strategy. In the end, 38 of 50 suppliers replied to the e-questionnaire in the affirmative, stating that they were involved in CSR issues. Energy management; waste reduction, sorting and recycling; compliance with Environment, Health and Safety legislation; and the quality of life at work were all among the major themes for both Valneva and its French suppliers. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ETHICS 16 The experience of surveying a group of Valneva’s partners, by using a simplified questionnaire and within the restricted perimeter of France, made it possible to evaluate the feasibility of such a project at the Group level. Valneva's teams will therefore study the ways to pursue this approach with all of Valneva SE’s partners and throughout the entire scope of CSR in anticipation of performing a test of materiality. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 17 PEOPLE Valneva’s success stems from the engagement and expertise of more than 450 employees, who are the Group’s single largest asset. Because a diverse workforce performs better, Valneva has committed itself to diversity and to the professional development of its employees. Valneva’s HR Approach + Attract and retain talents; + Build a sustainable workforce for the future; + Assess and reward performance; + Value and support diversity; + Protect its workforce. Valneva: A Unique Corporate Identity Valneva is an international and multicultural Group where enthusiasm, innovation and strong execution skills are driving forces. With operations in six countries across the globe, Valneva's teams are diverse and multidisciplinary. The result is a unique identity reflecting the 28 different nationalities represented within the Group. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 18 Labor Relations Since Valneva's creation, European employees are represented by an International Works Council (“IWC”). This body has 12 members who were elected in 2017 for a four-year term and meet at least twice a year. They are informed about and consulted on cross-border operations carried out by Valneva and contribute to a better understanding of the cultural and organizational specificities of each Group site. Headcount by Region On December 31, 2017, the Group had 457 employees working in Austria, Canada, United Kingdom, France, Sweden, and in the United States. Headcount by Function The majority of Valneva employees work in the areas of production and Research & Development. Production is based in Scotland and Sweden. The Support functions (“G&A”) are spread across four main sites in Austria, France, Scotland and Switzerland. The Commercial Operations function has grown significantly over the last three years, with teams now located in Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Austria, and in the Nordic countries. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 19 Recognizing and Promoting Diversity Valneva believes that discrimination, in any form, is unacceptable in the workplace. The Group’s official policy is to promote equal opportunity through employment, compensation, recruitment, training and advancement efforts for all employees. This means that applicants and current employees receive the same treatment regardless of nationality, ethnic origin, gender identity, physical or mental disability, age, religion or beliefs, family situation or sexual orientation. As a global company that respects all cultures, Valneva truly believes that the diversity of its teams and talent is a valuable asset, contributing to greater innovation, efficiency and competitiveness. Valneva is proud to note that 28 nationalities are represented within the Group. Diversity Charter Signatories Valneva SE and Valneva Austria GmbH are signatories of the Diversity Charter, an initiative seeking to ban discrimination from the workplace. Valneva’s perennial commitment to the Charter is a way of demonstrating the Group’s devotion to diversity. Awareness and Inclusion of All Levels of Ability Linked to the Group’s CSR policy, Valneva SE dedicated one week in March 2017 to informing employees about disability at work. At the start of the week, the employees received flyers from HandiEM, a French organization which supports the employment of people with disabilities in the medical sector. These documents featured interesting facts which explained what the word “handicap” really means. Among other important concepts, employees learned that 7.5% of people in France have a handicap and that 85% of handicaps are non-visible. To close out the week’s activities, members of the HR and EHS teams led an interactive quiz. Questions and role playing games were also used to allow employees to experience different nonvisible disabilities. The awareness week was an opportunity to ensure that employees are aware of potential handicaps and understand how the Group can adapt to welcome people of all abilities. Equal Opportunity and Treatment In its Code of Conduct, Valneva has emphasized its commitment to promoting equal opportunity and maximizing the talent and expertise of all employees. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 20 Gender Breakdown Women are more highly represented than men at Valneva (60% females). Average Age at Valneva The average age of employees at Valneva is 43. Assess and Reward Performance Compensation Policy Valneva implemented a Group compensation policy based on international benchmarks in 2013. The principles of this policy are consistent and have been harmonized across the different sites. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 21 In 2016, Valneva confirmed its goal of proposing competitive compensation for the Biotech sector. Total payroll has risen approximately 2.5% per year over the last 2 years. Attract and Retain Talents Technical, scientific, organizational and human challenges are inherent to the sector in which Valneva operates. To respond to these challenges, the Group’s Human Resources strategy is dynamic, multicultural and flexible. The Human Resources and Communications teams work with the local groups in each country and across functions to develop a common Group culture while paying particular attention to local characteristics. Valneva’s highly-experienced Human Resources department builds and deploys a policy designed to strengthen talent and organizational efficiency at both the local and Group levels. The Group HR strategy is built around three pillars and associated processes. Valneva promotes equal opportunity and seeks to help each of its employees maximize his or her talents. As an integral part of its strategy, the HR department has put into place an internally-designed and customized Performance Management system. Valneva's system creates reciprocal benefits and responsibilities between employees, managers and the Group CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 22 as a whole. All Valneva employees, including managers, are trained to use this performance management system. Working Hours Reflecting the diverse locations of its operations, working hours are governed by different national agreements in compliance with local regulations. The majority of Valneva’s French employees work according to a days-per-year basis. Operations in Austria, Sweden, Canada, and the United States apply a work week of 40 hours, while operations in the United Kingdom apply a work week of 37.5 hours. Flexible working hour arrangements exist for employees in non-production functions to facilitate a better work-life balance for as many employees as possible. Partnering with Educational Institutions At Valneva, preparing for the future begins by supporting the development of the next generation of employees: the students who seek to discover the careers available at Valneva and learn more about the pharmaceutical industry. Group-wide, Valneva welcomed more than 10 students who were fullyintegrated into their teams and the Valneva community. Creating New Opportunities in Higher Education In addition to regularly welcoming interns in various roles within the Group, Valneva Sweden AB has been actively involved in launching a post-secondary degree in Pharmaceutical Engineering. To address the current shortage of qualified technicians in the Stockholm region, Valneva Sweden AB joined a consortium of local pharmaceutical companies in the creation of a new degree aimed directly at training researchers to respond to the needs of the industry. Together with other companies, Valneva Sweden AB designed the program which began enrolling students in the fall of 2017. Additionally, Valneva has a seat on the Board of the degree program which allows the Group to positively influence the practical direction of the course. Attracting Future Talent, Today At Valneva Austria GmbH, the Group has a long-standing tradition of welcoming students from local schools. Valneva’s continued partnership with Viennese educational institutions exists to assist 13to 15-year-olds in choosing their career orientation. After seeing a presentation of the Group, students are given an opportunity to immerse themselves in the universe of Valneva and the world of business, based on their capacities and interests. On November 24th, Valneva Austria GmbH also participated in the first Vienna BioCenter Career Day, held at the Vienna BioCenter campus where the Group’s Austrian offices are located. Career Day aimed to present a variety of different career paths to current PhD students, offering the post-graduate students information on existing possibilities for researchers and others outside of academia. The Valneva team introduced the Group to approximately 40 PhD students, explaining everything from its vaccine pipeline to its workplace environment and main departments. Apart from the introduction of Valneva Austria GmbH as a possible future employer, the event allowed the HR department to reach out to potential new-hires in order to gain an understanding of what today’s talent is looking for in an employer. After this successful first-of-its-kind event for Valneva, the Group seeks to participate in other Career Day-style events in order to advance its goals of innovation through attracting and nurturing the best talent available. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 23 Valneva’s Commitment to Education: Offering Valuable Experience to Student Trainees Coming from the United States to study at the University of Nantes, Corporate Communications trainee Olivia Yankey arrived at Valneva looking for an internship that checked some very specific boxes. “I was hoping to find a business whose communications department did the majority of its work in English, yet allowed me to use and fine–tune my professional French,” she explains. “On top of that, I really wanted a practical experience that would help me understand the realities of working at a multinational company.” Her hope of finding an organization in Nantes with an international presence was met once she was introduced to Valneva. Olivia was involved on a wide range of projects in the Investor Relations and Corporate Communications department, from writing and editing press reviews, reports and presentations to assisting with internal events and contributing news to Valneva’s intranet. No two days were alike, as Valneva was able to offer Olivia a varied, real-world experience during her training period. “I couldn’t think of a better internship than this one. From the first day, I was given the opportunity to work on essential tasks with increasing responsibility as my traineeship progressed,” she said. “The hands-on experience – working alongside people from around the world – was exactly what I wanted, and my colleagues were nothing but welcoming and attentive.” As an international company with over 450 employees, Valneva is proud to offer students like Olivia rewarding and instructive training experiences. Not only do interns at Valneva benefit from a diverse, supportive and fast-paced environment, but they also have the ability to get an honest feel for their future career options through the projects they work on during their time with the Group. Social Events Valneva encourages workplace satisfaction and aims to cultivate a sense of value around its corporate culture. In order to do this, the Group not only provides competitive pay and benefits, but also regularly plans social and cultural events at the local and Group levels to foster unity across Valneva. Twice a year, local social events are organized at every site including traditional holiday parties and summer barbecues. Among other seasonal events throughout 2017, Valneva Austria GmbH organized a “Pedal Boat Challenge” with all employees, which supported cross-departmental teambuilding and communication. Bringing together colleagues at different sites who often collaborate but rarely see one another in person, the Group took the opportunity of its attendance at the 2017 World Vaccine Congress in Washington, D.C. to CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 24 organize a multi-site breakfast. Valneva’s Congress attendees, including employees from the Vienna and Nantes sites, were able to meet over breakfast with the Valneva USA Inc. team, based just a halfhour north of the capital city in Gaithersburg, Maryland. Similar annual team-building activities are organized for multi-site teams across the Group, including the Legal and Environment, Health and Safety departments. Valneva’s Livingston site also actively encourages departmental team building and routinely integrates these activities with health and safety awareness sessions, such as Winter Driving Safety. Aside from educational workshops, the Livingston HR team also organized this year’s Summer Fun Fair and Barbecue for all staff. At a global level, Valneva employees demonstrated high social engagement during the corporate “Cook for Good” initiative held in September 2017. In total, 136 employees across all subsidiaries of the Group shared a meal together with the goal of raising money for the Baan Dek Foundation. (For more information on “Cook4Good” and Valneva’s continued support of Baan Dek, please see the “Protecting Lives” section of this Report.) Develop Employee Capabilities at Every Level Valneva’s training and development initiatives are focused primarily on operational needs in order to develop employees’ technical qualifications and expertise. These initiatives are also used to strengthen leadership and communication skills across the Group. Valneva is strongly committed to developing its teams, in particular through two key tools: the Performance Management system, which has been in place since 2015, and the Group’s training program, which was rolled out in 2016 and continued in 2017. The Onboarding Experience Valneva’s HR teams pay particular attention to the New Hire experience to ensure a smooth and convivial entry in the Group. Valneva’s onboarding program is about Group culture awareness & assimilation, education on global policies, an introduction to various ways of working together, creating interaction with colleagues, understanding the business, and alignment on expectations. New employees get the chance to meet all of the function heads located at their site in order to discover Valneva from the inside. The onboarding period is a unique opportunity to create a cohesive network within and outside of one’s own function. In Livingston, all new employees follow a robust training program during their first two weeks with the business, tailored to their position and level. A great deal of the training is focused on Valneva’s standards and ways of working, including the GMP training which is essential for the Livingston site as one of the Group’s manufacturing plants. After every new hire’s first month, HR meets with him or her to check in regarding the onboarding experience, to discuss any issues that may have arisen during the process and to provide help in resolving them. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 25 Valneva’s Help for New Hires American Senior Scientist Melissa Hanson came to Valneva in 2016 after having worked as a postdoctoral researcher for an institute in Paris. When the Human Resources department formally offered Melissa a role with the Group, they also provided assistance to help make her change of cities and move to Valneva easy and seamless. “When I obtained this position at Valneva, I was living in Paris so I needed to relocate to Nantes,” explains Melissa. “Valneva’s Human Resources department arranged for me to stay at the ‘Maison des chercheurs’ for the first month and also connected me with ‘Action Logement’, a French organization which helps people who move for work to find permanent housing.” In addition to finding short term housing and connecting her with an organization to find her permanent home in Nantes, Valneva’s HR department helped Melissa advance her development goals from the start of her contract. “The HR department enrolled me in French classes at the ‘Maison des chercheurs’ and then arranged for one-on-one tutoring sessions through the CCI [the Chamber of Commerce and Industry organization in Nantes],” Melissa says. “The support that […] Valneva’s HR department gave me made the move to Nantes as smooth and painless as possible.” Valneva seeks to ensure that every new hire has a positive experience while transitioning to the Group. Through relocation and visa application assistance, early coordination of professional development activities and by acting as a liaison between its employees and external organizations like the “Maison des chercheurs,” the Group’s onboarding activities help Valneva attract and retain talent. Valneva Corporate Training Program Training is a cornerstone of Valneva’s business and allows the Group to maintain its high working standards in all of its activities. Once again this year, Valneva offered a broad range of training events across the organization, including ethics & compliance, risk management, biosafety and IT awareness. Throughout 2017, the Compliance program piloted several training sessions to support the implementation of new policies, including the Global Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and AntiBullying Policy and the Global Professional and Personal Relationships in the Workplace Policy. Additional corporate compliance trainings were created specifically for Valneva’s team of administrative assistants, as well as refresher trainings on all compliance-related matters. In November, IT Awareness training sessions were launched at all sites, educating employees in all functions about the compliance-related risks and dangers present in today’s rapidly-changing technological landscape. Valneva Austria GmbH and Valneva Scotland Ltd. reached a participation rate of 80% of employees trained in IT awareness by December 2017 and the training initiative will continue into 2018. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 26 Valneva Sweden AB also conducted a leadership training course for non-managers in 2017. Sixteen employees at the Solna site were trained on communication, coaching, and stress management as well as on giving and receiving feedback in the workplace. The non-manager leadership training session lasted six days. Two Focal Points: Fire and Biosafety Valneva took time in 2017 to focus on fire and biosafety training, two areas which are fundamental to risk prevention and help ensure the safety of all Valneva employees and the activities they perform. The Scottish, Swedish and French sites carried out fire prevention training throughout the year, focused on the handling of fire extinguishers, evacuation procedures and the designation of local fire wardens. Biosafety lies at the heart of Valneva’s business. At the Group’s manufacturing sites, biosafety training sessions ensured employees’ competencies on the handling of Class 2 biological agents, while in the Research department biosafety training was geared towards the manipulation of Class 3 pathogens. These training sessions contributed to the maintenance of rigorous management of high-level biological risks, guaranteeing high standards of quality and performance both in R&D and manufacturing. Indicators for work accidents (quantity, frequency and seriousness) have been stable since Valneva’s creation, helped in part by the ongoing improvement of the Group’s various safety training measures. The number and the seriousness of work accidents are very low because of the nature of Valneva’s activity and the high level of prevention in place. The Group’s global Environment, Health and Safety Policy, which was implemented in 2017, aims to sustain these positive results over the long term. (This policy is discussed in depth in the “Environment” section of this Report.) Work Accidents at Valneva 3 2 2014 2015 2016 1 2017 0 To date, the severity and frequency rates, which are generally excellent indicators to assess the level of safety for companies, are not relevant for Valneva due to the very low number of accidents within the Group. For that reason these two indicators are not published in this Report Creating the Biosafety Committee In 2017, a cross-site work group was created in order to facilitate the exchange information on biohazard management across Valneva locations. The objective of this new Committee is to facilitate CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 27 the sharing and exchange of information between employees in charge of biosafety matters at the various Production and R&D sites of the Group. The Biosafety Committee is composed of one to two people from each of the four main Valneva sites exposed to these risks. This work group met via teleconference twice in 2017 and has begun sharing knowledge on current regulations in place in each country as well as on projects that require the handling of biological agents at each site in order to ensure the use of best practices across all Valneva locations. This new Committee reinforces Valneva’s information exchange on a major Environment, Health and Safety subject for the Group. The Biosafety Committee also allows for all of Valneva’s EHS actors to share and to benefit from one another’s expertise. Winter Driving Awareness In Livingston, the HR department set a priority in 2017 to provide a useful Health and Safety awareness training session before winter’s icy conditions set in. The team delivered Winter Driving Awareness training which was created on-site in conjunction with the local Environment, Health and Safety department. This custom training session included an interactive quiz, videos and information to remember in the event of dangerous driving conditions. The HR team then supplemented this training event with a visit from the AA (“Automotive Association”), who delivered their official presentation on winter driving as a complement to Valneva Scotland Ltd.’s internal training materials. Valneva’s Training Investment Across the Group, Valneva’s total training investment was €502,763 for 2017, which represents an average of €1,100 per employee. The hours of training will not provide relevant information, so that Valneva chose to publish training cost to communicate on this element nonetheless. The Talent Development Policy Developing the skill sets of Valneva’s employees plays a key role in the Group’s success. As such, Valneva works to provide an environment of continuous learning to encourage employees’ professional development. The development initiatives proposed by Valneva are mainly linked to the need to improve and expand operational expertise, but are also used to enhance communications and management skills at every level of the corporate hierarchy. In exchange, employees at Valneva are willing to learn and take on new roles and responsibilities within the Group. The goal is to help employees boost their personal potential and advance their professional careers at Valneva. To guide employees and managers in their development, the Human Resources department created an Expectations Guide based on the contributions provided by the multi-country internal team who worked on creating Valneva’s “Employee Value Proposition.” The Expectations Guide is a tool which CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PEOPLE 28 makes it possible for each employee to progress in a manner that is aligned with Valneva's expectations. Creating VALUE In addition to the Expectations Guide, the HR department kicked off the Valneva Leadership Ultimate Experience (“VALUE”) workshop to further the development of its senior leaders. The VALUE program will support high-level managers as they drive the Group’s operational activities, contribute to Valneva’s strategy, and grow the Group as they grow with the Group. With an external partner, this executive-tailored workshop was created around five important strategic objectives, including the development of one Valneva team spirit and working together as one team across all sites, as a way of strengthening the level of trust and confidence among senior leaders. The VALUE training process is expected to end in the spring of 2018 and will accompany senior leaders across the following six steps: CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ENVIRONMENT 29 ENVIRONMENT As a vaccine company, Valneva is aware that the environment directly affects people’s health. The Group feels that it has a responsibility to reduce its own carbon footprint and manage its waste consumption. Valneva’s Environmental Approach Environmental sustainability is a guiding principle at Valneva. The Group aims to use natural resources efficiently and minimizes the environmental impact of its activities and products during their lifecycles. It integrates sustainable operations & supply chains, innovative products & packaging and environmental sustainability into its business decisions process. Valneva pursues its development in strict compliance with a number of corporate social responsibility rules and environmental sustainability guidelines. The energy transition act enacted in France on August 17, 2015 established obligations to promote the circular economy and waste recycling. Good practices for waste separation, recycling and monitoring have been adopted by the Group. These practices are a major priority and procedures have already been implemented for all sites. Research laboratories are set up at the Nantes and Vienna sites. Upstream vaccine testing is performed at the Vienna site. The Japanese encephalitis vaccine production unit is in Livingston (Scotland), and the production site for the vaccines against cholera and LT-ETEC diarrhea in Solna (Sweden). Biotechnology risks were identified at Valneva's four R&D and production sites. Dedicated teams have been accordingly tasked with implementing and monitoring the necessary procedures for managing these risks and monitoring the installations and equipment. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ENVIRONMENT 30 Creating Valneva’s Environmental Health and Safety Policy In 2016, under the leadership of its President & CEO Thomas Lingelbach, Valneva formed an intersite Environmental Health and Safety team at the Group level. Its purpose is to improve the efficiency of work on-site and provide for the exchange of inputs between the different teams devoted to health, safety and the environment within Valneva. In the last quarter of 2017, the EHS team, headed by Agneta Stromberg at Valneva Sweden AB, officially announced the Group’s Environment, Health and Safety Policy to all Valneva employees. This policy is based on several founding principles of Environment, Health and Safety within Valneva, including: + the prevention of accidents and occupational diseases as well as negative effects on the environment or on the safety & quality of Valneva’s manufactured products; + proactivity for risk management; + and the reduction of risks, energy consumption and waste production. To implement the policy, the Group focused on the respect of applicable rules and regulations, the acquisition and renewal of operating licenses, management by example and the respect of the safety rules which are currently in place. Another crucial element for implementation of the Corporate EHS Policy is the sustained and continuous improvement of near-miss detection and resolution training in place on Valneva sites. Becoming an Environment, Health and Safety Officer After working seven years as Head of Facility Management at Valneva’s site in Vienna, Thomas Fleck has accepted a new challenge by starting a certified health & safety training course in October 2017. According to Austrian law, every company is required to have a safety officer. Previously externalized, this function has been proposed to Thomas because of the link between his job and the health & safety domain, plus his detailed knowledge of Valneva’s Vienna laboratories. For three days a week over four months, Thomas has studied the main principles of health & safety such as risk assessment, workplace organization, biosafety, machine dangers, chemical hazards and ergonomics. The goal of this training is not to transform Thomas into a specialist of each field but to give him the knowledge for managing those risks. At the end of his training in February 2018, Thomas will take a final exam for the validation of his course. After this exam, he will be certified as Valneva’s official Safety Officer. Thomas’ training demonstrates Valneva’s commitment to professional advancement and the Group is highly confident in his success. To ensure the long term sustainability of the policy, the corporate EHS team will monitor and analyze indicators to establish the best strategy for improvement of Environment, Health and Safety on all Valneva sites. Carbon Footprint As a vaccine company, Valneva feels that the Group has a responsibility to reduce its own carbon footprint. Since energy constitutes the main source of its CO2 emissions, the Group seeks to optimize energy consumption and energy security for all its business activities. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ENVIRONMENT 31 CO2 Emissions for Valneva Group Valneva’s CO2 emissions have been continuously decreasing since the Group’s decision to use green energy to produce the electricity consumed on its four main sites. In 2017, the electric power used in Vienna was entirely produced by renewable energies. In Solna, a similar renewable energy contract began in June 2017. CO2 Emissions for Valneva (in T) 5000 4131 4000 3651 3454 3000 2015 2016 2000 2017 1000 0 Energy Consumption for Valneva Group There were many projects in 2017 aiming to improve the Group’s energy consumption and reducing its environmental footprint. The ongoing energy efficiency work happening at all manufacturing and R&D sites made it possible to reduce CO2 emissions in 2017 by approximately 200 tons in relation to the prior year, despite increased production in Scotland and Sweden. Energy Consumption of Valneva (in mWh) 16658 2015 17233 2016 2017 16397 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 Raw Material Consumption of the Group The quantity of raw materials used for the production of Valneva’s vaccines remains at a stable level, despite the increase of the number of tons produced at the Group’s two manufacturing sites in 2017. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ENVIRONMENT 32 Quantity of Raw Materials Used by Valneva (in T) 74 2015 101 2016 102 2017 0 50 100 150 Waste Management Waste has an enormous impact on the environment, causing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions and generating substantial costs for the Group. Proper waste management including appropriate reuse, recycling and energy recovery is a key factor in optimizing resource efficiency. Pollution Prevention and Waste Management Valneva's activities produce both hazardous and non-hazardous waste, which is then eliminated at the different sites in a manner which respects applicable local and European regulations. Separating, recycling and monitoring waste are major priorities for Valneva. For that reason, procedures have been implemented and indicators adopted to closely monitor its environmental impacts. Two types of waste are produced by the four sites within the reporting boundary of this Report: + non-hazardous waste (paper, cardboard, plastic, etc.); + hazardous waste (used chemical products, contaminated plastic, electrical and electronic equipment waste, etc.) This last category includes very specific waste associated with the Group’s activities in the biotech field: biological waste. It exists in two forms, liquid and solid. This category of waste is subject to specific monitoring procedures by the teams of each site. Non-hazardous Waste Produced by Valneva (in T) 150 115 111 120 100 2015 2016 50 2017 0 The production of non-hazardous waste increased slightly in 2017 due to the rental of an entire floor in the Group’s Vienna building to external companies. The waste of these tenants is taken into account by Valneva as established by the rental contract. On the other Valneva sites, the quantity of waste produced has remained stable. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE ENVIRONMENT 33 Quantity of Solid Biological Waste for Valneva Group In 2017, Valneva continued decreasing its production of biological waste. This decrease is due in large part to the increased efficiency of Valneva’s production sites. Solid Biological Waste for Valneva (in T) 50 42 39 40 34 30 2015 2016 20 2017 10 0 Water Management Valneva is committed to managing water responsibly to safeguard the health of individuals and communities. Water consumption is very limited at Valneva SE and Valneva Sweden AB accounts for 69% of the Group’s overall water consumption. Water Consumption for Valneva Group Water consumption remains stable at a stable level for Valneva, despite the increase in production on the Group’s Scottish and Swedish sites. Water Consumption for Valneva (in m3) 43634 2015 48822 2016 46321 2017 0 10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000 CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 34 VALNEVA’S CSR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Scope of the CSR reporting 2017 The scope of reporting adopted in 2017 covers UK sites (Livingston and London), Sweden (Solna), Austria (Vienna), Canada (Montréal), USA (Gaithersburg) and France (Nantes-Saint-Herblain and Lyon), or 99.9% of the Group’s total headcount in 2017. The Japanese subsidiary is excluded from this scope because the business has been reduced. In 2017, the only remaining activities were development and license and partnership management, with one person active for 20% of standard working hours (0.1% of the Group’s total headcount). Note: the scope of reporting adopted in 2015 excluded Canada (6 employees were recruited during the year 2015, and therefore, comparison of data based on homogeneous calendar periods was not possible), the United-States (only 2 employees worked on site) and Japan (for the reason explained above), and represented 97.3% of the Group’s total headcount in 2015. Training: since training hours cannot be tracked in an identical manner on all sites, consolidating this information would not provide the reader with relevant data. In order to communicate quantitative data regarding the Group’s training policy, Valneva has therefore chosen to publish training costs. The data for the evaluation of the impact on the environment of Valneva come from all the production sites (2 sites) and R&D sites (2 sites). These four sites represent 96% of the Group’s total headcount in 2017. The environmental impact of the commercial offices of Valneva is not integrated into the scope of this Report. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 35 Performance Indicators Related to “Protecting lives” and “Ethics” Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Definition environmental law Regional, economic and social impact of the Company's activity In terms of employment and regional development Group EC8 3.a Communications actions (see page 22 of this Report) On neighboring or local populations Group EC8 3.a No actions Relations with persons or organizations interested by the activity of the Company, and in particular non-profit organizations for social and occupational insertion, educational establishments, not-for-profits in the defense of the environment, consumer interests and neighboring populations Conditions of dialogue with these persons organizations Group EC8 3.b Communications actions (see pages 5 to 8 of this Report) Sponsorship or partnership initiatives Group EC8 3.b Communications actions (see page 9 of this Report) Subcontracting and suppliers Taking into account social and environmental issues in the purchasing policy Importance of subcontracting and taking into account social and environmental responsibility in relations with suppliers and subcontractors Group HR7 3.c Purchasing policy Fair practices Actions taken to prevent corruption Group PR3-PR5 3.d Code of conduct Anticorruption policy Company compliance Training on the Code of Conduct in 2017 Number of training planned cross-sites 18 Number of employees trained (new employees or employees never trained before) 169 Training on the ABAC in 2017 Number of training planned cross-sites 4 Number of employees trained (new employees or employees never trained before) 52 Measures taken in favor of consumer health and safety Group PR3-PR5 3.d Pharmacovigilance / Medical information process Actions undertaken in favor of the Human Rights Group PR3-PR5 3.e Communication actions CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 36 Employment-Related Performance Indicators Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Unit of 2015 2016 2017 Definition environmental measurement law Employment Total headcount 10/LA1 1.a Number 414 434 457 By country Austria 10/LA1 1.a Number 146 145 154 Canada 10/LA1 1.a Number N/A 7 7 United Kingdom 10/LA1 1.a Number 92 95 100 United States 10/LA1 1.a Number 2 4 6 France 10/LA1 1.a Number 47 52 49 The Nordics 10/LA1 1.a Number 129 131 141 By gender Women LA12 1.a Number 252 263 275 Men LA12 1.a Number 162 171 182 By age Less than 30 LA12 1.a Number 37 39 45 30 to 50 years LA12 1.a Number 294 306 303 More than 50 years LA12 1.a Number 83 89 109 Average age LA12 1.a Years 41.49 42 42.68 By type of contract Permanent contracts 10/LA1 1.b Number 408 424 446 Temporary contracts 10/LA1 1.b Number 6 10 11 By function R&D N/A 1.a Number 132 131 121 Production N/A 1.a Number 138 138 160 Support and N/A 1.a Number 108 115 118 Administration Clinical development N/A 1.a Number 11 8 9 Sales and Marketing N/A 1.a Number 25 42 49 Recruitments and departures Recruitment 10/LA1 1.a Number 70 69 83 Dismissals 10/LA1 1.a Number 10 8 10 Voluntary departures 10/LA1 1.a Number 27 48 50 Organization of working hours Illness LA6 1.b Average 7.8 6.4 6.3 number of days per employee CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 37 Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Unit of 2015 2016 2017 Definition environmental measurement law Occupational illness LA6 1.b Number 0 0 0 Occupational accidents LA6 1.b Number 1 2 1 resulting in lost time days Labor relations Organization of 11 1.c Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee (CHSCT) report employee-management for Nantes, Local Committees, IWC dialogue Expectation Guide Performance Collective bargaining 11 1.c 98 % of the Group employees are covered by a collective agreements bargaining agreement Health and Safety 11 1.c None Agreement Code of Conduct and 11/56 1.c Code of conduct equal opportunity 1.f Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption policy Global Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Bullying Global Professional and Personal Relationships in the Workplace Policy Training Training policy G4-LA9 1.e Training is managed both at the Group level and locally and applicable laws vary significantly with respect to reporting obligations. France G4-LA9 1.e In € 101.254,00 Austria G4-LA9 1.e In € 128,945,93 Sweden G4-LA9 1.e In € 235.354,64 Scotland G4-LA9 1.e In € 36.018.53 North America G4-LA9 1.e In € 1.190,00 Average Training G4-LA9 1.e In € 1.100,00 Investment per employee Workplace equality / Diversity Percentage of women LA12 1.a % 61 61 60 employed Supervisory Board LA12 1.f % 14,3 37.5 40 Number of employees LA12 1.f % 0 0 0 with disabilities Compliance with the EC9 1.f N/A Not relevant core conventions of the International Labor Organization CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 38 Environmental Performance Indicators Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Definition environmental law General environmental policy Organization of the company for addressing environmental issues and, as applicable, environmental assessments or certification approaches Group EC2 2.a Good Quality Practice (GQP-0008(02)) Valneva EHS Policy Austria EC2 2.a VIE-SOP-0054/03IE Index Vönix VIE-SOP-0074 United Kingdom EC2 2.a EOHS Guidance document Valneva Livingston Statement of Intent SEPA permit PPC/E/20022 SAPO license Environmental monitoring report France EC2 2.a Declaration ICPE2009 Safety Action Plan Sweden EC2 2.a Operating authorization from the Swedish authorities Report & program for environmental self-assessments Training and employee information actions relating to environmental protection Austria EC2 2.a All employees receive training on the VIE-SOP-0054[03] procedure United Kingdom EC2 2.a Controlling documents LIV/SOP/0333 Waste Disposal and Spills Procedure France EC2 2.a Safety booklet for new employees Nantes Single Assessment Document Sweden EC2 2.a EHS Training system Resources devoted to preventing environmental risks and pollution Austria EN31 2.a VIE-SOP-0074 (02) waste management United Kingdom EN31 2.a Controlling documents PPC/E/20022 LIV/SOP/0333 France EN31 2.a Declaration ICPE 2009 Mandatory waste management record Waste management procedures Sweden EN31 2.a Operating authorization from the Swedish authorities Waste handling procedures Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks Group EN29 2.a In the absence of financial and non-financial sanctions for failure to EN31 comply with regulations, no financial provisions have been set aside for environmental risks. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 39 Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Definition environmental law Austria EN31 2.a Business RA #39 Contamination Pollution and waste management Measures for preventing, reducing and repairing discharges in the air, water and ground causing serious environmental impacts Group EN8 2.b Summary graphs (see page 33 of this Report) Austria EN8 2.b VIE-SOP-0074 (02) monitoring of energy media consumption United Kingdom EN8 2.b PPC/E/2002 Annual report PPC Nov. 2014 France EN8 2.b Mandatory waste management record Waste management procedures Sweden EN8 2.b Waste handling procedures Test and annual replacement of the HVAC filters, program for collecting water samples annual maintenance of the wastewater tanks. Waste* exclusively for the manufacturing and R&D sites generating a significant quantity of waste Measures for prevention, recycling and eliminating waste Austria EN22 2.b VIE-SOP-0074 (02) United Kingdom EN22 2.b Controlling document LIV/SOP/0333 France EN22 2.b DASRI and Reach regulations Waste separation table Sweden EN22 2.b SLN-OTI-0020 Production sites* 2015 2016 2017 Total water discharge EN8 2.b N/A N/A N/A N/A Total Hazardous EN23 2.b In Tons 27.9 26.5 19.9 Waste Biological EN23 2.b In Tons 25.7 21.7 17 Chemical EN23 2.b In Tons 1.6 0.75 1.4 WEEE EN23 2.b In Tons 0.6 4.1 1.5 Total EN23 2.b In Tons 41.2 35.6 37.1 Non-Hazardous Waste Recycled EN23 2.b In Tons 27.8 27 23.7 Non-recycled EN23 2.b In Tons 13.4 8.6 13.4 nonhazardous waste (household waste) R&D sites* 2015 2016 2017 Total water discharge EN22 2.b N/A N/A N/A N/A Total Hazardous EN23 2.b In Tons 23 25.6 22.36 Waste Biological EN23 2.b In Tons 21.8 95.7 135.6 CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 40 Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Definition environmental law Chemical EN23 2.b In Tons 0.1 1.234 1.895 WEEE EN23 2.b In Tons 1.13 1.95 0.2 Total non-hazardous EN23 2.b In Tons 73.7 75.9 83.3 waste Recycled EN23 2.b In Tons 23.1 22.9 22.4 Non-recycled EN23 2.b In Tons 50.6 52.8 60.9 nonhazardous waste (household waste) *Production sites: Livingston (United Kingdom), Solna (Sweden) R&D sites Nantes (France), Vienna (Austria) Food waste Not relevant Energy 2015 2016 2017 Electricity EN3 2.c MWh 11,660 12,266 11,864 Gas EN3 2.c MWh 4,997 4,967 4,533 Raw materials for production sites* only 2015 2016 2017 Total EN16 2.c Tons 73.885 101.4 102 Solna (SE) EN16 2.c Tons 2.03 3.1 4.1 Livingston (UK) EN16 2.c Tons 71.855 98.312 97.9 Production sites*: Livingston (United Kingdom), Solna (Sweden) Water 2015 2016 2017 3 Total consumption EN8 2.c m 43,634 48,822 46,321 Total EN8 2.c m3 35,466 39,628 36,649 production sites Total other sites EN8 2.c m3 8,168 9,194 9,672 CO2 emissions 2015 2016 2017 Relating to EN15 2.d Teq CO2 4,131 3,651 3,454 energy consumption Taking into account noise pollution and other forms of pollution specific to an activity Scotland EN25 2.b Preventative maintenance program for installations and equipment Biannual report to the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) on noise pollution Group / other sites EN25 2.b N/A Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy performance and recourse to renewable energy Austria N/A 2.c Monthly consumption monitoring and documentation for identifying unusual consumption Signature of a zero-greenhouse gas emission contract in 2015 (effective starting in 2016) CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 41 Indicator GRI 4 Grenelle II Definition environmental law United Kingdom N/A 2.c Controlling document LIV-SOP-0008 Preventive Maintenance Plan (monitoring consumption and equipment calibration) France N/A 2.c Monitoring consumption and centralized control system (heating, air conditioning, air treatment, lighting) Use of the energy audit results to reduce energy and water consumption and minimize discharges. Sweden N/A 2.c Electric steam boiler turned off during the summer season. Installation of a presence detection system for new lighting systems. Signature of a zero-greenhouse gas emission contract in June 2017 Preventive Maintenance Plan (monitoring consumption and equipment calibration) Soil use N/A 2.c None action Climate change Adapting to the consequences of climate change Austria EN14 2.d Signature in 2015 of a zero-greenhouse gas emission United Kingdom EN14 2.d Controlling document; Environmental Monitoring Report of Emissions to Atmosphere. France EN14 2.d Use of the energy audit results to reduce energy and water consumption and minimize discharges. Sweden EN14 2.d Electric steam boiler turned off during the summer season. Installation of a presence detection system for new lighting systems Measures taken to preserve and/or develop biodiversity United Kingdom EN14 2.e Compliance with SEPA license for waste disposal and emissions France EN14 2.e Installation of 4 beehives on the site CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE FRAMEWORKS 42 THE FRAMEWORKS USED TO DRAW UP THIS REPORT The French Grenelle II Act (Article 225) and its implementing decree Article 225 of the law ENE N°2010-788 of July 12, 2010, or the Grenelle II Act, requires social, environmental and sustainability information to be included in the Annual Management Report of companies and reviewed by third parties. This act is an extension of the 2001 NRE law and applies the provisions of the Grenelle Environmental legislation and the Grenelle I Act. The conditions for application are laid down in a decree N°2012-557 of April 24, 2012. The ministerial decree of May 13, 2013 sets the procedures for the performance of appraisal missions by independent third parties. The Energy Transition for Green Growth Act The French Energy Transition for Green Growth Act of August 17, 2015 sets energy transition targets. Greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 40% by 2030, and divided by four by 2050. Final energy consumption must be divided by two in 2050 in relation to 2012, and the percentage of renewable energy increased to 32% in 2030. The text also focuses on additional priorities including, among others, developing clean transport, combating waste and promoting the circular economy. This includes a recycling target for nonhazardous waste of 55% in 2020 and 65% in 2025 and reducing amounts of non-recyclable manufactured products put on the market by 50% before 2020 (article 70). European Directives Directive 2014/95/EU October 22, 2014 amended Directive 2013/93/EU and introduces changes for disclosures to be included in a CSR Report. The transposition of this directive is complete since August 9, 2017. This directive requires companies thus concerned to publish a report containing information risk prevention policies in the areas of environmental, social and employee matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery matters, and the outcome of these policies, including a description of the due diligence processes and covering the entire supply chain under this approach. ISO 26000 International Standard ISO 26000 provides guidance so it cannot be certified to unlike some other well-known ISO standards. Instead, it helps clarify what social responsibility is, helps businesses and organizations translate principles into effective actions and shares best practices relating to social responsibility, globally. It is aimed at all types of organizations regardless of their activity, size or location. The standard was launched in 2010 following five years of negotiations between many different stakeholders across the world. Representatives from government, NGOs, industry, consumer groups and labor organizations around the world were involved in its development, which means it represents an international consensus. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-governmental organization that works as a global network to promote sustainability through environmental, social responsibility and governance reporting. The GRI produces the most widely used sustainability reporting standards to work towards greater transparency. The framework includes the G4 guidelines and sets the reporting principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and disclose their economic, environmental and social performance. The Global Reporting Initiative was set up in 1997 by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and Ceres. The French Decree n°2016-1138 of August 19, 2016 French Decree related to circular economy and greenhouse gas generated by the company’s activities and modified the article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial code. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE METHODOLOGICAL NOTE 43 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE 1. maintaining the resource persons Methodological note on Group CSR data identified in 2016 to report quantitative reporting and qualitative employment, social and The different entities forming the Group environmental data for each site in order operate according to different models linked to to optimize the collection process; business operations (R&D and production) as 2. sending the resource persons a data well as their respective cultural and legal collection spreadsheet for information to environments. be provided along with guidelines for The legal and regulatory context does not quantitative employment-related and reflect the same requirements for compliance environmental data; from one site to another. 3. classifying the source documents The different priorities relating to the received (codification) according to three environment and also employment are fields: employment, environment, and reflected differently according to the sites, even social. common practices and shared values can be These documents are then made available to observed. the CSR audit firm. For the construction of this CSR report, data Group structure of consolidated operations collection is organized through resource The quantitative data in the employment area persons identified internally: is consolidated at the Group level for the + resource persons to coordinate, where collection of information in 2017. These data possible, and transmit quantitative and are derived from the human resource qualitative data for employment-related management software: HR Cube. information requirements; Quantitative environmental data has been + other resource persons to coordinate, harmonized at the Group level. Environmental where possible, and transmit impact measures energy consumption, GHG quantitative and qualitative data for the emissions and waste for the production and environmental information R&D sites (Livingston, Vienna, Solna and requirements; Nantes). + resource persons to coordinate, where Reporting referential possible, and transmit quantitative and qualitative data for the social To ensure the homogeneity and reliability of information requirements; indicators tracked for all subsidiaries, the + one person in Nantes (France) to Group is continuing to adopt common coordinate the data collection at the guidelines for employment-related and international level; environmental data. These documents specify the methodologies to be applied for the 4. implementation of a dedicated CSR reporting of indicators for the entire Group: reporting platform (installed on the internal definitions, calculation formulas, etc. server) to improve the data storage and facilitate access for the resource persons. Data collection method Comparison of data between the 2016 and Data collection in 2017 required application of 2017 CSR reports a working method and different steps that are presented below: The comparability of data is sometimes still partial, since all information collected is not based on the same scope of reporting. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE METHODOLOGICAL NOTE 44 Besides, certain items cannot be harmonized at the Group level. Valneva's social responsibility policy In 2017, the Valneva Group concentrated efforts on building three new policies: the Environmental Occupational Health and Safety policy; the Global Anti-Harassment, AntiDiscrimination and Anti-Bullying Policy; the Global Professional and Personal Relationships in the Workplace Policy. Valneva pursues the development of the sales and marketing activities, and has confirmed its CSR policy organized around four pillars as follows: + Protecting lives + Ethics + People + Protecting environment Materiality test Due diligence processes are in place within the Group, in particular in areas related to product liability (pharmacovigilance). In 2017, a sampling of our suppliers has been performed in France to evaluate the possibility to put in place a global materiality test at the Valneva SE scale (see page 15-16). Potential improvements Improvements can be considered for future years, including a materiality test adapted to the Group, in order to identify those issues that are most important in relation to expectations of Valneva's critical internal and external stakeholders. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE DEFINITIONS 45 DEFINITIONS EMPLOYMENT INDICATORS Number of dismissals Relevance The number of dismissals corresponds to the number of forced departures, and as such, Employment indicators provide an excludes resignations and the termination of understanding, through quantitative and contracts by mutual consent. qualitative data, conditions with respect to human rights, employability, working Sickness rate conditions, training policies impacts on The absenteeism rate is the number of employee health and safety, diversity and calendar days of absence during the year equal opportunity employment. (from Monday to Sunday, or 7 days per week) for the average number of active employees Total headcount (based on calculations for monthly periods) Employees included in the headcount are and concerns solely sick leave (= the average those with an employment contract (permanent number of sick days per employee). or fixed-term) with a Valneva Group company. Workforce is expressed based on headcount, Training regardless of the amount of working hours or Total cost related to training (enrolment fees the starting date in the reporting year. only) are taken into consideration. Medium age Conventions and collective bargaining The dates of birth are subtracted from agreements December 31, 2017, then divided by 365.25 for A collective bargaining agreement is concluded each employee with an employment contract between the employer and labor unions for the (permanent or fixed term) with a company of purpose of setting rules governing working the Valneva Group, and divided again by the conditions, employment and social guarantees figure for the total headcount. for employees. Recruitments and dismissals Professional disease Recruitments and dismissals exclude An illness arising as a consequence to movements within the Group, such as exposure to occupational risk factors (physical, international transfers or transfers between chemical or biological risks). companies and sites. Occupational accidents New recruits Accident resulting from or arising in the course This includes employees recruited in the year of work, regardless of the cause, to any salary under a permanent or fixed-term contract. employee or a person working on behalf of the Switching from a permanent contract to a Group. An occupational accident can also arise fixed-term contract during the year is not in the course of a business-related trip. This considered as a new recruitment. Report contains only accident with days lost. Temporary contracts This includes executive employees, corporate officers ( mandataires sociaux ) in France, and two Management Board Members in Austria. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE DEFINITIONS 46 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS SOCIAL INDICATORS Relevance Relevance Environmental indicators report inputs (energy, Social indicators cover impacts of the business water and raw materials) and outputs on the territory, impacts of products on (emissions, effluents, waste) and the types of consumer health and safety, practices with impacts of the organization on the respect to suppliers and subcontractors, the environment. purchasing policy. All impacts are derived from qualitative data Materials (procedures and the assessments of This item corresponds to materials used in the practices). production cycle. The Group defined more precisely its social policies, and focused around two pillars: Energy “Protecting lives” (inherent to its R&D and Only direct energy consumption (originating vaccine commercial activities) and “Ethics” (in from a primary energy source) is taken into consideration of Health, product safety and account. Energy savings linked to mechanism Compliance issues concerning all employees, for monitoring consumption and optimizing internally and externally). equipment are reported in qualitative terms. Consumption expressed in MWh. Water Water consumption concerns solely withdrawn 3 water volume. Consumption expressed in m . Biodiversity This refers to a qualitative description of impacts linked to activities, products and services. Emissions, effluents and waste Direct emissions of greenhouse gas emission are taken into account. Direct emissions of greenhouse gas emission expressed in tons of CO2. Waste is taken into account by category according to a breakdown between hazardous and nonhazardous waste. The production of waste is expressed in tons. Transport Transport (employees, suppliers, customers) is not taken into account in this report due to the absence of data. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 47 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Report by the independent third party on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report issued. For the year ended December 31, 2017 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as professional certified public accountant appointed as independent third party by Valneva and certified by COFRAC under number 3-1055, we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended 31/12/2015, included in the management report (hereinafter named CSR Information ), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Management Board is responsible for preparing the management report including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, prepared in conformity with the guidelines. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Certified public accountant’s responsibility On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). Our work involved 4 persons and was conducted between 27th September 2017 and the 15th March 2018 during a 14-day period, with an on-site audit in Vienna on the 16th January 2018 and an audit at the headquarters on the 20th February 2018 in Saint-Herblain. We performed our work in accordance with the French professional standards and with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement. 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 48 We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code with the limits mentioned in the guidelines presented in the ‘Scope of the CSR reporting 2017’ paragraph of the management report. Conclusion Based on the work performed and within the limits mentioned in ‘Scope of the CSR reporting 2017’, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted 12 interviews with those responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. We focused on: Social information: training policies; absenteeism Environmental information: waste management; energy consumption Societal information: CSR measures of subcontractors and suppliers; health & safety measures for users Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important: at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organization, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; at the Vienna site, selected by us on the basis of its activity, contribution to the consolidated indicators, location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents 33% of staff and between 30% of the quantitative environmental data disclosed. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the company. CSR REPORT 2017 VALNEVA SE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 49 We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Toulouse, 20th March 2018 THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY SAS CABINET DE SAINT FRONT Jacques de SAINT FRONT President This is a free English translation of the independent third party report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. CSR REPORT 2017
