COP 2017 PAC Doverie 1 COP 2017 – PAC Doverie STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT Hereby I would like to reiterate once more our support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four key areas of Human rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. I believe today a clear support and a strong commitment to this initiative are most crucial and critical than ever. The compliance with the ten principal professed by the UNGP has always been of the utmost importance for our Company ever since it was established back in 1994, and more than ever since 2009 when it became member of this ambitious and comprehensive initiative of the UN. Today, we’re not just trying to follow the ten principles. Now our goal is to become one of the benchmarks in this field in our country. And we’re doing our best to engage all our stakeholders and employees to support and participate in this effort. Daniela Petkova Chair of the Management board of PAC Doverie 2 COP 2017 – PAC Doverie SOME PRACTICAL ACTIONS, TAKEN IN 2017, TO FOLLOW THE GC PRINCIPLES I. Human rights  The Company has successfully undergone the due yearly audit procedure for ISO/IEC 27001:2013 compliance, demonstrating this way a highest level of personal data protection, especially now that the Global Data Protection Regulation is about to become effective. II. Labor  Continued update of all the manuals for the employees with detailed, practical info concerning their rights related to maternity leaves, illness, health & life insurance, working hours, holidays, elected union representatives, etc., all the above mentioned data being available on the Company’s Intranet.  The employees have an appointed health & safety coordinator at their entire disposition 24/7. III. Environment  A special campaign “100 000 e-mails for 1000 new trees” for gathering as many as possible e-mails of customers in order to use a digital way of communication and cut down the use of paper.  Participation in the third edition of the International No elevators day – an initiative aimed to promote the use of the stairs instead of the elevator in order to cut down the use of electricity and promote a life with more physical activity. IV. Anti-corruption  Continued training for a professional behavior in the strictest compliance with both the state laws and the Company’s rules in respect. 3 COP 2017 – PAC Doverie Miscellaneous During the past year PAC Doverie supported numerous charity activities and sponsored various events, mainly in the culture area, including:  the President’s promotion ball for children deprived of parental care;  the charity Buy a Martenitza – give health bazar ( Martenitza is a traditional Bulgarian symbol used every March 1st as a wish for health and luck during the year), organized in order to raise funds for a Foundation for retarded children;  the Bulgarian Christmas initiative;  the exposition “Gold & bronze” at the National archaeological museum;  the Junior Achievement Foundation project for basic financial education at the secondary school;  The “My favorite teacher” contest, etc. As usual the traditional charity Christmas lottery for the employees took place aimed, this time, to raise money for two causes: a donation for the National transplant agency and for the treatment abroad of the little Dani a child with a cancer disease. This COP will also be available on our official internet site www.poc-doverie.bg Contact persons: Daniela Petkova – Chair of the MB Miroslav Marinov – Executive Director Asen Asenov – Corporative Communications Director PAC Doverie JSC 13B Tintyava str. Sofia 1113 Bulgaria E-mail: head@poc-doverie.bg Tel.: +359 2/ 46 46 196 4 COP 2017 – PAC Doverie
