COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Fancourt Office Park, Block 4 First Floor Right A Cnr Northumberland & Felstead Avenue, Northriding Johannesburg +27 11 704 3812 (Office), +27 84 3377 501 (Mobile) www.goldengateconsulting.co.za COP | GOLDENGATE CONSULTING BACKGROUND Goldengate Consulting is a firm of dedicated professionals in Corporate Governance. Goldengate handles all aspects of consultancy in training, research, compliance, ethics, governance, policy development, advisory services and management consulting in the private and public sectors. Goldengate Consulting is involved in policy development and tracking. Conformity to relevant legislations and international standards on good corporate practices is crucial to ensuring sound business practices and organisational sustainability. Adherence to these practices goes a long way in assisting an organisation to achieve its set objectives and milestones. Goldengate Consulting aims at supporting businesses to achieve their objectives especially in the area of company law, corporate governance, ethics as well as organisational alignment. We are committed to professional excellence, and sound business advisory principles. Goldengate Consulting is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on Corporate Citizenship and Environmental Sustainability. We are firm believers in corporate citizenship, promotion of human rights, bio-diversity, we promote zero tolerance against corruption, child abuse or any form of abuse against women and children. We promote the education of women and children to combat gender inequality at all levels. Currently, we are implementing the following Global Compact Principles:  Commitment to Environmental Sustainability  Adopting Zero Tolerance towards Corruption  Adopting Zero Tolerance against Women & Child Abuse  Commitment to Gender Equality and Education of Women  Adoption of Zero Tolerance against Exploitation of Children or Illegal Child Labour  Commitment to Human Right Policy  Poverty alleviation and promotion of wellbeing for all Olasesi Martins Chief Operating Officer Goldengate Consulting 2|Page COP | GOLDENGATE CONSULTING ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT Goldengate Consulting is a company dedicated to environmental sustainability. We strive to ensure the following: That Goldengate Consulting complies with all legislative requirements on environmental preservation and sustainability. We encourage that pollution be reduced and energy is conserved at all times. We do collaborate with our immediate community leaders to ensure that the eco-system is preserved by all concerned. Goldengate Consulting encourages her partners and suppliers to adopt same principles in their operations. We have implemented some practical strategies in our continued effort to promote environmental sustainability. One of such strategies is the use of technologies to promote e-print making use of paper that has maximum recycled content. We also deliberately use suppliers that are supportive of our green initiatives. We are developing training activities to promote environmental awareness and the protection of the ozone layer. We do have current programmes to encourage reduction in energy usage and waste generation in our business, this we do by using more efficient technology. GC promotes the conservation and sustainability of oceans, seas and marine lives by encouraging staff to cultivate the habit of recycling plastic bottles and all materials which if found in the ocean/ sea can prove hazardous to aquatic/ marine life. ANTI –CORRUPTION COMMITMENT Goldengate Consulting is committed to its AntiCorruption Policy. We shall not condone any unethical business dealings and relationships by any employees or any company prescribed officer. Unethical dealings and or relationships include but not limited to the following: bribery, fraud, fronting, money laundering or any such illegal act. We engage in collaborative projects with government departments to facilitate trainings on Ethics, Fraud and Risk. ZERO TOLERANCE FOR WOMEN & CHILD ABUSE At Goldengate, our attitude to women and child abuse is ‘zero tolerance’. In support for ILO Convention Provision, we are firmly against the exploitation of women and children in any Goldengate Consulting 3|Page COP | GOLDENGATE CONSULTING form; we do not associate with suppliers/ contractors who engage in such practices. We uphold the principle for the protection of women and children in our society. We have collaborated with some NGO’s in our local community to provide the necessary financial and moral assistance to women and children in dire need. We support organisations that facilitate awareness programmes for women and child protection. We subscribe to the empowerment of women and children through education, employment and entrepreneurship. We participated in the Global Child Forum held in September 2015 in Pretoria, South Africa. GENDER EQUALITY & WOMEN’S EDUCATION COMMITMENT Goldengate Consulting is a company dedicated to the education and empowerment of woman. We believe in gender equality as a human right. We believe that women have the right to live in dignity; free from abuse; and empowered to live in freedom. We support and assist in the training of young professional women especially from previously disadvantaged areas by organising trainings in leadership skills, self -awareness, negotiating skills. COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHT POLICY Goldengate Consulting is committed to its human right policy in support of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. At GC; we conduct our business in a way that respects the rights and dignity of all people; without any discrimination. We treat all our employees and other stakeholders fairly in all cases. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND PROMOTION OF WELL-BEING FOR ALL Goldengate Consulting is committed to ending poverty in all forms everywhere. We join hands with NGOs and other organisations in organising food parcels and soup kitchens for impoverished communities within Johannesburg and its environ. We also collaborate with medical doctors and other medics within our reach to organise health awareness programmes in our immediate communities. We also encourage community members to inculcate the habit of small farming in their immediate environment; this in the long run will Goldengate Consulting 4|Page COP | GOLDENGATE CONSULTING ensure hunger is eradicated, food security is ensured and a good nutrition programme is promoted. Contact Details Olasesi Martins Chief Operating Officer/Director Phone: (+27 11) 7043812 Mobile: +27 84 337 7501 olasesim@goldengateconsulting.co.za Goldengate Consulting 5|Page
