UNGC | Communication on Progress UNGC Communication on Progress 2017-2018 CSR Collective 20.11.2018 1 UNGC | Communication on Progress Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support ................................... Error! Bookmark not defined. 1. Human Rights Principles.................................................................................... 4 Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes 2. Labour Principles ................................................................................................ 7 Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes 3. Environmental Principles ................................................................................... 9 Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes 4. Anti-Corruption Principles ............................................................................... 11 Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes 2 UNGC | Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to confirm that Law In Order reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact and its ten governing principles in the areas of; Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we outline the ways in which we strive to integrate the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact into our business decisions and culture. We look forward to sharing this progress with our staff internally, as well as with our external stakeholders. Julian McGrath Managing Director Law In Order Pty Ltd 3 UNGC | Communication on Progress 1. Human Rights Principles Principal 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principal 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals In this, the 70th year since the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Law In Order recognises the importance of the rights of the individual and the collective, as outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and is committed to protecting those rights, as well as advocating for the protection of those rights within our sphere of influence. 1.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals  Our People At Law In Order we have both Equal Employment policies and Antibullying and Harassment policies in place. These policies ensure that our people are treated fairly and feel safe throughout their employment. Both of these policies are supported by procedures which ensure all staff are aware of what to do should they feel there is a breach of their basic human rights in the workplace.  Our Products Law In Order is signatory to the Worldwide Charter for Fair International Commerce. This global initiative stands by businesses adopting sustainability and fair trade policies reflecting the core values of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, labour conventions of the International Labour Organisation and other internationally recognised principles. We also work with suppliers to reduce our carbon footprint including promoting the use of sustainable and eco-friendly products, as well as supporting those that follow a set code of conduct that is based on the United Nations conventions on human rights and children’s rights as well as the ILO conventions. 1.2 Implementation  Our People Our People & Culture (P & C) team work with, and support managers to ensure that our workplace is free from intimidation and provide a central point of contact for any employee complaint. The P & C team ensures that any grievance is treated confidently and in line with policy, so that all our people are treated fairly and consistently. As part of our employee induction, all new starters are made aware of our organisational policies and procedures relating to discrimination and return signed policies to ensure they are in acceptance of these policies. All staff are aware of where to find this information and have an understanding as to what is appropriate and acceptable behaviour in our workplace. The P & C team also holds exit interviews for employees who decide to resign from Law In Order. Exit interviews provide employees yet another opportunity to inform P & C staff of any 4 UNGC | Communication on Progress discrimination or harassment that may have occurred, which may have resulted in the employee resigning. These results are shared confidentially with managers to ensure we are consistently improving. A flexible working policy has been implemented, reflecting our commitment to workplace equality and to our staff welfare. This policy allows our people to have time off during their normal working hours in compensation for additional time that they have worked, which they have not been otherwise compensated for by payment of overtime and penalty rates. We have a Birthday leave policy where all staff are entitled to a day off for their Birthday. This goes hand in hand with our philosophy of ensuring our employees have a great work/life balance and that they feel valued. Regular training sessions are held so that managers within the business are kept up to date in any changes in legislation to the Fair Work Act 2009. This ensures that all managers modelled behavior consistent with promoting a workplace free from discrimination and harassment.  Our Products Law In Order continues to source our staff uniforms from Paper Scissors Rock, part of the New Wave Group. New Wave Group aim to introduce more sustainable and eco-friendly products through organic cotton and recycled fabrics. We continue to source our products through Paper Scissors Rock as they are part of the Business Social Compliance Initiative, led by the Foreign Trade Association (FTA). The FTA aim to work with local suppliers to follow a set code of conduct that is based on the United Nations conventions on human rights and children’s rights as well as the International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. The Code states requirements for suppliers in risk countries regarding: • Prohibition against child labour, forced labour and discrimination; • Health and safety; • Freedom of association and collective bargaining; • Wages, compensation and benefits; and • Fundamental environmental and management systems. Law In Order also provides coffee and tea making facilities, and ensures that all products are sourced from fair trade providers. 1.3 Measurement of Outcomes Internally, Law In Order is committed to becoming an employer of choice. Law In Order is an active participant in the national survey conducted by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) and remains committed to gender equality within the workplace, actively taking steps towards pay equality. Externally, Law In Order regularly supports national charity, Black Dog Institute and its efforts to prevent and treat mental illness. At an international level, Law In Order also supports the work of UN Women and their work towards gender equality in our local region. We continue to ensure all new staff receive a thorough understanding of our policies and procedures that exist through our face to face staff induction program as well as our online learning and exam on our learning management system. 5 UNGC | Communication on Progress Data obtained from exit interviews does not show a relationship between abuse of human rights and turnover within the organisation. Policies and procedures are regularly updated and redistributed to reflect legislative currency and best practice in line with guidance provided by the Australian Human Rights Commission. 6 UNGC | Communication on Progress 2. Labour Principal 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principal 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principal 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principal 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Law In Order is committed to upholding the rights of our staff, providing a safe work environment without discrimination and where each individual is fairly compensated for their contribution. 2.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals Law In Order operates in both Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong and India. We are proud of the multicultural and diverse nature of our workforce. We are committed to a maintaining and fostering an inclusive workplace. This is reflected through our policies and procedures as well as our recruitment practices, which are also reflective of local law and cultural understanding as our business expands to regions outside of Australia. We have an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy which reflects current legislation and outlines what is acceptable at Law In Order. This policy is supported by a complaints procedure which outlines how our EEO policy should be enacted, and the process which should be followed to report a grievance. We also have an overtime Policy to ensure that any staff who do undertake work outside of their ordinary hours are fairly compensated through pay, or time in lieu for non-shift workers. 2.2 Implementation The existence of an EEO policy for any organisation is simply not enough, which is why we have undertaken training and development on EEO with managers and leaders within the business. Offering training ensures that managers understand our obligations as an employer and also ensures that business decisions are merit based, not influenced by gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status or religion. Our policies are reviewed regularly and in line with legislative changes to ensure our people are aware of any potential impact. Within Australia, Law In Order is governed by the Fair Work Ombudsman who stipulate the minimum employment entitlements that have to be provided to all employees. This information is provided to all new employees at the commencement of their employment. We uphold the National Employment Standards, and also ensure that employees who elect to work overtime are appropriately compensated in line with the Legal Services Modern Award. Our new employee documentation provides new starters with documentation produced by Fair Work Australia which states their right for collective bargaining. Our employment contracts outline each employee’s rights, compensation and also include job descriptions that outline the employee’s responsibilities. 7 UNGC | Communication on Progress We review the salaries of all employees who are employed under the Legal Services Modern Award to ensure that they are paid all of their entitlements. We also pay 5 per cent above the Award to ensure that our people are appropriately and fairly remunerated for the work that they do. Each year, Law In Order reports to the Australian Government as part of the Workplace Gender Equality Reporting. Metrics supplied in this report are used to help the Australian Government identify if salary gaps exist between men and woman in each industry. 2.3 Measurement of Outcomes It is our goal to ensure that our workplace is free from discrimination and that all our employees have equal opportunities with respect to remuneration, promotion and employment. All decisions relating to promotion employment and remuneration are purely merit based, and all employees are rewarded fairly and consistently. Law In Order strives to become an Employer of Choice and annual strategic objectives set targets to achieve this outcome. Law In Order also collects data through an annual Employee Engagement Survey, an anonymous survey provided to all staff for honest feedback on Law In Order. The results of this survey are shared with staff and new initiatives and policies implemented to address concerns or gaps in Law In Order’s offering to our employees. 8 UNGC | Communication on Progress 3. Environmental Principal 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principal 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principal 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Law In Order recognizes climate change and the significant challenges this brings. Law In Order is committed to reviewing internal policies and procedures to limit its negative impact on the environment. 3.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals At Law In Order, we are the leading supplier of document processing services to the legal industry, providing specialised copying, printing and legal technology solutions to over 2000 law firms, corporations and government agencies in Asia Pacific. The nature of our business requires substantial paper and electricity output, some of which heightens our requirement for environmentally conscious practice to reside at the forefront of all business decisions. Environmental care and sustainable development is an integral part of our corporate responsibility. Individually and as a company, we are responsible for our environmental impact and Law In Order takes this responsibility seriously by ensuring it has environmental sustainability policies, procedures and education in place. Law In Order has a newly established Corporate Social Responsibility Committee who are responsible for seeking new ways to ensure a sustainable future. The CSR Committee Mission Statement includes specific reference to the Environment and strives to: -Identify, manage and overcome sustainability issues in the context of Law In Order’s business practices and supply chains within its’ control; -Encourage and enable staff to make environmentally friendly changes to their lives whilst at work; The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee meet on a monthly basis and are building a focus on implementing initiatives which improve our environmental footprint. The CSR Committee review internal and external issues and identity, evaluate, manage and report on risks or new initiatives that the company should consider and/or undertake. Part of this is a renewal of our Sustainable Green Print Certification, which we strive to have in place in early 2019. 3.2 Implementation Law In Order is committed to reducing our environmental footprint by undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Our company travel policy requires that all air travel is booked with ‘carbon offset’ to help minimise the effects of carbon emissions on the environment. We also encourage colleagues to share cabs and take public transportation when possible. 9 UNGC | Communication on Progress All Law In Order boxes have include the appropriate recycling icons to ensure that they are recycled appropriately. Although we do not have genuine shut down times on our sites, we do have in place a Shut Down procedure to ensure that all staff power down their machines when they leave the office. To support this initiative, we have also updated our procedures for weekend shut down if the office is not attended. This ensures that all non-essential equipment is shut down, reducing energy consumption. Recycling bins have been implemented in all offices in line with each buildings recycling system. Staff have been educated on what can be recycled in each office. We have researched and created a list of environmentally safe and sustainable products for internal cleaning use in each site. We now use a document destruction company that recycles all shredded material. Our e-wastes are disposed of by certified e-waste companies who only use accredited electronic waste recyclers, governed by ISO140001 standards – the international regulation for the safe disposal of electronic waste. We have now switched to rechargeable batteries in all offices to eliminate wastage. 3.3 Measurement of Outcomes We record all paper output on invoices which are sent to our clients. This, along with counts on the machines allows us to monitor our paper output and measure waste against actual output. We are also working with our building managers to monitor waste and any misuse of the waste systems. This will enable us to educate staff on the correct procedures for waste management and recycling, as well as identify areas where we can reduce our waste. 10 UNGC | Communication on Progress 4. Anti-Corruption Principal 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Law In Order renews its commitment to a zero tolerance policy against corruption, bribery and extortion in relation to both internal and external stakeholders and suppliers. 4.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals At Law In Order, we are careful to ensure that our suppliers are aware that we will not tolerate any form of corruption and will not associate with, or give custom to any supplier that we deem as engaging in dishonest conduct. We believe shared core values are at the heart of strong company culture and vital to success. Law In Order prides itself on a reputation of innovation and versatility whilst maintaining its core values of Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork and Leadership. To us, integrity means being up front and honest with our clients and each other. This is also re-enforced through our code of conduct which is signed by all employees. The Code of Conduct requires staff to agree to a standard of behaviour which governs fair and ethical business practices, as well as report any abuses or instances of non-adherence to this standard. 4.2 Implementation Law In Order anti-corruption policy which is published on our intranet. This is easily accessible for all staff to ensure that they are familiar with our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. A Whistleblower Policy has been put in place to encourage staff to identify and notify any dishonest, fraudulent, corrupt, unethical or illegal behavior. The policy also sets out the procedure to notify of any of this reportable conduct, the process for investigation, the protections offered to the Whistleblower and the consequences of non-adherence to the policy. All employees must demonstrate our core value of integrity. All Law In Order employees act with integrity and in line with our policies and procedures and conduct business in an ethical manner. This is addressed through induction procedures and through annual employee reviews. Directors and General Managers encourage transparency with all issues within the business. Law In Order regularly obtain business through open tender. As part of this process we are required to declare that we have not engaged in any acts of bribery, extortion or corruption in order to win or secure business. All emails sent externally are stored and indexed for compliance purposes. 4.3 Measurement of Outcomes Law In Order has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Every year, our financial statements are audited by an external body to ensure that our processes are compliant with relevant legislation and that we have appropriate authorisation and sign off procedures in place. 11 UNGC | Communication on Progress These audits also serve as an external method of verifying that no suspicious payments have been received which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. There have been no incidents reported in this period 12 Title | Sub Title 13
