Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2O17/2O18 It is with great enthusiasm that we invite you to our journey towards more responsibility. This first comprehensive CSR report showcases our efforts to transform the way we approach business and how we strive to translate our vision into more value for clients. We thank everyone involved in this never-ending story. We are glad Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2O17/2O18 to share it with you today. FOR FOR FOR FOR PAGE 4 EDITORIAL PAGE 5 WHO WE ARE PAGE 6 CLIENTS PEOPLE THE PLANET SOCIETY GROUP PROFILE PAGE 1O PAGE 14 PAGE 18 PAGE 22 PAGE 27 PAGE 8 Fostering long-lasting relationships with our Translating our corporate Deploying better practices to play Setting high operational standards GLOBAL customers to create high-quality and more values for the benefit of our part in addressing the challenge and supporting local solidarity CSR APPROACH responsible solutions. people, every day. of climate change. initiatives. COMPACT 2 3 EDITORIAL RESPONSIBILITY A t DIAM, we create, develop, produce and install an extensive range of merchandising and packaging solutions to enhance the visibility of consumer products in-store. From concept creation and merchandising consulting, engineering, production, delivery, through to point-of-sale maintenance and product recycling, we do our utmost 2018 marks 45 years of the enduring bond to provide our clients with the best possible solutions. of trust between DIAM and the world’s most prestigious brands. Such a strong foundation only encourages us to serve their ever-evolving needs better. OUR MISSION It also means we must stay humble, being a part of Providing merchandising solutions of the highest a bigger picture in which excellence or growth can quality to meet the demanding standards of the never be taken for granted. DIAM has enjoyed strong brands we work with, no matter where they are growth over the last few years, becoming a full-serMICHEL VAISSAIRE in the world, while maintaining a resolute focus vice provider for the Point-of-Sale market, all around CEO on CSR. the world. The credit of this success belongs to our entrepreneurial teams and their focus on satisfying each of our clients. We believe that growing companies have a responsibility to give something back to society and to improve their footprint, as well as responsibility towards the environment and our stakeholders of which the foremost are our employees and temporary workers. SNAPSHOT OF STAFF OUR ACTIVITY INVITATION IN 2017 2 775 FROM THE CSR TEAM 44 % of women 56 % of men 28 % temporary staff BUSINESS SOCIAL INCLUSION Our world and business environments are changing 319 Group turnover: DAVID BAGLEY MATHIEU PARFAIT 319 m € of which fast. Consumers expect more transparency and purExCom CSR sponsor CSR Director more than 40% 2O3 pose from the products they select and more resoutside Europe GOVERNANCE ponsibility from the companies which produce and 112 distribute them. 28 People benefiting from our It is a positive trend. social inclusion programme: INTERNATIONAL 203 FTE At DIAM, we want to act within our sphere of in112 people involved 28 sites in fluence on two issues that we have identified as in our employee shareholding policy 23 countries key to us and our stakeholders: encouraging social inclusion through employment and developing ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY more circular and efficient Point-of-Sale (POS) business models. We committed to the UN Global Compact Programme in 2012; and we intend to set in motion a similar leadership role in the POS market with regard to sustainability to the one we enjoy in business terms. We 733 733 teq. CO2 saved 17O Carbon footprint – 170 kteq. CO2 have therefore decided to go further by publishing this CSR Report. 3O EDITORIAL WHO WE ARE This report is an invitation. The greatest part of our environmental impact is linked to product use and to their disposal once their 30 % of our electricity consumption comes from 8.5 161.5 mission is complete. Improving the sustainability of renewable energy Direct (Scope 1+2): Indirect (Scope 3): (77% in France) 8.5 kteq. CO2 161.5 kteq. CO2 the POS industry will only be achieved by coming together with brands and retailers. 4 5 FULL SERVICE, EVERYWHERE A COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE OFFER ON EVERY STEP OF THE VALUE CHAIN At DIAM we are experts in POS displays, packaging and shop fitting. We intervene on every step of the value chain from project management to the product end of life. DIAM supports its clients growth through local presence and global expertise. PROJECT MANAGEMENT Merchandising consulting Creative design Global project management Design engineering prototyping TECHNICAL DESIGN PRODUCTION Creative design Prototyping Manufacturing engineering Production Assembly FULL SERVICE, EVERYWHERE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE & RECYCLING SERVICES Logistics Installation Audit years of trust from Maintenance and updates the most demanding Data consumer analytics brands in the luxury Recycling and cosmetics fields 6 7 SUSTAINABILITY, CSR GOVERNANCE INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS A CORNERSTONE OF EXCELLENCE At DIAM, in each Business Unit there is a manager in charge of CSR, supported by a dedicated central CSR team of 2.5 FTE including the Group CSR Director, who in turn reports to AND COMPREHENSIVE the Group CEO. There are also two sponsors on the Executive EVALUATIONS I Committee: one for HR issues and the other for the circular nitiated in 2009, our sustainable development programme has flourished to become a fundamental part of our economy and social policy. In addition to policy definition and identity. Today, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is at the core of DIAM’s strategy. Why is this a game-changer? implementation, the CSR team is in charge of the internal audit Because it enables us to strengthen our position as a trusted partner of the brands and companies we serve, by programme: every DIAM entity is audited every 18 months on contributing to their own sustainability programmes. And even more importantly, because it is through embedding environmental, Health and Safety, and social aspects according SNAPSHOT OF OUR sustainability action into our strategy and thought-process that we can have the greatest impact. to an audit grid inspired by SA 8000, ISO 45001 and ISO 14001. EXTRA-FINANCIAL RATINGS A CSR steering committee chaired by the Group CEO meets twice a year to review progress, actions and ambition. CDP (EX CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT) MATERIALITY: IDENTIFYING OUR PRIORITIES Supply Chain rating: B(management) ENGAGING DIALOGUE (grades between A and D-) Sectorial grade: C. WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS CDP is an organisation which aims to make We have conducted a materiality diagnosis to ensure that our CSR strategy is relevant to the 20 challenges environmental reporting and risk management a business norm and drive disclosure, insight, and action identified by EcoVadis as applicable to the POS market. Throughout this report, we showcase the actions driven towards a sustainable economy. by DIAM in relation to these subjects. We have a decentralised and pragmatic approach to exchanECOVADIS ging with our stakeholders. Successfully improving the sustaiGrade: 60/100 in 2018 MATERIALITY nability of the POS market requires aligning ourselves with (Top 7% of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis). MATRIX Sectorial grade: 42,4 brands and retailers to build together stronger and more EcoVadis Sustainability ratings and scorecards help holistic CSR strategies. procurement teams monitor CSR practices in supply chains, across 150 sectors and 110 countries. STAKEHOLDERS ARDIAN / INDEFI MAPPING ESG Grade: 81/100. (Panel of companies with similar activities, average score of 55/100) Ardian is our principal shareholder. It requires an annual audit of our business conducted by the independent. organisation Indefi. AVIVA Extra-financial evaluation from Aviva Bank: 60/100 (best performer scored 67/100) SNAPSHOT OF OUR CERTIFICATIONS CSR APPROACH & STAKEHOLDERS ECO-POPAI (1st in France) Recognised label for the eco-design of POS displays SA 8000 (in Tunisia) It is an auditable certification standard that encourages organisations to develop, maintain and apply socially acceptable practices in the workplace. Our site in Tunisia is certified. Our internal audit practice uses this referential in internal audits throughout the Group. ISO 9001 HOW IS IT DONE? Most of our sites in France We have rated each item according to the feedback from stakeholders collected over the last few years and by our internal This standard defines requirements for setting up evaluation procedures. a quality management system for organisations wishing to improve customer satisfaction and Groups emerge: consistently provide compliant products and services. • Licence to operate it is a compliance necessity for any POS supplier to master those items. Global Compact Principles • Differentiate it is at the heart of our CSR approach. This group highlights opportunities for DIAM to differentiate vs. We also commit to the Global Compact competition as we aim to commit to specific solutions that generate added-value. 10 Principles since 2009. 8 9 A cornerstone of our sustainable growth lies in our ability to develop and nurture long-lasting relationships with our customers. Building trust implies going beyond the traditional client/supplier model. It implies sharing the same high expectations regarding quality. It is also about being proactive and agile, on a global scale. When needed, we positively challenge the briefs we receive to truly offer solutions that meet our clients’ expectations and that contribute to our mutual CSR ambitions. SUPPORTING the development BEST PRACTICE FENTY of responsible players A success story from concept to launch We take pride in working with customers with values we share. This is the case of Orveda, a new-generation responsible luxury brand. To provide Orveda’s products with excellent visibility in-store and to boost brand awareness, we shared our in-depth experience of store and visual merchandising design. The result is a compelling and relevant in-store marketing concept which we believe strengthens the brand’s introduction to the market. FULL VIEW OF our expertise for ORVEDA: KEY We have been selected to FIGURES support the simultaneous Retail consulting > Merchandising consulting/analytics that speak worldwide launch of the > > > Retail concept creation Store and display design louder than new makeup brand line words: Planogram services and systems > Engineering > Technifor Rihanna Fenty. DIAM cal design > Prototyping > Manufacturing > Installation is probably the only global > > 16 Digital solutions Maintenance and retail operations merchandising company capable of successfully taking on this challenge. BEST LANCÔME BARS PRACTICE Simultaneous We have managed the Less is more launch in design, engineering and 16 countries installation of all the merchandising solutions in to12 Less than tal coherence with brand expectations. 12 months from brief to delivery 1,6OO IN MOTION FOR For the second time, we have been chosen by Lancôme to develop and manufacture the new geApproximately CLIENTS neration of Lancôme Bars. In-depth cooperation has 1,600 points of enabled the creation of a modular, more straightsale Credit: DIAM for FLORMAR forward, more efficient and fast-to-market solution 3 while decreasing the environmental impact by 27% compared to the previous generation. As a result, Lancôme teams have more than doubled the initial order. Once again, cutting-edge luxury production DIAM teams from China in collaboration with our French teams from 3 continents is the beating heart of this successful project. involved 10 11 CELEBRATING DELIVERING extraordinary our innovation culture atmospheres, anywhere From design to the installation of our solutions, inThe bespoke know-how of Prugent DIAM in store novation is vital not only to meet the expectations design and store fitting enables us to build extraorof our clients but also to raise them. Digital innovadinary flagship and store atmospheres. With three tion plays an increasing role in the retail market. At specialised sites in Mexico, France and China, DIAM the DIAM Group, we strive to develop this expertise is uniquely qualified to meet the most demanding through two functional brands: luxury retail expectations, anywhere in the world. Specialised in the development of in-store innovative digital solutions, Conex has already developed various cutting-edge digital display solutions that bring new animation and campaign update possibilities, with impressive traffic results. Introducing a new generation of planogramming and merchandising tools. Rem3rch has developed a platform that saves brands, distributors and POS suppliers’ teams hours of effort and repetitive tasks while opening up new possibilities to merchandisers and marketers. BEST PRACTICE DIAM CONNECTED to the future game-changers To foster this innovation culture, we participate in innovation ecosystems. Our goal is to support talented inventors and entrepreneurs and develop new offerings with them. For the 4th year running, we are members of the Open Innovation Club of the city of Paris. In 2017, we launched a partnership with Kinese; a brand-new company specialised in retail decision-making using 1:1 scale virtual reality. By showcasing their solution in our showroom, we enable Kinese’s team to pitch to potential customers while reinforcing our innovative positioning. The Musée de la Monnaie in Paris underwent a complete renovation which required 6 years of work. Selected on public tender, Prugent DIAM Europe has set up a team entirely dedicated FOR CLIENTS to this project. The company produ­ ced the layout of the shop (350 m2), all the furniture and also intervened in the architecture of the premises. This design required close collaboration between the Prugent DIAM Europe teams and the Musée de la Monnaie. 12 13 “I n motion for people” is mostly about our responsibility and our values as an employer. DIAM is a community of entrepreneurs. We want them to benefit from professional development for their own good and that of the company. Also, as we recognize that some people are less privileged than others, we strive to give them the little extra attention that may enable them to get back to a “normal” job. DIAM fully embraces its responsibility as an employer in rejecting child labour, providing safe working conditions, maintaining a healthy social dialog, and offering employees rewarding careers free from discrimination of any kind. HEALTH AND SAFETY, our commitment DIAM is fully committed to the physical and psychological integrity of all its employees, wherever they operate. As a Group, we are continually worSAFETY DAY: PROMOTING H&S king to create a robust Health and Safety culture, notably by raising awareness on risks and best Creating a stronger H&S culture on an practices in the workplace. To achieve this, we international level can be a challenge. In believe that empowerment and practical action addition to management empowering and are our main success factors. Over the last few internal audit reviews, DIAM has taken it on years, our H&S results have improved, but we aim by promoting an annual Safety Day across to raise our game in safety to a new level by 2020. all its sites, all over the world. During one full day, training sessions, workshops and quizzes are organised to raise awareness BEST PREVENTING toxic risk on health and safety risks and procedures: PRACTICE a great -and often funway to talk about a very serious subject. The Safety Day is also Our procurement department has developed and is about sharing best practices and fostering rolling out a comprehensive methodology to prevent better collaboration which are strong toxic substances risk in line with DIAM’s commitment platforms for progress and risk prevention. to purchasing more responsible products. A proprietary online tool enables a better identification of potentially risky products as early as the purchasing step, triggering action for replacement. FREQUENCY RATE SEVERITY RATE IN MOTION FOR O.33 15.32 11.99 11.37 O.23 1O.91 O.2O PEOPLE O.17 7 O.15 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Work accident frequency rate Work accident frequency rate Number of lost time injuries by million hours worked Number of lost day by thousand hours worked Sector average: 27 Sector average: 1 14 15 FOSTERING talents SOCIAL inclusion Talent management is crucial for a company that Our first responsibility is towards our employees. relies on the empowerment of its talents in the Securing their jobs and providing fair conditions fields of engineering and innovation. This is the and a healthy workplace are basics, but they still foundation on which we have built the ambitious have to be fought for every day. Moreover, we aim training goals which we have implemented at Buto go beyond mere legal «compliance» and believe siness Unit and site levels to better respond to we can -and shouldtransform our responsibilities the operational needs of people and business. towards our employees into opportunities to grow Individual annual appraisals, performed since our teams while giving less favoured people that 2013 for all management positions, are another extra little help that may enable them to start or tool that enables us to support the professional restart a regular career. development of managers while improving our capacity to adapt our organisation and service offer Many initiatives, driven by the enthusiasm of our local to our clients’ needs. teams, have emerged in almost every DIAM plant throughout the world, from Brazil to Poland and China. ENCOURAGING  in-house mobility Mobility is a reliable talent accelerator. Our SOLIDARITY current growth implies the creation of new BY DIAM positions. Naturally, we recruit new external 2O3 talents, but we strongly favour DIAM talents to move to new challenges. This vision is part 167 of our HR programme International Thinking. 152 “ I joined DIAM in 2010. I was one of the first team 2 QUESTIONS TO… 2 QUESTIONS TO… members of DIAM Turkey. At the time, there was no management level. I had Raphaèle Briand 83 Steve Ison-Jacques the challenging task of HR Group Director 48 Factory Manager in DIAM UK being a Project Manager and a Design Engineer at the same time. Our teams MERT GUNDOGDU How does a strong HR strategy What makes the DIAM recycling offer in Turkey grew in size, and I contribute to the Group’s CSR so special for the Group and for your started to work for DIAM UK Head of Design ambitions? clients? projects. I was then offered Development 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 in DIAM UK They are naturally intertwined: our company is maOur holistic approach is a great game-changer rethe opportunity to work for naged and owned by entrepreneurs. It is their comgarding our relationship with our customers. Today, DIAM, in the UK. I decided pany, their business. We are in a demanding and we not only design, manufacture and install; we also to take my chance. And I further developed there. rapidly evolving market which puts a lot of pressure take care of bringing back, dismantling, reusing and It is great. I really believe on client satisfaction. Our attention to employees’ recycling our solutions. Many clients have visited that DIAM rewards talent.” well-being and development are equally good pracIN 2O17 our facilities and have been impressed with our ap2O3 tice for CSR, HR, and business. In our workshops, the proach. Expectations are pushed for the good of our considerable variability of business levels obliges us business partnerships and we are proud to see this to hire temporary workers, but at the same time, this service become a standard. is an opportunity to go the extra mile to give less “Mobility favoured people a chance of a real job. How does your corporate commitment is a strong 203 full-time-equivato social inclusion benefit the talent What are your priorities regarding lent jobs have been company? training? accelerator.” done through “social inclusion”, either within Responsibility helps create a strong in-house corWe aim at two days of training per person per year. porate culture. We feel everyone is on board: manaDIAM or by sub-contracIt is ambitious. It reflects our belief that people are gers, partners and employees alike. Last year, we ting. This number has the center of our capability as a company. Better have organised Taster Days (an opportunity for more grown faster (+27% vs. trained people mean less health and safety risks vulnerable trainees to see what we do and to join 2016) than our business. and accidents, better eco-designed products, more in). We truly witnessed great enthusiasm from our FOR PEOPLE It is a great pride for all flexibility in responding to client demands. And, more teams helping the trainees feel part of something the teams, and we will importantly, maybe, it nurtures entrepreneurship, keep aiming at more positive. Removing barriers and recruiting more diself-confidence and employability, and provides new social opportunities in verse talents are strong drivers for progress. It is career opportunities within the Group. the years to come. absolutely vital. 16 17 D IAM is committed to play its part in addressing the environmental crisis. Through the analysis of the life-cycle environmental impact of 4 representative categories of displays, we have identified climate change and the depletion of mineral resources as the predominant ecological aspects in the POS business. In light of this, we see eco-design, post-shop collection, proper reuse and recycling of displays as priorities. Due to our growth, and improved reporting (scope covering 85 % in 2015 vs 98 % in 2017), we favour intensity metrics. REDUCING our energy consumption GHG EMISSIONS (t eq. C02) AND INTENSITY (gram eq. CO2/Euro) and our carbon footprint 8,531 7,959 We target a 5% decrease in energy intensity eve7,456 ry year. Between 2016 and 2017, our carbon intensity (scope 1&2 per euro of sales) has decreased by 29%; our electric intensity improved by 19% (from 89 to 42 38 72 Wh /euro sold) and our gas intensity improved 27 by 28% (from 32 to 23 Wh/euro sold). Switching to renewable electricity at four French plants saved 733 tonnes of CO2 eq. in 2017. Our goal back in 2015 was to reach over 20% of electricity from renewable 2015 2016 2017 sources by 2020, we are already at 30% in 2017 and aim to achieve 60% by 2020. CO2 INTENSITY We invest to convert to more energy-efficient machines. Several sites have switched to LED lighting with significant savings. WASTE GENERATED (ton) AND INTENSITY (gram/Euro) 14 3,615 REDUCING production waste 13 2,849 Specific objectives: today, our capacity to measure 2,346 our production waste ratio is variable. Our aim is, by 2020 and for every production site, to be able 11 to quantify the proportion of waste produced vs. total material input and to set clear improvement objectives. We are working on various levers to reduce production waste. Injection batch sequencing 2015 2016 2017 improvement, moulds optimisation, direct grinding WASTE INTENSITY and re-processing of waste are some examples. Significant results have also been achieved on plastic sheet offcuts through complex cutting design WATER CONSUMPTION (m3) AND INTENSITY (litre/kEuro) optimisation. 218 52,168 REDUCING water intensity 221 45,771 IN MOTION FOR We have relatively low exposure to water scarcity 39,1O4 issues. We target a 5% annual decrease in intensity. 163 THE PLANET We monitor consumption to address potential leaks. To save water, DIAM implements a range of different solutions. For instance, DIAM Yzeure performed a closed water circuit for its hydraulic presses. And D3 in the USA has reduced its office water consumption through close monitoring and education 2015 2016 2017 of employees. WATER INTENSITY 18 19 TOWARDS a more circular economy In 2017, we did an impact evaluation programme IMPLEMENTING RECYCLED AND ATTRACTIVE on four representative product lines. The stuAN ECO-DESIGN 100% Reprocessed ABS clip. dy confirmed that the greater part of the impact QUANTIFICATION TOOL 100% Reprocessed PMMA logo of our business occurs beyond our factory walls. To further ensure that 100% Reprocessed PS shelves Our analysis also highlighted that in-store elecdecisions are based on tric consumption can be just as impactful as raw 60% Recycled PMMA sound facts, in 2018 we are materials. It calls for eco-design and recycling. light bar extrusion rolling out a tool enabling us to Eco-design is not just about the design phase!. provide clients with a product’s 30% Recycled ABS uprights Additionally, we have launched a new service offer «environmental impact budget.» Reprocessed straw back panel in continental Europe, replicating our UK best We aim to propose a low-impact Recycled PS back panels practice, to collect products, reuse or alternative to client’s design dismantle them and send them briefs. We have trained DIAM to the appropriate recycling teams and are even educating channel. Our aim is for every clients in some instances. entity of the DIAM Group to propose a similar service offer to their customers around the world by 2020. 2 QUESTIONS TO… FIELDFLEX: COMBINING INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, Gerald Townsend AND RECYCLING Our presence on the entire vaEnvironnemental manager at SEPHORA lue chain from design to stores gives us a unique ability to PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT How does DIAM support your own contribute to transforming the sustainability ambition regarding POS POS industry from a linear to a merchandising? more circular one. Our subsidiary, Fieldflex, specialised in the Waste generated in our stores is one of the issues we installation of POS displays, has wish to tackle. It is challenging because we receive a lot of successfully developed an offer PRODUCTION merchandising items of furniture from the many brands that combines: in-store mainENERGY USAGE we distribute. It is fast-changing, prone to innovation and tenance, used product gathe30% massively heterogeneous. DIAM’s strength lies in its capacity ring, dismant­ling and recycling. OF RENEWABLE to anticipate the end-of-life of their solutions. This ecoThanks to these efforts, more design approach not only helps developing more sustainable than 2,000 units have been reproducts (that we can communicate to brands) but also gives cycled in the UK with less than us the means to imagine more responsible scenarios for the 1% of materials going to landfill end-of-life of these products. in 2017. What is your feedback regarding SEPHORA’s FOR THE PLANET experimentation of the FIELDFLEX solution? SCOPE 3 EVALUATION METHODOLOGY As part of an experiment, FIELDFLEX was responsible for • We estimate our 2017 Scope 3 at gathering used POS products in our stores in the Parisian 161.5 kteq. CO2. area. The furniture was optimised for rapid dismantling • There is a 10-15% uncertainty factor. enabling recycling. This experiment was a promising step and • Our estimate is based on emission factors from the carbon base applied to is currently being rolled out again this year, nationwide. purchased items. • The use phase considers four years of average usage. * Estimate % of full scope impact (scope 1+2+3). 20 21 AIMING TO GO BEYOND COMPLIANCE F ull compliance with internationally proclaimed human rights has become a license-to-operate in the purchaser/supplier relationship. We welcome this positive trend. We fully adhere to the UN Global Compact 10 principles. We implement tools and responsible practices to prevent any risk of abuse. And to go further, we are committed to giving back to society by supporting local solidarity initiatives. 23 COUNTRIES, 1 code of conduct RAISING STANDARDS regarding our suppliers DIAM’s commitment to fully comply with internaIt is natural that we share growing expectations tional labour standards is stated in our Code of with our suppliers. We expect them to adhere to and Conduct. SA 8000 is the standard upon which we comply with our suppliers’ code of conduct. Beyond base our social policy and social audits. For the simply complying, we encourage them to become countries where higher risks on these issues have trusted partners in the promotion of eco-design and been identified, we take specific action. For insto find innovative solutions to curb the environmentance, in China, we explicitly forbid staff to pay detal impact of their activity. posits to the company upon commencing employment; or to withhold wholly or partially any salary, bonus, property or document, of any employee. Deploying a robust We ensure that no employment fees or costs are RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING POLICY with EcoVadis borne in whole or in part by workers. To counter child labour, DIAM China verifies ID documents using apTo deploy our responsible purchasing policy, we propriate and reliable processes. have decided to work with the EcoVadis evaluation platform. We have performed a risk mapping of suppliers and are now requesting our most strategic REACH AND ECO-DESIGN: suppliers, starting in 2018 by those serving our European factories, to submit to this evaluation. We Furniture manufacturers in Europe complete this evaluation by on-site audits whenever are subject to the requirements of the necessary. REACH European regulations. We are committed to continually improving our REACH reporting capacity. To go further, INTEGRATING THE ENVIRONMENT into our choice of supplies we avoid using harmful chemicals and aim to eliminate potential carcinogenic The goal of our responsible purchasing policy is also (CMR) chemicals by 2020. DIAM is to integrate an environmental approach to the secontinuously innovating to develop new lection of products we purchase. For instance, we technical solutions that enable the use are committed to using only FSC® or PEFC® certified of alternative technologies such as paper and cardboard by 2020. We also increasingly water-based solvents, VOC-free glues, buy recycled raw materials for our production needs, and solvent-free adhesives. such as the recycled acrylic sheet material Madreperla Greencast®. IN MOTION FOR 22 SOCIETY 23 SOLIDARITY in action At DIAM, we support local initiatives which bring life to our vision of social inclusiveness DIAM JAPAN and showcase our willingness to give back COMMUNITY ACTIONS DIAM DISPLAY CHINA to society in many forms (charity and social COMMUNITY ACTIONS Our teams at DIAM Japan inclusion). Those are some examples of acare involved in a street DIAM Display China sponsors tions taken. cleaning project and other DIAM POLAND five young girls from Chinese minorities with the NGO initiatives to support their community. SOCIAL INCLUSION Couleurs de Chine to provide In 2017, DIAM Poland has signed an them access to school. agreement with a local prison to ‘resocialise‘ offenders through work. The employees also raised money for a polish NGO which helps children with special needs. DIAM “D3” USA COMMUNITY ACTIONS Supporting men’s and women’s health issues has become part of the D3’s annual calendar. Employees and temporary agency workers alike participated in 2017 in October’s Wear Pink Day and Movember. D3 also supports local universities and food pantries. DIAM MEXICO COMMUNITY ACTIONS After the September 19th earthquake, DIAM Mexico organised water, food, and emergency supplies distribution to several villages near the factory. A fundraiser was launched with a fantastic response from our DIAM colleagues around the globe. DIAM BRAZIL COMMUNITY ACTIONS DIAM DIAM Brazil has “YZEURE” FRANCE DIAM AUSTRALIA donated 459 SOCIAL INCLUSION SOCIAL INCLUSION books in 2017 to DIAM Yzeure has a longenhance a local standing partnership with a DIAM Australia is now public school’s social inclusion workshop for employing two people library. Other both production and postfrom White Lion, a national initiatives include consumer dismantling. DIAM non-profit organisation DIAM UK Prestige Europe is initiating which supports youngsters favouring hiring SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR SOCIETY from low-income a partnership with Singa breaking their cycle of areas. France, to foster and design disadvantage. DIAM UK works closely opportunities between newly with various specialised arrived people (including organisations to refugees) and the local support social community. integration. 24 25 GLOBAL COMPACT CORRESPONDANCE TABLET T his document highlights the communication report on DIAM group’s progress in 2017-2018. The fol­lowing transposition table refers to chapters that contain information on the implementation of the 10 Global Compact principles. THE 10 PRINCIPLES DIAM of the United Nations Global Compact group’s commitements PRINCIPLES RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1 EDITORIAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 4 businesses should support and respect the protection of WHO WE ARE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 5 internationally proclaimed human rights; and CSR APPROACH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 8 Principles 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. IN MOTION FOR SOCIETY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 23 PRINCIPLES RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL LABOUR STANDARDS Principles 3 businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; WHO WE ARE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 5 Principles 4 CSR APPROACH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 8 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; IN MOTION Principles 5 FOR PEOPLE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 15 the effective abolition of child labour; and… IN MOTION Principles 6 FOR SOCIETY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 22 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. GLOBAL PRINCIPLES RELATED TO THE ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 businesses should support a precautionary approach to EDITORIAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 4 environmental challenges; WHO WE ARE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 6 Principles 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; IN MOTION and… FOR CLIENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 10 COMPACT Principles 9 IN MOTION encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally FOR THE PLANET . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 18 friendly technologies. PRINCIPLES RELATED TO THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Principles 10 businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, IN MOTION including extortion and bribery. FOR SOCIETY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 22 26 27 40 rue Pierre Curie 78130 Les Mureaux FRANCE csr@diaminter.com Photo credits: DIAM Group Cover: le grand musée du parfum: Irène De Rosen Getty Images.
