MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. INTEGRATED REPORT FY 2016-17 MANUFACTURED NATURAL CAPITAL CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL INTELLECTUAL SOCIAL AND CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL EXECUTIVE MESSAGES Message from the Chairman Emeritus 01 Message from the Chairman 02 Message from the Managing Director 03 Message from the Chairman, Group Sustainability Council 05 Message from the Group CFO 07 HOW TO READ OUR REPORT Scope of the Report 08 Report Scope Limita ons 08 Contact Informa on 08 Independent Assurance Statement 09 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Mahindra Group 11 M&M Limited 11 Business Model & Vision 12 Highlights 15 Automo ve Division 17 Farm Division 19 Awards 20 HOW WE SUSTAIN VALUE Corporate Governance 21 Sustainability & Us 22 Materiality 23 Sustainability Roadmaps 2019 26 Risk Management 31 HOW WE DELIVERED VALUE Financial Capital 33 Manufactured Capital 39 Intellectual Capital 49 Human Capital 51 Natural Capital 60 Social & Rela onship Capital 72 HOW WE PLAN TO ENHANCE VALUE Strategy & Resource Alloca on 88 Opportuni es & Outlook 90 ANNEXURES How We Contribute To The SDGs 91 Performance Tables (Natural and Human Capital) 92 GRI G4 Content Index 98 Acronyms 101 Glossary 105 Forward Looking Statements: In this Integrated Report, we have disclosed forward looking informa on to enable stakeholders to comprehend our prospects. This report and other statements wri en and oral-that we periodically make, contain forward looking statements that set out an cipated results based on the management’s plans and assump ons. We have tried wherever possible to iden fy such statements by using words such as, ‘an cipate’, ‘es mate’, ‘expects’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, and words of similar substance in connec on with any discussion of future performance. We cannot guarantee that these forward looking statements will be realised, although we believe we have been prudent in assump ons. The achievement of results is subject to risks, uncertain es and even inaccurate assump ons. Should known or unknown risks or uncertain es materialize or should underlying assump ons prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those an cipated, es mated or projected. Reader should bear this in mind. We undertake no obliga on to publically update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new informa on, future events or otherwise. What does it take to make a business sustainable? For one you need to think beyond the today and sow the seeds of the future at a me when no one else is considering it. It requires you to think of op misa on of the resources that you u lise. It requires you to challenge the everyday and change the narra ve as one sees it. Right from the very beginning of the Mahindra Journey we have been taking up these challenges. From bringing the iconic Willy’s Jeep to India, to now oﬀering customers an en re range of electric vehicles, we have always dared to spark change in the world. When we create value in a product or service, we are very cognizant of the resources that go into creating it. The Integrated Report brings together six capitals; Financial, Manufacturing, Intellectual, Human, Natural, and Social & Relationship. We ensure that while we are consuming these resources, we also continuously replenish and rejuvenate them; a philosophy that the Mahindra Group has applied for many decades. By making every aspect of our business sustainable, we re-aﬃrm our commitment to a be er world. From our employees to the communi es which we are a part of, we want to conduct our business conscien ously and responsibly to address the issues of People, Planet and Proﬁt. At the heart of this philosophy is Rise for Good. It’s an ambi on and an a tude that drives our day-to-day func oning. We take these thoughts from our own legacy; a company made up of a history of passionate advocates, ambi ous entrepreneurs, relentless innovators and agents for posi ve change. It is their belief of building businesses sustainably and responsibly that weaves into the DNA of all aspects of Mahindra. It is the wings on which our businesses take ﬂight. It is why we can say with convic on. That in everything we do we MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN EMERITUS I am happy to note that Mahindra & Mahindra is launching its rst Integrated Report this year. I consider this as an important milestone in our continuous endeavour to be in communication with our stakeholders. As global markets become more interdependent on each other, corporate ci zenship and responsibility becomes that much more challenging. There is therefore a need for coordinated thinking followed by ac on in an integrated manner. Integrated approach to business prac ces lead to more focused ac vi es and be er accountability in economic performance embracing almost all disciplines which govern the conduct of our businesses, be it Financial, Manufacturing, Intellectual, Environment, Human, Natural and Social capital. In its a empt to present the First Integrated Report to you, we believe that this will lead to be er and more transparent communica on with all our stakeholders. I urge you to go through this First Report. Keshub Mahindra Chairman Emeritus, Mahindra Group 01 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN In today's world, all things are connected. Businesses have to operate in an interdependent landscape made up of dis nct yet related environmental, social, economic, technical, poli cal, and cultural systems. Global megatrends including changing demographic pa erns, economic power shi s, material scarcity, climate change, accelera ng rates of urbanisa on and exponen al technological changes are crea ng new risks and oﬀering fresh opportuni es. This impacts the poten al and ability of businesses to create value. We have so far been publishing a comprehensive sustainability report on the Group's performance on prime pillars such as people, planet, products and proﬁt. From this year onwards, we are publishing an integrated report, which will comprehensively communicate how Mahindra achieves long-term value crea on, within the challenging and complex contemporary world. This report not only pulls together informa on that sits in separate repor ng strands (e.g. Corporate Governance Statement, Opera ng and Financial Review, Financial Statements and Sustainability Repor ng) but also adds new strands such as Intellectual Capital, to comprehensively explain how Mahindra creates value and plans to con nue to deliver value in the future. For us sustainability is both an idealistic quest and a competitive advantage. We are clear that businesses today cannot pursue nancial growth that comes at a cost of environmental and social capital. For us, sustainability is not just good corporate citizenship it is the only viable long-term business strategy. So, while we are India's #1 UV maker, we also are the ﬁrst Indian company to announce its internal carbon price US$10 per ton of carbon emi ed. While we are the world's largest tractor brand by volume, we are also fast-tracking implementa on of our Farming 3.0 mission that envisages technology outreach for farmers at the base of agri-prosperity pyramid without a need for them to own the asset. Our eﬀorts have been recognised by Transparency Interna onal, which has ranked the Mahindra Group among the top three on business transparency, from among the top 100 fastest-growing companies in 15 emerging market countries. We have also chalked up awards for our Sustainability Framework and won the Innovator of The Year Award at Time India Awards 2017. We see these Green products are the deﬁning drivers as stepping stones towards our goal of being among the top 50 most admired of our por olio. In 2016-17, the Group brands in the world. generated $422 million revenue from This report shares comprehensive details on our performance across six capitals, its climate-friendly por olio. plus our goals, strategy, and future readiness. I hope you enjoy reading it. Anand G. Mahindra Chairman, Mahindra Group 02 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR The Mahindra Group is a collective of the prime movers, the early birds, the trend spotters, the positive disruptors, the knowledge anchors and the responsible rebels. It is due to this accept-no-limits attitude of Mahindrites that we Rise to overcome challenges, translate possibilities to realities and innovate to power the future. At Mahindra, we have a word for this approach. We call it Futurise At M&M Ltd, we remain commi ed to inves ng in technology, growing our global presence and maintaining our leadership posi on. We aim to provide accessible technology to our customers whether it is through providing safety features even for an entry level variant, or the fuel smart technology in Blazo. Our recently launched DiGiSENSE pla orm, creates a connected pla orm across our wide range of vehicles and tractors. In the tractor business, our products Yuvo and Arjun Novo con nuously strengthen our technology leadership. By leveraging our exper se in the automo ve and tractor ver cals, we created disrup ve business models by incuba ng digital startups like TRRINGO and SmartShi . With TRRINGO, we provide accessible mechaniza on for our small and marginal farmers. With SmartShi , we provide a convenient pla orm for cargo mobility to small business owners and logis cs providers. Both start-ups have successfully completed their ﬁrst year of opera on and con nue to touch more lives and make a greater impact. This year has also seen a paradigm shi in strategic interven ons which will go a long way in crea ng shared value for our investors, customers and the community. 03 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Farming 3.0 Only when we sow seeds for an equitable future, can we reap prosperity for all. Our vision is to bring the best of the agri technologies and solu ons to the Indian farming community. Moving forward, we are focusing on catalysing the change in Indian farming prac ces, to take it to the next level, we call 'Farming 3.0'. This includes taking a more holis c perspec ve that combines Mobility Play knowhow and technology. In line with our credo of Rise, we aspire to Leveraging our past experiences, we aim to redeﬁne mobility in India by crea ng an enhance a comprehensive ecosystem with ecosystem around passenger and small oﬀerings across the farming value chain. It commercial vehicles. With an aspira on to comprises access to smart machinery, deliver clean and cost-eﬀec ve mobility precision farming prac ces, digital pla orms solu ons to our customers, we have and ecosystem connect, all dovetailed with strengthened our EV por olio to include the aim to elevate India's farming poten al personal as well as commercial vehicles. to the next level to increase rural prosperity. We con nue to push the boundaries of ingenuity and frugality to create a dis nct Globalisation 'Customer Value Proposi on' (CVP), while developing mobility solu ons for India and We constantly look for opportuni es to the overseas markets. For our U lity Vehicle expand our global footprint with strategic customers, our CVP is to enable lifestyle M&As and an enhanced R&D network. enhancing experiences through our SUVs Our strategy is to leverage our global and other non-product experiences which partnerships with, Mitsubishi Mahindra are convenient and connected. In the Agricultural Machinery Co. Ltd. (MMAM), commercial vehicle space, our products and Sampo Rosenlew, Finland and Hisarlar the aﬃliated ecosystem oﬀer our consumers Makina Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirke greater earning poten al, in line with our (Hisarlar) in Turkey, to develop global CVP of 'Taqdeer Badal De'. Centres of Excellence (CoE) towards Our desire to dream bigger than development and supply of farm our size has been synonymous machinery. We con nue to strengthen with our Rise philosophy and that our brand in the United States through is what drives us. Mahindra USA. In the auto space, we con nue to leverage our neural network of product development, with a design & development centre in USA, SsangYong in Korea and MRV in India. This integrated report, details not only our past performance, but also our future intent. It pieces together all the six capitals that a business needs for sustainable growth and provides a holis c perspec ve of our Rise journey. Regards, Dr. Pawan Goenka Managing Director, M&M Ltd. 04 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN, G R O U P S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y C O U N C I L This year was a year of introspec on, innova on and integra on. We upgraded the Mahindra Sustainability Framework and rear culated the end-goals of its three pillars people, planet, proﬁt, to reﬂect our shi from conserva on to rejuvena on. We granulated our roadmaps from division-level roadmaps to individual roadmaps for each material issue such as Employee and Community, Dealer Sustainability and Supplier Sustainability. This will help each func on to track progress on material issues and help us to drive a larger impact. To inform our stakeholders how IR sustainability is embedded into every aspect of our business, we have transitioned from the regular form of 'sustainability reporting' to the paradigm of 'integrated reporting'. This is a paradigm which brings out the interplay of business with the six types of capital employed by it Financial, Manufactured, Intellectual, Human, Natural and Social & Relationship. Through all these changes, what has remained constant is the focus on nurturing our rela onships with employees, communi es and nature. Natural Capital Be it a wire or a tyre, a car or a tractor, a two-wheeler or a four-walled room every product uses nature's raw materials which unfortunately are deple ng at a worrying pace. Mahindra has adopted a systemic 'give back more than we take' approach to nurture the environment and protect precious natural capital. In the repor ng year, water con nued to score big on our conserva on agenda. 37% of the total water consump on was recycled and reused by Auto Division. Climate change was another focus area and we commi ed to reduce our GHG emissions by 25% by 2019. A signiﬁcant contribu on towards this goal was made by our Farm Division by reducing their speciﬁc energy consump on by 8.7%. 05 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Social Capital The talent that we nurture in our business comes from communi es, who in turn grant us the societal license to operate. It is therefore our fundamental responsibility to enable the communi es to Rise. One of our many projects that Intellectual Capital drive posi ve change is the Vijay In a fast commodi sing world, Vidarbha project where Mahindra has knowledge is the sharpest compe ve partnered with Naandi Founda on to edge an organisa on can possess. At create a comprehensive agrarian Mahindra, we are making sustained solu on for farming families. investments in this area. Our R&D investment in FY2016-17 has gone up to 4.2% of revenue, and in the last 11 years we have registered a 20x growth in number of patents applied. Our IPR por olio now holds a total of 948 patents, and 202 Human Capital applica ons were ﬁled this year alone. People are the key drivers of organisa onal success. At Mahindra, we At Mahindra Research Valley, 3,500 The Nanhi Kali project has reward them by giving them increments, engineers create new products and posi vely impacted the lives incen ves, growth op ons, learning improve exis ng technology, which in pla orms and an empowering work turn drives growth and helps sustain of 130,000 underprivileged environment. product leadership. girls this year. The volunteer hours invested by our Business Today's employees went up by 4.5%. 'Best Companies to Work for Award' received by M&M in As we walk along the sustainability path, we would love to hear your thoughts on the Engineering & Automo ve our journey that was, the roadmaps that Sector in 2017 is testament to are and the milestones that should be. this commitment. Regards, To promote gender diversity in the workforce, the Group recently launched its Women Leaders Program (WLP) with the objec ve of developing women managers in the middle management cadre and crea ng a pipeline of female Ulhas N. Yargop leaders and change agents for the Chairman, Group Sustainability Council, Mahindra Group. Mahindra Group 06 MESSAGE FROM THE GROUP CFO Welcome to the ﬁrst Integrated Report being published by Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Transparency resides at the heart of our engagement approach. 10 years ago, we started our sustainability repor ng journey by publishing and making widely available, our annual performance on Environmental, Social and Governance parameters. In our bid to con nuously raise our repor ng standards, we enhanced the scope of our sustainability report, adopted new genera on repor ng frameworks, aligned disclosures with NVGs and SDGs and shi ed from a Group report to sustainability reports for individual companies. While we might be an early adopter of Integrated Reporting in India, for us at Mahindra it is but a natural progression in our journey to empower our stakeholders with detailed knowledge about the organisation, its holistic performance, its strategy and the preparedness for the future. This report captures how we create, sustain As a result, FY 2016-17 was a mixed bag for M&M. While the automo ve division and enhance value and quan ﬁes how much grew by just 2.5%, farm division grew by 23% during the year. In fact, the company value we delivered this year across ﬁnancial, achieved its highest ever market share of 42.7% in the tractor segment. In this manufactured, intellectual, human, natural background, what we achieved as the top line growth of 8% and bo om line growth and social & rela onship capitals. of 16% in FY2016-17 is really impressive. I am also happy to share that we have maintained very strict ﬁnancial discipline we are a zero net DE ra o company. With respect to our performance on Financial Capital, it is important to understand the Our strong ﬁnancial performance is complimented by a slew of business environment in FY 2016-17. The ﬁnancial year witnessed signiﬁcant disrup ons awards like 'Overall Best Company in India for Corporate Governance' on both global as well as domes c fronts. On and 'Best for Shareholders' Rights and Equitable Treatment in India' the interna onal front, Brexit and the US by Hong Kong's 'Asia Money' which is a testament to our focus on elec ons heralded a sea change, forebodingly all stakeholders. laden with uncertain es for the global and even the Indian economy. On the domes c For the past 70 years, we have consciously adhered to the highest standards of side, a cons tu onal amendment paved the governance and con nuously enhanced our accountability benchmarks to enable way for the long-awaited and transforma onal stakeholders to Rise. Goods and Services Tax (GST) while I urge all investors and stakeholders to read the report and write back to us on demone sa on of large denomina on what they would like to see more of in future integrated reports and what we currency notes entailed short-term costs in could do away with. This would help us add more value and make the reports even the form of economic disloca on. more useful to stakeholders. The tractor market witnessed tailwinds. The commitment of the Government of India to Regards, double farmers' income by 2022, normal monsoon, progressive policies on irriga on, an infrastructure and rural-focused budget, and our enhanced product por olio all these factors combined, had a posi ve impact on V.S. Parthasarathy tractor demand and sales. Group CFO & Group CIO 07 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 HOW TO READ OUR REPORT ABOUT THE REPORT Till date ﬁnancial value crea on has been by far the most dominant measure of an organisa on's performance. While ﬁnancial capital is necessary, it alone is not suﬃcient for an organisa on to generate value. For a cohesive view about an organisa on's performance and its ability to create value consistently, one needs to look at ﬁve other capitals along with ﬁnancial capitalmanufactured capital, intellectual capital, human capital, social and rela onship capital, and natural capital. Cognizant of these shi s, we have decided to publish an Integrated Report. As a mature sustainability reporter, we have retained all the disclosures of a sustainability report and added-on FINANCIAL Mission & Vision FINANCIAL disclosures prescribed in the Governance integrated report framework like MANUFACTURED MANUFACTURED intellectual capital, manufactured Risks & Strategy and Opportuni es resource alloca on capital, strategy, etc. INTELLECTUAL INTELLECTUAL The objec ve of this report is to BUSINESS MODEL provide greater transparency, be er Inputs Business Outputs Ac vi es Outcomes disclosures and most important of all, elucidate the inter-relatedness between the six capitals and thereby provide you a more complete picture HUMAN Performance Outlook HUMAN of our past performance and future sustainability. SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP NATURAL NATURAL EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT VALUE CREATION (PRESERVATION, DIMINUTION) OVER TIME SCOPE OF THE REPORT R E P O R T S C O P E L I M I TAT I O N S The repor ng period of M&M Ltd for this Integrated Report is 1st April This Report is India-centric and excludes 2016 to 31st March 2017. It provides an overview of the opera ons Interna onal opera ons and business development ac vi es of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. While we have adopted the Interna onal Integrated Repor ng Businesses which were acquired or Council's Framework for this report, GRI G4 core guidelines con nue commenced opera ons in FY 2016-17 to guide us in communica ng our sustainability performance. This Integrated Report is aligned with the nine principles of Ministry of Companies/plants/loca ons of manufacturing sectors Corporate Aﬀairs' Na onal Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) on social, environmental and economic responsibili es of business. Mahindra Trucks and Buses Ltd. (MTBL) Ssangyong Motor Company Ltd. THE REPORT INCLUDES Swaraj Engine Ltd. Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Ltd. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Automo ve Division (AD) Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Farm Division (FD) Mahindra (China) Tractor Co. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Swaraj Division (SD) Mahindra USA INC Spares Business Unit (SBU) Mahindra Yueda (YANCHENG) Tractor Co. Mahindra Research Valley (MRV) Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited (MVML)* Corporate Centre Mahindra Towers-Worli (CC) * only for Financial Capital Sec on Your valuable feedback and sugges ons are solicited to Loca on of the organisa on's headquarters sharpen our eﬀorts and reports. Please spare a few minutes to share your insights. Please email your sugges ons / MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED views / opinions to: sustainability@mahindra.com Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai 400 001 08 I N D E P E N D E N T A S S U R A N C E S TAT E M E N T Scope and approach Basis of our opinion Mahindra & Mahindra Limited ('M&M' or 'the Company') A mul -disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited ('DNV performed assurance at the Corporate oﬃce and selected sites of GL') to undertake independent assurance of sustainability disclosures in Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. We undertook the following ac vi es: the Company's Integrated Report 2016-17 in its printed format (the • Review of the non-ﬁnancial sustainability disclosures disclosed in 'Report'). Our responsibility in performing this work is regarding this Report; veriﬁca on of sustainability performance disclosed in the Report, and in accordance with the agreed scope of work with the management of the • Review of approach to Materiality determina on and Stakeholder Company. The intended users of this assurance statement are the engagement and its outputs, although we had no direct management of the Company. Our assurance engagement was planned engagement with stakeholders; and carried out during December '2016 to July '2017. • Review of informa on provided to us by the Company on its Our scope of work was the veriﬁca on of the qualita ve and repor ng and management processes related to the <IR> quan ta ve informa on on sustainability performance disclosed in the Framework and Global Repor ng Ini a ve's Sustainability Report covering Economic, Environmental and Social performance of Repor ng Guidelines (GRI G4); the ac vi es undertaken by the Company over the Repor ng period 1st • Interviews with selected members of leadership team, and senior April'2016 to 31st March'2017. managers responsible for management of sustainability issues and We performed our work using DNV GL's assurance methodology review of selected evidence to support issues discussed. We were VeriSustain T M , which is based on our professional experience, free to choose interviewees and interviewed those with overall interna onal assurance best prac ce including Interna onal Standard responsibility for the programmes to deliver the targets for medium on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised*, along with GRI G4 and long term Vision, Mission and milestones; Sustainability Repor ng Guidelines. • Site visits were conducted in Mahindra & Mahindra Limited's We understand that the reported ﬁnancial data and related informa on Corporate Oﬃce at Mumbai, Automo ve Division sites at Kandivali are based on disclosures from Mahindra & Mahindra Annual Report for & Haridwar, Farm Division sites at Kandivali and Jaipur, and Swaraj year ending 31st March' 2017, which are subject to a separate Division Plants 1 & 2 at Mohali to review the processes and systems independent statutory audit process. We did not review ﬁnancial for aggrega on of site level sustainability data and implementa on disclosures and data in the Integrated Report and Annual Report 2016of management approach. The sites we visited were selected based 17 as it was not within the scope of our work. on iden ﬁed material aspects as well as geographical and divisional spread; We planned and performed our work to obtain the evidence we considered necessary to provide a basis for our assurance opinion • Review of suppor ng evidence for key claims and data disclosed in related to non-ﬁnancial sustainability disclosures in this Report. We are the Report. Our veriﬁca on processes were priori sed based on our providing a 'limited level' of assurance and no external stakeholders risk based approach i.e. relevance of iden ﬁed material aspect and were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. sustainability context of the business; • Review of the processes for gathering and consolida ng the Responsibili es of the Management of Mahindra & performance data and, for a sample, checking the data Mahindra Limited and of the Assurance Providers consolida on at site and corporate level. The Senior Management team of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited have The repor ng aspect boundary is based on the internal and external sole responsibility for the prepara on of the Report and are responsible materiality assessment covering the opera ons of companies in India for all informa on provided in the Report as well as the processes for region i.e. the legal en es of the Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. collec ng, analysing and repor ng the informa on presented in the Automo ve Division (AD), Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Farm Division Report. M&M has stated in this Report that this report based on the (FD), Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Swaraj Division (SD), Spares Business Interna onal Integrated Repor ng Council (IIRC's) Integrated Repor ng Unit (SBU), Mahindra Research Valley (MRV) and Corporate Centre<IR> framework and has adopted performance indicators for Mahindra Towers-Worli. disclosures related to iden ﬁed material aspects from Global Repor ng During the assurance process, we did not come across limita ons to the Ini a ve's Sustainability Repor ng Guidelines (GRI G4). scope of the agreed assurance engagement; however, the Report In performing our assurance work, our responsibility is to the excludes sustainability performance of Interna onal opera ons of management of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited; however, our statement Automo ve business and businesses which were acquired or represents our independent opinion and is intended to inform outcome commenced opera ons in FY2016-17 as set out in the Report. of our assurance to the stakeholders of the Company. DNV GL provides a range of other services to Mahindra & Mahindra Opinion Limited, none of which cons tute a conﬂict of Interest with this On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our a en on to assurance work. This is the 1st year that we are providing assurance of suggest that the Report does not properly describe the sustainability the sustainability disclosures in this Report. performance of iden ﬁed material aspects as below: DNV GL's assurance engagements are based on the assump on that the Economic data and informa on provided by the Company to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. DNV GL was not involved in the • Economic Performance G4-EC1; prepara on of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or Environmental co-responsibility for any decision a person or an en ty may make based • Energy G4-EN3, EN4 & EN6; on this Assurance Statement. • Water G4EN8, EN9 & EN10; • EmissionsG4-EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18; 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on dnvgl.com. • Eﬄuents and Waste G4EN22, EN23, EN24, EN25 & EN26; * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Informa on. 09 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Social inaccuracies iden ﬁed during the veriﬁca on process were found to be Labour Prac ces and Decent Work a ributable to transcrip on, interpreta on and aggrega on errors and • Occupa onal Health & Safety G4-LA5, LA6, LA7 & LA8; the errors have been communicated for correc on. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is 'Good'. Society • Local communi esG4-SO1, SO2; Completeness How much of all the informa on that has been iden ﬁed as material to Product Responsibility the organiza on and its stakeholders is reported. • Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1, PR2; The Report has fairly a empted to disclose the sustainability disclosures for key material aspects including the disclosure on management approach and performance indicators within the iden ﬁed repor ng Observa ons boundary i.e. Automo ve and Farm equipment sector, and excludes other en es such as joint ventures and subsidiaries which are part of its Without aﬀec ng our assurance opinion, we also provide the following consolidated ﬁnancial statement as these en es are disclosing their observa ons. We have evaluated the Report's adherence to the sustainability performance through a separate report. In our opinion, following principles on a scale of 'Good', 'Acceptable' and 'Needs the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is 'Good'. Improvement': Neutrality Stakeholder Inclusiveness The extent to which a report provides a balanced account of an The par cipa on of stakeholders in developing and achieving an organiza on's performance, delivered in a neutral tone. accountable and strategic response to Sustainability. The disclosures related to sustainability issues and performances are The stakeholder engagement process is fairly established to iden fy reported generally in a neutral tone, in terms of content and sustainability challenges and concerns of diverse stakeholder groups presenta on, however the Report could further bring out responses considering the M&M's opera ons of Automo ve and Farm Equipment related to the challenges faced during the repor ng period at various sector, however the Report does not explicitly bring about stakeholder geographical loca ons. In our opinion, the level at which the Report concerns for key stakeholders as per GRI G4 disclosure requirements. In adheres to this principle is 'Acceptable'. our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is 'Acceptable'. For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited. Materiality The process of determining the issues that are most relevant to an organiza on and its stakeholders. Mahindra & Mahindra has applied the materiality principles of GRI G4 to arrive at key material aspects for Automo ve and Farm Equipment sector of the Company. The materiality determina on process was Ramesh Rajamani Vadakepa h Nandkumar revalidated based on inputs from key stakeholders and senior Lead Veriﬁer, Assurance Reviewer, management of Company. In our opinion Report has not missed out key Project Manager Regional Manager material issues related to its Automo ve and Farm equipment sector Sustainability Services, Sustainability & Supply DNV GL Business Assurance Chain Opera ons opera ons in India. The management of the Company has established India Private Limited. Region India & Middle East, internal assessment process for monitoring and management of DNV GL Business Assurance iden ﬁed material aspects on a con nual basis for their long term India Private Limited. organiza onal sustainability. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is 'Good'. Bengaluru, India, st July Responsiveness The extent to which an organiza on responds to stakeholder issues. The Report has brought out responses to the iden ﬁed material aspects and fairly disclosed the strategies and management approach and challenges considering the overall sustainability context of the Automobiles and Farm Equipment sector, within the iden ﬁed aspect boundary. The Report could bring out the long and medium term targets related to iden ﬁed material aspects. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is 'Acceptable'. Reliability The accuracy and comparability of informa on presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data management systems. The majority of data and informa on veriﬁed at the Corporate Oﬃce in Mumbai, and sampled sites at Kandivali, Jaipur, Swaraj Plants 1 & 2 at Mohali, in India were found to be iden ﬁable and traceable to the source and nothing came to our a en on to suggest that reported data have not been properly collated and consolidated at corporate level, nor DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited is part of DNV GL Business Assurance, a global provider that the assump ons used were inappropriate. Some of the data of cer ﬁca on, veriﬁca on, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com 10 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES H O W W E C R E AT E V A L U E MAHINDRA GROUP The Mahindra Group is a USD 19 billion federa on of companies that CORE PURPOSE has dynamically evolved its business model to leverage the emerging opportuni es in the economy as well as evolving customer needs. Star ng oﬀ as a steel trading company in 1945, the Group today is a BRAND PILLARS well-balanced por olio of businesses organised into 10 sectors. The decentralised approach of management, akin to the federa on approach, provides autonomy to each business leader to operate the company as per their vision under the supervision of their statutory DRIVING boards. This releases the bandwidth of the Group Management from ACCEPTING ALTERNATIVE POSITIVE day-to-day responsibili es of the business and focus only on roles like NO LIMITS THINKING CHANGE preserving core values, brand custodianship and leveraging synergies across group businesses. It enables stakeholders to rise through innova ve mobility solu ons, driving rural prosperity, enhancing urban living, nurturing new businesses and fostering communi es. The Group has a leadership posi on in u lity vehicles, informa on technology, ﬁnancial services and vaca on ownership in India and is CORE VALUES the world's largest tractor company, by volume. It also enjoys a strong Professionalism | Good Corporate Citizenship Customer First | Quality Focus | Dignity of the Individual presence in agribusiness, components, commercial vehicles, consul ng services, energy, industrial equipment, logis cs, real estate, steel, aerospace, defence and two wheelers. Guided by the three pillars 'Accep ng No Limits, Alterna ve Thinking and Driving Posi ve Change', we strive to build not just products and services, but new possibili es for a truly sustainable future. Headquartered in India, Mahindra employs over 200,000 people across Our aim is to make 'Mahindra' one of the 100 countries. most admired global brands by that empowers people to RISE to their dreams . A brand and achieve their full poten al. Learn more about Mahindra on www.mahindra.com / Twi er & Facebook @MahindraRise M&M LIMITED At Mahindra, we aim to make every aspect of our business sustainable to ensure a be er world for future genera ons. From our employees to the communi es which we are a part of, we see an incredible opportunity to drive posi ve change for all our stakeholders. As a Company, we have iden ﬁed four pervasive areas to create value for all the stakeholders: Mobility | Urbanisa on | FarmTech | Informa on Technology (IT) These are not just our key businesses. They are industries that shape every modern economy, address the pressing social needs and are in the midst of an unprecedented global change. 11 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 We are crea ng value for our stakeholders through innova on in these areas. BUSINESS MODEL & VISION To make electric vehicle technology more At the heart of any organisa on is its business model. This model delineates how an organisa on draws on capitals as inputs and, accessible and mainstream we have drawn up through business ac vi es, converts them to outputs. These ac vi es a comprehensive product roadmap EV 2.0, and outputs lead to outcomes that aims to fulﬁl the organisa on's leading to next genera on of vehicles. strategic purposes and create value over the short, medium and long term. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., Mahindra Group's parent company, is a dominant player in Tractor and Automobile industry. It is both an opera ng company (Automo ve and Farm Equipment Sectors) and a holding company of all its investments in subsidiary and associate companies. Other businesses under the Opera ng Company includes the Powertrain & the Construc on Equipment divisions. Automotive Division The Division maintained its posi on as the 3rd largest Passenger Vehicle Company, the 2nd largest Commercial Vehicle Company and the Largest Small Taking the philosophy of planned Commercial Vehicle Company in India in 2016-17. and sustainable urbanisa on Its share of the total Indian Auto Industry ahead, this year Mahindra Towers stood at . % in . Kandivali a 25-year-old building, became the second exis ng building to be awarded Farm Division cer ﬁca on under IGBC a er The Division con nued its focus on delivering 'Farm Tech Prosperity' to the Indian farmer, through Igatpuri Plant Admin Building. development and launch of technologically advanced tractors, agri machinery and farm solu ons. M&M gained its highest ever market share Using technology as an enabler and an eﬃcient of . % in the domes c tractor market social leveller, we have launched India's ﬁrst tractor and farm equipment rental business, Trringo to It registered a growth of 26.3% in the export market in 2016-17. Mahindra is the largest selling tractor brand, make technology more accessible to every farmer. by volume, in the world. Allied Businesses Amidst growing concerns on environmental sustainability, Mahindra Powerol expanded in the business in tele infra management and in the energy management solu ons space by moving to greener solu ons, 'Green Gensets' through ba ery based solu ons. Mahindra EarthMaster sold , Backhoe Loaders (BHL), registering a growth of . %. It is now the th largest BHL player in India. 57.3% We are empowering owners, ﬂeet operators, drivers, dealers and service teams who can remotely access vital informa on about their vehicles in real me through our DiGiSense technology. We are not only crea ng value through our products and services, but also through comprehensive, well-planned and long-term social interven ons. Our CSR efforts over the years have focused on education and skilling, health, rural development and the environment. We are invested in the green economy through adop on of green processes and crea on of green facili es through local sourcing, op mising logis cs, water conserva on, recycling and urbanscaping. 12 Sustainability Pro At Mahindra, we view sustainability as a vital business strategy. For us, inclusive development and making sustainability personal for our sustainability is to enable enduring business by rejuvena ng the colleagues and their families on the People front. Through the planet environment and enabling stakeholders to Rise. This award-winning pillar, we address carbon neutrality, water posi ve and making waste a Sustainability Framework is ac on-oriented and lays out the objec ves resource and not just mere refuse while protec ng biodiversity. for business and beyond in three domains people, planet and proﬁt. In the proﬁt pillar, we aim to develop products and services which It includes making our workplaces great places to work, fostering generate an evergreen stream of green revenue, mi gate risks for our 1 MWp solar power plant inaugurated at AD Zaheerabad, 300 KWp at MRV Chennai and 200 KWp at At Igatpuri, water storage AD Kandivali facility through rainwater harves ng has been created to cater to the needs of the plant for 150 days Mahindra Tower, AD Kandivali and AD Igatpuri Admin Building have been awarded the ‘Green Building cer ﬁca on’ with a ‘Pla num Ra ng’ by the Indian Green Building Council Trringo launched taking mechanisa on to the farmers Mahindra Blues pla num rated Yale green event Partnerships with World Bank, UNGC, The Climate Group, CPLC, CII-IBBI, TERI, FICCI 13 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 gress Dashboard business including climate risk, evangelise sustainability through the sharing and learning of best prac ces and in the process we aim to supply chain for greater impact, recognise that the role of technology give back to the earth, more than we take. and innova on in shaping progress on sustainable development will During the repor ng period, we achieved impressive trac on across all remain paramount, and ensure that we enhance brand equity through facets of the framework. sustainable work. Given below is a progress dashboard featuring selected highlights in The base for all this would be the work we do on sustainability through each pillar. Paint sludge used for powder coa ng of component and co-processed as fuel in cement kiln. Biogas plant installed at AFS Zaheerabad and Igatpuri loca ons & launched Biodiversity Park developed in Nagpur Kandivali plant successfully insulated plant produc on Launch of EHS+ centre from acute water by M&M and Indian shortage Sustainable Communi es (ISC), plan to cover 100 M&M suppliers Mahindra SUPRO with Fuel smart technology with a superior mileage of 23.5 km/l in Diesel launched The spirit of Rise is based on three brand pillars-accep ng no limits, alterna ve thinking and driving posi ve change. MAHINDRA GROUP IS WATER POSITIVE 14 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES H I G H L I G H T S O F T H E Y E A R A C R O S S C A P I TA L S At M&M, value for stakeholders is increasingly shaped by factors others than ﬁnancial performance. Five addi onal capitals that guides us in our decision-making and long-term success are: manufactured, human, intellectual, social and rela onship capitals. Here are the key outcomes in terms of capitals in FY2016-17. Financial Manufactured Human Mahindra Adds Value Tractor Mahindra Leadership to Every Share Launches University EPS (Basic) grew by Mahindra Yuvo, 10 Academies. Partnership Swaraj 742 FE, with IMD, Yale SOM, 14.5% to INR 63 in FY17 (M&M+MVML) Mahindra 585 DI and Harvard Business School, Mahindra Arjun Novo 49.9 University of Michigan Con nuing focus on Auto Young CEO innova on and eﬃciencies Launches programme Nuvosport, Young leaders elevated to 8% Big Bolero Pickup, CEO level and given autonomy increase in our top-line Bolero Power + and over en re projects & a 16% surge in PAT (M&M+MVML) Supro Range 26 HP Pricing carbon to understand Electric Vehicle Women Leaders the true cost of climate change Launches programme Mahindra & Mahindra e-Verito, e2O+ and Training women middle managers is the ﬁrst Indian company e-Supro (Passenger Van & Cargo Van) for future leadership roles to announce its internal Carbon Price of US$10 per ton of carbon emi ed Natural Intellectual Social & Relationship More We Invest in R&D, Employee Social Op ons* 100,000+ More We Reap in Patents GJ energy saved We ﬁled 54,000+ through sustained employee volunteers energy saving 202 patent applica ons during the year contributed ini a ves 350,000+ person-hours to various services in FY 2017 Speciﬁc energy consump on Mahindra wins Innovator at New Product Division and of the Year Award at Farm Division reduced by Time India Awards Nanhi Kali 24% &10% respec vely Won the award for constantly innova ng 60,000+ products and processes girls educated across 12 states in India 400,000+ We have invested over Environmental sustainability 3 m of water recycled and reused across businesses; INR 1,000 ini a ves rolled out across 37% of the total water consump on was recycled crore in establishing the Mahindra Research Valley 400 suppliers and reused by AD A robust R&D network opera onal labs and , engineers under one roof *Group ﬁgures 15 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 All our businesses con nue their focus on achieving cost leadership Shareholding Pattern through focused cost op misa on, produc vity improvements, value engineering, supply chain management and exploi ng synergies As an Indian mul na onal with global ambi ons, between its sectors, crea ng long-term value for us and for our we have a diversiﬁed shareholding pa ern stakeholders. 25.27% Promoters We have been consistently following these tenets of value crea on: 5.29% • Disciplined approach to capital alloca on Shares held by custodian for GDRs & ADRs • True federa on approach to managing businesses 14.38% Public Shareholding • Value discovery by lis ng new businesses (Non-Ins tu ons) 54.61% • Encashing value at the right me Public Shareholding (Ins tu ons) • Highest standards of corporate governance • Inves ng in building brand Mahindra For a detailed shareholding pa ern, please refer to page 69 of our Annual Report 2017. Sachin Joshi Principal Counsellor CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development CII congratulates Mahindra for receiving Sustainable Plus Platinum for FY16, India's only and rst corporate sustainability label. This conveys that Mahindra has strong foundations, though there's always scope for improvement. 16 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION In 1947, we introduced the U lity Vehicle (UV) to India. Nearly seven decades later, we remain India's No.1 UV manufacturer with a range of category-deﬁning vehicles that are tough, reliable, reﬁned and built to thrill. Today, we oﬀer a complete por olio – from electric vehicles to SUVs; from passenger cars to heavy commercial our vehicles ply the roads in more than 70 countries globally. We are crea ng world-class R&D facili es in India and the US, and along with our Group Company, SsangYong Motors of South Korea, we aim to create a top global mobility brand. Businesses h p://www.mahindra.com/business/automo ve • Mahindra & Mahindra, Igatpuri Plant received the pres gious Global Sustainability Award Mahindra Graphic Research Design* Pla num Ra ng & Best Sustainability Ini a ve Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited Pavilion at the th World Renewable Energy Congress organised by the Energy & Environment Spares Business Unit (SBU) founda on supported by the Ministry of New & Mahindra Navistar Automo ve* Renewable Energy, Government of India Ssangyong Motor Company* • AD Nashik Plant won the Na onal Award for Excellence in Water Management by the Mahindra Electric (formerly, Mahindra REVA) Confedera on of Indian Industry * Mahindra Graphic Research Design, Mahindra Navistar Automo ve, Ssangyong • The e2oPlus was honoured as the Electric Motor Company are not in the scope of this report. Mobility Solu ons of the Year at the NDTV Car and Bike Awards 2017 17 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 New Launches Scorpio with e-Verito, India's ﬁrst Electric City Smart Car, New limited edi on Intelli-Hybrid Technology electric sedan the 'e2oPlus' 'Scorpio Adventure' New Age XUV5OO More Powerful More stylish avatar of the KUV1OO Down Under TUV3OO Eco-friendly Jeeto CNG Fuel-eﬃcient Blazo Truck New Bolero with mHAWKD70 engine The Big Bolero Pik-up Supro Minivan and Minitruck eSupro India's ﬁrst electric cargo and passenger van For complete details on how our products create value for our customers and the environment, please refer to the manufactured capital sec on of the report 18 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES FARM DIVISION We are the world's With the mission of driving farm prosperity globally, we have expanded into farm-support services like endnumber one tractor company to-end mechanisa on solu ons under Mahindra AppliTrac, and agri-inputs, advisory and post-harvest with annual sales of over services through the Samriddhi Ini a ve. 230,000 units and over In India, our market share is . % and with over years of insights, we have set up India's most advanced tractor R&D facility in Chennai. 2.3 million tractors sold ll date. The only tractor Company to win the pres gious Japan Quality Medal and Deming Applica on prize, our products are suppor ng farmers in more than 40 countries across six con nents. Businesses in the Division • Launched Farming . , a comprehensive h p://www.mahindra.com/business/farm-equipment ecosystem with oﬀerings across the value chain for the farmer. It entails access to smart Mahindra (China) Tractor Co.* machinery, precision farming prac ces, digital pla orms and ecosystem connect with the aim to Mahindra Yueda (Yancheng) Tractor Co.* improve crop yields and double farm income. Micro-irriga on Business EPC Industrie Ltd. • FD was awarded the TPM Special Award for Mahindra USA Inc.* FY from Japan Ins tute of Plant Maintenance (JIPM). This is an integrated award where all Mahindra Samriddhi three FD plants i.e. Mumbai, Nagpur & Rudrapur, Mahindra Powerol were assessed. * Mahindra (China) Tractor Co., Mahindra USA Inc. and Mahindra Yueda (Yancheng) • FD, Nagpur won the Na onal Level Award for Tractor Co. are not in the scope of this report. 'Energy Eﬃcient Unit' in the Automobile & Engineering category by CII. New Launches Agri-Specialist Tractors Mahindra YUVO New Mahindra in Bangladesh JIVO A New Small Tractor Pla orm Swaraj FE For complete details on how our products create value, please refer to the manufactured capital sec on of the report 19 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 AWARDS Mahindra won awards in diﬀerent categories at The Golden Globe Tigers Awards. This included: • Integrated Watershed Management Programme in Damoh in the Category Best Corporate Social Responsibility Prac ces • Igatpuri Plant Dust Control case study in the Best Workplace prac ces category • India's ﬁrst food-waste free city: Mahindra World City Chennai in the Best Environment Friendly Project category Dr. Pawan Goenka receiving the 2016 FISITA Medal The Golden Globe Tigers Awards presented by the Asian Confedera on of Businesses were announced in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The awards recognise best prac ces in the For M&M, awards are not just the pat on the back, it is another way sustainability space. to create value. It enhances the reputa on of the company, help employees take pride in their work, and ins l conﬁdence among our customers about our quality and professionalism. These awards and recogni ons encourage us to con nue on the path we have chosen to accomplish our objec ves. Below given are some of the signiﬁcant honours received during the year. Leadership (Individual) • Anand Mahindra was appointed Chevalier de l’Ordre na onal la Légion d’Honneur (Knight in the Na onal Order of the Legion of Honour) by the President of the French Republic. • Dr. Pawan Goenka became the ﬁrst Indian to be awarded the highly acclaimed 2016 FISITA Medal in recogni on of 'par cularly dis nguished achievement and leadership in the global automo ve industry. • Mr. V. S. Parthasarathy, Group CFO & CIO, received the 'BFSI AD Nashik Plant wins the pres gious Vasundhara Award 2016 Technology Leadership Award' during BFSI CTO Summit in June 2016. • Mr. Anirban Ghosh was awarded Dis nguished Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer for greening the Mahindra por olio at the 2016 Parivartan Sustainability Leadership Awards. CSR • The Automo ve & Farm Equipment Sector won the coveted People Commenda on for Signiﬁcant Achievement in Corporate Social • M&M emerged as the winner in the 'Engineering & Automo ve Responsibility at the CII-ITC Sustainability Awards 2016. Sector' category at the annual Business Today's Best Companies to Work for Awards 2017. The Survey was conducted in partnership with PeopleStrong Sustainability • M&M won 'Golden Peacock Award for Sustainability' for the year Environment 2016 by Ins tute of Directors at the UK during the “16th London • AD Nashik Plant won the pres gious Vasundhara Award 2016 and a Global Conven on on Corporate Governance & Sustainability” cash reward of INR 3 lac for the second me based on the last three year's environmental performance. The plant has taken up ini a ves • M&M was honoured with the 'Conglomerate of the Year' Award for including energy management, water management, waste the third year in a row at the CNBC TV18 India Risk Management management, nature conserva on and stakeholder engagement Awards for 2017 programmes. • M&M was ranked 3rd Amongst Top 100 Emerging Market MNCs for • AD Igatpuri plant won the 2nd prize in the CII Green Conclave 2016 Business Transparency and was featured in Transparency for presen ng case study on “Heat Recovery System” in the Interna onal's list of top 10 most transparent companies from compe on. The plant has been working towards building a emerging markets sustainable organisa on by taking up various ini a ves including solar power plant, green building, biodiversity, windmill, biogas & energy • M&M retained the status of ge ng listed on the Dow Jones eﬃcient projects. Sustainability Index 2016 under the 'Emerging Market Index' for the consecu ve third year with improvement in percen le scores India's ﬁrst food-waste free cityMWC, Chennai 20 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES H O W W E S U S TA I N V A L U E Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Execu ve Chairman and Dr. Pawan Goenka, C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E Managing Director are the Wholeme Directors of Mahindra & The diﬀerence between a successful and a not-so-successful Mahindra Ltd. The remaining Non-Execu ve Directors, comprising organisa on lies not just in how eﬃciently the value is created, but eight Independent Directors including a Woman Director and one also in how eﬀec vely it is sustained over a longer term. For an Non-Independent Director are highly renowned professionals drawn organisa on to sustain value, it is impera ve to engage with a wide from diverse ﬁelds, possess the requisite qualiﬁca ons and spectrum of stakeholders, understand their expecta ons and act experience which enable them to contribute to our growth and decisively to meet their expecta ons on a con nual basis. enhance the quality of Board's decision-making process. At Mahindra, we have always prac ced Corporate Governance of the BOARD COMMITTEES highest standards and foster a culture that is built on core values and professionalism. We place great emphasis on empowerment, integrity Board Commi ees are formed to plan and oversee key ini a ves on and safety of our employees, maintaining a diverse and vibrant work vital opera ons of M&M. These commi ees ensure implementa on, environment, and upholding transparency in all our dealings. streamlining and monitoring, giving appropriate direc on to the dayto-day working of the companies. Currently, the Board has the We have a ﬁrm convic on that good Corporate Governance prac ces following Commi ees: are powerful enablers, that infuse trust and conﬁdence, a ract and retain ﬁnancial and human capital, and maintain the social & • Audit Commi ee rela onship capital. • Governance Remunera on and Nomina on Commi ee S h a r e h o l d e r Va l u e • Share Transfer and Shareholders / Investors Grievance Commi ee At M&M, we empower shareholders with the knowledge of how we • Research & Development Commi ee (a voluntary ini a ve of the Company) create, sustain and enhance ﬁnancial, social and environmental values • Strategic Investment Commi ee (a voluntary ini a ve of the Company) by u lising various capitals: ﬁnancial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social, and natural. To have a con nuous and consistent • Loans & Investment Commi ee (a voluntary ini a ve of the Company) exchange of percep ons and to enhance value crea on, we have • Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Commi ee interac ve pla orms in place where we share the performance and progress, while solici ng pointers and perspec ves. These lead to For more informa on on each commi ee, roles and responsibili es of the directors possibili es and plans that results in increased shareholder value as and the members, please refer page no. 121 of our Annual Report FY 2016-17. well as trust. For more informa on on interac ve pla orms for our shareholders, P u r p o s e & Va l u e s please refer to page 26 of our Annual Report FY 2016-17. CORE PURPOSE Governance Framework The governance framework at M&M brings all our businesses, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures under its ambit and ﬁrmly ins ls the Group's objec ves in everyday opera ons. It includes comprehensive monitoring of the progress and spearheading opera onal excellence across those ver cals. Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) Ltd, the ﬂagship Company of the Mahindra Group directly runs two businesses: Automo ve Division and the Farm Division; and is the chief shareholder in all the other en es. We are a federa on of organisa ons, where Group Companies have their own independent Boards of Directors, governance structure and policies which align with those of M&M. Companies who have not formulated their individual policies also follow M&M policies. BOARD OF DIRECTORS To challenge conventional thinking and The composi on of the Board of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. is in innovatively use all our resources to drive conformity with Regula on 17 of the Lis ng Regula ons. The positive change in the lives of our Execu ve Chairman of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., though a Professional Director in his individual capacity, is a Promoter and the stakeholders and communities across number of Non-Execu ve and Independent Directors is more than the world to enable them to rise. one half of the total number of Directors. 21 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 CORE VALUES ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Our Core Values inspire us to enable the world to Rise and lead by At M&M, any act of corrup on is non-nego able and strict ac on is sustainabilitysocial, economic and environmental. They are an taken against anyone found indulging in such unprincipled act. amalgama on of what we have been, what we are and what we Corporate Governance & Business Ethics are an essen al part of our con nue to be: induc on process and an integral part of our Code of Conduct. All employees are expected to exhibit the highest level of integrity in Good Corporate Ci zenship every sphere of ac vity. Professionalism Customer First Quality Focus Compliance Dignity of the Individual e-o ct• f-co As we keep raising our bar on corporate governance, compliance is a cod ndu non-nego able must. Our compliance commi ee ensures that all t te regula ons are respected in le er and spirit. Being a global Company, eth ique we abide by all interna onal and na onal laws, and uphold the ct • standards of transparency and accountability. During the last nine ode -of-c years, there was no instances of non-compliance by the Group. We ond •c u incurred no ﬁnes from any regulatory authority for non-compliance of eth t te ique laws and regula ons in the repor ng period. ct • ode -of-c ond u REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Code of Conduct •c We are 100% compliant to regulatory laws, guidelines and Our Code of ConductEthique e, is our central policy document speciﬁca ons relevant to our business. Our audit commi ee ensures which is benchmarked with the best in business. It outlines the strict adherence and regulatory compliance, round-the-year. In case principles that every single person working for and with the Company, any related observa ons are made, they are immediately brought to must comply with regardless of loca on. In addi on, individual the no ce of the site senior management and necessary correc ve business units issue policies that provide more speciﬁc guidance ac ons are executed. Regulatory compliance is periodically reviewed about certain business prac ces. by the Group Execu ve Board (GEB). The CoC enables eﬀec ve stakeholder engagement, faster & fairer decisions, transparent & unambiguous processes, and a professional Public Policy Advocacy & ethical conduct. It underlines our responsibili es to our people, partners and shareholders as well as mandates us to: As one of the biggest automo ve manufacturer in India, Mahindra & Mahindra serves as a uniﬁed voice for the industry to help the • Behave in an ethical manner, take pride in our ac ons and decisions government shape be er policies. We are part of various • Comply with the principles and rules in our Code, and fulﬁl our legal interna onal and na onal industry bodies and have a constant and regulatory obliga ons dialogue with the policy makers and inﬂuencers to provide our industry stakeholders with specialised informa on and knowledge. • Seek guidance wherever required if we feel a working prac ce is not ethical or safe Anand Mahindra Execu ve Chairman Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. • Report non-compliance or breach of our Code immediately Pawan Goenka For more informa on on implementa on of the Code of Conduct, please refer to Managing Director Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. page 26 of our Annual Report FY 2016-17. Ulhas Yargop Policies Group President (IT Sector) Group CTO & Member, Group Execu ve Board Our policies are outcomes of our commitment to our core values and guide us in our day-to-day opera ons and help in governance. They V. S. Parthasarathy con nuously evolve with prevailing regula ons and by interac ons Group CIO (M&M Ltd.) and Group CIO, Mahindra Group with stakeholders. A snapshot of our policies: For more informa on about the memberships of our execu ve members in various Corporate Communica ons | Disaster Management | Employee organisa ons and ins tu ons, please refer to the Annexure sec on. Rela ons | Environment and Pollu on | Capital Budge ng | Corporate Finance | Quality | Corporate Representa on in Trade & Industry Forums | Dealing with Dealers and Customers | E-business Security Insider Trading | Intranet Usage | Investor Grievances | Investor S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y & U S Rela ons | Safety & Occupa onal Health | Human Resources | Sexual At Mahindra, we understood the interconnectedness of sustainability Harassment | Trade Marks | Suppliers and Vendors of Services & and business almost a decade back. Since then, the pursuit of Products | Green IT Guidelines | Green Supply Chain Management sustainability has been on the dashboard of all our business decisions. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Last year, having embedded the basics of conserva on across opera ons, we embarked on a journey of rejuvena on. We abide by an all-embracing Business Responsibility policy incorpora ng economic, social and environmental accountabili es of This year, we are taking that journey forward by business as approved by our CSR Commi ee Board. It is formulated in alignment with the nine principles of Business Responsibility, required bringing out our ﬁrst integrated report. It dovetails by SEBI as per clause 55 of the Lis ng Agreement. (For more our sustainability performance of the year gone by, informa on on what this policy covers, refer to our Annual report) with the outlook and strategy for the years ahead. 22 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES Sustainability Structure Sustainability at Mahindra is governed by a top-down approach enabling strategic vision and ac on plan to not just steer grassroots interven ons, but also monitor its eﬀec veness and disclose it transparently. BOARD COMMITTEE FOR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Set direc ons for promo ng the CSR agenda for M&M Ltd. and all Group Companies CSR COUNCIL SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL Approves & monitors spends of philanthropic ac vi es / Approves new ini a ves and monitors progress of projects as per the mandate from the Board Commi ee integra on of the ESG parameters in business & opera ons GROUP SUSTAINABILITY CELL Management of large & long Management and term projects through the various coordina on of Drives sustainability through awareness and Founda ons across the Group employee volunteerism knowledge building across the Group Supports individual businesses in integra ng sustainability in strategic business processes and opera ons Make all external disclosures SUSTAINABILITY CHAMPIONS For more informa on on our Governance Structure for Sustainability, Located at all plants / oﬃces to locally drive & monitor visit our previous Sustainbility Report. various ini a ves and collect data for repor ng h p://www.mahindra.com/How-We-Help/Environment/Sustainability-Reports Sustainability Journey The three pillars of the framework remain the triple bo om-line of For us, sustainability is about building enduring business while People, Planet and Proﬁt. rejuvena ng the environment and enabling communi es to Rise. In a 1 The People pillar talks about making our workplaces 'great places world where the future is uncertain, Mahindra disrupted the narra ve to work', fostering inclusive development and making sustainability of sustainability last year by changing gears from conserva on to personal for our colleagues and their families. rejuvena on. This year, we are proac vely bringing out our ﬁrst Integrated Report, 2 Through the Planet pillar, we address carbon neutrality, water despite it not being a statutory requirement. We believe that this posi ve and making waste a resource and not just mere refuse Integrated Report will help us enhance our disclosures and highlight while protec ng biodiversity. how the six capitals impact our business and how we are adding value to them. Most importantly, this report will help our stakeholders see 3 In the Proﬁt pillar, we aim to develop products and services which the full picture of our business. generate an evergreen stream of green revenue, mi gate risks for our business including climate risk, evangelise sustainability through the supply chain for greater impact, recognise that the role of technology and innova on in shaping progress on sustainable The New Sustainability Framework development will remain paramount, and ensure that we enhance brand equity through sustainable work. Our new award-winning Sustainability Framework ar culates Mahindra's strategic commitment to sustainable development. The The base for all this would be the work we do on sustainability through framework is ac on-oriented and lays out the objec ves for business sharing and learning of best prac ces and in the process, we aim to and beyond. It is aligned with the core purpose of our Group: give back to the earth more than we take. We will do more with less | Do it together | Do it for all M AT E R I A L I T Y Material issues for Mahindra & Mahindra are those that impact directly or indirectly our economic, social or environmental sustainability and the value created or delivered to the stakeholders in short, medium or long-term. It's a compass that provides direc on to our sustainability journey and also helps us to priori se our i nerary. We periodically evaluate our material issues to introspect as well as shape future course of ac on across the triple bo om line. We have also con nually enhanced the breadth and depth of our analysis to sharpen our materiality iden ﬁca on process. The ﬁrst step in determining material issues is stakeholder iden ﬁca on, followed by engagement mechanism in order to communicate them on regular basis. The responses which we received from our stakeholders 23 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 during the engagement are ﬁltered on the basis of their needs, demands Over and above engaging to deﬁne materiality, we and expecta ons. These issues are further rated by the level of con nue to interact with our stakeholders around importance by us and our stakeholders. Accordingly, we arrived at our materiality for Automo ve and Farm Divisions: the year, through a host of channels. AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION 100% 42 28 25 11 3 19 90% 45 31 34 18 36 22 32 2 41 35 44 26 24 5 1 Stakeholder Concern 21 48 10 46 9 23 7 55 80% 14 29 30 39 20 33 17 53 43 13 16 12 27 70% 54 51 40 4 37 50 49 47 6 15 52 8 38 60% 70% 56 80% 90% 100% Business Priority BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL PARAMETERS OF HIGH IMPORTANCE (TOP QUARTILE) 1 Cost control and Proﬁt Margin 9 End of Life Management 32 Customer Sa sfac on 2 R&D impetus 21 Water Intensity 33 CSR Management 3 Fuel Eﬃciency 22 Energy Eﬃciency 34 Employee Produc vity 5 Risk Assessment and Compliance 23 Recyclable/Recycled Material 35 Health and Safety 7 Market/Product compe on 24 Waste Genera on 36 Product Safety 10 Sustainable Mobility: Electric/Hybrid/H2 Vehicle 25 Climate Change and GHG Emissions 44 Training and Educa on 11 Product Quality 26 Tail pipe emissions reduc on 48 Gender Diversity 18 Supply chain Op misa on 28 Life Cycle Management 55 Grievance Mechanisms 19 Logis cs Op misa on and Sustainable Logis c 20 Emerging Markets Needs PARAMETERS OF LOW IMPORTANCE 6 Solu on Selling beyond Products 4 Renewable Energy 27 A ri on 8 Integrated Sourcing 29 Packaging 31 Employee Capability (Agility) 12 Light Weigh ng 30 VOC Emissions in Paint Shop 37 Succession Planning 13 Green Dealers 38 Supplier Educa on 14 Modularity in design 39 Customer Educa on 15 Dealer Proﬁtability 40 Traﬃc Safety 16 Sustainability IT Tool 41 Appeal to Customers 17 Product Obsolesce and Phasing Out 42 Talent Reten on 43 Dealer consistency (talent reten on) 45 Customers sa sfac on with service 46 Urbanisa on and Labour Scarcity 47 Average age of plants 49 Brand Image of Mahindra 50 Social Media 51 Shared Value 52 Supplier Sa sfac on (Forecast Accuracy) 53 Strong visionary goals on sustainability/strategic considera on 54 Employer A rac on 56 Average age of plants 24 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES FARM DIVISION 100% 36 25 90% 13 38 20 39 11 3 15 22 28 14 30 30 17 26 2 Stakeholder Concern 35 29 48 19 7 1 16 49 4 80% 10 18 8 45 12 23 33 27 43 37 47 21 70% 32 44 42 34 6 5 41 40 9 31 46 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Business Priority BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL PARAMETERS OF HIGH IMPORTANCE (TOP QUARTILE) 1 Cost control and Proﬁt Margin 17 Water Intensity 25 Customer Sa sfac on 2 R&D impetus 18 Energy Eﬃciency 26 CSR Management 3 Fuel Eﬃciency 19 Recyclable/Recycled Material 27 Employee Produc vity 4 Farm Tech Prosperity (Farmer Prosperity) 20 Waste Genera on 28 Health and Safety 7 Risk Assessment and Compliance 38 Climate Change and GHG Emissions 29 Grievance Mechanisms 8 Solu on Selling Beyond Products 39 Water Availability 30 Supplier Sa sfac on/Rela onship 11 Product Quality 45 Training and Educa on 13 Soil Health 48 Gender Diversity 14 Supply chain Op misa on 49 Talent Reten on and Succession Planning 15 Logis cs Op misa on & Sustainable Logis cs 16 Dealer Management 24 Market/Product compe on PARAMETERS OF LOW IMPORTANCE 5 Integrated Sourcing 47 Packaging 23 Brand Image of Mahindra 6 Dealer Proﬁtability 31 Employee Capability (Agility) 9 Product Obselence and Phasing Out 32 A ri on 10 Sustainable Mobility: Electric/Hybrid/H2 Vehicle 33 Appeal to Customers 12 Government Approvals 34 Dealer consistency (talent reten on) 21 Light Weigh ng 35 Talent Reten on 22 Modularity in design 36 Supplier Educa on 37 Customer Educa on 40 Average age of plants 41 Product Safety 42 Customers sa sfac on with service 43 Average age of plants 44 Urbanisa on and Labour Scarcity 46 Traﬃc Safety Key Materiality Issues Sustainable Health & Product Carbon Water Waste to CSR Supply Chain Safety Stewardship Emission Security Wealth Management 25 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R O A D M A P S 2 0 1 9 At Mahindra, past achievements fuel future ambi ons. Last year, on successfully comple on of our previous roadmap, we conducted a workshop where M&M Sustainability Champions deliberated and developed new roadmaps. The Sustainability Roadmaps 2019 have more granularized targets with an aim to embed sustainability even deeper into our business. These new set of roadmaps, also enhance the breadth of our sustainability footprint by cascading sustainability across our suppliers as well. Planet AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION Con nuing its momentum based on years of manufacturing best prac ces, AD achieved a 20% reduc on in carbon footprint against a target of 17%. Overall it was a mixed bag, with over performance in 4 parameters and shor alls in 4 parameters. Cura ve measure are underway to ensure that targets for reduc on in speciﬁc thermal energy consump on, increase of renewable energy in the energy mix and paper consump on are met in the coming years. 2016-17 STATUS F17 2017-18 2018-19 EMISSION MANAGEMENT Carbon Footprint Reduc on* MTCo2 17% 20% 18% 19% ENERGY MANAGEMENT Reduc on in Speciﬁc Electrical Energy Consump on 3% 11% 6% 9% KWh/Eq. Vehicles < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 Reduc on in Speciﬁc Thermal Energy Consump on 3% 1% 6% 9% MKcal/Eq. Vehicles < FY16 > FY16 < FY16 < FY16 Renewable (Wind/Solar/Biogas) % Co2 Mi ga on 5.5% 5.3% 6.5% 7.5% WATER MANAGEMENT Speciﬁc Water Consump on Reduc on* 9% 17% 18% 25% KL/Eq. Vehicles < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 WASTE MANAGEMENT Speciﬁc Hazardous Waste Reduce / Recycle Devising Zero waste and circular 30% 50% % reduc on economy strategy Strategy formulated. Hazardous < FY16 < FY16 waste co-processing at cement industries & recycler in process at identi ed plants. Absolute Non-Hazardous Waste Reduce / Recycle (Carbon Strategy) 8% 20% 8% 8% % Co2 Mi ga on < FY16 Speciﬁc Non-Hazardous Waste Reduce / Reuse / Recycle Devising 20% 10% 30% %<FY16 Strategy < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 Paper consump on reduc on 30% 29% 50% 60% kg < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 SAFETY MANAGEMENT No. of injuries 20% 46% 30% 50% % Reduc on < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 26 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES FARM DIVISION Con nuing its track record of exceeding targets, FD reduced its carbon footprint, this year, by 11% compared to the target of 10%. It also overachieved its targets in 5 parameters across energy and water consump on. While hazardous waste management, powered by a newly formulated Zero Waste and Circular Economy strategy, is on-track, the reduc on in paper consump on and injury need to be bolstered. 2016-17 STATUS F17 2017-18 2018-19 EMISSION MANAGEMENT Carbon Footprint Reduc on* MTCo2 10% 11% 13% 14% ENERGY MANAGEMENT Reduc on in Speciﬁc Electrical Energy Consump on 5% 8.24% 10% 15% KWh/Eq. Tractor < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 Reduc on in Speciﬁc Thermal Energy consump on 3% 12% 6% 9% Mkcal/Eq. Tractor < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 % Renewable (Wind/Solar) % Renewable 5% 5% 6% 10% WATER MANAGEMENT Speciﬁc Water Consump on Reduc on* 8% 22% 21% 25% KL/Eq Tractor < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 WASTE MANAGEMENT Hazardous Waste disposal to Landﬁll Devising Zero waste and circular 25% 50% % Reduc on economy strategy Strategy formulated. Hazardous < FY16 < FY16 waste co-processing at cement industries & recycler in process at identi ed plants. Non-Hazardous Waste Reduce & Recycle 3% 10% 6% 9% Kg/Eq. Tractor < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 Paper consump on reduc on 20% 8.5% 35% 50% Kgs < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 SAFETY MANAGEMENT Injury reduc on 30% 16% 30% 30% % Reduc on YOY < FY16 YOY YOY 27 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 SWARAJ DIVISION Swaraj Division achieved a 14% reduc on in carbon footprint against a target of 8%. In addi on, it surpassed the year's target in 5 parameters speciﬁc electrical energy consump on, water consump on, paper consump on, hazardous waste management and injury reduc on. There was a shor all as compared to the targeted reduc on in speciﬁc thermal energy reduc on and measures are being taken to address the same. 2016-17 STATUS F17 2017-18 2018-19 EMISSION MANAGEMENT Carbon Footprint Reduc on* 8% 16% 25% MTCo2/Tractor 14% < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Reduc on in Speciﬁc Electrical Energy Consump on 8% 12% 16% 25% KWh/Tractor < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 Reduc on in Speciﬁc Thermal Energy consump on 3% 1% 6% 9% MKcal/Tractor < FY16 > FY16 < FY16 < FY16 % Renewable (Wind/Solar) Cumula ve % 0% 0 1.2% 2.3% WATER MANAGEMENT Speciﬁc Water Consump on Reduc on* 8% 30% 16% 25% KL/Tractor < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 WASTE MANAGEMENT Hazardous Waste to Landﬁll Devising Zero waste and circular 25% 50% % reduc on economy strategy Strategy formulated. Hazardous < FY16 < FY16 waste co-processing at cement industries & recycler in process at identi ed plants. Non-Hazardous Waste Reduce & Recycle 3% 26% 6% 9% Kg/Eq. Tractor < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 Speciﬁc paper consump on reduc on 15% 27% 30% 50% Kg/Eq. Tractor < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 < FY16 SAFETY MANAGEMENT Injury Reduc on 30% 49% 30% 30% % reduc on YOY < FY16 YOY YOY 28 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES People AUTOMOTIVE & FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR The AFS con nued to cascade sustainability across the organisa on and covered 60% of employees through refresher courses and Human Rights training modules. In addi on, eﬀec ve strategies were devised to make sustainability personal -a core pillar of Mahindra's new sustainability framework. The year also saw a steady improvement in the employee health index. All this resulted in AFS scoring 4.29 on the MCARES employee engagement survey, against a target of 4.26 for the year. On the community front, tree planta on drives as well as rural electriﬁca on using renewable energy are going ahead as planned. 2016-17 STATUS F17 2017-18 2018-19 ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS IN SUSTAINABILITY DRIVE Leadership in Sustainability MCARES Score 4.26 4.29 4.28 4.30 % of improvement Sustainability Refresher & Human 50% 60% 100% Refresher Rights Training to Associates coverage coverage coverage training % (0.5 (Cumulative) man-days/ person/year) Making Sustainability Personal Devising Strategy Devised 0.5 Lacs 0.75 Lac No. of stakeholders Strategy & • Tie up with EESL for Action plan Ujala scheme for initiatives • Kitchen Garden workshop • Residential Electricity Saving competition • 2nd Oct Sustainability Engagement competition EMPLOYEE WELLNESS Improvement in Health Index 10% 54% improvement 10% 10% of employee % of improvement above 45 above 45 years age above 30 of employees years age employees years age in age group, employees employees above 45 & below 30 years employees Green Building Cer ﬁca on Igatpuri & AD Swaraj Nos. Conversion of existing Kandivali has been Zaheerabad Plant 1 AD building certi ed as & FD Nagpur, Green @ Igatpuri, Platinum rated MVML Building, FD Kandivli, Green Building. Green co Zaheerabad Green co ENGAGING COMMUNITY IN SUSTAINABILITY DRIVE Tree Planta on No. of Trees 0.5 Lacs 0.56 Lac 1.3 Lacs 1.5 Lacs Renewable (Solar/Wind) Village Electriﬁca on (Cum.) 15 KW 15 KW 30 KW 60 KW MW 29 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Suppliers AUTOMOTIVE & FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR Taking sustainability beyond factory gates, AFS conducted e-learning sessions, introduced an e-assessment module, helped establish a state-of-the-art EHS+ Centre and reduced packaging waste. The businesses achieved or over-achieved the supply chain sustainability targets across all parameters. 2016-17 STATUS F17 2017-18 2018-19 CASCADING SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainability Awareness for AFS Suppliers 125 Tier I Two e-learning 250 Tier I 375 Tier I Nos. Suppliers sessions organised, Suppliers Suppliers MTWL, SD, covering 145 MTWL, SD, MTWL, SD, MTBD, suppliers. MTBD, MTBD, Construction Construction Construction Equipment Equipment Equipment Sustainability Assessment & 100% Launch of 100% 100% Improvement for AFS Suppliers e Assessment a) Self-Assessment (IT Enabled) % module on MSETU 44 assessments completed b) On site assessment AD FD New GSCM Policy AD FD AD FD Nos. 25 10 launched. 50 20 75 30 Reduc on in packaging waste AD FD AD FD AD FD AD FD a) Corrugated Box Waste kg/eq. vehicles 5% 8% 22% 26% 10% 16% 15% 24% < FY16 < FY16 b) Wood Waste AD FD AD FD AD FD AD FD kg/eq. vehicles 5% 13% 10% 13% 26% 75% 100% 100% < FY16 < FY16 Sustainability Balance Score Card No. of Sustainability BSC No. of No. of (BSC) Nos. suppliers Monitoring of 50 suppliers suppliers AD FD Suppliers. AD FD AD FD 30 20 3 batches of training 40 30 50 40 conducted by EHS+ Centre (ISC) 64 participants, 16 suppliers. 30 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES RISK MANAGEMENT Eﬀec ve risk management is vital for long-term ﬁnancial planning and organisa onal ﬂexibility. Companies need to implement internal control processes to comply with exis ng regula ons and proac vely develop the control mechanism. Company-wide Risk Assessment Supply Chain Risk Assessment We have a well-deﬁned risk management framework (RMF) and We have a comprehensive framework for assessing business supply processes in place at various levels across enterprise, which is guided chain risks and developing joint Risk Mi ga on plans for our cri cal by Board Approved Risk management policy. Our risk management suppliers. This ini a ve is led by Strategic Sourcing Unit (SSU) of func on is structurally independent of the business line. The Chief M&M and helps in improving risk predic ve eﬃciency in the areas of Risk Oﬃcer (CRO), part of the Group Strategy Oﬃce, is responsible 'Geo-poli cal', 'Catastrophe', 'Market', 'Strategic', 'Financial' and for iden fying & assessing corporate & asset level risks. 'Opera onal' risks. Risk mi ga on is done through proac ve capacity Every quarter, the Corporate Risk Management team priori ses planning, vulnerability tracking for iden ﬁed suppliers and using reported risks based on structured policies & RMF and presents the Diﬀeren ated Sourcing Strategy for iden fying structural risks. ﬁndings to the Risk Management Commi ee of Board which monitors, reviews and makes main decisions for the adop on and Brand Risk mi ga on strategy and directs its implementa on via robust Risk The Mahindra Group has a detailed policy in place that accounts for management process. On an asset level, iden ﬁed risks in plants and risk to its reputa on, which includes events that have an adverse central departments are monitored con nually. impact on the brand. To mi gate this risk, the group has a threeThis year again, we conducted an extensive exercise for iden fying pronged approach, which includes ghtening the restric ons deﬁned climate change risks and opportuni es. The Chief Risk Oﬃcer and the in the brand guidelines, strengthening its monitoring mechanisms, Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer are engaged through a structured process crea ng a crisis management/communica ons policy along with to deliberate on possible risks and opportuni es from Technologystress test. Economic-Media-Poli cal-Legal-Environmental-Social (TEMPLES) framework. for more informa on on risk management structure, see our annual report Nasir Deshmukh General Manager (Manufacturing Opera ons), Igatpuri I am excited about the rst Integrated Report of Mahindra which shows our new approach to business strategy incorporating integrated thinking, materiality and business model. This holistic approach helps us re ect on our strategy, while the integrated thinking makes it easier to stay focussed on value creation and make our business more sustainable. 31 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 HOW WE DELIVERED VALUE The real value of an organisa on can only be ascertained by the value it delivers to its en re stakeholder spectrum. From quite some me, organisa ons too are looked as ci zens and society pegs on them mul -dimensional responsibili es. These responsibili es can eﬀec vely be captured as the summa on of six capitals ﬁnancial, manufactured, intellectual, human, natural, and social & rela onship. This sec on details our performance on the above six capitals during the repor ng year. It also sheds light on how these capitals are interconnected in our business domain, what are the trade-oﬀs and where all do they synergise. The below chart shares in a nutshell what is encompassed in each capital. Financial Capital is the economic value that we generate through our businesses and the value that we distribute back to the stakeholders FINANCIAL Social & Rela onship Capital CAPITAL is nurtured by the quality of Manufactured Capital engagement that exists comprises our factories, between the society and the SOCIAL & oﬃces, and research organisa on and manifests in RELATIONSHIP MANUFACTURED facili es as well as the the societal license to operate CAPITAL CAPITAL vehicles produced there INTEGRATED REPORT Natural Capital Intellectual Capital is the summa on of is the outcome of our metals, minerals, relentless research, water, energy and land the patent applica ons that make our NATURAL INTELLECTUAL and the know-how opera ons possible CAPITAL CAPITAL that sets us apart HUMAN CAPITAL Human Capital comprises the employees and workers who strive passionately in our plants & facili es to achieve and maintain the excellence that is synonymous with us Each of these 6 capitals is central and integral to our long-term stability Our overarching objec ve is to be a deserving ﬁrstand sustainability. We con nuously monitor them, formulate goals, in-line when these capitals are being allocated, by strategise means to achieve those goals and implement these strategies on ground, keeping in mind the rela onships between being the most eﬃcient and proliﬁc transformers of these resources. these capitals and enabling all stakeholders to Rise. 32 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES The Farm Equipment Sector registered an excellent performance with a growth of 23% in tractor volumes, outpacing the industry growth rate of 18%. We achieved the highest ever market share of 42.7%. FINANCIAL C A P I TA L THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW Since the dawn of business, organisa ons have been judged, celebrated or wri en oﬀ based on FY 2017 was a year of consolida on as improvement in overall economic sen ment, a normal monsoon a er two the ﬁnancial numbers. Basically, how they generate years of deﬁcit rainfall, and Government's focus on revenue and more importantly, how they u lise it development of agriculture and infrastructure sectors, to create more wealth. For over 70 years now, helped drive the demand for the automo ve as well as the tractor industry. It was a red-le er year as we Mahindra has consistently created, channelised achieved several milestones in the Farm and Auto and enhanced the wealth for all stakeholders. We businesses, and made progress towards our roadmap of understand that ﬁnancial capital is important being a future-ready company. because it gives us the wherewithal to add more We con nued our focus to deliver 'Farm Tech Prosperity' value across all other capitals. to the Indian farmer, through development and launch of technologically advanced tractors, agri-machinery and farm solu ons. 33 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 We con nued our focus to deliver No. 1 We con nued to maintain our leadership posi on in the No. We also maintained our leadership posi on in the 1 Mahindra Powerol con nued to be amongst 'Farm Tech Prosperity' domes c UV segment with LCV category with industry leaders, with a to the Indian farmer a market share of . % a market share of . % revenue growth of . % The year saw the comple on of 34 years of M&M leadership in the During the repor ng period, we maintained domes c tractor market. our posi on as the rd largest Passenger Vehicle Our market share of Company, the nd largest Commercial Vehicle Company and the Largest Small Commercial 42.7%, Vehicle Company in India. a gain of 1.8% over the previous year, is the highest ever achieved by us till date. M&M + MVML recorded an increase of 7.73% in net income at INR 418.95 billion in the year under review as against INR 388.88 billion in the previous year. Migra on from BS-III to BS-IV As an organisa on that takes pride in looking beyond the bend and taking proac ve ac ons, we were well prepared to absorb the change from BS III to BS IV standards. As early as April 2016, we had launched the Big Bolero Pik-up with a BS-IV compliant version, while in July 2016, we launched the new-genera on Scorpio with a mild In the auto sector, we retained the No.1 hybrid technology and BS-IV compliant engine. Our early start helped position in the LCV category with a market us adapt to the changed norms much faster. share of This is testament to the inter-connected nature 51.3%. of capitals natural capital with ﬁnancial and manufactured capital of businesses. Mahindra continues to focus on innovation and ef ciencies 8% increase in 16%surge our top-line in PAT In comparison to FY16 (M&M+MVML) With greater sensi vity to maintaining air quality and the need to This is the second consecu ve year when our market share in this reduce dependence on fossil fuels, the Indian government is ac vely segment is greater than 50%. pursuing a programme for having an all-electric ﬂeet by 2030. Being We also con nued to maintain our leadership posi on in the pioneers of Electric Vehicles (EV) in India, we are focussing on the domes c UV segment with a market share of 29.2%. In the power development of EV market and upgrading EV technology capabili es. solu ons space, Mahindra Powerol con nued to be amongst industry Thus, the evolving focus of the government not only augurs well for leaders and posted a revenue growth of 8.6% in 2016-17. the natural capital, but also for our ﬁnancial capital. 34 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES HIGHLIGHTS We were ranked third on business transparency among the top 100 fastest-growing companies based in 15 emerging market countries, and opera ng in 185 countries around the world, by Transparency Interna onal. The report assessed the public disclosure prac ces of these companies on key elements including an -corrup on programmes, company structures & holdings, and key ﬁnancial informa on disclosed for each country. Some of the other highlights of this year included: 8% growth in top 4.2% was invested in line and R&D and product 16% growth in development as a percentage of bo om line revenue for FY to improve the product por olio Highest ever market share of Highest ever export 42.7% volumes crossing the in tractors helped us to improve our farm sector margins 50,000 mark and consistently maintaining a % CAGR for consecu ve years Robust balance sheet with zero net D/E ra o Became the ﬁrst Indian company to announce its internal carbon price of per ton of carbon emi ed US$10 Some of the products that stood out this year Automotive Division Farm Division Launched a game-changing Introduced a new range of agri-specialist tractors connected vehicles Mahindra YUVO, with advanced technology in the technology pla orm DiGiSENSE HP range and it was a runaway success Smart applica on to empower Mahindra customers to digitally build knowledge 24x7 about the performance and loca on of their mobility products and tractors First of its kind technology pla orm which is mul -applica on and mul -product enabled We are the ﬁrst Indian OEM to leverage one Launched JIVO, a small tractor for the farmers. integrated technology pla orm for vehicle With its narrow compact design and high power, connec vity across a wide range of mobility JIVO is an ideal choice for the growing segment products, tractors and businesses. of hor culture and row crop farming. 35 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Beyond Financials Taking Electric Mobility to the Next Level With an eye on the future, we rebranded our electric mobility por olio as Mahindra Electric. Under this umbrella brand, the company will manufacture electric cars, license out its electric vehicle technologies, electrify its new and exis ng pla orms, and help deliver integrated zero emission mobility solu ons. A perfect example of how intellectual capital can raise the manufactured capital and in turn, the ﬁnancial capital We are also planning to power some of our new and exis ng vehicles with the latest electric drivetrain technology from Mahindra Electric. It is a clear embodiment of Mahindra's vision of the 'Future of Mobility' which includes the framework of green, connected, convenient and costeﬀec ve vehicle technology. Some of the launches this year New The e2oPlusthe next genera on electric car from Mahindra Electric. Launch Apart from the standard electric car beneﬁts like zero emission, low running cost, ease of driving and home charging, the e2oPlus features superior styling, an increased range and fast charging capability. We con nued our electric ambi ons with the launch of the innova ve eVerito, India's ﬁrst zero-emission, all-electric sedan and also showcased the soon to be launched e-Supro, an electric version of the Supro passenger van. With this, our product mix has electric vehicles across diﬀerent product categories. We have laid out a clear roadmap for the electriﬁca on of our range of vehicles to reduce emission and build an eco-system for electric mobility in India. This year has been a momentous one for us we launched four electric vehicles across different segments, launched a pioneering electric eet initiative in Nagpur jointly with the government and Ola, and explored unique partnership models to bring EVs to selfdrive and shared mobility systems. The entire ecosystem is evolving around electric mobility and the Indian government has come out full throttle in favour of EVs with its 2032 vision. All these are just signs of the exciting and fast paced journey that Mahindra Electric has committed to undertake with the EV 2.0 strategy, to lead the EV revolution from the front. Mahesh Babu CEO, Mahindra Electric MANAGEMENT APPROACH At Mahindra, we ﬁrmly believe that sustainability challenges lead to future opportuni es. We are upping the ante on technology and Alternate Thinking ingrained in our DNA over the years ensures that we increase our ﬁnancial capital at the intersec on of growing innova on through advanced robo cs, natural, social and rela onship capital. Whether it is crea ng a futuris c design, electric racing, connected product mix rich in electric vehicles or building a green and inclusive vehicles and smart technology. por olio, we are focussed on disrup ng exis ng norms to give rise to newer business models with 'Futurise'. All of this is possible due to our con nuing R&D endeavours, which allows us to unravel cu ng-edge products and services that are sustainable and disrup ve. This year too, our R&D ini a ves and investments added value across all capitals. We will con nue our eﬀorts in unveiling new products with the hope of deﬁning the future of mobility and oﬀering enablers of inclusive development, empowering India to Rise. 36 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE M&M+MVML INR million Net Revenue Proﬁt A er Tax Economic Value Distributed 418,953.8 38,888.9 453,245.80 Economic Value Retained 7.7% 16.3 % 17,714.60 Over the last 10 years, we have maintained a CAGR of Total Economic Value Generated 15.4% in revenue 16.2% in EBITDA 470,960.40 Research & Development INR million Economic Value Generated and Distributed (FY ) Economic Value Generated Net Income , . * Economic Value Distributed Total expenses 437,994.90 Excep onal items (5,484.60) Net current taxes 9,982.60 Deferred taxes 2,335.90 15,796.11 18,858.90 20,755.80 Proposed dividend 9,276.20 Income tax on 1,202.00 proposed dividend Total Economic Value , . Distributed *Research and Development: FY 2015-16 data is only for M&M Economic Value Retained , . FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 *Economic value generated includes other opera ng revenue. The revenue earned from sales of products & services is INR 464,271.3 million While our R&D investment has doubled in the last In FY , Earnings Per Share (Basic) grew by years, the number of patents have gone up from in FY to in FY . 14.5% to INR 63 L O C A L S U P P LY While we expand our global footprint, our commitment to local Whatever the case may be, we do not compromise on quality opera ons and sourcing con nues. standards. Some of the aspects which enable us to iden fy and empanel our suppliers include: Although as a corporate ci zen of India, our scope of local sourcing covers the en re country; some businesses have their own deﬁni on Performance and onme delivery | Compliance on and boundary of what cons tutes as local. Environment, Health and Safety guidelines This hinges on many factors, such as the nature of opera on, tax and Commitment to reduce the carbon footprint duty regimes, supply of skilled manpower, access to technology and know-how, industry requirements etc. Statutory requirements | Costs | Corporate policy 37 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 An analysis of the top 10 suppliers as per monetary value for each business shows that on an aggregate basis, 100% of our requirement was sourced locally. Mahindra & Mahindra became the ﬁrst Indian Purchases company to announce its internal carbon Purchases from Local Percentage of price of US per ton of carbon emi ed. Total from Top 10 Suppliers Purchases Suppliers (within top 10) Local Suppliers The carbon price is aligned with our business Business INR million INR million INR million (within top 10) commitment to reduce the GHG emissions by Auto Division 119,405.80 18,899 18,899 100% % over the next three years. Swaraj 22,201 9,998 9,998 100% Farm Division 51,426 14,237 14,237 100% The partnership with World Bank and IFC led Carbon Pricing Leadership Consor um along with the World Resources Ins tute and The Energy and Resource Ins tute (TERI), enhanced our understanding of the carbon price mechanism. F I N A N C I A L I M P L I C AT I O N S O F Con nual Energy Eﬃciency through Process Eﬃciency C L I M AT E C H A N G E We started repor ng our emissions from FY 2008 and since then, we When the manufactured and ﬁnancial capital increase at the cost of have reduced our carbon emissions by 47% and energy use by 32%. natural capital, the consequences can adversely impact all other Along with developing India's ﬁrst and only electric car, the e2o, we capitals and life as we know it. also took other ini a ves such as the use of magne c induc on, LED Being in the manufacturing and agricultural sectors, our opera ons ligh ng technology and waste heat recovery systems at our plants. are highly vulnerable to climate change and unpredictable weather. The implica ons dependence on monsoon, rising energy costs, Systemic Interven on to Embed Sustainability restricted access to raw materials like water and changing consumer in Supply Chain preferences etc. pose serious threats to the sustainability of our Mahindra & Mahindra ac vely supported the forma on of the EHS+ business. But alterna vely, these factors though alarming to the Centrean Environment, Health and Safety training centre under the manufacturing and ﬁnancial capital, gives an opportunity to innovate aegis of The Ins tute for Sustainable Communi es and in partnership and excel leading to a compe ve advantage. with Symbiosis Ins tute of Interna onal Business with support from US Over the years, we have honed our Alternate Thinking to convert Agency for Interna onal Development (USAID), the Walt Disney Co., challenges into prospects. Star ng with energy saving ini a ves and General Electric Founda on and MacArthur Founda on. emission reducing processes, our sustainability journey has evolved Located in Pune, the EHS+ Centre will provide aﬀordable, high-quality from 'conserva on' to 'rejuvena on' leading to inves ng in clean and training to factory managers on industrial energy eﬃciency, carbon renewable energy, and recharging of resources. Following are some of management, resource eﬃciency, improving health and safety the ways in which we kept emphasis on addressing climate change: condi ons for workers, and reducing adverse environmental impacts on surrounding communi es. Par cipate in diverse na onal and interna onal climate change think-tanks Investment in Clean Power Carbon Pricing is an interna onally recognised business tool that Green energy is clean energy. Alterna ve energy sources like solar, enables companies to create resources which are invested in low wind and thermal also oﬀer an addi onal input to our power needs. carbon technologies, which help reduce future emissions and lower As of now, more than 7% of our power mix consists of renewables and opera ng costs. we are constantly looking to increase it. We have invested in 4.2 MW of wind power 38 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES At Mahindra, our manufacturing competence follows the 'Futurise' philosophy where we are not only equipped for the present, but also ready for the future. MANUFACTURED C A P I TA L MANAGEMENT APPROACH We are what we make. Our ability to manufacture, impact our capabili es towards adding value to all other capitals. Manufactured capital is the produc on capability of an organisa on. It is the sum total of all the physical objects Manufactured capital is built through financial that are available to the organisa on for use in the capital (Capex and Opex), by human capital produc on of goods and provision of service. This includes plants, buildings, equipment, technology and (workers and employees) leveraging intellectual infrastructure such as roads, ports, bridges and waste and capital (patents, processes and know-how) and on water treatment plants. natural capital (land). And all this requires a license Our world-class infrastructure rubs shoulder with cu ngto operate that is obtained and maintained edge technology to surge ahead with future-ready products like connected vehicles and electric automobiles. through social & rela onship capital. In return, our plants, factories and R&D facili es help us produce Manufactured capital is important to us as it reduces the use of resources and increases the usage of human innova ve and sustainable products that add back crea vity. This enhances eﬃciency and innova on, leading value to all the capitals. to a sustainable growth. An eﬀec ve u lisa on of manufactured capital enables us to be adaptable, recep ve to market and social needs, inven ve, and quick in ge ng our products and services to the market. 39 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 FACILITY OVERVIEW The footprint of M&M is spawned over 6 million sq.m. across India at multiple locations. All our Plants have been recer ﬁed under the standard ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001: 2007. Further, all Plants are in the process of adop ng the revised environmental standard ISO 14001: 2015. As at 31st March 2017, our property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets stood at INR 96.73 billion. Zaheerabad Zaheerabad 323,749 sq.m. 1,390,096 sq.m. Swaraj Foundry 65,138 sq.m. Nashik Plant-2 18,000 sq.m. Swaraj-2 149,800 sq.m. Swaraj-1 121,406 sq.m. Nashik plant-1 470,039 sq.m. Rudrapur 42,500 sq.m. Nagpur Kandivali 179,964 sq.m. 254,938 sq.m. Kandivali 145,687 sq.m. Igatpuri Jaipur 404,686 sq.m. 72,155 sq.m. Haridwar 141,640 sq.m. Chakan (MVML) 2,660,932 sq.m. During the year, M&M Ltd. incurred capital expenditure of INR 22.02 billion, where a major focus was on new product development and capacity enhancement 40 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES ENABLING INFRASTRUCTURE PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY At Mahindra, we aim to catalyse a symbio c rela onship through our The diversity of India in terms of religion, language and culture etc. is passenger vehicles and farm equipment. But in addi on to comfort, vast making customer segmenta on that much more tedious. But, if safety, aﬀordability and quality, we also keep sustainability at the heart one were to segregate it into two dis nct iden es, the rural-urban is of every product innova on. This manifests in our gamut of products one of the most visible; and most important. The village economy is and services that resonates with our three core standpoints primarily based on agriculture, while the ci es run on manufacturing proﬁtability, environmental responsibility and social responsibility. and services sector and both depend on each other for sustenance. Our diverse business por olio, coupled with a desire to democra se The common thread is the requirement of products that help them go innova on, has helped us penetrate every economic stratum. Our further with less funds and do more with less eﬀort. ever-expanding range of sustainable products emanates from our ﬁrm In the fast-deple ng natural capital scenario, the products should not commitment to: only increase the convenience of the customers, rural or urban, but also u lise less resources in its making and use. With years of Explore Alternate Thinking at Mahindra, we build products that add comfort, safety, aﬀordability and quality as well as keep sustainability at the Alternative Fuel Technologies heart of every product innova on. So, whether it is passenger vehicles for the urban Enable consumer or farm equipment for the rural, our Farm-tech Prosperity products and services enhances all three capitals ﬁnancial, natural & social. Promote Sustainable Economies & Farming Practices 469,384 vehicles 248,594 tractors We have world-class facili es to enable achieving produc on targets were manufactured in our world-class that also helps us in being ﬂexible to make products that the market demands. facilities and sold in the domestic market Environmental Impacts Spearheading Sustainable Mobility We are India's premier u lity vehicle company commi ed to oﬀering a wide range of sustainable mobility products and solu ons ranging from SUVs, electric vehicles, pickups, commercial vehicles, tractors and farm equipment that are tough, rugged, reliable, environment-friendly and fuel-eﬃcient. Our commitment is reﬂected in our stringent 5C test through which every product, exis ng or new, must pass through: Clean, Convenient, Connected, Clever and Cost-eﬀec ve. At Mahindra, we push the limits of technology and innova on and redeﬁne mobility at every step. We have a desire to transform; to provide mobility which is more sustainable and more dependable. Under the umbrella brand Mahindra Electric, rebranded from Mahindra's electric mobility por olio, we will manufacture electric cars, license out our electric vehicle technologies, electrify our new We are also determined to convert the vision of 'Make in India' into and exis ng pla orms and help deliver integrated zero emissions reality with ingenious research and indigenous suppliers. With mobility solu ons. Futurise, we are upping the ante on technology and innova on to compete with the best in the world. Life Cycle Assessment Approach Our transforma on into a global innova on powerhouse is rooted in three guiding principles: At every stage of our products' life cycle, we look for ways to reduce the environmental footprint while improving the performance and durability of our product. We use Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as a tool to assess the environmental impact associated with all the stages of a product's life from raw material extrac on through materials processing, manufacture, distribu on, use, repair and maintenance, and disposal or recycling. Do more Do it Do it with less together for all This helps us in compiling an inventory of relevant energy and material inputs, and environmental releases as well as evalua ng the poten al impact associated with iden ﬁed inputs and releases. This 3D-framework empowers us with purpose and direc on. It guides all our business investment ac ons and embodies our The results assist us to make a more informed decision about our commitment to our people and the planet. products and their environmental impact. 41 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 MORE POWERFUL TUV3OO We are always recep ve to consumer insights and feedback, based on which we introduced the more powerful avatar of the TUV3OO. With a new mHAWK100 engine to deliver power of 73.5 kW (100 Bhp) and best-in-class torque of 240 Nm (from 230 Nm earlier), the TUV3OO is India's 1st SUV to oﬀer autoSHIFT Automated Manual Transmission Technology (AMT). It is now further reﬁned for smoother automa c gear shi s and a fa gue-free driving experience, and comes with ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts on the 2nd row seat to ensure safety of the child. SCORPIO WITH INTELLI-HYBRID TECHNOLOGY As an organisa on that places keen emphasis on sustainability and eco-friendly prac ces, across every process and product, we introduced a mild hybrid technology on the Scorpio. By reducing fuel consump on, Intelli-Hybrid helps Scorpio owners contribute towards a cleaner and greener tomorrow. With Intelli-Hybrid technology, Scorpio is India's ﬁrst mild hybrid SUV that reduces fuel consump on using Motor Assist, Electronic Start Stop and Brake Energy Regenera on Intelli-Hybrid reduces fuel consump on by up to 7% by assis ng the New Developments engine with electric power during accelera on, automa cally Auto Division | Passenger Cars switching the engine oﬀ while the vehicle is sta onary (start-stop) and re-using brake energy, which would otherwise be wasted, to charge NUVOSPORT the ba ery. Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) has some inherent advantages They are easy to learn, comfortable to manoeuvre, and be er at managing power and handling gear ra os. So, we introduced our new SUV Nuvosport with AMT. It is a feature-rich sporty SUV with bold styling built on the same new genera on pla orm as the Scorpio. One of the few SUVs to oﬀer AMT, it comes with Comfort Suspension and An -Roll Technologies that enable an excellent drive. The fuel-eﬃcient 1.5L mHawk100 diesel engine delivers 74.6 kW (100bhp) power and best-in-class torque of 240 Nm, ensuring a thrilling performance. Along with premium interiors, the NuvoSport We launched the new limited edi on 'Scorpio comes with ABS with EBD and dual airbags right from the base variant Adventure' with a produc on run of only 1,000 as op onal, side intrusion beams, front fog lamps and a digital engine vehicles that oﬀer exci ng features in addi on to immobiliser for uncompromised safety. the ones oﬀered in the top-end S10 model of the NEW AGE XUV5OO DOWN UNDER new genera on Scorpio. At Mahindra, it is our constant endeavour to oﬀer advanced and accessible technologies to all customers across the world. So, we launched the all-new automa c transmission version of the New Age XUV5OO in Australia. It features the 2nd genera on 6-speed Automa c Transmission, All Wheel Drive (AWD) op on and several hi-tech features. A world-class family SUV with an excellent fuel economy, the new age XUV5OO takes the driving experience to the next level with easy cruising on city roads as well as on challenging terrains. XUV5OO with many technology rsts to its credit and a winning combination of aspirational styling, advanced technology, safety features, comfort and convenience, is one of the fastest selling SUVs to reach the 150,000-vehicle sales milestone in just 4 years. 42 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES CASE STUDY The future of mobility all-electric sedan eVerito The launch of the eVerito is a deﬁning moment in our electric mobility journey as it marks our foray into the electric sedan category. With issues like environmental degrada on, pollu on-related challenges, climate change and energy security, there has never been a be er me to switch to electric vehicles. It is India's ﬁrst zero-emission sedan, built with Green, Connected, Convenient and Cost-eﬀec ve vehicle technology. ZERO TELEMATICS HOME CHARGING INR 1.15/km tail Pipe captures 190+ vehicle 0-100% charge running cost emission performance parameters in just 8 hours 45 min (considering electricity cost INR7/unit) REVIVE® 110 km LOW MAINTENANCE LITHIUM ION a ﬁrst-in-the-world feature by range per every due to fewer number long-life Mahindra Electric. On the rare occasion full charge moving parts maintenance-free that the car runs low on energy, Revive® ba eries can be ac vated to gain an extra 8 km of range, to help the user reach home or the nearest charging sta on. The eVerito is an embodiment of Mahindra's vision of the 'Future of Mobility' 43 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 ELECTRIC CITY SMART CAR, THE 'E2OPLUS' NEW BOLERO WITH mHAWKD70 ENGINE As the pioneer of electric vehicles and integrated mobility solu ons in We introduced the new Bolero Power+ with the reliable mHawkD70 India, it has always been our endeavour to make electric vehicles engine that delivers 13% more power than the original model, more accessible. The launch of the e2oPlus marks our foray into the ensuring a peppier drive with 52.5 kW (70 bhp) power and 195 Nm mass market electric city car segment. torque. It has be er manoeuvrability and is also more fuel eﬃcient with 5% more mileage, than the exis ng Bolero. The e2oPlus aptly represents our 'Rise' philosophy in ac on, as our development team delivered a The Bolero has been India's No.1 SUV for more smart city car that is poised to nurture a sustainable than 10 years in a row and the new Bolero Power+ ecosystem and redeﬁne the 'Future of Mobility'. is an evolu on of this powerful brand with enhanced product value proposi on. The e2oPlus shares quite a few features with the eVerito like Revive®, Regenera ve Braking, Easy Home Charging, Hill Assist, Telema cs, extremely low running cost of just 70 paise/km, and low maintenance. In addi on, it includes features and customer-beneﬁts like: Hassle-free Ease of Strong Drive Ownership Connec vity Instant Torque Deprecia on Beneﬁts Regular Progress Reports Small Turning Radius Government Incen ves Charging Ports Informa on Reverse Camera Smart Phone App Connec vity Designed and developed in-house, it is primarily diﬀerent from the e2o, having 4-doors instead of the 2-doors in e2o. Other diﬀeren ators ECO-FRIENDLY JEETO CNG include extra wheelbase, design traits from Mahindra's MPV/SUV lineup, more space, boot space, 3-year/60,000 km warranty, infotainment Mahindra has always proac vely introduced several sustainable system that pairs with your smartphone and four diﬀerent models to business solu ons in the market. With best in the class payload, choose from. higher mileage (33.2 km per kg), longer deck size and low maintenance, Jeeto CNG oﬀers an excellent value proposi on for its customers and is a perfect CNG mini truck for their business needs. Auto Division | Light Commercial Vehicles With the launch of Jeeto CNG, Mahindra has taken THE SUPREME WORKHORSE, BIG BOLERO PIK-UP yet another step towards promo ng sustainable Being the leader in the pick-up segment for over a decade, we have mobility solu ons. made robust systems and processes to understand and address the evolving needs of our customers. The launch of the Big Bolero Pik-up with superior value proposi on is a genuine step in that direc on. The FUEL-EFFICIENT BLAZO TRUCK big cargo box and high payload capacity, combined with the fuel We have con nuously leveraged technology and innova on to bring eﬃcient high-performance engine will enable the customers to earn be er value for the customers. India's ﬁrst smart truck Blazo is a more, while the spacious and comfortable cabin will oﬀer a fa guetestament of our endeavour in the same direc on. free drive. With this launch, we have further upgraded our pick-up Introducing a new technology to the Indian market called FuelSmart, range to oﬀer best-in-class value and eﬃciency to the customers. presented in the form of three switches, it gives an unbeatable mileage without compromising on the power. Mahindra rolled out Supro Minivan and Minitruck, launching four new products in the passenger Our conﬁdence in the new range is demonstrated category and three new products in the cargo by our guarantee (an industry ﬁrst) that the category on the Supro pla orm which now boasts Mahindra Blazo will give the customer more of India's widest range of passenger and cargo mileage than your exis ng truck, or the customer vehicles with 11 product oﬀerings. can actually return the truck. 44 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Farm Division | Tractors The JIVO is a compact 24 HP 4WD tractor oﬀering best-in-class PTO HP and fuel eﬃciency. It will help in small farm mechanisa on like row AGRI-SPECIALIST TRACTORS MAHINDRA YUVO crop and hor culture farming with its mul -applica on suitability including crop care, land prepara on, inter culture & vineyard spraying. We launched the new range of 5 Agri-Specialist Tractors Mahindra Equipped with Automa c Depth & Dra Control (ADDC), a feature not YUVO with advanced technology in the 30-45 HP range. It caters to available in other brands in this HP range, it also has Mahindra the evolving needs of the progressive farmer. Developed in-house at DiGiSENSE technology which will enable farmers to get updates on our R & D facility, Mahindra Research Valley at Chennai, it has set a their tractors' performance as well as alerts on a realme basis. new benchmark in pioneering technology. Yuvo demonstrates the commitment of Mahindra to enable farmers to improve their yield and produc vity, and Rise in life. Built on a completely new pla orm with a unique and industry-ﬁrst 12F+3R full constant-mesh gearbox in the category, Mahindra YUVO is extremely versa le and can be used across more than 30 diﬀerent farming applica ons. The advanced technology of the Yuvo range helps serve the diverse needs of farmers from land prepara on to harves ng as well as post-harves ng requirements; helping them do more, faster and be er. We also launched Swaraj 742 FE, which is a 42 HP tractor. Fi ed with powerful & fuel eﬃcient 3-cylinder engine, it inherits the Swaraj DNA and oﬀers the highest engine CC and torque in its category. It is equipped with advanced innova ve features like mul speed reverse & forward PTO, power steering, single & dual clutch, be er braking eﬃciency and boasts of having less maintenance costs. This tractor is suitable for puddling opera on, implements like rotavator and cul vator, and also haulage and other agricultural opera ons. Farm Division | Agri Products Mahindra is the global leader in tractors, in terms NUPRO BRANDED PULSES of volumes. With the launch of the new Mahindra 6560 in Bangladesh, we have deployed technology We expanded our por olio of NuPro brand pulses by introducing four new vari es Chana Dal, Moong Dal, Masoor Dal and Urad Dal. With innova on to set new benchmarks, thereby their introduc on, we can now boast of a complete por olio of reinven ng ourselves to stay ahead. branded pulses with the proposi on of healthy, pure and quality The Mahindra 6560 will pioneer the current products. tractor market, with its superior fuel eﬃciency, A 100% vegetarian unpolished variety, NuPro branded pulses have minimum moisture content and are prepared by spli ng through advanced synchromesh transmission, 18 speed natural sun drying. As a result, NuPro pulses take up to 50% lesser op ons, precision hydraulics with highest pump cooking me compared to the average dal in the market. NuPro ﬂow for quick lowering, unmatched-in-class li pulses are free from any chemical ingredient, ensuring consumers of capacity of 2,200 kg, highest torque of 236.9 Nm the purest form of pulses. These pulses retain natural nutrients and are high on protein and vitamin which complement a healthy lifestyle. and a backup torque of 33% that will deliver uniform and consistent power with minimum RPM drop in all applica on and soil condi ons. JIVO A NEW SMALL TRACTOR PLATFORM With innova on and technology as the bedrock, we are working to redeﬁne the face of farming in the future. We have embarked on various ini a ves towards this end and our recently launched Farming 3.0 pla orm will help in taking farm mechanisa on to the small farms. The launch of the JIVO pla orm is another signiﬁcant step in that direc on. 45 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 MAHINDRA TRRINGO board diagnos c (OBD) system on all our export models of Scorpio SC/DC, Scorpio SUV and XUV5OO (AWD, TWD), Quanto, Genio and Mahindra TRRINGO was launched in Maharashtra, star ng with two Xylo. We have also cer ﬁed our Scorpio SUV for L6 emission norms hubs located at Koregaon and Karad talukas of district Satara. It is a for Brazil. unique, ﬁrst-of-its-kind physical digital model which allows farmers to rent tractors and other mechanised farm equipment for comple ng • OBD II is implemented in all domes c models from April 2013 their farming requirements, without actually having to invest in a tractor. • All the export vehicles are complying with applicable OECD & country speciﬁc regula ons including those for noise and safety. 50% The villages of Karad and Koregaon talukas have high density of small of our vehicles meant for export market are designed in accordance and marginal farmers, resul ng in low mechanisa on and poor farm with European, Australian, South African & South American motor produc vity. The launch of TRRINGO in this region will help address vehicle safety standards and regula ons like front, oﬀset, side and these challenges. rear impact with dummy injury criteria. Being Future Ready Provisions for End-of-Life Vehicles End-of-Life Vehicles (ELVs) have the poten al to release harmful substances to environment, if they are not stored, treated & disposed properly. We are commi ed to minimising the environmental impact of our vehicles and adhere to best prac ces like: • None of our major models have any hazardous materials like Lead, Cadmium or Mercury etc. • We have ins tuted special processes to ensure compliance to EEC direc ve 2005/64/EC for ELV regula on • European Exports: In line with the EC direc ve on Recycle, Recovery & Reuse (RRR), here are the recyclability rates of some of our best-selling passenger vehicles TRINGO will play a pivotal role in driving rural Quanto: 95.1% | Genio: 96.5% | Scorpio: 94.5% prosperity by empowering farmers with advanced Scorpio pick up: 95.3% | XUV5OO: 93.9% farm equipment, thereby improving produc vity • Dismantling manuals has been developed for the ﬁrst and reducing cost. Further, it will generate rural me for Mahindra vehicles employment and help bridge the gap between requirement and availability, oﬀering farmers easy access to a wide variety of tractors. Farm Division One of our endeavours while designing for a product for the farmers is Health & Safety Impacts to keep them safe and comfortable. Before introducing new products, they are tested on all parameters of safety and comfort. As one of the leaders in the automo ve sector, we understand the role safety of a vehicle plays in the life of a customer. Hence, the • More than 7000 inputs went into developing YUVO which was then importance of health and safety in the products and services we oﬀer, put through 140,000 hours of lab and ﬁeld tes ng across 12 states is second to none. We incorporate EHS (Environment, Health and covering relevant applica ons. Safety) factors at the design stage of the product itself. A er the design, the prototypes undergo a series of gruelling tests carried out under all condi ons possible. All the possible EHS concerns Social Impacts are weeded out before the go-ahead for the ﬁnal product is given. Economy powers social progress and the growth in social equity feeds Moreover, periodic tes ng and customer feedback mechanisms are in the economy. This is a cycle well embraced by us at Mahindra. We place to measure, monitor and manage health and safety norms design products that not only upli the economy but make the people conforma on across the lifecycle of the product. RISE as well. Whether it is the urban consumer, who wants to travel Safety ini a ves undertaken by our sectors during the repor ng year far with less or the rural consumer that wants to do more with less, we include: bring to our customers the latest in technology and innova on to achieve that. Auto Division Auto Division • Our vehicles are currently mee ng BS-IV emission norms in 24 • We are focussing on increasing the fuel-eﬃciency of our vehicles, ci es where these norms are implemented. In rest of the places, we both in the passenger segment as well as commercial, and are mee ng BS-III norms. introducing best-in-class mileage products across categories. This directly aﬀects the social reach of the customers, whether they are • We have the current European Emission norms of EuroVb with On using the vehicle for business or personal use. 46 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES • The world and society is moving towards a less-carbon economy. • Mahindra EPC We strive to provide solu ons to farmers in modern There is a strategic emphasis on electric vehicles, that is the scien ﬁc water management through customised micro-irriga on technology for the future. With the launch of e2O, eVerito and a host systems and agronomical support in order to achieve superior of products in the pipeline, we are moving towards crea ng a range product quality and higher crop yields. of product in all categories. I N I T I AT I V E I N I T I AT I V E Driving Entrepreneurship and Connec ng Vehicles Smart Mobility across India Towards a Connected Future Taking cognizance of the increasing demand for shared mobility Digi sa on is fast emerging as a key diﬀeren ator for business solu ons amongst young consumers, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. transforma on; and connected vehicle technology is one such entered into a strategic alliance with Ola, the country's largest manifesta on. Technology has become an integral part of our shared transporta on pla orm In September 2016. lives and the need to stay connected is a basic necessity for ﬂeet owners to improve produc vity and individual owners for Through this strategic alliance, personal needs. we seek to empower In line with one of our core purpose of challenging conven onal thinking, is the DiGiSENSE 1.0 a revolu onary technology 40,000 solu on that connects Mahindra vehicles, tractors, trucks and construc on equipment to the cloud, opening up a whole new driver partners across India by 2018. dimension to the experience of vehicle ownership. DiGiSENSE makes Mahindra the First Indian OEM to leverage one integrated technology platform for vehicle connectivity across a wide range of mobility products, tractors and businesses The alliance has two core purposes: Encouraging Micro-Entrepreneurship Amongst Drivers Ola's driver partners will be able to avail an integrated and a rac ve 'Mahindra-Ola' package. This will include Mahindra cars at special prices, a rac ve ﬁnancing with zero down payment, and the best NBFC interest rates, etc. The Mahindra-Ola package makes it easier for driver partners who otherwise may not be able to invest in a car, to purchase one at a highly aﬀordable price, and at up to zero down payment. Driving Next Genera on Mobility Major features and advantages of the pla orm Mahindra and Ola will also explore other areas of collabora on to • It empowers owners, ﬂeet operators, drivers, dealers and build the next genera on of mobility solu ons including those for service teams to access vital informa on about their vehicles, unique transporta on use cases. trucks, tractors or construc on equipment on a realme basis from the driver's seat and afar. This alliance aligns with Mahindra's Rise • It is a modular, scalable, ﬂexible and robust connected vehicle philosophy of empowering people with the right pla orm that has been conceived and brought to life by bringing products and services to enhance the quality of together an en re ecosystem of stakeholders. The pla orm has several built-in features with provision to further integrate other their lives features in the future versions. Ini ally available in the Jeeto and Imperio in the small commercial vehicles space; the Arjun Novo in the tractor space; Farm Division the Mahindra Blazo in the heavy commercial vehicles space; and the Earthmaster in the construc on equipment space, DiGiSENSE • Mahindra AppliTrac Agri-mechanisa on products that makes the will eventually be available across the breadth of our mobility. work of the farmers less strenuous and more produc ve • Samriddhi It is a comprehensive set of services that plays a pivotal role in strengthening the farmers capability including market linkages, distribu on, agri-support informa on ranging from watermanagement to crop solu ons, and counselling 47 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Blog COMPLIANCE In a fast-emerging world, Governments across the world are also evolving the regulatory framework rapidly. But, as a company we have always set benchmarks beyond the regula ons to always be ahead of the curve. Transparent and accountable systems are in place in every unit, loca on and business to ensure compliance with the law of the land relevant to the products and services. The last ﬁnancial year was no diﬀerent and we con nued to comply with all applicable statutes and no non-compliance incidences related to product or service were reported. Health & Safety Regulations Safety is the topmost priority for us and all our products are designed as per the regula ons and codes pertaining to health and safety. We con nue to achieve 100% compliance on that front. Product & Service Information We believe that the product and service informa on adds value to a product increasing their life and usage for the customer. Our product brochures and other branding collaterals enumerate the op mum usage methodology, poten al risks and the means to avoid them. Websites We regularly update our corporate (www.mahindra.com) The basic tenets of our communica on include customer centricity, company website in order to make it more engaging, endearing and informa on security and delivery of high quality & mely informa on. user-friendly. Regulatory and mandatory requirements pertaining to labelling, brand promo ons, sponsorships and adver sing are well adhered to as we provide accurate and relevant informa on to our consumers. M A R K E T I N G & C O M M U N I C AT I O N S Every product or service is ﬁnally meant to be used by the consumers. Whether it is their need, want, fear or aspira on it serves, the product evolves with them. As a leading automobile company, we leave no stone unturned to listen to them and their feelings. We have a system in place to receive the feedback from the consumers and incorporate it in the design phase itself. We also con nuously communicate about our ac vi es to keep them updated. We take care that our communica on is not only consistent, but eﬀec ve. For that our communica on is: • is transparent, fair and mely • is in step with the marke ng plans and vice-versa • is in full compliance to all the statutory laws and standards related to marke ng communica on, adver sing, promo on and sponsorship Our communica on is geared to reach the maximum audience, so that they understand the beneﬁts and impact of our products and services. Mul ple communica on channels including tradi onal media like television and print as well as social media like Facebook and Twi er, are used to display and promote our products, and build brand awareness. All our campaigns on these media adhere to the code of conduct deﬁned by the Adver sing Standards Council of India. Our Online Presence Mahindra Xylo, Mahindra Scorpio, Mahindra Bolero, Mahindra XUV5OO, Mahindra Quanto, Mahindra Thar, Mahindra KUV1OO, Mahindra TUV3OO, Mahindra Verito, Mahindra Verito Vibe, Mahindra Imperio Mahindra Rise, Auto Division, Mahindra Electric, Our extensive presence on social media stems from Mahindra KUV1OO, Mahindra TUV3OO, Mahindra Verito, the top with Mr. Anand Mahindra, the Chairman of Mahindra Verito Vibe Mahindra Group sharing his views as well as organisa on's news on Twi er 48 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES At Mahindra, we invest nancial capital and leverage human capital to enhance intellectual capital. INTELLECTUAL C A P I TA L E M P L O Y E E D R I V E N I N N O V AT I O N Intellectual capital is the knowledge that helps create value for the organisa on and its We have invested over INR 1,000 crore in establishing the Mahindra Research Valley (MRV), a robust R&D network stakeholders. It comprises knowledge of the with 32 opera onal labs, including 5 NABL accredited labs. employees to drive innova on; knowledge of the MRV houses 2,700 engineers under one roof. company in producing goods and services; and the These engineers are our intellectual capital, who help us processes, systems and other informa on that create new products, improve exis ng technology and bring out innova on that deliver value for our stakeholders. The gives the organisa on, a compe ve advantage. focus area of the research work at MRV includes frontline Mahindra & Mahindra has integrated these three technology, cost compe veness, fuel eﬃciency, green components of the intellectual capital to drive mobility, infotainment and segment buster products. performance and create value for its stakeholders. 49 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 We collaborate with engineers, researchers and innovators around In , we ﬁled a total of patents. In the last the world. We have partnered with a global giant to develop a years, we have registered mes growth in the blockchain technology solu on to reinvent supply chain ﬁnance across India. We are also developing a driverless car for Indian roads through number of patents applied. We have also strengthened the country's biggest innova on challenge Spark the Rise, invi ng our IPR por olio and now hold a cumula ve of ideas from across the na on. patents. Going forward, we will con nue to seek synergies and foster powerful partnerships to mul ply the power of ideas. 948 FY FY C O M PA N Y ' S I N T E L L E C T U A L P R O P E R T Y % of revenue % of revenue invested invested An idea alone, no ma er how great, is meaningless The more unless put into ac on. 1.4 we invest in 4.3 R&D, Mahindra & Mahindra has been making sustained investment in Patent Applica ons the more Patent Applica ons technology development and patent acquisi ons to help these ideas we reap in culminate into products and services which create value for stakeholders. 10 patents 202 We have always inculcated an innova on driven culture within the organisa on. In FY 2016-17, we con nued to work on technology upgrada on and capability development in the cri cal areas of powertrain, gasoline engines, transmission, alternate fuels, automo ve electronics and connected vehicles, etc. Our eﬀorts were also acknowledged by the Indian Patent Oﬃce (IPO). Mahindra received three pres gious Na onal IP awards on World Intellectual Property Day in April 2016 from CII and the IPO. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. was conferred the honours in three diﬀerent categories, namely, Best commercialisa on of patents based products / processes in India, Top organisa on in trademarks and WIPO users trophy. In the tractor business, our eﬀorts focused on the development of electronic systems with smart implements, precision farming and features to provide enhanced produc vity and comfort to the farmers. These technology focus areas are important to stay compe ve in the market today and con nue to retain leadership in the mes to come. An integrated approach to promote excellence in everything we do, through robust systems and Mahindra won processes, and a set of Group-wide Common Policies and Prac ces (GCPPs). Through Innovator of The Year Award the GCPPs, TMW provides a comprehensive framework that at TIME India Awards 2017 sets out the way the Group expects its diverse businesses to func on in the quest for consistent world-class standards. Chosen from , manufacturing companies TMW Maturity Index deﬁnes the maturity level of Companies across the world, Mahindra won the award for in implementa on of business excellence-related processes. its unrivalled ability to constantly innovate in M&M's TMW Maturity Index improved from 2.94 in Cycle 1 (2009) to 4.47 in Cycle 8 (2016), a (+) 50% forward movement. both products and processes. 50 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Human capital and business share a bond of co-creation we enable them to rise to their best and they help us drive excellence. Augmenting the quality of human capital not only motivates the employees but also fosters innovation, thereby increasing the competitive advantage of a HUMAN company. When the workforce of a company thrives, business ourishes, C A P I TA L and the economic value thus generated can then be transferred back to the employees. An organisa on is only as good as its people and human capital is a measure of the ﬁnancial value the employees bring in, through their competencies, capabili es, and experience. The essence of human capital lies in the understanding MANAGEMENT APPROACH that every employee is unique and that there is At Mahindra, we do not transform people; they transform constant scope for maximising their strengths and themselves as a result of the empowering work culture that we robustly nurture across sectors and units. Our developing their poten als through con nual Employee Value Proposi on of CAPable People, REAL investments in them. Experience pursues eﬀec ve human capital strategies that accelerate inclusive growth and grant momentum to collabora ve success. 51 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 The Mahindra Labour Practices E m p l o y e e Va l u e P r o p o s i t i o n Mahindra does not encourage or tolerate any kind of discrimina on. We are an equal opportunity employer and are steadfast in ENABLING TRANSFORMATION conforming to the labour standards and ensuring the health and safety of our workforce. Consequently, all units of the Automo ve Division (AD) have been cer ﬁed with OHSAS. As the ﬁrst Indian company to sign the United Na ons Global Compact (UNGC) in 2001, we are commi ed to func on in accordance with its principles on labour standards. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa on and Bring Drive Posi ve the eﬀec ve recogni on of the right to collec ve bargaining C Challenge Conven ons Growth at Mahindra A Alterna ve Thinking to the Workplace Ability to think out of P Change in the Lives of Our Customers & Communi es Fostering inclusive Principle 4 The elimina on of all forms of forced & compulsory labour Principle 5 The eﬀec ve aboli on of child labour has been a func on the box and see development is at the of challenging the beyond what is heart of everything we Principle 6 The elimina on of discrimina on in respect of norms and ﬁnding visible enables do at Mahindra. While employment & occupa on opportuni es in innova ons and we ensure that our obstacles. We helps problem people progress with The Mahindra 'Corporate HR Cell' keeps a keen eye on the policy mo vate our people solving. Alterna ve us, we also expect our trends, aligns our ini a ves to industry best prac ces, and trains our to ques on the thinking is embedded employees to human capital to adopt the current best prac ce benchmarks. We status quo and see in our DNA and contribute in crea ng posi ves in the catalyses our meaningful impacts in have incorporated the following Interna onal Labour Organisa on's nega ves. breakthroughs. the communi es we labour conven ons into our policies since 2009: serve. • Freedom of associa on and the right to collec ve bargaining • Right to organise and collec ve bargaining conven on • Forced labour conven on • Aboli on of forced labour conven on • Minimum age conven on • Worst forms of child labour conven on OUR HUMAN CAPITAL YIELDED • Discrimina on (Employment and Occupa on) conven on 29% HIGHER RETURN THIS YEAR AS COMPARED TO FY 2014-15 • Equal remunera on conven on M&M Ltd. won Business Today's Best Companies to Work for Awards 2017, ENSURING GROWTH in the Engineering & Automotive Sector. Permanent employees covered under the collec ve bargaining agreements for FY 2016-17 R Recogni on for Outperformance Apprecia on is the E Empowering Environment At Mahindra, we AL Abundant Learning Opportuni es Constant learning is the 82.42% Unionised Non-Unionised 17.58% best form of s mulate key to growth and For the detailed breakup please refer to the Annexure sec on. mo va on. So, when commitment and development. At our employees deliver ownership by Mahindra, we M&M Ltd. con nues to adhere to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, their best, we encouraging people con nually provide which provides for a three-week no ce period for all opera onal recognise and reward to make their own ample learning their path-breaking decisions. This opportuni es at every changes along with consulta on and nego a on opportuni es for this performances and nurtures a proac ve level across our dura on. The agreement can be ﬁnalised with the changes only a er excep onal working ethos which workforce, to enrich consent is received. endeavours. This not enables employees our Human Capital. Please refer to our Sustainability Report 2009-10 for a detailed discussion only fosters healthy to take charge. on the Act and its various facets. compe on but also ensures a culture of excellence. Human Rights The twoer HR management approach one at the Group level and Viola on of human rights is unacceptable at Mahindra. We strictly other at the Business level at Mahindra Group has helped pioneer adhere to our values of equality and dignity for all and strongly thought leadership, facilitate alignment of Business level HR policies condemn any act of discrimina on, forced and compulsory labour and with Group level HR goals, and adopt bespoke employee engagement child labour within and beyond our walls. All forms of corrup on, ini a ves at the units. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. is one such business including bribery or other nega ve prac ces are prohibited. We unit of the Group. observe the following UNGC principles on human rights: 52 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protec on of The Programme is designed to maximise relevant interna onally proclaimed human rights competencies essen al for leadership posi ons Principle 2 Ensure that businesses are not complicit in enabling women to progress and a ain top roles in human rights abuses Mahindra. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corrup on in all its forms, including extor on and bribery Our ongoing training module on Human Rights provides informa on and creates awareness on how human rights issues can arise or be relevant to business across a diversity of opera ng environments. At AD, 45% of the security personnel received formal training in aspects of human rights Diversity & Inclusion Mahindra has in place group and sector level Diversity Councils to advocate the relevance of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) and inculcate an inclusive working environment. These councils proac vely develop D&I strategies which aim to negate the diﬀerences based on gender, physical abili es, religion, race, etc. POLICIES Mahindra World of Women (MWoW), launched Good policies ins tute best prac ces. HR policies in Mahindra are in 2015-16, is a peer-learning pla orm, to solve designed to facilitate and sustain prac ces that safeguard rights, work-life challenges and derive inspira on from ensure harmony, address grievances, and foster growth. Policies are role models internally and externally. implemented across our business through a structured framework and a central HR council, which includes business sector HR heads who address all ma ers related to labour prac ces. Here is a snapshot of some of the employee-related policies that we remain focused on: Human Resource Policy Our HR policy aims to ensure equal dignity and equal opportuni es for all employees through: • Resource planning by mapping skills and opportuni es of our employees leading to enhanced job sa sfac on • Se ng high standards of employee behaviour and ensuring dignity of each employee irrelevant of seniority or hierarchy • Garnering valuable employee feedback through robust employee rela ons ini a ves and periodic employee surveys Group-level Ini a ve I N I T I AT I V E BUILDING LEADERS TODAY, FOR TOMORROW At Mahindra, driving posi ve change begins within us, amongst our workforce. Ensuring an inclusive working environment, governed only Best of Both Worlds by merits and performance is the core objec ve of all our Diversity & Inclusion programmes. The Group Diversity Council launched its ﬁrst We, at Mahindra, respect the fact that every employee plays Women Leaders Programme (WLP) in September 2016 to develop mul ple social roles along with their work. We understand that by women managers and create a repository of future women leaders facilita ng a work culture that helps balance career and domes c and change agents for the Group. responsibili es, we help create happy employees, who can An 18-month professional development module, WLP consists of concentrate on their work and perform be er. classroom learning in collabora on between Academy of Leadership Flexime policy was rolled out at our corporate centre which Development under the aegis of Mahindra Leadership University and reduced the core working hours to six hours, subject to discre on a leading B-school. It will give women in mid-management access to of the func onal heads. The policy is open for all employees and mentors and coaches for personalised guidance and development, has been instrumental in increasing their eﬃciency and instructor-led training, webinars and e-learning modules as harmonising work and personal life. interven ons to supplement classroom learning, etc. 53 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Employee Relations Policy The Mahindra Leadership Development Framework, with a threeer approach, encompasses the entry, middle and senior management All our employee rela ons policies aim to fulﬁl the following objec ves: levels, and has been integrated with all HR func ons to help enable • Achieve organisa onal goals with ac ve involvement of employees the cause. In order to increase eﬀec veness, leadership competencies are • Focus on a rac ng, retaining, and nurturing people with relevant priori sed band-wise, post which, they are developed with focussed skill-sets and competencies interven ons and so -touch programmes based on their importance. • Create a mutually beneﬁcial and produc ve industrial climate Few of our major interven ons are as under: • Manage employees fairly and transparently 1 Firstme Manager Programme These are a set of development programmes in the areas of 'driving results' and 'empowering talent' which help individual contributors transi on to ﬁrstme people managers. TA L E N T M A N A G E M E N T Every employee comes with a dis nct set of competencies and 2 Firstme Leader Programme exper se. Our talent management process helps our people leverage Employees transi oning from a managerial role to a departmental their strengths, iden fy their poten als, streamline their capabili es, head role require training in the areas of strategic business and accelerate their growth. orienta on and ways of developing passion and energy at work. The ﬁrstme leader programme is devised to help our managers develop their poten als and gear up for the role change. What we aspire 3 Emerging Leader's Programme By 2021, Mahindra This programme is tailor-made to help young leaders gain an insight aspires to be among the into leadership quali es and skills with an emphasis on inﬂuencing, priori sa on and problem solving, team building and execu on 50 MOST ADMIRED excellence. This interven on is ghtly aligned to our Employee Value Proposi on and enables our employees to shape their own career GLOBAL BRANDS, paths. At the end of this programme, the par cipants will be able to: by enabling people everywhere to Rise. • Enhance self-awareness & understanding of personal models of leadership • Gain insights on leadership development How we plan to achieve it We understand that becoming a globally admired brand also means • Enhance skills on giving and receiving feedback as that our people, as eﬀec ve contributors to our success, are the most developmental tool content and are thriving. We channelise all our current and ongoing • Enhance skills on inﬂuencing, decision making, and talent management ini a ves in this direc on. We pride ourselves in working in teams the fact that our workforce comprises some of the ﬁnest talents, whom we successfully acquire, nurture, strengthen, and retain 30% of FTEs par cipated in this programme this year. 300 out of the through con nual engagements. total 3,000 managerial band employees, were iden ﬁed as high poten al candidates out of which 30% have been selected for the Please refer to the Mahindra Group Sustainability Report 2009-10 for an in-depth view of our strategic implementa on structure. ﬁnal programme. Integrated Development Strategy 4 Senior Leader Programme The senior leader programme serves two objec ves: At Mahindra, we devise eﬀec ve growth paths and unique pla orms of engagements which not only help raise produc vity, but also inspire • To equip senior leaders with the essen als of building a team passion. We engage with our employees at regular intervals with a • To provide frameworks on leader development with examples on host of interven ons which enable them to rise through access to the leading change, leading high-performance teams, and using coaching right tools of learning, skill enhancement, and crea ve s mulus. as a leadership style • Leadership Development • Shadow Boards • Development Centres The programme equips them with diverse perspec ves to meet the O • 360 Feedback • Rota on • Fireside Chats • E-learning • Coaching challenges of global business through impar ng knowledge on business strategy, organisa onal transforma on, building las ng • Individual Development Ac on Plans customer rela onships, building globally sustainable compe ve advantage, etc. Key Learning & Development Programmes Our approach to talent management is simple We Care. And so, our programmes are adept at nurturing every employee, across hierarchies. Our ini a ves are essen ally based on the 3E Framework Educa on, Exposure and Experience. Some of the talent acquisi on and talent management ini a ves are Company-led while some are Group-led. Here is a snapshot of ini a ves & programmes undertaken in the repor ng period: Company-led Ini a ves & Programmes NURTURING THE LEADERS OF TOMORROW We are crea ng Mahindra leaders who will lead us towards the goal of being a globally admired brand through a culture of outperformance, collabora on, and partnership. 54 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES QUALITY PROGRAMMES AT MIQ Our team worked parallel with experts under each skill set to create eﬀec ve up-skilling modules which a racted enthusias c Established in 2006, the Mahindra Ins tute of Quality aims to develop par cipa on from over 2,400 workers across auto and farm sectors. high-poten al managers by facilita ng access to best-in-class The ini a ve has won several laurels and awards in India Skill knowledge and skills. As part of the M&M Ltd.'s corporate centre, the compe on, CII regional work skill compe on and Na onal level MIQ oﬀers training programmes of the highest standards in Quality Indian Ins tute of Welding compe on. The associates got selected Management and Business Excellence with project based teaching as for the second me for the Beijing Arc Cup Compe on. one of the unique features. The ins tute aims to create change agents who drive organisa onal This repor ng period, the shop ﬂoor associates excellence and builds a community of proac ve problem solvers who challenge conven onal thinking and pursue outperformance. generated about 19 ideas per person resul ng into Following are some of its highlights from this repor ng period: beneﬁts in Quality, Produc vity, Safety and Cost of our Human Capital. 3,400 participants 20,000 Under NSDC, Mahindra partnered with CII for hos ng compe at Na onal level to iden fy the best candidate for World Skills ons attended participants Compe on to be held at Abu Dhabi in August 2017. 168 training trained at MIQ programmes till date Group-led Ini a ves & Programmes 2,800 improvement projects completed The Mahindra Group is a federa on of organisa ons. This structure enables the group to a ract talent from diverse backgrounds talent Total cumulative savings till date that can then be deployed to individual companies, as per need and INR 4,500 million requirement. • One-fourth of the par cipants were from outside Mahindra Group MAHINDRA LEADERSHIP UNIVERSITY The Mahindra Group has envisioned Mahindra Leadership University • Vast array of specially designed programmes for manufacturing and as an ins tu on that will develop leaders who will build companies of service sector companies the future. The various academies under this unique learning • Programmes focussed on Business Excellence, Quality Planning, pla orm, work in collabora on with the businesses to create and Quality Control, Quality Improvement, Lean Management, Innova on, execute a futuris c learning agenda. Project Delivery and Sustainability. MLU builds competencies in leadership and domain capabili es in • MIQ conducted the 4th batch of 'Energy Management' training consulta on with business and func onal leaders from Mahindra and programme with an objec ve to enhance energy conserva on external experts from academia and industry. It synergises the awareness resul ng in eﬀec ve asset selec on, resource u lisa on, learning and development eﬀorts across the Mahindra Group, process op misa on, opera onal eﬃciency. The focus area of the thereby facilita ng collabora ve learning opportuni es. course was Electrical and Thermal energy usage and it a racted The key highlights for this year are listed below: enthusias c response from 46 par cipants across M&M, Mahindra • Conceptualised, designed and delivered 172 workshops (including Group and several suppliers. 77 new oﬀerings) through its academies • Launched the Service Excellence Academy to cater to the speciﬁc requirements of the service businesses of Mahindra Group • Marked the shi towards employee-driven learning with 94 new in-house facul es and 21 employee ini ated programmes • Future Leadership Programme (FLP) was rolled out through a 3-way collabora on with IMD, Laussane, Yale School of Management and MLU. FLP is an 18-month module in leadership development and talent management. MAHINDRA SKILL EXCELLENCE Launched with the objec ve of raising the standards of manufacturing skills at Mahindra to an interna onal level, the Mahindra Skill Excellence programme aims to posi on India as the pioneer of Global Automo ve Skills. A er placing all divisions of Auto and Farm Sectors Auto, FD, Swaraj, and Two Wheelers on a common pla orm of skill standards, we zeroed in on ﬁve core manufacturing skills: (i) Pain ng (ii) Welding (iii) CNC Machining (iv) Assembly (v) Engine Diagnos cs. 55 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 GROUP MANAGEMENT CADRE (GMC) PROGRAMME WORKFORCE SNAPSHOT Employee Distribution Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. has a workforce of more than 30,000 permanent & non-permanent employees. of the new joinees were The GMC programme is Mahindra Group's esteemed strategic leadership development programme for campus recruits from top Bschools in India. The programme aims to build leadership capabili es 46% less than 30 years of age in the new recruits for the diversiﬁed businesses of Mahindra Group. A GMC Council, comprising senior leaders from the Group, has been Employee Composi on formed to provide a strategic direc on to the programme. The GMC Summer Internship In FY 2016-17, a total of 53 aspirants were recruited through this programme, which provides the interns with mentoring and opportuni es to learn on-the-job skills. A personal interac on with Mr. Anand Mahindra is the highlight of the internship. Every year, approximately 70% of GMCs are hired based on their performance during the summer internship. GMC Induc on Experience 2017 A total of 33 GMCs joined the Mahindra Group across mul ple func ons in diﬀerent sectors in FY 2016-17. These GMCs underwent a comprehensive and immersive 15,854 16,033 Permanent Non-permanent one-month induc on programme, replete with addresses by business Employees Employees leaders on economic and strategic aspects of business, core values of the company, visits to Mahindra plants and resorts, and visits to villages, to help them understand the situa ons and hardships of rural India. Non-permanent Employee Breakup 1,843 MAHINDRA WAR ROOM Fixed Term Contract The ninth edi on of The Mahindra War Room was held between September and November 2016. This annual event connects 5,554 Mahindra to some of the brightest talents across the top B-schools of Others 16,033 the country. Real situa ons and challenges faced by top managers are developed into business caselets and are presented to the young minds, who respond with innova ve solu ons to the respec ve business heads. This year, the grand ﬁnale of the event was conducted on 7th 8,636 November 2016 and was judged by the group execu ve board Third Party Contract members (including Mr. Anand Mahindra). Note: This includes AD, FD+SD and MRV For the detailed workforce dashboard, please refer to the Annexure sec on. The highlight of this year's Mahindra War Room was the fact that for the ﬁrst me, an interna onal campus (Fudan University China) was awarded joint Tr a i n i n g H i g h l i g h t s runners-up with one of the premier Indian B-School. 12,666 human-hours of training provided to workmen 6,225 human-hours of training provided to third party contract workers 685 human-hours of training provided to 63 employees from junior, middle and senior management 56 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT At Mahindra, we go the extra mile to ensure that our employees excel both at work and in life. We strive to build a great place to work through meaningful engagements that encourage involvement and inspire wellness. The Mahindra Rise Awards and Mahindra Safety Awards stand for our culture, which iden ﬁes and synergises individual and organisa onal goals. I N I T I AT I V E S A groupwide social media collaboration platform, Rise@Work was launched with 18,500+ users across the group. Enabling Work-life Wellness 360-degree Engagement At Mahindra, we are concerned with the holis c well-being of our Our people are our strength and we con nually connect with them, people. While we ensure highest standards of employee health, we helping them transform, grow, and achieve success. AD engages also enhance the wellness quo ent of our workforce. Mahindra's with its employees through a comprehensive strategy which Way to Wellness is an ongoing ini a ve speciﬁcally designed to comprises business integrated ini a ves like i4, Jagru , Mahindra achieve this objec ve. The programme is based on three pillars skill excellence; rewards and recogni ons; training ini a ves like union leadership development programmes and rela onship 1 Health Awareness building workshops; health and wellness interven ons; and Being aware is the ﬁrst step towards preven on or cure. Several enhancing fun at workplace through family picnics, sports, and health awareness interven ons like periodic health check-ups, procultural ac vi es. ac ve post check-up follow ups, W2W mailers to educate, lectures on life-style diseases (by internal & external faculty), webcasts etc. We have been consistent in upholding our 100% health check-up compliance and have followed up on cri cal cases. 2 Food & Nutri on Healthy food habits go a long way in ensuring a ﬁt body and mind. At Mahindra, we encourage this prac ce through healthy food counters at all AFS loca ons, individual consulta ons with nutri onist, calorie charts, training programmes for our cooks in healthier cooking, hygiene & sanita on, diet exhibi ons, healthy food fes vals etc. 3 Health Promo onal Ac vi es Augmen ng Capaci es At Mahindra, we understand that capacity building leads to enhanced conﬁdence and increased produc vi es. Our training programmes are speciﬁcally designed to empower our employees. Here are some major training ini a ves undertaken this year: • Training for Top Management and First Line Managers • Sustainability Summit • Auto and Farm Sectors Sustainability • Group Level Conference • GRI G4 Training across all plants • Human Rights Training across all plants At Mahindra, we not only create a culture of health but also sustain it through various health promo onal ac vi es. We conduct inBuilding Bridges house health screening camps; undertake measures to improve physical ac vity levels of our employees like Stepathlon, Zumba, through Communica on Yoga; observe major health days like World Diabetes day, World In line with our commitment to open and transparent Cancer day, World Heart day, etc. communica on, every year we organise Khula Manch our open Health of our employees is also connected to their safety. Our communica on forum at FD, Kandivali. This year the senior comprehensive safety programmes are aligned to our healthy management shared their views on the plant's performance and workplace goals and cover all aspects, such as func onal training, stressed on fuelling innova on to make the plant more costbehavioural training, oﬃce ergonomics, safety equipment training, eﬃcient. They mo vated the workforce to build a mindset of zero and ﬁtness ac vi es. defect to enable the company to grow from 'Good2Great'. 57 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 DEXTERITY TRAINING FOR CONTRACTOR SAFETY H E A LT H & S A F E T Y AD, NASHIK PLANT Being safe is being sure. A healthy and safe working environment is At Mahindra, we are concerned with the safety of every employee the right of every employee, and at Mahindra, we are commi ed to permanent and contractual. Our Nashik plant organised a dexterity this cause. Every year, we upgrade, for fy, and rigorously implement training to enhance and ensure the safety of the contract workforce. our safety standards across the organisa on. Embedding safety best The dexterity training comprised the following benches: prac ces into our workforce is an integral aspect of our journey towards the zero-accident goal, and every interven on we undertake Name of the Bench Applica on is a cog in the wheel that is driving us towards this objec ve. Fragile Roof To improve the basic skill for working on fragile roof, use of roof ladders, etc. Scaﬀolding To improve the basic skill for working on height, correct use of full body harness, anchorage and connectors. Welding To improve the knowledge of welding and gas cu ng Conﬁned Space To improve the knowledge about conﬁned space, dos and don'ts while working in conﬁned space. Par cipants were provided classroom training on the basic knowledge of work permits, dos and don'ts, correc ve and preven ve modes/ Our persistent and stringent efforts ac ons, etc. Prac cal training was imparted through four benches towards a safe workplace has ensured with 'I DO, WE DO & YOU DO' methodology as per the SOS. A detailed evalua on was carried out post training to ascertain the ZERO FATALITY impact, in which the par cipants were awarded with the grades L1-L4 based on their performance. The trainees who secured L2 grade in M&M across all sectors, this qualiﬁed. reporting period. PARTICIPATION IN INDUSTRIAL SAFETY RALLY | MVML The following key safety tools and prac ces at Around 650 employees from MVML par cipated in the Industrial Mahindra are directed at elimina on of unsafe Safety Rally organised by the oﬃce of the Director of Industrial Safety incidents and occupa onal hazards: & Health (DISH) in Chakan industrial area. • Installing the latest ﬁre-ﬁgh ng system MVML was felicitated by DISH for its valuable contribu on to this at our plants event, which earned a place in the India Book of Records. • Conduc ng safety awareness and training for all employees Safety Dashboard • Ins tu ng safety mechanisms based on the recognised Kaizen and Poka-Yoke concepts Businesses with 'Zero Accidents' reported in 'Permanent Workforce': FD, MRV Businesses with 'Zero Accidents' reported in 'Contract Workforce': AD, FD, MRV Central Safety Council The Central Safety Council is the heart of our uniﬁed approach to safety. The council comprises of representa ves from all sectors and aims to maximise the safety levels across Mahindra. Our safety interven ons are regularly monitored and upgraded with impac ul ini a ves, which eﬀec vely increase our security standards. The broad objec ves of the council are: • Improving safety awareness • Sharing best prac ces for ensuring safety • Promo ng proac ve measures to prevent accidents and AD, SBU & MRV recorded zero Lost Time Injury occupa onal hazards Rate and zero Lost Day Rate for permanent & • Rewarding and recognising commendable achievements contract employees this repor ng period. • Regularly brieﬁng the Group Execu ve Board on safety performance For the detailed safety dashboard, please refer to the Annexure sec on. 58 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES CASE STUDY Driving Safety Excellence AD, Haridwar The AD, Haridwar Plant has been consistent in raising safety performance standards, reducing injuries by 97.5% from 2012. As part of the safety evalua on, unauthorised driver access was iden ﬁed as the reason for unfortunate accidents within the plant. Problem Solu on a) Forkli could be started and driven by any person using the key To solve this problem, a ﬁngerprint sensor was installed in the in the absence of its driver and the store supervisor. forkli s to sense the ﬁngerprint of the driver and match it with the updated driver data in the forkli . b) No system to lock the igni on to prevent unauthorised driving. This punching-machine system ensured that the vehicle starts only c) Caused unsafe working condi ons and increased risk of mishaps when the driver's ﬁngerprints match. and fatali es. Beneﬁts TANGIBLE INTANGIBLE a) Reduces collisions a) Helps maintain good driving habits b) Reduces vehicle abuse b) Reduces vehicle breakdowns and increases its life c) Augments the organisa on's safety performance c) Ins lls a sense of ownership and responsibility in the drivers 59 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Mahindra is the rst Indian company to announce its internal Carbon Price US$10 per tonne of carbon emitted. Pricing carbon helps understand the true cost of climate change. N AT U R A L C A P I TA L Natural resources are the measure of the earth's wellness and the basis of all economic ac vity. Every business depends on natural capital and hence impacts it to some degree. In the wake of the global concern over rapidly deple ng environmental resources, it is impera ve to ascribe a value to foster supervision, control, conserva on Environment and economy are two sides of the and rejuvena on. same coin. Natural Capital refers to the economic Quan fying natural capital helps businesses iden fy the value a ributed to the earth's stock of physical and environmental risks and opportuni es, manage them proac vely and create a sustainable future for all. Poor biological, renewable and non-renewable management of natural capital results is an ecological, resources which include air, water, minerals, fossil social and economic liability. Due to the scale and scope of fuels, soil, biodiversity and so on. All these impact natural capital has, it becomes one of the most vital enabler of sustainability. elements together enable symbio c ecosystem services which provide innumerable beneﬁts to organisa ons, socie es and the planet as a whole. 60 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Sustainable Supply Chain Management MANAGEMENT APPROACH For any manufacturing company like ours, the supply chain is an At Mahindra, we know that every step taken today for rejuvena on is integral part of business and contributes a major part of the footprint. a cog in the wheel driving towards a healthy planet for tomorrow. And At M&M, driving sustainability across the supply chain thus becomes so, our environment management approach is governed by the a crucial generator of business value. We undertake proac ve engagements with our suppliers and vendors to encourage 3Cs CONSERVATION, environment-friendly prac ces beyond our factory gates and mo vate CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT & them to adopt green ini a ves. COMPREHENSIVE DISCLOSURES This repor ng period, sustainability ini a ves were rolled out across our supply chain which helped them align their businesses towards A cohesive framework, well-structured processes and focused enhancing the green cover, saving precious resources through interven ons are the founda on of Mahindra's resource management rainwater harves ng and leveraging opera onal eﬃciency to strategy. Robust ini a ves in Energy, Waste, Water and Biodiversity conserve electricity. management coupled with proac ve pursuit by all our teams across Mahindra ensures an eﬃcient system to safeguard natural capital. While we are enthusias c about conserva on, we are also conscious about the need for con nuous improvement in our eﬀorts to enrich E N V I R O N M E N TA L M A N A G E M E N T natural capital. In line with this, our monitoring prac ces not only help us outperform our targets, but also encourage us to stay ahead of the industry curve on environment KPIs. This year, we have shi ed to Integrated Repor ng which empowers all INR 223.48 million our stakeholders, both internal and external, with knowledge which can was invested by M&M this year, towards help them make informed decisions for the future theirs and ours. protection of natural resources which Disclosures, thus become an important aspect of our approach to environment management. They trigger meaningful discussions which includes renewable energy sources, waste aid in performance analysis and realignment of our environment goals. management, and treatment of chemical All our interven ons are directed towards the KPIs, material to our waste and controlling of air pollution. business: Carbon Neutrality through valuation and ef cient energy conservation and restructuring of the energy mix Water Positivity and Water Security reduction in usage, recycling and harvesting of water Zero Waste & Circular Economy zero waste systems and rigorous resource ef ciency Promote Biodiversity conservation of ora & fauna 35.67 STP/ETP Maintenance Environmental Policies 2.89 Emission Monitoring At M&M, the environmental policies share the same weightage as a INVESTMENT mission statement. These policies con nuously guide us to advance 1.48 IN the resource eﬃciency of our products, processes and premises. ENVIRONMENT Water quality Monitoring The end objec ve is to: INR million • Minimise impact on the environment and make eﬀorts to restore 1.39 the environment External Cer ﬁca on • Contribute towards long-term sustainability throughout the life cycle of products and services 8.58 17.12 24.64 131.7 Renewable Energy Applica ons Waste Disposal/ Wind Power • Find opportuni es to improve the local environment in the Cer ﬁcates to PCBs Treatment communi es in which we operate Every employee adheres to the environment policy and its implementa on is overseen by plant managers of respec ve facili es. INR 422 million All manufacturing plants of M&M are cer ﬁed with revenue generated from Green Products ISOEnvironment Management System. across the Mahindra Group 61 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 AIR QUALITY Pure and clean air to breathe is the necessity and right of every living being on this planet. While industry and power upgrade the quality of We remain committed to life we lead, they also aﬀect the environment and in turn health of reduce our GHG emissions by individuals and the planet in general. We, at Mahindra, are aware of these impacts and believe in taking responsibility and ownership of our ac ons. We are steadfast in adhering to all statutory norms and regula ons and employ me culous monitoring systems to keep track 25% from base year by 2019 of various pollutants. In accordance with the revised Na onal Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS 2009), the Par culate Ma er PM10 (size less than 10 µm) & PM2.5 (size less than 2.5 µm), Sulphur Oxides (SOx) and Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) are regularly monitored across our manufacturing & service loca ons. Some manufacturing plants also monitor more speciﬁc pollutants applicable to their processes like Respirable Suspended Par culate Ma er (RSPM), Carbon Monoxide (CO), Methane (CH4), Ozone (O3), Lead (Pb) among others. The SOx and NOx emission count of all our businesses, is well below the permissible limit. Even the par culate ma er emission is below the limit, except for the Nashik plant division 2 which has devised an ac on plan to reduce the same by installing scrubbers, ﬁlters etc. Ozone Depleting Substances We are persistently conscious about the discharge of Ozone Deple ng Substances (ODS) which can adversely aﬀect the nature's balance. Our processes are con nuously monitored and improved to reduce consump on of resources and emission of ODS like Hydroﬂuorocarbons (HFCs), halons and Hydro Chloroﬂuorocarbons (HCFCs). Greenhouse Gases This year,our businesses Greenhouse gases pose a threat to the environment and have the together mitigated poten al to aﬀect business opera ons across the world. At Mahindra, we constantly strive to reduce this risk through construc ve contribu on based on eﬃcient measurement, control and mi ga on 14,800+ tCO2 of GHG emissions. of GHG emissions. Despite increased produc on ac vity across a number of businesses within M&M, we have managed to keep the Scope + emissions in check. We remain commi ed to reduce our GHG emissions by % by . Total Absolute GHG Emissions tCO2 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 464,935 217,854 214,362 214,093 211,958 204,272 38,274 38,051 42,093 Scope 1 (Direct Emission) Scope 2 (Indirect Emission) Scope 3 (Other Direct Emissions) Note: Last year, our businesses were not repor ng on all the routes of Inbound and Outbound logis cs. In the current year, they have covered all routes; resul ng in an increase in Scope 3 ﬁgures. 62 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Total Speciﬁc Emissions (Scope + ) tCO2 0.343 0.232 0.227 0.336 0.325 0.204 AD FD+SD 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Note: For more informa on about the speciﬁc emission of other businesses within M&M Ltd. Please refer to the Annexure sec on of this report. CASE STUDY Facilita ng convergence Fostering collabora on | MVarta Challenge Ac on Be it exchange of ideas or seamless engagements, technical learning Project MVarta was launched to provide video conferencing pla orm modules or exci ng product launches, board mee ngs or dealer across all our AFS loca ons.The project facilitates webinars, trainings, at M&M we aim to make it be er, each me. Although webcasts, web mee ngs, launch events etc. to enable a smooth, team mee ngs, seminars, training programmes, feedback interac ons interrup on-free, face-to-face communica on experience with our etc. fuel a collabora ve eﬀort, they also have a sizable environmental employees, suppliers and customers. footprint and an economic cost. Also, because they are me The web mee ng services are also accessible from home internet consuming and diﬃcult to replicate at mul ple loca ons, quite o en connec on. such mee ngs get restricted to a limited number of people. Outcomes • Reduced environmental footprint due to decrease in travel • Enhanced produc vity due to elimina on/reduc on of travel me, logis cs and lesser costs • key and special events serviced and supported, connec ng more than + loca ons and , + par cipants • board mee ngs supported • Virtual learning sessions conducted for + dealers • Realme monitoring and update of events BIODIVERSITY Biodiversity is the basis of existence of all living beings and is the Our focus on ascertaining a value for natural capital planet's life support system. The variety and strength of the ecological has further strengthened the credibility of our impact networks and func ons on earth, provide a vast number of thriving ecosystems like forests, ﬂora and fauna and the water bodies, which and dependency assessments. Consequen ally, the nurture human life, hedge against climate change and boost strategies devised are be er aligned to ﬁll the economic ac vity. lacunae and enrich the natural ecosystem. Biodiversity has been a key focus area of environmental management The Mahindra Group has been learning through partnerships with the at M&M. The signing of the India Business & Biodiversity Ini a ve World Leaders like IBBI, Terracon and IUCN. IBBI helped us align with (IBBI) in 2014 has provided an impetus to our eﬀorts in raising their 10-step best prac ces programme in Biodiversity rejuvena on awareness and preserving the natural habitats. by corpora ons. This has resulted in transforming workspaces at our loca ons of Igatpuri & Kandivali. 63 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 CASE STUDY Enhancing Biodiversity at AD Igatpuri Challenge Balance in Ecosystem services The M&M Igatpuri plant was facing problems of water scarcity, dust The plant took focussed eﬀorts to increase green cover in the pollu on, temperature irregulari es, deforesta on and unaccounted premises species degrada on of ﬂaura and fauna, aﬀec ng the biological diversity and richness of the region. Ac on Large open spaces in the assembly unit were iden ﬁed as the cause of increased dust pollu on. A plan was created to cover these open areas through planta on of trees, shrubs, lawns along with some engineering measures. The strategic framework of ini a ves to achieve this objec ve included the below men oned focus areas: • Implementa on of biodiversity zone in plant • Balance the ecosystem services • Planta on of shrub species like Tecoma stans, Hibiscus rosaImplementation of biodiversity zone in plant sinensis, Neriumindicum, etc, along the road side and near the buildings The land was divided into three zones to leverage the diverse features of the ecosystem. Planta on was based on scien ﬁc analysis of the • Use of plants for fencing rather than the steel wires or construc ng walls regional ﬂoral and faunal diversity and local and na ve species. • Planta on of local trees in open spaces to control soil erosion due to water and wind 25 ha out of 40 ha of land was • Covering of open areas with grass and ﬂowering shrubs • Placing of plant pots on concrete areas converted into green cover • Control of invasive plant species • Use of recycled water for irriga on Outcomes Igatpuri plant is currently a thriving biodiversity spot with more than 220 75 species of species of fauna Zone 1 Zone 2 Zone 3 plants and (birds, reptiles and mammals). All these measures substan ally helped in reducing dust levels Planted species Set up a bu erﬂy Developed a fruit such as Cherry, garden with orchard with trees such % reduc on % reduc on % reduc on Mulberry, plants such as as Mango, Coconut, in lacs par cle in lacs par cle in lacs par cle Spathodia, Umbar, Hibiscus, Kanher, Chikoo, Guava, count/m for count/m for count/m for Pimpal, Akash Nim Shankasur, Cashewnut, Jackfruit, . micron . micron . micron. to a ract birds Tecoma, Kanchan Aonla & Jamun. Other Beneﬁts • % Improvement in engine assembly cleanliness with respect to dust levels • % Improvement in ﬁeld complaints which comprises % reduc on in vehicle immobilisa on • Controls dust at source thus ensuring be er work environment for employees • Meets customer expecta ons by ensuring a quality product 64 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES ENERGY The sustainability of a business is directly dependent on energy. We, Speciﬁc energy consump on at Nashik Plant Dies at Mahindra are aware and sensi ve towards our dependency on and Farm Division reduced by . % and . % conven onal energy sources and constantly endeavour to reduce our footprint. Increased inclusion of alterna ve energy sources is the respec vely need of the hour, even though their adop on is slow due to the costs involved and the conduciveness of the loca on of the businesses. Energy management at Mahindra, has a two-pronged approach: As the ﬁrst Indian Company to sign up for the 'EP ', a global energy produc vity campaign, we are commi ed to doubling our energy produc vity by Maximising the economic output from each wa of energy Increasing the energy Increasing the share of consumed has been our endeavour at Mahindra and we have been produc vity through process alterna ve energy proac ve in including alterna ve energy to our supply side. eﬃciency in our energy mix Absolute Energy Consump on (in GJ) Total for Total for Total for 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 1,530,569 1,528,765 1,633,603 GJ GJ GJ 931,154 599,415 928,507 600,258 970,851 662,752 Indirect Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Direct We are restructuring our energy mix with renewables for a brighter future Wind 4.2 MW Solar 2.5 MWp 65 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Total Energy Consump on by Source (in GJ) Speciﬁc Energy Consump on (in GJ) 2.264 2.262 14,072 Renewable energy 2.249 79,686 Propane AD 10,292 Petrol 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 286,147 1.467 1.459 Natural Gas + CNG 223,501 1.331 Diesel/HSD FD+SD 2,649 57,965 959,291 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 FO LPG Electricity From Grid Note: For more informa on about the speciﬁc energy consump on of other businesses within M&M Ltd. Please refer to the Annexure sec on of this report. Energy Saving Initiatives A watt saved is a watt earned A wa saved is a wa earned. And so, at Mahindra we go that extra mile to ensure that Together, our businesses saved even the smallest of energy saving opportuni es are iden ﬁed and harnessed across all our businesses. Through a slew of ini a ves ranging from installa on of solar PV cells, energy-eﬃcient compressors and pumps, and LED lights, to power op misa on and 100,000+ GJ process improvements – our businesses made every wa count. energy through sustained energy For detailed informa on about various energy saving ini a ves, please refer to the Annexure sec on. saving initiatives in 2016-17 66 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES CASE STUDY Green Building Cer ﬁca on Igatpuri Plant Challenge Igatpuri plant is situated in the biodiversity zone of the Western Ghats, and is home to a rich natural ecosystem. Our sustainability team observed that the plant and the region was facing problems such water scarcity, temperature irregulari es, deforesta on and unaccounted species degrada on of ﬂora and fauna, excess use of conven onal energy sources etc. Ac on We undertook a comprehensive strategy to convert the plant into a Green building which not only conserves valuable resources but also rejuvenates them. Several ini a ves were designed and implemented to improve site & facility management, water eﬃciency, energy eﬃciency, health & comfort of the employees and the design aspects. Some of these interven ons are as under: • % eco-friendly ligh ng ﬁxtures • Waste to wealth recovery projects • % green energy for the building • Rainwater harves ng • Eﬃcient water ﬁxtures Outcome • Biodiversity park The AD Igatpuri building has been awarded the ‘Green Building • Waste disposal system Cer ﬁca on’ with a Pla num Ra ng by the Indian Green Building • Zero plas c bo le zone Council under the exis ng building. This project has beneﬁ ed both the plant and the region around it and has resulted in a healthy • Recrea onal facili es and medita on room for employees working and natural environment. 67 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Monitoring Energy Ef ciency of Major Suppliers Greening our supply chain has always been an important sustainability goal at Mahindra. This repor ng period also, we worked towards this objec ve through several awareness programmes, data monitoring and capacity building interven ons. Environmental sustainability initiatives were rolled out across 400 suppliers We are also monitoring the energy performance of our major suppliers and helping them ﬁnd means to op mise consump on. W AT E R In a water-intensive opera on, like automobile manufacturing, all Over the last two years, major processes like surface treatment and coa ng, spray pain ng, our total water consumption washing and rinsing, to hosing, cooling, air-condi oning and boiler opera ons, require huge quan es of water. While the demand of has come down by almost 3 water keeps growing due to increased scale and scope of businesses, the supply of water remains a serious concern. 300,000 m At Mahindra, we have always been steadfast in our eﬀorts of conserving and replenishing water. Total Water Consump on in m Through our comprehensive 360° water management programme – H2Inﬁnity, the Mahindra 1,656,516 1,541,061 Group successfully achieved a water posi ve status 1,356,578 way back in FY 2013-14. This, however, has not diminished our passion and rigour for water management. This year, we con nued to pioneer numerous water saving ini a ves through dedicated cross-func onal teams. The performance of these teams is closely monitored and linked to their KPIs so as to foster ownership and a water-sensible culture. 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Note: For business-wise total water consump on trend, please refer to the Annexure sec on of this report. Speciﬁc Water Consump on m per unit of measure 2.441 1.582 2.312 1.517 1.978 1.104 AD FD+SD 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Note: For business-wise speciﬁc water consump on trends, please refer to the Annexure sec on of this report. This year, although produc on at FD+SD increased by 27% YOY, the speciﬁc water consump on decreased by 27.21%. 68 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Total Withdrawal By Source in m3 MATERIALS Materials form a major part of our opera ons. They come in solid 1,371 and liquid form, and may fall under the semi-manufactured Bo led Water materials, associated materials, packaging materials and raw material category. Like many of our inputs, materials also our sourced from nature and so run the risk of becoming scarce if not 21,279 consumed judiciously. Total Withdrawal Water from Tanker 3 This year, due to decreased produc on at AD, the material 135,6578 m consump on of semi-manufactured material (hard) came down by 1.74% and of semi-manufactured material (liquid) decreased 571,274 by 1.45%. On the other hand, because of higher produc on by Water from Municipality FD+SD, the corresponding material consump on too increased. For more details about business-wise material consump on, please refer to the Annexure sec on. Sustainable value is the key material selec on criterion at 109,172 27,115 626,367 Mahindra. These materials impart more durability to our products Surface Water Rainwater Groundwater and yield a be er quality of experience to our customers. We constantly look for newer, more incremental manufacturing 3 processes and innova ve technology to reduce our material 400,000+ m consump on. of water recycled and reused across businesses I N I T I AT I V E AD and FD+SD recycled and reused 37% and 26% of the total water consumed Taking innova on to the global stage M&M I N I T I AT I V E At M&M, we constantly endeavour to be ahead of the industry curve in our processes and products. We pursue alterna ve Reuse to Reduce thinking to come up with innova ve solu ons which enhance the produc vity and sustainability across our business value chain. In FD, Nagpur line with this approach, M&M developed the world's ﬁrst ever TMCD based solid mono-coat paint which is highly cost-eﬀec ve Recycling and reusing water is an eﬃcient way to reduce the when compared to the clear-coat system being used currently. consump on of fresh water. The Farm Division Nagpur plant established a new RO plant as part of the waste water RE-USE project. The RO plant treats the ETP outlet water to produce 200 KL of RO permeate water daily which is then supplied to the paint shop. The fully automa c process will reduce the intake of industrial raw water from the Municipal Corpora on, consequen ally reducing the acute water shortage crisis present across MIDC, Nagpur area. The TMCD solid mono-coat will also reduce the carbon footprint and oﬀer a lower cost impact of INR as against INR for a similar quality alterna ve. The innova on has the following beneﬁts as compared to the clear-coat system: • Twice the weather resistance (up to hours) • . mes ( %) be er mar/ scratch resistance • Improved CPQ & retained newness – due to be er paint ﬁnish durability Discharged Water Quality • Increased resale value We con nually monitor the quality of our wastewater discharge through internal and external agencies to ensure that it is free from pollutants. The innova on was well received by over 200 par cipants from Due to such conscious eﬀorts, we have never exceeded the limits various global auto giants like BMW, Toyota, Daimler, Volvo, permi ed by the State Pollu on Control Boards and local regulatory Jaguar, Land Rover and the likes. authori es. 69 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 PA C K A G I N G SPILLS Sustainable packaging is a challenge that we strive to overcome at The environment management system at Mahindra is designed to Mahindra. We take extra care to ensure that our packaging materials ensure complete safety of our opera ons and the environment and so are environment-friendly and have progressively reduced the quan ty it also includes spill management. As in all cases, preven on is be er of non-recyclable materials in them. Cost-eﬀec ve, convenient and than handling a spill a er it has occurred. We are proac ve in our eco-friendly packaging of our products helps us facilitate the preparedness to handle spills and undertake con nuous preserva on of natural capital and enhance the produc vity of improvements in our business opera ons to prevent it. No signiﬁcant resources by diver ng them to other areas. spill incidents were recorded during the repor ng period. I N I T I AT I V E COMPLIANCE Sustainable Packaging at FD At Mahindra, compliance is top business priority. Compliance aspects are closely monitored and upgraded con nuously through internal The cumula ve wood consump on of our FD plants was 105.4 audits. We adhere to environmental compliances and abide by all the Tonnes per month. As an ongoing endeavour to ensure green applicable laws of the land for all our projects. During the repor ng packaging and a green supply chain, we iden ﬁed top 16 period, we were not ﬁned for any non-compliance. suppliers and mo vated them to eliminate wooden packaging, which will result in an 80% reduc on in wood consump on. Supplier visits were conducted to develop conﬁdence in sustainable packaging implementa on. Major packaging improvements were undertaken across these iden ﬁed suppliers WASTE in replacing the wooden and corrugated boxes into returnable PP At Mahindra, waste management is a comprehensive process that Boxes which led to reduc on in damages during handling, goes from the point of crea on to its ﬁnal disposal. It is a reduced rejec on percentage, cost savings, lesser man-power, comprehensive process which is conducted in a socially responsible greater produc vity and safer handling. Due to the above and environmentally sound manner. All waste generated by us is interven on, the following beneﬁts were realised: disposed responsibly in compliance with the rules and regula ons applicable to it. Tangible Hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are segregated and handed • , litres of savings on diesel consump on over to authorised hazardous waste collec on vendors and contractors respec vely who then dispose, recycle or reuse it as • Reduc on in CO emissions of MT per annum applicable. While responsible waste disposal involves increased • Cost savings of INR , in logis cs amounts of energy, manpower and costs, its importance cannot be understated. To this end, we endeavour to eliminate waste from our • Reduc on in paper corrugated packaging material manufacturing processes and the lifecycles of our products and consump on by Tonnes components to ensure a sustainable future. The prac ce of using • Cost savings on packaging material as on date INR million waste as a valuable resource will enable us to foster a circular economy which creates synergy between neighbouring industries, • Manpower saving through elimina on of rework both within and outside the Group. man-days This year, due to increased produc on ac vity and enhanced data capturing mechanisms, there is a marked increase in the waste generated, especially for FD+SD. At the same me, as a result of con nued waste management, BEFORE AFTER BEFORE AFTER AD, FD+SD and MRV Intangible have decreased generation • New methods are explored to ensure a green supply chain of Hazardous Liquid Waste. For more details about business-wise waste genera on, • Reduc on in regulatory risk / DOL scores improved please refer to the Annexure sec on. • Improved opera onal agility & response / No rework inside the plant / Saving of storage space • Improved ﬂexibility to deal with schedule varia ons • Skill development of workforce through knowledge on new and sustainable methods of packaging 70 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES I N I T I AT I V E S The world's biggest plastic bottle monster 20.40 meter high was built after the collection of 100,300 waste plastic bottles as a symbolic demonstration of plastic pollution. ‘Plas c Bo le-Free’ Plant Igatpuri Waste management at M&M is not restricted only to its The team raised awareness about the ill-eﬀects of plas c on opera onal cycles. It extends to all areas of our units and even health and marine-life among the employees and in the beyond our walls. Our Igatpuri plant successfully transformed into a neighbourhood. Waste plas c bo les were collected by the team 'plas c bo le-free’ plant and took this ini a ve to the next level from road sides, public & picnic spots, bus stands, railway sta ons, by taking it to the community. schools, hotels etc. What started as an endeavour of 1,500+ employees, transformed into an environmental cause owned by over 100,000 citizens Solvent Recovery Mechanism FD, Zaheerabad Flushing thinner is used to ﬂush and clean the spray gun during colour change and the change of shi s in the paint shop. Huge amount of solvent was being wasted during and a er this process. Zaheerabad unit became the rst plant in the FD to install a solvent recovery machine which processes this used thinner, collected in a drum post ushing and converts it into reusable material. Through a simple dis lla on process, 80% of the waste solvent is recovered and is reused for ﬂushing and cleaning of the spray gun. The project has yielded savings of INR 3.5million per annum Sustainable business development is in our DNA, and has led us to adopt the 4R concept with a crusade against the challenges. Carbon footprint reduction, upcycling, circular economy, water positive, zero waste to land ll, and energy security were the mantras for 2016-17, creating harmony in our triple bottom-line. Norbert D'Souza General Manager SHE and CMD, Safety & Central Maintenance 71 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 To create meaningful outcomes, it becomes imperative to clearly identify and deeply understand the challenges that affect the entire value chain. SOCIAL & R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L MANAGEMENT APPROACH Value is not always generated within or by an At Mahindra, we are intensifying our eﬀorts to design a organisa on alone. It is created and sustained bright future not only for us, but also for the communi es we operate in. As we rise on the global stage, we aspire to upli through a cycle of interdependent ac vi es among all sec ons of the society through inclusive development. interconnected en es. Social and rela onship Through our new sustainability framework, we are geared up capital is the connec ons and shared values that to create maximum impact where it ma ers the most. exist between people and the organisa on that Building strong rela onships with all our stakeholders is enables coopera on. It consists of intangibles crucial not only to ins l trust but also to gain valuable insights into the opportuni es and obstacles that exist with each of (shared values, commitments, and knowledge) them. Working together with our stakeholders towards that form the basis of the reputa on and trust that sustained value, creates a closely bound interconnected we have developed. framework that not only acts as a hedge against future risks, but also func ons as an accelerator to achieve equitable business development. 72 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES S O C I A L C A P I TA L Be it fostering reciprocity through inclusiveness or crea ng wider teams through engagements, be it leveraging synergies through uniﬁed goals or driving progress through collec ve ownership, social performance is the key enabler of our business success. We are conscious of what we can do for communi es and how we can help them, thereby ins lling a sense of pride and loyalty in them. As a result, we ini ate cause and eﬀect chains leading to: a) communi es being advocates of the company, and b) increased ability of acquiring new customers, especially in emerging markets. Consequently, both societal development and business become easier. KEY HIGHLIGHTS* CSR INVESTMENT Our innova ve social interven ons are designed through 'Alterna ve A total of Thinking', derived out of need-based assessments aligned to our longterm business strategies. This structured approach enables us to draw insights and develop eﬀec ve ini a ves which drive posi ve change. INR 835.7 million invested towards spearheading This repor ng period, through our CSR ini a ves, we have reached out various social interventions in 2016-17 to wider communi es with deeper engagements. Sports Other Projects Educa on 0.90 0.80 47 scholars awarded the K.C. Mahindra Scholarship for Post 550 Graduate Studies students awarded scholarships worth 13,432 INR 14.8 million under MAITS 5,024 girls supported under project underprivileged Nanhi Kali youth trained in Mahindra Pride Schools Healthcare Promo ng Preven ve Healthcare & Sanita on 103.60 Employment, Voca on Skills & Livelihood Enhancement 55.80 11,419 Gender equality/Old age homes, beneﬁciaries under day care centres & facili es for Lifeline Express such other senior ci zens programme 8.50 Employee Volunteering Environment Sustainability 52.00 19,730 Esops volunteers contributed 160,035 Rural Development man-hours 229.60 Environment 2.30 million trees planted under Mahindra Hariyali Project Promo on of Educa on 384.50 *All the ﬁgures are for M&M Ltd. 73 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 CSR GOVERNANCE Recogni on and Accolades At M&M, sustainability is embedded into our business and is an integral part of our business value system. Spearheaded by our top Mahindra AFS awarded the 2016 CII management, our CSR governance is cascaded down to every employee across the company. commenda on for Signiﬁcant Achievement in Corporate Social Responsibility. Diligence, transparency, and ownership are top priori es for The Mahindra Group's CSR council. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. was declared the winner of the Golden Peacock Award for A CSR commi ee has been cons tuted at M&M level, to monitor the Mahindra Pride Schools as the best entry in implementa on of this policy, approve CSR investments, and undertake periodical assessment of the ac vi es. At a ground level, these the Corporate Social Responsibility Awards for ini a ves are carried forward by unit and business-level CSR the year 2016. departments and Esops volunteers. Esops (Employee Social Op ons) is Mahindra's ﬂagship employee volunteering programme. For execu on SEED THE RISE campaign recognised as the of various programmes, we also forge alliances and partnerships with 'best corporate campaign' India awards 2016. government, NGOs and other corporate en es. For more informa on, please refer to the corporate governance sec on of this report. AD, Haridwar won the CSR Excellence Award 2016 in the environment category. F o u n d a t i o n s a n d Tr u s t s It is not just about innova ve boardroom plans, but it is also about implemen ng them on ground to make a diﬀerence. To facilitate eﬀec ve execu on of our CSR strategies, it is important to connect with the less privileged sec ons of the society, iden fy their issues, and develop concentrated interven ons to ensure eﬃcacy where it ma ers. M&M works in tandem with several organisa ons, which help eﬀectuate ini a ves, monitor programmes, evaluate results, and keep the shareholders updated with the status. The focus areas of these ins tu ons are speciﬁc to their scope of work and are as given below: Women Empowerment | Education Mahindra, FD, Nagpur plant acknowledged by Livelihoods | Relief & Rehabilitation Maharashtra State Government for their Skill Enhancement & Vocational Training support to water conserva on eﬀorts under Jalyukt Shivar programme. Empowering Differently-abled Individuals K.C. MAHINDRA EDUCATION TRUST K.C. Mahindra Educa on Trust (KCMET) was established in 1953 with a vision of making educa on accessible to economically-weak families. Under its three ﬂagship endeavours, Nanhi Kali, Mahindra Pride School, and Scholarships & Grants, KCMET has triggered a social transforma on in underprivileged communi es. CSR POLICY The M&M CSR policy incorporates our approach and strategy towards our social interven ons. The policy is applicable across all our businesses and employees, and concentrates on the following key ac on areas: • Educa on • Healthcare & Sanita on • Environment • Livelihood Enhancement • Women Empowerment • Opportuni es for Those at the Base of Pyramid • Protec on of Natural Heritage, Art, and Culture MAHINDRA FOUNDATION • Aid for Armed Force Personnel's Families The Mahindra Founda on believes in crea ng las ng impacts and • Encouragement for Sport Technology Incuba on majorly focuses on three key areas: • Rural Development • Slum Area Development • Disaster relief and rehabilita on through mely, eﬀectual, and far• Disaster Relief & Rehabilita on reaching interven ons • Aﬀordable, accessible, and quality medical care to the marginalised sec ons of the society • Encouragement and assistance to talented persons to pursue higher studies and sports 74 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Mahindra Foundation mobilised MAHINDRA FOUNDATION, UK The Mahindra Founda on, UK was established on the 1st May, 2013 INR 72.3 million with a similar focus to promote Project Nanhi Kali. in the form of grants and aids It raised GBP 55,336 in FY 2016-17 towards Nanhi Kali donations. ESOPS EMPLOYEE SOCIAL OPTIONS It is not about ideas, it is about working on them together and making them happen. A company's commitment to CSR is posi vely linked to the employee's commitment to the organisa on. Esops is Mahindra Group's ﬂagship Employee Volunteering Programme through which we support our employees in engaging in ac vi es with a posi ve Swachh Bharat Medical Relief to Individuals social impact. Swachh Vidhyalaya Campaign INR 345,000 INR 41.5 million to diﬀerent individuals to Growth in no. of Esops Volunteers towards maintenance meet their surgical treatment of 4,340 toilet blocks requirements Promo ng Preven ve Promo ng Pallia ve Care Healthcare through KARO Trust through PALCARE INR 20 million for providing ﬁnancial and psychological support to pa ents INR 2.5 million to support people with chronic 4.5% illnesses such as cancer, suﬀering from cri cal and Alzheimer’s, kidney failure, from 18,876 in FY 2015-16 to life-threatening illnesses lung condi ons and stroke 19,730 in FY 2016-17 Financial Literacy Programme Indian Blind Sports Associa on INR 5.53 million INR 500,000 Increase in Volunteering Hours towards specially designed to support par cipa on of ﬁnancial literacy educa on kits visually impaired par cipants distributed to 5,000 school compe ng in various events at students across 5 states in India the 20th Na onal Sports Meet for the blind Youth for Governance Indian Cancer Society 39% Provided grants to the Public Several aids were provided from 115,365 in FY 2015-16 to Concern for Governance Trust to facilitate the treatment for governance project that of needy cancer pa ents 160,035 in FY 2016-17 encourages youth to ﬁght against corrup on From Engagements to Outcomes We constantly align the scope and scale of our Esops programmes to the iden ﬁed community priori es. In FY 2016-17 many small and big The Mahindra Founda on, USA (MFUSA) was set up in 2007, as a ini a ves were carried out in these focus areas, over and above our non-proﬁt corpora on with the vision 'to transform lives through ﬂagships endeavours. educa on' and an objec ve of 'seeking global support for the educa on of under-privileged girls in India through Project Nanhi Kali'. The ten voluntary chapters across the US create awareness and mobilise funds for the project. 448,607 lives bene tted In FY 2016-17, the foundation raised through various initiatives under USD 288,787for Nanhi Kali Esops programmes 75 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 JEEVANDAAN Quenching the Thirst | FD, Nagpur Objec ve Flagship Endeavour Through the Jaldoot programme, volunteers supplied drinking water Organise blood dona on drives including Thalassemia support to 6,500 people. 24 employees dedicated 88 man-hours towards the those for thalassemic pa ents programme above projects driving posi ve change in the local communi es. Impact 7,184 Bene ciaries Blood Dona on Camp | AD, Zaheerabad and MRV, Chennai Conducted a blood dona on camp in associa on with the Himabindu Blood Bank, Hyderabad, in June 2016 as part of the World Blood Donor Day celebra ons. A total of 230 donors donated blood. Similarly, MRV too conducted a blood dona on camp where 260 employees donated blood. SEHAT Objec ve Conduct generic and specialty medical camps, polio immunisa on camps, health awareness rallies, campaigns, and distribu on of informa on, educa on and communica on (IEC) material. Flagship Endeavours Lifeline ExpressA hospital-on-wheels that takes quality medical care to remote regions of India Arogya Sarthi Healthcare services for mother & child and promo ng ins tu onalisa on of deliveries NAVDRUSHTI Objec ve Flagship Endeavour Project Prayaas Rehabilita on and Awareness on HIV/AIDS with Conduct eye check-up, spectacles distribu on, Lifeline special emphasis on improving living condi ons of People Living with glaucoma and cataract opera ons Express HIV/AIDS (PLHA) Impact 9,029 Bene ciaries Impact 246,666 Bene ciaries Eye Camp | FD, Zaheerabad Contribu ng towards a Polio-free Na on | MRV, Chennai Conducted in associa on with Shankar Netralayam Hospitals, Close to 2,500 children were vaccinated through this ini a ve at Hyderabad, in December 2016. Paranur-Pulippakkam Toll Plaza, Chengelpet on NH 45, Tamil Nadu. A total of 685 pa ents were examined, 536 spectacles were distributed, and 17 pa ents underwent surgery. Impac ng Lives Where it Ma ers | FD, Zaheerabad Conducted in associa on with OMNI Hospitals, Hyderabad, a total of 296 villagers beneﬁ ed from this camp at Khasimpur village. The orthopaedic surgeon examined 189 villagers, 253 villagers availed the GREEN GUARDIANS services of the general physician, and 16 pa ents met the cardiologist for their health complaints. Objec ve Flagship Endeavour Protect the environment and Health on the Move | FD, Zaheerabad Relief Programmes by create environmental awareness Mahindra Founda on A mobile dispensary, manned by a qualiﬁed medical oﬃcer and supported by paramedical staﬀ, is operated to provide primary healthcare to ﬁve adopted villages. Celebrate Green | AD, Nashik To prevent the pollu on of Godavari river caused by the immersion of Fostering Good Health | AD, Haridwar POP idols during Ganesh Visarjan, awareness was created regarding A number of ini a ves were undertaken to address various issues: the increase in the severity of water scarcity and the adverse eﬀects • Project Roshni: In this cataract opera on camp 2,144 pa ents were of river pollu on, using leaﬂets, banners, social media and WhatsApp. screened, out of which 492 were operated A team of 70 volunteers collected more than 15,500 idols from two loca ons and immersed them in an environmentally friendly manner. • Project Bhawana: 162 dental check-ups and health check-ups for girl children in orphanages 76 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES GYANDEEP STREET SMART Objec ve Objec ve Support schools for infrastructure development, material distribu on, Promo on of road safety ini a ves through awareness drives and and conduc ng extra-curricular ac vi es. distribu on of aids to drivers like helmets, masks, and reﬂectors Flagship Endeavour Flagship Endeavour Nanhi Kali Supports the educa on of underprivileged girl children Road SafetyPromo ng road safety educa on amongst school-going from marginalised communi es children and drivers and crea ng Zero-Fatality Corridor Social Ambassador Programme An ap tude based career Impact 66,924 Bene ciaries development ini a ve Zero Fatality Corridor | M&M Ltd. Impact 16,936 Bene ciaries Launched last year in conjunc on with SaveLIFE Founda on, and Maharashtra State Road Development Corpora on Ltd., the corridor is Project Sahyog | AD, Nashik a pioneering a empt to reduce road crash deaths on the MumbaiThe ini a ve focusses on educa ng the underprivileged school Pune Expressway from an annual average of 140 to near zero by the children in non-academic areas like drama, music, drawing, etc. The year 2020. As part of this, 120 M&M employees par cipated in the plan is to cover 10,665 school students of Standard VI to VIII in 105 road safety awareness event at the Khalapur toll on MPEW. Volunteers schools in the Nashik city area. formed a human chain, distributed pamphlets and key-chains with the message 'Drive Safe, Reach Safe' and held road safety messages. Be er Infrastructure for Be er Future | FD, Zaheerabad To improve the classrooms and hygiene in the nearby schools with emphasis on improving the sanitary condi ons for the girl students to decrease the dropout rates, following ini a ves were carried out: • Construc on of 4 new toilets • Renova on of boys’ toilets • Civil repairs, pain ng of school building and compound wall • Provision for clean drinking water for the students #HaveASafeJourney | MTBD Social Ambassador Programme | Mahindra Towers, Worli With support from Natural Habitat Preserva on Centre and Ministry of An ongoing ini a ve that con nues to help students gain insights into Road Transport & Highways, #HaveaSafeJourney (#HASJ) on their strengths and preferences, explore suitable career opportuni es, Independence Day 2017. The idea is to use literature as an eﬀec ve and develop life skills. This year, a total of 440 students were beneﬁ ed. medium to connect and engage with people for promo ng awareness. Short stories of braveries and humanity were invited from the public to form world's ﬁrst collec on of short stories on road safety issues. The best short story will be awarded a cash prize of INR 50,000. HUNNAR Objec ve Flagship Endeavour Facilitate Skill Development Mahindra Pride School Impact 8,362 Bene ciaries Skilling for a secure future | FD, Kandivali Live working models from wri en-oﬀ materials were donated to ITI, Building Dreams | MADPL, Nashik Chiplun to facilitate skill enhancement of the student there. With an aim of crea ng a friendlier and more conducive atmosphere for learning at the Zilla Parishad School, following developments Shaping Lives | FD, Kandivali beneﬁ ng 209 students were undertaken by 11 Esopians expending Under the Sanskar youth development programme, youth were 220 man-hours. provided year-long inputs in areas like computers, life skills, English • Construc on of a dining hall, compound wall, and toilets speaking etc. 140 students of the 2015-16 batch appeared for MS-CIT • Repair of the drinking water tank and school roof (Maharashtra State Cer ﬁcate in Informa on Technology) exams in August 2016. Small Steps, Big Smiles | Mahindra Truck & Bus Division (MTBD) The employee volunteers distributed school kits comprising school bags, notebooks, pencil boxes, drawing books, and crayons. A total of 70 school kits for small children and 80 kits for children above 5 years of age were assembled and distributed this year. 77 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 SWACHCHMEVA JAYATE PROJECT HARIYALI Objec ve Flagship Endeavour Objec ve Flagship Endeavour Contribute to Swachh Bharat. Swachh Vidyalaya Construc on of Expanding the Mahindra HariyaliA programme with an aim to Cleanliness toilets primarily for girls in government schools green cover plant a million+ trees every year Impact 535 Toilets constructed Impact 2.3 million trees planted this year 11.26 million trees planted by M&M Ltd. and Hamara Sta on, Hamari Shaan | AFS 13.40 million planted by the Group since inception In partnership with Mumbai First, an NGO, the Hamara Sta on of Project Hariyali. Hamari Shaan (Our Sta on, Our Pride) project was launched at Bandra sta on in Mumbai in the presence of Hon. Minister of Railways, Shri Araku Valley Project, Andhra Pradesh Suresh Prabhu, Hon. Chief Minister of Maharashtra, 1.91 million trees were planted in the region as part of the tree Shri Devendra Fadnavis and other dignitaries. The colour fest was held planta on drive at Araku valley in the repor ng year. The project has across 36 Mumbai railway sta ons. AFS also adopted Kandivli sta on led to the planta on of a total 8.34 million trees in the valley, since and 50 volunteers painted a part of the sta on on the selected theme incep on. of Health & Wellness, in line with our Western Express Highway rejuvena on project. Fostering Health & Hygiene | AFS SAMANTAR The AFS Esops team facilitated the construc on of toilets in Objec ve Flagship Endeavour 15 schools of Sindhudurg district beneﬁ ng 3,500 girl students. Touch lives of disadvantaged groups Care for senior ci zens diﬀerently abled, senior ci zens, etc through Adhata Trust We Find Glory in Cleanliness | Swaraj Division SD supported the installa on of public lavatories, dustbins, and Impact 864 Bene ciaries Swachh Bharat signages across Mohali, in collabora on with the Mohali Municipal Corpora on beneﬁ ng nearly 5,000 people. Swaraj Doubling Joys and Dividing Sorrows | AD, Nashik Division was recognised and appreciated by the Ministry of Urban An HIV preven on and rehabilita on programme, in associa on with Development, Government of India at the launch ceremony of the Yash Founda on, has been implemented in Nashik district. This Swachh Survekshan, 2017. year, the team of 400 volunteers celebrated Friendship Day with the people and children living with HIV. The team put up a stall of SURYODAYA friendship bands and arranged for the HIV posi ve children to visit a Mahindra vehicle manufacturing unit. Objec ve Flagship Endeavour Propaga ng use MpoweredRural electriﬁca on of solar energy through solar power Impact 2,560 Bene ciaries Project Mpowered | M&M Ltd., Kushinagar In 2014, we embarked on a journey of ligh ng up lives by harnessing the sun's energy and leveraging it to beneﬁt communi es. This year, we added another nine hamlets to this endeavour and made solar power available to them. The project has had a profound impact on these villages as given below: • 1,500 beneﬁciaries across 259 households. • The solar powered e-hubs comprising an Android tablet, integrated with school curriculum from Standard l to Standard XII, an inbuilt LED based pico projector and internet connec vity provide easy access to educa on, entertainment and e-commerce to these remote, Mahindra Relief & Rehabilita on Ini a ve | M&M Ltd. underprivileged communi es. A relief & rehab commi ee has been formed comprising senior leaders • The ba ery-operated e-rickshaws ply on pre-deﬁned routes and across businesses to oversee the func oning of this ini a ve. 37 ci es ﬁxed charges. have been iden ﬁed pan-India and clubbed into 5 zones. Simula on • 30 women have been provided livelihood training and skilling emergency exercises were conducted at each of the ﬁve zones. opportuni es. Mr. Anand Mahindra also unveiled the relief and rehabilita on • Soil Health Cards are provided to enlighten farmers about the handbook, which has been prepared as a go-to manual in case of condi on of the soil on their farms. disasters. The handbook will serve as an exhaus ve informa on source during an emergency and contains city-wise emergency contact informa on, the nearest emergency service contact for Mahindra loca ons within that city, and the risk ra ngs for city relevant risks. Leaders at city and zonal levels have been iden ﬁed and nominated to be the Speciﬁc Points of Contacts (SPoCs) for relief and rehabilita on ac vi es within their area of responsibility. Augmen ng Good Health | MRV, Chennai Mahindra Research Valley has been extending nutri onal support to HIV/AIDS aﬀected women in Salem district in associa on with an NGO, Salem District People Service Society. A kit consis ng of rice, toor dal, green moong, whole dal, green peas, and fried gram was distributed beneﬁ ng 450 HIV-posi ve women. 78 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES KRISHI MITR CASE STUDY Objec ve Flagship Endeavour Upli ment of farmer community, promo ng Seed The Rise, Integrated Watershed Management Programme, Shiv Jal Kran , Trringo Taking agriculture Wardha Farmer Family Project, Water Management, Vijay Vidharbha mechanisa on to farmers Impact 15,655 Bene ciaries Problem Wardha Family Farming Project | M&M Ltd. Mechanisa on in agriculture leads to increased produc vity and Total Acreage: , reduced costs, but farmers in India had li le or no access to Farmer families beneﬁ ed: (with annual churn rate of 2%) mechanisa on. Investment in these assets and technology further lead to heavy ﬁnancial burden. No. of villages covered: Solu on Designed in partnership with the Naandi Founda on, the Wardha Family Farming Project is a transforma onal agrarian solu on that will In FY 2015-16, FD launched Trringo India's foremost organised farm not only deliver sustainable local nutri onal security but also assure equipment rental service. It operates as a franchisee based model prosperity of small and marginal farmers in the distressed Vidarbha which eﬀec vely brings in new-age digital technology to the tractor region of Maharashtra. The project disrupted the culture within rental business. This has signiﬁcantly increased the reach of farm agriculture through 5 cri cal interven ons: mechanisa on and enabled digital empowerment of farmers of India. It also helps farmers, who cannot aﬀord their own tractor and 1 Changing the annual mono-cropping culture to high value equipment, to rent the same directly with ease. hor culture orchards. Premium value nutri on crops like pomegranates were introduced The ﬁrst Trringo custom hiring centre was started in Koppal, Karnataka. As part of an MoU signed with the Government of 2 Complete transi on from chemical intensive farming to chemical Karnataka, 101 custom hiring centres have been set up in the state. free bio-dynamic farming that nurtures the soil and creates posi ve value for the environment and the farmer year on year 3 Introducing land prepara on and drip irriga on methods to address the unpredictable weather, resul ng in climate resilient agriculture 4 Bringing in biodiversity and farmer family nutri on beneﬁts through border crops like Moringa and enabling addi onal incomes through intercropping regimes 5 Facilita ng market stability by crea ng produc sed value rather than general commodity value by ensuring all farmers in the programme are organically cer ﬁed Trringo operates on a dual business model. • The ﬁrst is a franchisee model where Trringo func ons as an enabler pla orm and processes orders through the nearest franchisees through loca on mapping. This model supports easy accessibility and service through a dedicated app and toll-free number. The franchisees can also e up with tractor owners to rent out their equipment to farmers on a commission basis. • The second is a C2C model, which lets large farmers who own expensive, high-end equipment rent out their assets through Trringo. This has helped in op mising u lisa on based on seasonality, cu ng across geographies. The asset owner is connected to the user using the app and by virtue of na onal brand awareness. Beneﬁts Trringo is a resounding success and has recorded 18,000 working hours on ﬁeld. In its ﬁrst year itself, the pla orm has impacted 12,000 farmers and con nues to empower them by reducing ﬁnancial burdens and increasing farm mechanisa on in Indian agriculture. 79 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 GRAM VIKAS HARNESSING RAINWATER AD, NASHIK Objec ve Flagship Endeavour The AD, Nashik was called upon by the district administra on to Village Integrated Rural Development Programme support the Jalyukta Shivar drive at the Chandwad Taluka of Nashik Development Boos ng livelihood opportuni es and capacity district, to create adequate rainwater storage facili es in water building of the famers and rural youth starved areas before the onset of monsoons. The reac on me was short considering the monsoons were predicted to arrive in around Impact 74,427 Bene ciaries one month's me. Our team at Nashik acted immediately and began widening and desil ng of nullahs and streams across four loca ons of Integrated Village Development Programme | Palghar, Thane Chandwad Taluka. The project was monitored round the clock by our The IVDP has impacted the lives of 924 households and 4,620 volunteers deployed on site and was successfully completed on me. beneﬁciaries by empowering the villagers, including women, in following ways: Impact Capacity of 500,000 KL created • Regular tailoring and poultry classes; 72 sessions completed with 18 tailoring and 10 poultry students passing the test Other Initiatives • Digital learning facility at one school • Construc on of 95 toilets • 12 health camps and 5 eye camps • Cancer camps for 400 women Mahindra Saarthi Abhiyaan | MTBL • Anaemia detec on and treatment camps for 8,000 women Mahindra Saarthi Abhiyaan was born in FY 2015 to address the issues • Forma on of 205 SHGs consis ng of 572 women of higher educa on of girls within the HCV driver community. This year, 1,000 scholarships of INR 10,000 each were awarded to • 36 par cipants for the farmer ﬁeld visit daughters of HCV truck drivers who have successfully completed • 50 capacity building sessions for 79 farmers educa on up to Standard 10th and are con nuing with further studies. • Plan ng of 16,770 trees EHS+ | M&M Ltd. An EHS+ centre was established for training small and medium enterprises in the industrial sector, with an aim of promo ng environmental sustainability. In FY 2017, 676 par cipants were Conserve Today for Water Tomorrow | FD, Nagpur Plant trained, raising the cumula ve number of trained individuals to 1,555. To tackle the acute water shortage issue in the Vidarbha region, FD Nagpur joined hands with the Du a Meghe group of ins tu ons to enhance the conﬂuence of rivers Veena and Durga by sil ng and other ac vi es. The team has planted more than 750,000 trees in the last eight years in the Vidarbha region. Transforming the na on, one village at a me | M&M Ltd. We take pride in func oning as The Rural Development Fellows (RDFs), selected under the Maharashtra Village Social Transforma on Founda on, which is a path-breaking public-private partnership between the Government of Maharashtra and India's leading We Support the Army | M&M Ltd. corporates and philanthropic organisa ons. The exis ng buildings of the Army Ins tute of Management, Kolkata It supports holis c progress of 1,000 villages and aims to plug (AIMK) were old. There was a need to construct a hostel building at the developmental gaps in rural Maharashtra, thus contribu ng to na on exis ng loca on of AIMK to provide be er living to the students (boys) building. We par cipated in the inaugura on ceremony of the Rural residing in hostels, ll the me the ins tute moved to the new campus. Development Fellowship at Pune, and pledged to undertake social A sum of INR 2.5 million was donated by M&M Ltd. transforma on across villages in India. for the construc on of the building. 80 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Participation in Esops Awards The Esops awards are held every year to encourage compe on in volunteering, mo vate more employees to volunteer, and drive a posi ve change in society through the joy of giving. This year the winner under the Factory Location category was AFS, Auto Division, Nashik for their Project Prayaas, which helped HIVAIDS infected individuals. In FY 2016-17, the project supported the education of 130,751 girls Of these, 13,432 girls were supported by M&M while Mahindra Group supported 60,420 girls. Other corporates & individuals supported the balance number of girls. The award in the Non-Factory Key Highlights Locations category was presented to • 10% increase in the learning outcomes of girls at Project Nanhi Kali. Mahindra Agri Solutions Ltd. for conducting multiple eye-camps under • Dropout rate of girls for secondary school is over 60% at Na onal level, which is reduced to less than 10% at Project Nanhi Kali. project Navdrushti. • As of date, 14,663 Nanhi Kalis have successfully completed their educa on ll grade 10. Mahindra Pride School E D U C AT I O N A L S U P P O R T The MPS aim to transform youth from marginalised communi es Educa on is a single tool that empowers, drives posi ve change, and through livelihood training programmes that enable them to ﬁnd ensures a progressive society. Transforming lives through educa on employment opportuni es in high-growth service sectors. ensures eradica on of numerous social evils and augmenta on of communi es. At Mahindra, we are steadfast in our interven ons in educa on and con nuously strive to make quality educa on accessible in the marginalised sec ons of the society. 5,024 students trained in FY 2017. Through educa onal support we: 8 MPS have collectively trained a total of • Support girl children in achieving their dreams and living 20,351 students till date. a life of dignity. Addi onally, 24,990 students were trained through the Mahindra Pride • Provide voca onal and skill-based training and enhance employment opportuni es. Employability Enhancement Module which was rolled out in 600 classrooms in Polytechnics and Arts & Science Colleges across 3 states• Provide scholarships and monetary assistance to deserving Tamil Nadu, Kerala & Maharashtra. children from economically weaker sec ons. Project Nanhi Kali Our ﬂagship girl educa on project, it was ins tuted by the K.C. Mahindra Educa on Trust, in partnership with the Naandi Founda on. It provides educa onal support to girls from the ﬁnancially weak families, spans across 30 districts from 12 states, and ac vely works with 19 NGOs. The selec on of Nanhi Kalis is based on several aspects such as the family income, parents' educa onal por olio, social background, and the child's ap tude. The project has a sponsorship support programme with interna onal arms in the US and UK to extend its reach and empower more girl children in India to realise their dream of an educa on. 81 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Placements Te s t i m o n i a l s b y E m p l o y e r s • 100% placements in every batch with reputed organisa ons is the key highlight of MPS. This year, we saw a host of new recruiters like I came here for an interview session and found that K-Cube Comm., VIVO mobile etc, across our campuses. the students were very good and well groomed. • Average monthly star ng salary per batch of MPS has increased to They had excellent knowledge of their subject. All INR 12,636 per month the best, team Mahindra, I will come again for • Over 55% of the students found employment in the ITES, while more hiring. 24% found meaningful employment in the hospitality sector Junaid Iqbal | The Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa It was a great associa on with Mahindra Pride Schools. Students who have passed out from MPS are very hard working and are value addi on to any organisa on. Thanks for suppor ng us for our manpower requirements. Best of luck and keep doing the good work for society and country. Dilip Gautam | Reliance Retail Mumbai Public Schools Mahindra has been suppor ng the 'Mumbai Public Schools' programme, implemented by Naandi Founda on to provide quality English Medium educa on to underprivileged children, since SUCCESS STORY FY 2013-14. The Founda on runs these Mumbai city corpora on's Inspiring to Aspire English-medium schools. Kanmani lost her father, an auto rickshaw driver, when she was just three years old, leaving her uneducated mother to fend for three young daughters. Her mother used to sell 16,188 students were provided quality English education ﬂowers on Marina beach in Chennai to feed her children. When Kanmani turned ﬁve, she was enrolled in a government through 28 schools. school where she was guaranteed one meal a day. From the age of 10 she started selling ﬂowers a er school to supplement her meagre family income. Since she got good grades in Class XII, her mother decided to put her through 19% increase in enrolment of students college. A er comple ng her Bachelor's in Commerce from a government college, Kanmani commenced work at a small grocery store for INR 5,000 a month. 96% retention rate of students She fortuitously met a Mahindra Pride School alumnus, who inspired her to enrol as a student. Kanmani cleared the entrance test and interview, and pursued a 90-day free course, along with a daily nutri ous lunch and a bus pass. The SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS ins tute ins lled both knowledge and skills, through a plethora of conﬁdence boos ng and self-esteem building K.C. Mahindra Scholarships for Postgraduate measures. Studies Abroad Kanmani excelled at her very ﬁrst job interview and was recruited by a leading BPO at a monthly salary of INR 17,000. The K.C. Mahindra Scholarship for Postgraduate Studies Abroad Kanmani now earns INR 250,000 annually and has inspired (ins tuted in the year 1956) is an interest-free loan scholarship awarded over a dozen poor but aspira onal youngsters like herself to to deserving graduates interested in pursuing their postgraduate studies enroll in Mahindra Pride School. overseas. Kanmani excelled at her very ﬁrst job interview and was In the FY 2016-17, 47 students were awarded a scholarship of INR recruited by a leading BPO at a monthly salary of INR 17,000. 400,000 each. In addi on to this, the top three candidates (the K.C. Kanmani now earns INR 250,000 annually and has inspired Mahindra Fellows) were awarded scholarships of INR 800,000 each. over a dozen poor but aspira onal youngsters like herself to Total amount disbursed during FY 2016-17: INR 21.2 million enroll in Mahindra Pride School. The total number of scholarships given ll date: 1,251 82 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES Mahindra All India Talent Scholarship (MAITS) No. of Patients Visiting OPD Ins tuted in 1995, Mahindra All India Talent Scholarships are awarded Lifeline Express to students from economically backward sec ons to enable them to pursue a job oriented diploma course at a recognised Government Polytechnic Ins tute in India. 550 scholarships were awarded in FY 2016-17. Till date 8,553 students have been awarded MAITS. Total amount disbursed during FY 2016-17 is INR 14.8 million KC Mahindra UWC Scholarship This scholarship enables deserving students to study at the United World Colleges, and in par cular, the Mahindra United World College, Pune. During FY 2016-17, four students were awarded this scholarship amoun ng to a disbursement of INR 5.98 million. Total amount disbursed during FY 2016-17 is INR 103.35 million, bene tting 93 students Mahindra Search for Talent Scholarships This scholarship which rewards excellence in academics has been set up in 38 ins tu ons in India. In addi on, students who receive the Mahindra Search for Talent Scholarship for two consecu ve years also Ear Eye Epilepsy receive the Honours Scholarship Award comprising a cash prize of 2,798 4,916 350 INR 5,000 and a cita on from the Trust. Dental 1,370 H E A LT H S U P P O R T Gyneachology Treatment (Screening and Control of Cervical & Breast Cancer) Access to quality medical care across the lesser privileged sec ons of 1,157 the society is the pressing need of the hour. Absence of medical facili es coupled with poverty and other social evils is the main cause Oral Cancer of misery and un mely deaths in these communi es. By bringing 310 basic healthcare to the remote and underprivileged areas, we strive to ensure good health and raise the standard of living. Cle Lip 49 Lifeline Express Lifeline Express the world's ﬁrst hospital on rails, is a wide-ranging healthcare project designed to provide free medical services to those Family Health Services belonging to economically weaker sec ons in geographically remote 469 territories. M&M provides ﬁnancial support to this ini a ve and constantly monitors its on-ground impact. LIFELINE EXPRESS, SATNA • Two new coaches were added this year making Mahindra Group the ﬁrst corporate to sponsor a seven-coach Lifeline Express in India. Total bene ciaries • Family planning and gynaecology were introduced for the ﬁrst me. • First cancer surgery on train was successfully conducted at Satna by 11,419 Dr. Pankaj Chhaturvedi from Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai. The the highest number for pa ent was admi ed to Birla hospital, Satna, and the post opera on a Mahindra supported treatment was borne by the state government. project till date • The project a racted immense support from the local administra on and colleges. • Throughout the project, ﬁve employees from the Mahindra AFS oﬃces and Mahindra Finance enthusias cally par cipated in all phases of the project. • Esops volunteers invested 30 man-hours in the project; right from the publicity of the project ll the ﬁnal project phase 83 C U LT U R A L C O N T R I B U T I O N Cultural ac vi es connect people from across the hierarchies of the society. A cultural celebra on is thus, a mel ng pot of diversity making them vital tools of communica on, means for entertainment, and drivers of social change, simultaneously. At Mahindra, we take extreme pride in hos ng such ini a ves and adding value to the cultural richness of India. Mahindra Excellence in Theatre (META) Mahindra Blues META aims to connect with the communi es through a week-long The seventh edi on of Mahindra Blues, Asia's fes val, speciﬁcally designed to showcase the best of theatre from largest blues fes val, was a Yale University across the country. It promotes all aspects of theatre such as cer ﬁed, Pla num Level green event this year. playwri ng, scenic designs, light and costume designs, direc on, and We undertook numerous ini a ves this year to performance. earn this cer ﬁca on. They are listed below: The META awards celebrated its 12th edi on in March 2017, and • Transporta on Cycle stands were provided at venue to encourage showcased 10 produc ons, which included plays like Mahabharata in the audience to commute by bicycles English, Hindi, and Kannada, I Don't Like It As You Like It in English, Bhima in English and Malayalam, Awddyo Shesh Rajani in Bengali, • Reduced sta onary and handouts electronic announcements, Dhumrapaan in English and Hindi. ckets through online pla orms, no handouts at venue • Catering use of compostable cups and glasses, reduced use of plas c cutlery, dona on of le over food to NGOs, Signage at venue to boost use of bio-degradable cutlery. • Waste management Recycling bins used, dona on of le overs, proper waste disposal • Created Awareness on the beneﬁts of sustainability prac ces • Clear instruc ons on waste segrega on and quick facts on recycling were provided at the venue. • People were educated with 10 smart things to do at home to be more sustainable A world-class fes val with a world-class line-up, this year the fes val Mahindra Sanatkada Lucknow Fes val was a bigger and be er experience for the fans with a star-studded line-up of ar sts including threeme Grammy nominee Shemekia At Mahindra, we believe that our rich culture, arts, and history are Copeland, 'blues prodigy' Quinn Sullivan, Americana soul singer Janiva crucial founda ons of a progressive society. Our annual Mahindra Magness, Mumbai-bred Blackstratblues, vocal-powerhouse Grainne Sanatkada Lucknow Fes val focusses on conserving our heritage and Duﬀy, the Supersonic Blues Machine featuring Billy Gibbons of ZZ Top celebra ng the grandeur of our tradi on. fame, and blues-rock guitarist Eric Gales. Organised in associa on with Sanatkada, a not-for-proﬁt cra s collec ve, the fes val spans across four days and a racts connoisseurs of cuisines, poetry, music, dance, arts, literature, and tradi onal cra s. Mahindra Kabira Fes val Visitors are treated to informa ve history tours, interes ng literature The Mahindra Kabira Fes val, held in Varanasi, is the newest addi on and poetry sessions, and a scrump ous spread of cuisines every to our cultural contribu ons. The fes val is an extension of our values February. The fes val is a pla orm for the ar sans and master of equality and dignity, and stands for the essen al sense of cra smen from across the world to showcase their skills. inclusiveness, which the poet Saint Kabir preached in his poetry. 84 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES R E L AT I O N S H I P C A P I TA L Rela onships get enriched and strengthened through consistent engagement. At Mahindra & Mahindra, stakeholder engagement is not a ck-box exercise but a well-thought-out strategy to establish personal connec on with the stakeholders and get realme feedback about their legi mate expecta ons from us. As value crea on becomes a more dynamic and collabora ve exercise, maintaining open channels of communica on helps shape our strategies, plans and performance accordingly. We believe that each and every stakeholder's point of view is important, be it the supplier, customer, employee, investor, or community. Hence, to that end, we willingly listen and discuss issues of interest to our stakeholders. S TA K E H O L D E R E N G A G E M E N T M E C H A N I S M S We keep evolving our engagement modules to be in sync with the changing mes and develop pla orms best suited to the stakeholders. STAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT CHANNELS Employees Engaged employees form a posi ve connect with the organisa on, which aﬀects their a tudes towards their work and improves their Environmental Compliance, Policy produc vity and customers sa sfac on. At Mahindra, we consider our Interven on employees as partners in progress. A two-way interac on with our Government/ employees, hence, happens most naturally at our units. While we share Regulatory Authorities the organisa on's vision, mission, culture, and business roadmap with enthusiasm, we also listen to their expecta ons and personal objec ves with open ears. Some of the key engagement ini a ves in FY 2016-17 Conferences, workshops, period include: publica ons, newsle ers & reports, online portals, feedback surveys and ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY SUMMIT Employees one-to-one interac ons, employee The Annual AFS Sustainability Summit 'SUSTAIN 2016' was organised involvement in CSR ac vi es with the objec ve of sharing insights on integra ng sustainability in business. 100+ champions from AFS & other group companies par cipated in this event. Various sessions on 'Water Security', Interviews, personal visits, 'Waste Management Circular Economy', 'Life Cycle Assessment', publica ons, mass media & digital 'Sustainable Supply Chain' & 'Biodiversity' were also by the experts communica ons, feedback camps, from TERI, TRINI, CII & Thinkstep. Customers plant visit and support programmes OPEN FORUM Supplier & vendor meets, workshops An open communica on forum, 'Khula Manch' was organised at FD & trainings, audits, policies, ITKandivali, where senior leadership team shared the plant's enabled informa on sharing tools, performance and way ahead. Suppliers & Dealers and recogni on pla orms Annual report, sustainability report, press releases, investor presenta ons, corporate website, Investors/Shareholders quarterly and annual results CSR ac vi es Local Communities DOCTORS' MEET Technical Collabora on, Capacity The 3rd AFS Doctor's meet was held at AFS Zaheerabad with Mental Building, Research Health & Psychological Wellbeing as the theme. During the meet, Educational Institutes/ key insights and anecdotes on the impact of lifestyle, technology and Universities social media on mental health were shared with the employees. 85 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Customers The speakers also unfolded strategy and shared the way forward for their respec ve businesses. The conference was a ended by the AFS Organisa ons are dependent on their customers. They are the dignitaries along with 262 delegates from supplier organisa ons resources on which the success of the business depends. We engage across the globe. with our customers, listen to their point of view, and address their needs. Some of the key customer engagement ini a ves in the repor ng period include: NEW DIGITAL ENGAGEMENT PLATFORM As part of its comprehensive digital engagement strategy to take customer ownership experience to the next level, Mahindra & Mahindra launched two new age digital pla orms SYOUV and With You Hamesha. While SYOYV is one-stop solu on to address customer needs in the pre-purchase phase, 'With You Hamesha' pla orm will ensure a superior vehicle service experience to its customers. SUPPLIER E-LEARNING FOR AFS SUPPLIERS The ﬁrst-of-its-kind live online Sustainability Session was organised for M&M AFS Suppliers using MVARTA pla orm from Mahindra Towers, Kandivali. The aim of e-learning session was to enhance outreach to a wider supplier base. A total 65 people from 49 AFS suppliers par cipated from their own facili es. Prior to this online session, 10 Sustainability Awareness Workshops were conducted onsite across diﬀerent loca ons covering 466 suppliers. MYAGRIGURU APP Mahindra Agri Solu ons launched a new mobile app, MyAgriGuru to enable farmers to make informed SUPPLIER MEET decisions at every stage of the farming process. This FD SCPC organised Supplier Meet for Mumbai-based suppliers at will help them boost both agricultural produc vity Kandivali Plant where they were explained about the new supply and farm incomes. The pla orm connects the chain management system of Hub Buying and the achievements of farmers and agriculture experts across the country. the Mumbai Hub in the last two years. The suppliers were also guided on the beneﬁts of digi za on (smart factory) and Industry 4.0 in the long-run. Local Communities Proac ve and sustained engagement helps us to strengthen our Dealers rela ons with the community and helps us contribute to their wellbeing. We follow a strategic approach to community engagement that Our dealers are much more than a channel to our customers. They aligns development priori es of local communi es with the goals of the expedite response me, enhance company reach and help our business, be it gaining a licence to operate, enhancing our reputa on or customers derive more value of our products and services. It is cri cal improving produc vity. to engage with them because they are the face of the company. Some For details on social performance, please refer to the Social Capital Sec on. of the key engagement ini a ves taken up in the FY 2016-17 include: ANNUAL DISTRIBUTORS' CONFERENCE Suppliers Spares Business Unit organised a three-day Annual Distributors' Conference in Macao to celebrate distributors' performance outdoing We go beyond just a transac onal rela onship with our suppliers. They industry performance, discuss new business avenues and their play a crucial role in accelera ng our growth and in the overall business development, and se ng up aspira onal target of INR 1,000 Cr to development. Hence, we engage with them in various capaci es to the distributors for the current ﬁnancial year. The event witnessed ensure a good, long-standing rela onship. overwhelming par cipa on from all the distributors. We have a detailed policy on conduc ng business with suppliers and vendors, and also a Sustainable Green Supply Chain Management and Procurement PolicyBoth of which can be found on our internal supplier-centric portal: h ps://supplier.mahindra.com Some of the key engagement ini a ves taken up in FY 2016-17 are: ANNUAL SUPPLIER CONFERENCE 2016 Automo ve & Farm Sectors' Annual Supplier Conference 2016 was held in Barcelona, Spain with the theme 'Raise the Game'. The objec ve of the conference was to share the strategic plans with suppliers and aligning them with the goals of the business. 86 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN NATURAL SOCIAL & CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ANNEXURES MAHINDRA STARS MEGA MEET Mahindra Stars Na onal Conference was held to felicitate outstanding performance of the dealers and contribu on to the business. Dealers were also made aware about the Global Rise story of Mahindra Tractors and the Farm Division CVP (customer value proposi on) through a talk. The conference was a ended by 2,000 of the best ﬁeld force from FD dealerships, who converged at the venue. Online Footprint In today's highly digi sed world, it is impera ve that brands sit up and take a serious note of their online presence. While brands make every possible eﬀort to engage with their stakeholders in the real world, they need to put in equal, if not more, eﬀort in building and sustaining the same healthy rela onship in the digital space. At Mahindra, we value our online presence and take steps to nurture a healthy and beneﬁcial rela onship with our online stakeholders. Following is a glimpse of the social media sta s cs for Mahindra Rise, our corporate brand handle. Number of followers on: We are the We are the TH 10 2ND 875k largest Indian brand largest automotive brand (in terms of followers) (in terms of followers) on Twitter and on LinkedIn 1.1 million 5TH fastest growing 119k Indian brand in June Our website Mahindra.com gets Close to half a million users and In the last 6 months, our LinkedIn posts In the last 6 months, our FB posts have reached 1.5 MILLION page views a quarter have reached 8.1 MILLION ONE MILLION PEOPLE 10,000+ downloads every month PEOPLE, and in the process garnered and in the process garnered 1.6 million reactions (likes, On an average people loves), 9,000 comments, spend more than two 17,000 LIKES and 91,000 shares minutes on the site 87 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 H O W W E P L A N T O E N H A N C E VA L U E Going forward, we aim to focus on S T R AT E G Y A N D • Untapped Customer Segments • Innova on & Digi sa on R E S O U R C E A L L O C AT I O N • New-age Business Models • Strategic Collabora ons Amidst the crests and the troughs, business must go on as usual. As an organisa on with a legacy stretching over 70 years, we have Untapped Customer Segments witnessed many micro and macro-economic shi s and have emerged Our latest launches the TUV3OO and KUV1OO are in the compact stronger and wiser from each. More experience we accrue, UV (UV1) category, which expands our market to include ﬁrstme car the readier we are for the future. buyers, who otherwise would not have bought a Mahindra vehicle. In today's fast-evolving world, risks and opportuni es arrive simultaneously and one needs to respond to them concurrently. The core focus of our strategy is to leverage emerging opportuni es and ensure that we cater to evolving customer needs. We also remain nimble so that we can respond in realme to any unexpected developments. On an individual division level, the AD and FD have strategies that are customised to the inherent nature of their speciﬁc industries and customers: Automotive Division Digi sa on & Innova on • This year, we introduced the one-of-its-kind connected pla orm We are present both in the personal vehicles and commercial vehicles DiGiSENSE, oﬀered Unique Value Proposi ons for our consumers like segment. mileage guarantee on Blazo truck, and launched driver-friendly technologies like Smart Shi In the personal vehicles category, we have focussed on U lity Vehicle, and we are the only Indian OEM • Over the past two years, we are working on de-risking our reliance on to be present in every segment of the UV market. one fuel type by developing petrol engine op ons for all our products. KUV OO became L VEHICLE ERCIA MENT PRESEN our ﬁrst product to M SEG CE Small be launched with C OM Commercial both diesel and Vehicles (SCV) gasoline op on. The gasoline engines are developed by the company in collabora on with our Korean subsidiary, Ssangyong Motors. Light Commercial • Mahindra Research Valley, built with an investment of INR 10,000 Vehicles Crore and powered by 2,700 engineers, is helping us deliver new (LCV) products and technologies Collabora on • Crea ng global design and development capabili es via global Medium centres of excellence & Heavy Commercial • We are also collabora ng with Ssangyong to leverage synergies in Vehicles (MHCV) the area of new product / pla orm development, procurement and accessing overseas market. The only gap in the por olio is ICVs (Intermediate New-age Business Models Commercial Vehicles), which will be addressed in • Par cipa ng with rental car aggregator system like Ola etc. the mes to come. • Focusing on global market and strengthening global footprint 88 HOW TO READ HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE HOW WE PLAN OUR REPORT CREATE VALUE SUSTAIN VALUE DELIVERED VALUE TO ENHANCE VALUE ANNEXURES Farm Division We are not only the market leaders in domes c market, but also the world's largest tractor manufacturer (by volume). We have been proac vely shaping the market by launching versa le and technologically sophis cated tractors and enhancing driver comforts. Over the last three years, we have launched new products (Arjun Novo, Yuvo etc.) in the popular 30-50 HP segment. We plan to con nue launching new products under This has resulted in our both brands -Mahindra and Swaraj. The strategy of two brands and one organisa on at the top level market share rising has helped us to beneﬁt from both entrepreneurial to 42.7% the highest drive at the ﬁeld and synergy through common ever till date. procurement and business processes. In addi on to maintaining our leadership in exis ng product markets and grow our market share in other markets, we aim to: Build technologically Expand the range like in Invest in new-age Cascade the sophis cated, versa le the HP JIVO tractors business models like DiGiSENSE tractors which cater to the growing Trringo India's ﬁrst pla orm in segment of hor culture tractor & farm equipment Tractors and row crop farming rental business Expand in newer markets Pursue inorganic growth Explore areas like Innovate with like Mexico, Brazil, Turkey, and enlarge the product precision farming driverless Japan etc. domain with strategic tractors and stake like in MAM, Sampo ar ﬁcial Roselnew, Hisalrar etc. intelligence We are conﬁdent of maintaining our market leadership posi on in the domes c market and expanding our presence across interna onal markets. With start-up ini a ves and diversiﬁca on into non-tractor farm machinery included, we are Future Ready. 89 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 OPPORTUNITIES & OUTLOOK The Automo ve and Farm Equipment Sectors of M&M Ltd., con nue to focus on crea ng products and technology led services, which enable customers and stakeholders to Rise. Through customer-centricity, frugal innova on and enhancing people capabili es, we are consolida ng our leadership posi on in the domes c market while pursuing global expansion. Mirroring the tumults and exulta ons of the global environment, FY2016-17 was a year of headwinds and tailwinds for the Indian economy as well as our business. Headwinds Tailwinds What We Are Doing Lower u lisa on of industrial A buoyant farm sen ment due to an abundant M&M is focussing on delivering 'Farm Tech capaci es monsoon a er over two years of deﬁcient rains, and Prosperity' to the Indian farmer, through an increase in Minimum Support Prices. Plus, the development and launch of technologically advanced government's publicly stated goal to double farm tractors, agri-machinery and holis c farm solu ons. income by 2022. This is not only helping us strengthen our rela onship with farmers but also enhancing the poten al for revenue growth in the future. Unprecedented compe on in the UV The Passenger Vehicle segment, has demonstrated a We strengthened our UV por olio with the launch segment from foreign as well as clear shi towards preference for UVs, with UVs of the Bolero Power+, 100HP variant of the TUV3OO domes c players accoun ng for 25% of PV sales in Financial Year 2017. and Automa c variant of the XUV5OO. In the Commercial Vehicle (CV) space, India Origin The launch of UVs with car-like comfort, fuel OEMs con nue to hold a large share of 97.1% of the economy and compe ve prices have led to domes c market. increased preference for our UVs and is a rac ng prospec ve sedan buyers to consider UVs. Demand slump due to demone sa on The government's push on reforms con nues and We con nue to link our growth with the long-term posi ve impact of the demone sa on development of India, and support and spearhead and introduc on of GST will bear rich dividends the Indian Government's projects like Make In India as well as social interven ons like Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Stressed balance sheet of banks The Reserve Bank of India as well as the Indian M&M + MVML is a Zero Net DE ra o Company. We Government have introduced a number of con nue to manage and nurture our ﬁnancial capital measures to support the banks in addressing their with a balance of cost op misa on and placing NPAs. In addi on, the easing of monetary policy by compe ve but calculated bets on future growth. RBI increased the aﬀordability of ﬁnance. Growing concerns over air pollu on, With an objec ve of improving air quality and As a pioneering electric vehicle manufacturer in road safety, sustainability and urban reducing the fuel import bill, the Government is India, we are ideally placed to cater to the enhanced conges on, among consumers and very aggressively pursuing EVs. There is an demand of the consumer as well as the government. society at large, are driving regula ons ambi ous target that by 2030, not a single petrol We have already begun focusing on strengthening and policies for motor vehicles and or diesel car should be sold in the country. the EV por olio, the infrastructure required to run it urban development. and enhancing the comfort, stability and safety of the vehicles. We are also forming strategic partnerships with cab aggregators to promote EVs. Focus Areas FARMING 3.0 GLOBALISATION SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Smart Farm Machinery M&A Clean Micro Irriga on Manufacturing Footprint Convenient Precision Farming R&D Network Connected Digital Pla orms Brand & Sales Infrastructure Clever Partnering Stakeholders Cost Eﬀec ve Do More with less. Do it together. Do it for all. Futurise shapes our ambi on to transform ourselves This 3D-framework empowers us with purpose and direc on. It guides into a global innova on powerhouse driven by all our business investment ac ons and embodies our commitment to our people and the planet. This will equip us to compete with the best technology. Our approach to innova on is rooted in three in the world and fulﬁl our aspira on to be one of the world's 50 most guiding principles that bind us and form our core belief. admired global brands by 2021. 90 ANNEXURES HOW WE CONTRIBUTE TO THE SDGs At Mahindra, we have always been enthusias c and commi ed par cipants in addressing global sustainability issues. Mr. Anand Mahindra, as the representa ve of the corporate world at the Paris Climate Agreement, urged countries to move quickly and join the Agreement. In April 2016, we became the ﬁrst Indian company to sign up for EP100, a global campaign, wherein we commi ed to double our energy produc vity by 2030. As an organisa on, we support the SDGs and a host of our programmes, ini a ves along with some of our businesses are aligned to contribute towards the achievement of these goals. Health Support Tractor & Lifeline and My Agri Agri Business Express Guru App Page 83, 86 Page 19, 45, 46 Page 83 Nanhi Nanhi Swachh Bharat Kali Kali Ini a ves Page 74, 75, 81, 82 Page 74, 75, 81, 82 Page 75, 78 Mahindra Mahindra Mahindra increasing its Pride Schools Research Valley Renewable Energy Por olio Page 26, 29, 38, 65 Page 73, 74 Page 15, 88 Watershed Mahindra Mahindra Development Research Valley Electric Programmes and Village Development Page 79 Page 15, 80, 88 Page 12, 18, 36 Declara on of River Cleaning Biodiversity Carbon Price Projects Ini a ves Page 38, 60 Page 76, 80 Page 63, 64 Integrated Partnerships Watershed Programmes and Village Development Page 79, 80 Page 13 Note: Not an exhaus ve, but an indica ve list of the programmes being run by Mahindra & Mahindra which are aligned to the SDGs. 91 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 N AT U R A L C A P I TA L Air Quality Denominators for calcula ng the speciﬁcs Ambient Air Quality microgram/m3 Change in Business PM 10 PM 2.5 SOX NOX Business Unit of Measure Denominator 2016-17 over previous NAAQ LIMITS 2009 100 60 80 80 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 year AD 41.5 17.14 5.45 9.01 Automo ve Equivalent number Division (AD) of vehicles , , , . % FD+SD 54.8 18.76 2.31 9.1 Manufactured MRV 60.89 14.74 4.8 6.57 Farm Division + Equivalent number Swaraj Division of Tractors , , , . % NPD 27.5 43.5 0.67 0.00 (FD+SD) Manufactured SFD 13.87 5.75 1.44 0.99 Spares Business Tonnes of Unit (SBU) Packaging Material , , , . % Mahindra Full me Research Valley Equivalent , , , . % Air Emissions (Stacks) tonnes (MRV) Employees Business TPM SOX NOX Swaraj Foundry Tonnes of , , . % Division (SFD) Produc on , AD . . . Nashik Plant Equivalent dies FD+SD . . . Dies (NPD) . % MRV . . . Corporate Area of facility in , , , UnCentre (CC) sq. m. changed NPD . . . Note: Across the report, the abbrevia on will be used to denote the respec ve businesses. SFD . . . GHG GHG Emissions Segmented by Source tCO2 GHG Emissions segmented by Source tCO2 Scope 1 (Direct Emission) Scope 2 (Indirect Emission) Source 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Source 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Diesel/HSD , , , Electricity Purchased , , , FO LPG + (Bharat Metal Cu ng Gas) , , , GHG Emissions segmented by Source tCO2 Scope 3 (Other Direct Emission) Natural Gas + CNG , , , Source 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Petrol Inbound Logis cs, , , , Outbound Logis cs, Propane , , , daily commuta on, air travel, Grand Total paper consump on , , , Note: Last year our businesses were not repor ng on all the routes of Inbound and Outbound logis cs. In the current year, they have covered all routes; resul ng in an increase. GHG Emissions Division-Wise Composi on tCO2 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Business Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 AD , , , , , , , , , FD+SD , , , , , , , , , SBU , , SFD , , , NPD , , MRV , , , , , CC DNA , DNA DNA , DNA DNA , DNA Note: DNA – Data Not Available 92 Total Speciﬁc Emissions (Scope + ) tCO2 Total Energy Consump on by Sector GJ % Reduc on in 2016-17 2016-17 Business 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 over previous year Sector 2014-15 2015-16 AD , , , AD . . . . % FD+ SD , , , FD+SD . . . . % SBU , , , SBU . . . . % SFD , , , SFD . . . . % NPD , , , NPD . . . . % MRV , , , MRV . . . . % CC , , , CC . . . . % Energy Absolute Energy Consump on GJ Speciﬁc Energy Consump on GJ % Reduc on in 2016-17 Parameter 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Sector 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 over previous year Direct , , , AD . . . . % Indirect , , , FD+ SD . . . . % Total , , , , , , SBU . . . % SFD . . . . % Total Energy Consump on by Source GJ NPD . . . . % Source Energy Consumed 2016-17 MRV . . . . % Electricity Purchased from Grid , CC . . . % LPG , FO , Energy Savings GJ Diesel/HSD , Source 2016-17 Natural Gas + CNG , AD , Petrol , FD + SD , Propane , NPD , Renewable energy source , SFD , 93 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Energy Saving Ini a ves across businesses Energy Saved Emissions Saved Sector Loca on Descrip on (kWh) in Tonnes AD Kandivli Installa on of solar PV cells capacity 33KW peak at CMD/PPS oﬃce 24,000 19.68 AD Kandivli Installa on of solar PV cells capacity 22 KW peak at Mahindra Tower building 16,000 13.12 AD Kandivli Installa on of mer to the air ven lator circuit 18,497.19 15.17 AD Kandivli Installa on of energy eﬃcient Grundfos pump Machine 7110 11,249 9.22 AD Kandivli Installa on of 6 Wa LED handlamps, replacing 60 Wa incandescent lamp 9266.3 7.60 AD Haridwar Air compressor running combina on redeﬁned when both Pus are opera ng 37,440 30.70 AD Haridwar LED High bay lights (75 Wa ) to be installed in place of Mag. Induc on High bay lights 31,450 25.79 (250 Wa ) 48 Nos AD Nashik Plant 2 Installa on of energy eﬃcient compressor 118,080 96.83 AD Nashik Plant 2 LED Lamp post 46.80 0.04 AD Nashik Plant 2 Power op misa on on CNC Machine DS208, DS209 5,544 4.55 AD Nashik Plant 2 Small compressor for pa ern shop 18,000 14.76 FD Nagpur Elimina on of oil skimmer motor from 392 M/C 1,828.47 1.50 FD Nagpur Elimina on of oil skimmer motor from 393 M/C 1828.47 1.50 FD Nagpur Lapping M/C cycle reduced from 2 to 1 13,729 11.26 FD Nagpur Elimina on of S.H Radiant Drill Opera on 14,185 11.63 FD Nagpur Higher HP pump replaced by lower HP for recircula on pump to cooling tower 53479.73 43.85 FD Zaheerabad Avoiding separate trolley for Dhruv Small Parts pain ng by accommoda ng on tractor 5,334 77.82 chassis (elimina on of addi onal hours) FD Zaheerabad Implementa on of cogged V-belt in place of conven onal belt of Top Coat Oven 7,785 4.37 Hold-up Zone Blower FD Zaheerabad Engine RFD Conveyors (LH & RH) running op misa on 1,397.1 6.38 FD Zaheerabad HS line hydraulic pressing M/C 1 idle running elimina on 4,755 3.90 FD Rudrapur High power consump on in RAC Washing Machine for maintaining solvent 21,667 17.77 temperature in TM Line FD Rudrapur Power consump on op misa on in C-conveyor and hydraulic press counter sha 16,550 13.53 94 Energy Eﬃciency of Major Suppliers GJ Water Withdrawal by Source Supplier Total Energy Consump on Total Withdrawal As a % of Source (in m3) Total withdrawal ACME Engineers Pvt. Ltd. . Bo led Water , . AERONA Industrial Springs Groundwater , . AISIN Automo ve Karnataka Pvt. Ltd. , Rainwater , . Animesh Packaging Industries . Bharaj Enterprises Surface Water , . Eaton Fluid Power Ltd. , Water from Municipality . Friends Auto Industries , Water from Tanker , . Iac Interna onal Automo ve , , Water Reused . J M Industries Grand Total , , . Lear Automo ve India Pvt. Ltd. , Mando Automo ve India Ltd. Plant , , Volume of Water Recycled & Reused Volume of water % of water recycled and Menon And Menon Ltd. , Sector recycled & reused reused out of total water (in m3) consump on Mskh Sea ng Systems India Pvt. Ltd. , AD , Polyplas cs, Yamuna Nagar , , FD + SD , Polyplas cs Industries India , , MRV , Quality Pa ern Works Pvt. Ltd. , SKS Fasteners Ltd. , Supreme Engineering Works , Materials Taysons Industries , Material Consump on Thacker Brothers , AD Material Unit 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Ukay Metal Industries Pvt. Ltd. Semi-manufactured Tonnes , , , Semi-manufactured Kl , , . , Water FD+SD Total Water Consump on m3 Material Unit 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Sector 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Semi-manufactured , 349,925.75 494,570 AD , , , Associated material 305.95 169 FD+SD , , , Tonnes Raw material , 31,345.82 28,625 SBU , , , SFD , , Packaging material , 1,737.54 1,264 , NPD , , , Total , , . , MRV , , , 7,791 1,593 Semi-manufactured 8,037.43 CC , , , Kl Associated material 1,852 4,041.60 5,048 Total water Consump on , , , , , , Total , , . , Speciﬁc Water Consump on m3 per unit of measure Semi-manufactured 160,112 585,466 968,247 % Reduc on over Sector 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 previous year Associated material Nos. 0 161,843 107,427 AD 2.441 2.312 1.978 14.43 Raw material 35,683 38,396 51,648 FD+SD 1.582 1.517 1.104 27.21 Total , , , , SBU 52.842 1.702 3.709 -117.89 SFD 3.344 2.168 1.691 21.99 SBU NPD 28.300 28.145 14.608 48.10 Material Unit 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 MRV 2.318 54.652 38.381 28.95 Packaging Material Tonnes , , , CC 1.691 2.770 2.747 0.82 Total , , , 95 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Waste H U M A N C A P I TA L Waste Generated Workforce Dashboard AD Breakup of Unionised Permanent Employees Material Unit 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Breakup of Unionised Number Permanent Employees (Unionised) Hazardous Waste Solid Tonnes , , , Bhara ya Kamgar Sena , Punjab Tractor Worker Union + Swaraj Foundry Workers Union Solid Nos. , , , M&M Employees Union , Liquid Kl , , Mahindra & Mahindra Workers Union , Non-Hazardous Waste Mahindra Real Worker's Union Solid Tonnes 45,072 40,895 39,984 Total , Solid, Tyres, Drums etc. Nos. 35,301 36,692 37,822 Employee Distribu on FD+SD Business Male Female Total Material Unit 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 FD + SD , , Hazardous Waste AD , , , MRV , , Solid MT Overall Result , , Solid Nos. , , , Liquid Kl Employment Grade & Type Gender Break-up Non-Hazardous Waste Permanent Employees Solid MT , , , Junior Middle Senior Management Management Management Solid, Tyres, Drums etc. Nos. , , , Business M F Total M F Total M F Total Note: The increase in non-hazardous waste in FD+SD sector is due to be er quality of data captured this year FD + SD AD , , , , SBU MRV , , Material Unit 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Total , , , , Non-Hazardous Waste Workman Total Solid MT 1,813 2,157 1,632 Business M F Total M F Total FD + SD , , , , MRV AD , , , , Material Unit 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 MRV , , Hazardous Waste Total , , , , Solid MT 9 15 25 Solid Nos. 312 0 0 Employment Grade & Type Gender Break-up Non-Permanent Employees Liquid Kl 213 116 48 Fixed Term Contract Third Party Contract Non-Hazardous Waste Business M F Total M F Total Solid MT 458 695 744 FD + SD , , Solid Nos. 313 00 79 AD , , , , MRV Total , , , , Others Total Business M F Total M F Total FD + SD , , , , AD , , , , MRV Total , , , , 96 Gender Composi on & Turnover and Third Party Contract Average Training Hours Rate of New Hires Entering & Leaving Sector Sum of Male Sum of Female Sum of Total Head Rate of New Rate of New Business Count Turnover Hires Joining Hires Leaving FD 4.52 1.4 2.96 M F M F M F M F SD 6.62 0 3.31 FD + SD , % % % % % % AD 7.88 2.4 5.14 AD , % % % % % % Others Average Training Hours MRV , % % % % % % Sector Sum of Male Sum of Female Sum of Total Total , % % % % % % FD 17.82 9 13.41 Age Composi on SD 26.52 24.27 25.395 % Turnover % Turnover % Turnover AD 12.49 12.44 12.465 Business <30 yrs between 30 50 yrs >50 yrs FD + SD % % % Human Hours Training (Man-Hours) AD % % % No. of hours % of employees of training trained MRV % % % Junior Management 355 10 Total % % % Middle Management 264 13 Rate of Rate of New Joinee Rate of Business New Joinee <30 30 50 yrs New Joinee >50yrs Senior Management 66 40 Workmen 12,666 50 FD + SD % % % Fixed Term Contract 1,521 81 AD % % % Third Term Contract 6,225 27 MRV % % % Others 1,574 42 Total % % % Rate of New Joinee Rate of New Joinee Rate of New Joinee Human Rights Training (Man-Hours) Security Personnel Business Leaving <30yrs Leaving 30 50 yrs Leaving >50yrs Sector AD FD + SD % % % Total number of security personnel (employed directly) 37 AD % % % Total number of security personnel (employed directly) who 17 MRV % % % received formal training in aspects of human rights Total % % % Total number of human rights training hours for security 2 personnel (employed directly) % of security personnel (employed directly) who received 45% Tr a i n i n g (Average man hours/Employee) formal training in aspects of human rights Junior Management Average Training Hours Total number of security personnel (third party) 15 Sector Total number of security personnel (third party) who received 6 Sum of Male Sum of Female Sum of Total formal training in aspects of human rights FD 9.21 6.22 7.715 Total number of human rights training hours for security 2 personnel (third party) SD 24.5 14.09 19.295 % of security personnel (third party) who received formal 39% AD 16.26 11.34 13.8 training Middle Management Average Training Hours Safety Dashboard Sector Sum of Male Sum of Female Sum of Total FD 8.28 9.26 8.77 Permanent Employees SD 18.03 3.4 10.715 Business Lost me Injury Rate Lost Day Rate AD 11.64 4.83 8.235 Male Female Total Male Female Total Senior Management Average Training Hours AD 0.12 0.00 0.11 8.27 0.00 7.86 FD + SD 0.09 0.00 0.08 5.78 0.00 5.65 Sector Sum of Male Sum of Female Sum of Total FD 28.81 9.67 19.24 Contract + Other Employees SD 0 0 0 Business Lost me Injury Rate Lost Day Rate AD 5.9 2 3.95 Male Female Total Male Female Total Workmen Average Training Hours FD 0.51 0.00 0.50 33.64 0.00 33.44 Sector Sum of Male Sum of Female Sum of Total FD 35 0 17.5 SD 15.4 12.16 13.78 AD 25.27 3.5 14.385 97 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 GRI-G4 CONTENT INDEX General Standard Disclosures Indicator Description Page Number/Explanation External Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Organisa onal Proﬁle G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisa on 01-07 Externally assured about the relevance of sustainability and integra on to the organisa on and the organisa on's strategy for addressing sustainability G4-3 Name of the organiza on 08 Externally assured G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 11-20 Externally assured G4-5 Loca on of the organisa on's headquarters 08 Externally assured G4-6 Number of countries where the organisa on operates 11-13 Externally assured G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 11-12 Externally assured G4-8 Markets served 08, 11-12 Externally assured G4-9 Scale of the organiza on 11-20 Externally assured G4-10 Details on workforce broken down by gender, employment contract, 95-96 Externally assured employment type etc. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collec ve bargaining 52 Externally assured agreements G4-12 Descrip on of the organisa on's supply chain 61 Externally assured G4-13 Signiﬁcant changes during the repor ng period regarding the No signiﬁcant changes Externally assured organisa on's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 How the precau onary approach or principle is addressed by the Carbon Emission being a key Externally assured organisa on material issue, we have addressed the precau onary approach in Natural Capital & Manufactured Capital G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 73, 74, 78, 79, 90 Externally assured charters, principles, or other ini a ves to which the organisa on subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associa ons and na onal/interna onal advocacy 19-22 Externally assured organisa ons in which the organisa on holds a posi on on the governance body and par cipates in projects or commi ees G4-22 Explana on of the eﬀect of any re-statement of informa on provided No such explana ons Externally assured in the earlier Reports G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous repor ng periods in the Scope and Previous report included Externally assured aspect boundaries Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and it's subsidiaries. This report is only for Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. G4-34 Governance 21 Externally assured G4-56 Ethics and Integrity 22 Externally assured Iden ﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 En es included in the organisa on's consolidated ﬁnancial statements 22-26 Externally assured with indica on of coverage in the report G4-18 Process for deﬁning the report content and the aspect boundaries 08 Externally assured G4-19 Material aspects iden ﬁed in the process for deﬁning report content 23-25 Externally assured G4-20 Descrip on of aspect boundary within the organisa on for each 23-25 Externally assured material aspect G4-21 Descrip on of aspect boundary outside the organisa on for each 23-25 Externally assured material aspect 98 Indicator Description Page Number/Explanation External Assurance Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organiza on 85-87 Externally assured G4-25 Basis for iden ﬁca on and selec on of stakeholders with whom 85-87 Externally assured to engage G4-26 Organisa on's approach to stakeholder engagement 85-87 Externally assured G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 85-87 Externally assured engagement, and how the organisa on has responded to those key topics and concerns Report Proﬁle G4-28 Repor ng Period 08 Externally assured G4-29 Date of most recent previous Report Sustainability Report FY 2015-16 Externally assured G4-30 Repor ng cycle 1st Repor ng cycle for the Externally assured Integrated Report G4-31 Contact point for ques ons regarding the report or its contents Back cover page Externally assured G4-32 GRI Content Index In Annexure Externally assured G4-33 Organisa on's policy and current prac ce with regard to seeking All our sustainability reports Externally assured external assurance for the report; rela onship with the assurance get assured externally. Current providers; the highest governance body's involvement in seeking report is assured by assurance for the organisa on's Sustainability Report M/s DNV-GL CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Water G4-EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 68-69, 94 Externally assured G4-EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by withdrawal of water 68-69, 94 Externally assured G4-EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 68-69, 94 Externally assured Material Aspect: Carbon Emission G4DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 61 Externally assured G4-EN 15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 62, 91 Externally assured G4-EN 16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 62, 91 Externally assured G4-EN 17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 62, 91 Externally assured G4-EN 18 GHG emissions intensity 62, 91 Externally assured Material Aspect: Eﬄuents and Waste G4DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 61 Externally assured G4-EN 22 Total waste discharged by quality & des na on 70-71, 95 Externally assured G4-EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 70-71, 95 Externally assured G4-EN 24 Total number & volume of signiﬁcant spills 70-71, 95 Externally assured G4-EN 25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed We do not transport, import, Externally assured hazardous under the terms of the based conven on2 export hazardous waste under Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped. the terms of the based conven on2 G4-EN 26 Iden ty, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies Our plants have Zero Discharge Externally assured and related habitats signiﬁcantly aﬀected by the organisa on's system and hence it is not discharges of water and runoﬀ applicable CATEGORY: SOCIAL | SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Occupa onal Health and Safety G4DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 71 Externally assured G4-LA 5 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 71-74 Externally assured by age group, gender, and region 99 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 Indicator Description Page Number/Explanation External Assurance G4-LA 6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupa onal diseases, lost days, and 71-74 Externally assured absenteeism, and total Number of work-related fatali es, by region and by gender G4-LA 7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to 71-87 Externally assured their occupa on G4-LA 8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 71-87 Externally assured trade unions Material Aspect: Local Communi es G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 71 Externally assured G4-SO1 Percentage of opera ons with implemented 71-74 Externally assured G4-SO2 Community engagement, impact assessments, and development 75-87 Externally assured programmes Opera ons with signiﬁcant actual and poten al impacts on local communi es Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 39 Externally assured G4PR1 Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories for which 40-46 Externally assured health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regula ons and 47-48 Externally assured voluntary codes concerning the health & safety impacts of products & services during their lifecycle, by type of outcome 100 ACRONYMS ABCI Associa on of Business Communicators of India CGC Corporate Governance Cell ACE Awards for Customer Excellence CFC Chloroﬂuorocarbon ACETECH Architecture, Construc on, Engineering Technology CFL Compact Fluorescent Lamp AD Automo ve Division CFO Chief Financial Oﬃcer AGC Avaya Global Connect CFT Cross Func onal Team AIDS Acquired Immunodeﬁciency Syndrome CGSF Common Guaranteed Safety Programme AIMA-IOCL All India Management Associa onIndian Oil CLHA Children Living with HIV AIDS Corpora on Limited CII Confedera on of Indian Industry ABS An -lock Braking System CIO Chief Informa on Oﬃcer ANM Auxiliary Nurse Midwife CITU Centre of Indian Trade Unions AT&T American Telephone & Telegraph CMO Chief Marke ng Oﬃcer ASSOCHAM Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India CMTT Club Mahindra Tusker Trail BCL Business Con nuity Leader CMVR Central Motor Vehicle Rules BCMS Business Con nuity Management Systems CMAI Communica on Mul media and Infrastructure BCP Business Con nuity Plan CNG Compressed Natural Gas BIA Business Impact Analysis CO Carbon Monoxide BKS Bhara ya Kamgar Sena CRISIL Credit Ra ng & Informa on Services of India Ltd. BMW Bavarian Motor Works CRM Customer Rela onship Management BPO Business Process Outsourcing CRO Chief Risk Oﬃcer BPI Business Psychologists Interna onal CSR Corporate Social Responsibility BR Business Responsibility CTO Chief Technical Oﬃcer BS Bri sh Standards CV Commercial Vehicles BSE Bombay Stock Exchange CVP Customer Value Proposi on BSS Business Support Systems D&B Dun & Bradstreet BS-III Bharat Stagethree DNA Data Not Available BS-IV Bharat Stagefour DNA Deoxyribonucleic acid BT Bri sh Telecommunica ons DSIR Department of Science and Industrial Research CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate EBD Electronic Brakeforce Distribu on C2 CRDe 2-cylinder Common Rail Diesel Engine ECM Energy Conserva on Measures CO2 Carbon dioxide ECEM Enterprise Carbon and Energy Management 3R Reduce/Recycle/Reuse EDGE Enterprise Driving Growth & Excellence CH4 Methane EDC Engine Development Centre CAE Computer Aided Engineering EFI Employers Federa on of India CCI Clinton Climate Ini a ve ELV End of Life Vehicle CDP Carbon Disclosure Project EDMC East Delhi Municipal Corpora on CED Cathodic Electrodeposi on EHS Environment, Health and Safety CEO Chief Execu ve Oﬃcer EPA Environmental Protec on Agency (USA) 101 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 EPC Engineering, Procurement, and Construc on H2O Water ESCo Energy Services Company HCFC Hydrochloroﬂuorocarbon ER Employee Rela on HCNG Hydrogen Compressed Natural Gas ERP Enterprise Resource Planning HHD Hand Held Device ESI Employment Status Indicator HOC Heat of Compression ESP Electronic Stability Program HP Horse Power ESIC Employee State Insurance Corpora on HPCL Hindustan Petroleum Corpora on Limited Esops Employee Social Op on Scheme HR Human Resources ETP Eﬄuent Treatment Plant HRD Human Resource Development EU European Union IBA Interna onal Bird Area EURO IV European emission standardsFour ICAI Ins tute of Chartered Accountants of India EURO V European emission standardsFive ICRISAT Interna onal Crops Research Ins tute for the Semi -Arid Tropics EV Electric Vehicles ICT Informa on, Communica on, and Technology EVP Execu ve Vice President IDC Interna onal Data Corpora on EVP Employee Value Proposi on IGBC Indian Green Building Council FAPCCI Federa on of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce IHECT Interna onal Centre for Hydrogen Energy Technologies FD Farm Division IIT Indian Ins tute of Technology FE-EVI Financial ExpressEmergent Ventures Interna onal IIMM Indian Ins tute of Materials Management FICCI Federa on of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry ILO Interna onal Labour Organiza on FIDC Finance Industry Development Council IMC Indian Merchant Chamber FIFA Federal Interna onal Football Associa on IMDS Interna onal Material Data System FMS Feedback Management System IMS Integrated Management System FTM First Time Managers INR Indian Rupee g/hph Grams per horse power hours IRADe Integrated Research & Ac on for Development GDP Gross Domes c Product ISO Interna onal Organiza on for Standardisa on GDR Global Depositary Receipts IT Informa on Technology GHG Greenhouse Gas ITDP Integrated Talent Development Process GJ Giga Joules ITES Informa on Technology Enabled Service GEB Group Execu ve Board JAU Junagadh Agricultural University GMC Group Management Cadre JCMM Jagdish Chandra Mahindra Memorial GoB Government of Bihar JNNSM Jawaharlal Nehru Na onal Solar Mission GPS Global Posi oning System KCMET K.C. Mahindra Educa onal Trust GPMD Global Program for Management Development KPO Knowledge Process Outsourcing GRI Global Repor ng Ini a ve KL Kilo Litres GRIHA Green Ra ng for Integrated Habitat Assessment LBSIMT Lal Bahadur Shastri Ins tute of Management and GSM Global System for Mobile Communica ons Technology 102 LCV Light Commercial Vehicle MPD Magne c Products Division LEED Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design MPS Mahindra Pride School LED Light Emi ng Diode MPTS Mahindra People Transport Solu ons LDO Light Diesel Oil MPUAT Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture & L&D Learning and Development Technology LPG Liqueﬁed Petroleum Gas MQS Mahindra Quality System LSPV Load Sensing Propor oning Valve MReva Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. LTL Learning to Lead MRHFL Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Ltd. MACE Mahindra Consul ng Engineers MRV Mahindra Research Valley MAITS Mahindra All India Talent Scholarships MSat Mahindra Satyam MBCSPL Mahindra Business & Consul ng Services Pvt. Ltd. MSB Mahindra Spares Business MCD Municipal Corpora on of Delhi MSOLAR Mahindra Solar One Pvt. Ltd. MCL Mahindra Composites Ltd. MSP Minimum Support Price MD Managing Director MSSSPL Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Pvt. Ltd. META Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Award MTWL Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited MFCSL Mahindra First Choice Services Limited MUSCO Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited MFCWL Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited MVML Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited MFL Mahindra Forgings Limited MWC Mahindra World City MFUSA Mahindra Founda on USA MWCDL Mahindra World City Developers Limited MGD Million Gallons Per Day MWCJL Mahindra World City Jaipur Limited MGTL Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Limited NAAQS Na onal Ambient Air Quality Standards MGTPL Mahindra Gears & Transmissions Private Limited NAPCC Na onal Ac on Plan on Climate Change MHIL Mahindra Hinoday Industries Limited NASSCOM Na onal Associa on of So ware & Services MHRIL Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited Companies MIBL Mahindra Insurance Brokers Ltd. NATRIP Na onal Automo ve Tes ng & R&D Infrastructure MIDC Maharashtra Industrial Development Corpora on Project MIL Mahindra Intertrade Limited NBFC Non-Banking Financial Companies MILES Mahindra Integrated Logis cs Execu on System NBC Na onal Building Code MIQ Mahindra Ins tute of Quality NDTV New Delhi Television Limited MLDL Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited NGO Non-Governmental Organisa on MLL Mahindra Logis cs Limited NHRDN Na onal Human Resource Development Network MMDC Mahindra Management Development Centre NIS Not in Scope MMFSL Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited NITIE Na onal Ins tute of Industrial Engineering MN 25 Mahindra Navistar 25000 kg NMACS Networking, Mobility Analy cs, Cloud & Security MNAL Mahindra Navistar Automo ves Limited NOx Oxides of Nitrogen MNC Mul na onal Company NOA Na onal Outsourcing Associa on MNEPL Mahindra Navistar Engines Private Limited NRI Non-Residents of India MOU Memorandum of Understanding NSE Na onal Stock Exchange 103 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 NSDF Na onal Sports Development Fund SIBM Symbiosis Ins tute of Business Management NVG-SEE Na onal Voluntary Guidelines on Social, SLP Senior Leaders Program Environmental and Economic Responsibili es of SLT Senior Leadership Team Business SOx Oxides of Sulphur OECD Organisa on for Economic Coopera on & Development SO2 Sulphur Dioxide OBD On Board Diagnos c SPM Suspended Par culate Ma er OCB Overseas Corporate Bodies SRI Solar Reﬂectance Index ODS Ozone Deple ng Substance STAT Sta s c OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer STAMP Structural Tes ng Analysis & Measurement of Projects OTM Oracle Transport Management STP Sewage Treatment Plant OSS Opera ons Support Systems SUV Sports U lity Vehicle PAT Proﬁt A er Tax SYMC Ssangyong Motor Company Limited PAU Punjab Agricultural University SYSTECH Systems & Technologies Sector Pb Lead TCF Trim Chassis Final PFOS Perﬂourooctane Sulfonates TechM Tech Mahindra PLHA People Living with HIV/AIDS TMF Tech Mahindra Founda on POP Plaster of Paris TIDCO Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corpora on PRCI Public Rela ons Council of India TNAU Tamil Nadu Agricultural University PWD Persons with Disability TPM Total Produc ve Maintenance QCD Quality Cost and Delivery TTP Ter ary Treatment Plant QCFI Quality Circle Forum of India UAE United Arab Emirates RA Risk Assessment UK United Kingdom RCI Resort Condominium Interna onal UNEP United Na ons Environment Programme RBI Reserve Bank of India UNGC United Na ons Global Compact RIICO Rajasthan State Industrial Development & UNIDO United Na ons Industrial Development Organisa on Investment Corpora on Limited US United States RMC Ready Mix Concrete USA United States of America ROI Return on Investment USD United States Dollars ROHS Restric on on Hazardous substances UV U lity Vehicle RRR Rate and Reusability Rate UWC United World College RSPM Respirable Suspended Par culate Ma er VAVE Value Analysis and Value Engineering R&D Research & Development VC Vice-Chairman SAP System Applica on Products and Data Base VECV Volvo-Eicher Commercial Vehicles SAM So ware Analysis and Management VFD Variable Frequency Drives SCM Supply Chain Management VOC Vola le Organic Compound SEZ Special Economic Zone WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development SEBI Securi es and Exchange Board of India WOW Wet on Wet SIAM Society of Indian Automobiles Manufacturers WRI World Resources Ins tute 104 GLOSSARY Biodiesel Biodiesel refers to a non-petroleum based diesel fuel G4 Guidelines are an update and comple on of the third genera on consis ng of short chain alkyl esters, made by transesteriﬁca on of of GRI's process guidance on how to deﬁne the content of a vegetable oil. sustainability report. Biofuels Solid, liquid or gas fuel derived from recently dead GRIHA Cer ﬁca on GRIHA ra ng system consists of 34 criteria biological material. categorised under various sec ons such as site selec on and site planning, conserva on and eﬃcient u lisa on of resources, building Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CDE) and Equivalent Carbon Dioxide opera on and maintenance, and innova on points. Eight of these 34 (CO2e) are two related but dis nct measures for describing how criteria are mandatory, four are partly mandatory, while the rest are much global warming a given type and amount of greenhouse gas op onal. Each criterion has a number of points assigned to it. It means may cause, using the func onally equivalent amount or concentra on that a project intending to meet the criterion would qualify for the of carbon dioxide (CO2) as the reference Equivalent CO2 (CO2e) is points. Diﬀerent levels of cer ﬁca on (one star to ﬁve stars) are the concentra on of CO2 that would cause the same level of radia ve awarded based on the number of points earned. The minimum points forcing as a 2 given type and concentra on of greenhouse gas. required for cer ﬁca on is 50. Carbon Pricing It is an interna onally recognised business tool that The Green Home Ra ng system by IGBC Indian Green Building enables companies to create resources which are invested in low Council The green home ra ng system by Indian Green Building carbon technologies, which help reduce future emissions and lower Council (IGBC) is India's ﬁrst, and is exclusively designed for the opera ng costs. residen al sector. Diﬀerent levels of cer ﬁca ons such as Cer ﬁed, C2 CRDe Technology Two cylinder, common rail diesel engine Silver, Gold and Pla num are awarded to a project in recogni on of its technology stands for Common Rail Direct Fuel Injec on engine. It is green commitment. the latest state-of-the-art technology for diesel engines and suits ISO 27001 Global Cer ﬁca on ISO/IEC 27001 is the only auditable passenger cars as well as commercial vehicles. interna onal standard which deﬁnes the requirements for an Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an organisa on that works with Informa on Security Management System (ISMS). The standard is shareholders and corpora ons to disclose the greenhouse gas designed to ensure the selec on of adequate and propor onate emissions of major corpora ons. M&M Limited is a signatory for CDP. security controls. Chlorodiﬂuoromethane (Diﬂuoromonochloromethane) is a ISO-50001 ISO, Standard 50001 speciﬁes requirements for Hydrochloroﬂuorocarbon (HCFC) commonly used in air condi oning establishing, implemen ng, maintaining and improving an energy applica ons. management system, whose purpose is to enable an organisa on to follow a systema c approach in achieving con nual improvement of CRISIL Level 1 ra ng that indicates the company's capability with energy performance, including energy eﬃciency, energy use and regard to corporate governance and value crea on for all stakeholders consump on. is the highest. ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management Systems direc ve that provides COPC-2000® CSP Global Standard Cer ﬁca on The COPC-2000® a number of requirements which an organisa on needs to fulﬁl if it is CSP Standard is a Performance Management Framework designed to to achieve customer sa sfac on through consistent products and deliver results in Customer Service Provider (CSP) contact centre services which meet customer expecta ons. environments including Call Centres, E-Commerce Centres and Transac on Processing Opera ons. ISO 14001:2004 interna onal speciﬁca on for an Environmental Management System (EMS). It speciﬁes requirements for establishing Dichlorodiﬂuoromethane (R-12) usually sold under the brand name an environmental policy, determining environmental aspects and Freon-12, is a chloroﬂuorocarbon halomethane, commonly known as impacts of products/ac vi es/services, planning environmental CFC, used as a refrigerant and aerosol spray propellant. (R-22) is a objec ves and measurable targets, implementa on and opera on of colourless gas be er known as HCFC-22, R-22. Earlier it was programmes to meet objec ves and targets, checking and correc ve commonly used as a propellant and in air condi oning applica on. ac on and management review. These applica ons are being phased out its manufacturing was banned in the US and many countries in 1994 due to concerns about ISO/TS 16949 quality management system requirements for the damage to the ozone layer. design and development, produc on and, when relevant, installa on and service of automo ve-related products. ECOTEL® cer ﬁca on ECOTEL® is a pres gious environmental cer ﬁca on designed by HVS' Sustainability Services speciﬁcally for ISO/TS 16949:2002 quality management systemsPar cular the hospitality sector. This cer ﬁca on recognises outstanding requirements for the applica on of ISO 9001:2000 for automo ve achievement along the triple bo omline: environmental, social and produc on and relevant service part organisa ons. ﬁscal parameters. The kilowa -hour (symbolised kWh) is a unit of energy equivalent to End-to-End Supply Chain Solu ons End-to-End Supply Chain one kilowa of power expended for one hour of me. kWh is not a Solu ons is the management of a network of interconnected standard unit in any formal system, but it is commonly used in businesses involved in the ul mate provision of product and service electrical applica ons. packages required by end customers. Supply chain management OHSAS 18001:2004 an Occupa onal Health and Safety Assessment spans all movement and storage of raw materials, work-in-process Series for health and safety management systems. It is intended to inventory, and ﬁnished goods from point of origin to point of help organisa ons to control occupa onal health and safety risks. It consump on. was developed in response to widespread demand for a recognised EURO IV or EURO V Standards reduc on of pollutant emissions standard against which to be cer ﬁed and assessed. from light vehicles. The European Union is introducing stricter limits OHSAS 18001:2007 Managing health and safety (OH&S) issues in on pollutant emissions from light road vehicles, par cularly for the workplace represents an enormous challenge due to varying emissions of nitrogen par culates and oxides. The Regula on also human nature, skills set, process complexity & local culture and have includes measures concerning access to informa on on vehicles and implica ons for everyone at the workplace. Eﬀec vely managing these their components and the possibility of introducing tax incen ves. issues means taking account not only of legal requirements, but also the well-being of your personnel in the organisa on. 105 MAHINDRA & INTEGRATED MAHINDRA LTD. REPORT 16-17 ODS Ozone deple ng substances (ODSs) are those substances which Scope III Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, including those deplete the ozone layer and are widely used in refrigerators, air associated with employee travel, supply chain, leased assets, condi oners, ﬁre ex nguishers, in dry cleaning, as solvents for outsourced ac vi es, use of products and waste disposal. cleaning, electronic equipment and as agricultural fumigants. SEI-CMMI level 5 A Level 5 CMMI ra ng provides the highest Mahindra Quality Way an assessment by external na onal and recogni on to an organisa on's so ware and systems engineering interna onal experts of Mahindra's quality policy, systems, processes. procedures and performance against world-class standards to iden fy: strengths, opportuni es for improvement, scoring proﬁle for Solar Reﬂectance Index Solar Reﬂectance is the frac on of the priori sing improvements. incident solar energy which is reﬂected by the surface in ques on. The best standard technique for its determina on uses NAAQS the clean air act which was last amended requires EPA to spectrophotometric measurements, with an integra ng sphere to set Na onal Ambient Air Quality Standards for pollutants considered determine the reﬂectance at each diﬀerent wavelength. The average harmful to public health and the environment. reﬂectance is then determined by an averaging process, using a h p://epa.gov/air/criteria.html standard solar spectrum. This method is documented by ASTM (American Society for Tes ng and Materials). NASSCOM a not-for-proﬁt was set up in 1988 to facilitate business and trade in so ware and services and to encourage advancement of Special Economic Zone (SEZ) SEZ is a geographical region that research in so ware technology. has economic laws that are more liberal than a country's typical economic laws. Scope I Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions occur from sources that are owned or controlled by a company, such as combus on facili es USGBC LEED Cer ﬁca on LEED Professional Accredita on (e.g.: boilers, furnaces, burners, turbines, heaters, incinerators, dis nguishes building professionals with the knowledge and skills to engines, ﬂares, etc.), combus on of fuels in transporta on (e.g.: cars, successfully steward the LEED cer ﬁca on process. buses, planes, ships, barges, trains, etc.) and physical or chemical processes (e.g.: in cement manufacturing, cataly c cracking in United Na ons Global Compact is a framework for businesses petrochemical processing, aluminium smel ng, etc.). that are commi ed to aligning their opera ons and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, Scope II Scope 2 GHG emissions are from the genera on by another labour, the environment and an corrup on. M&M Limited is a party of electricity that is purchased and consumed by the company. signatory to UNGC. This is described as purchased electricity for the purposes of the GHG Protocol. 106 Please e-mail your It has also been externally sugges ons/views/opinions to assured by DNV GL. Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, sustainability@mahindra.com Mumbai 400 001, India. All ﬁgures in the report are st www.mahindra.com TEN SECTORS. MANY COMPANIES. ONE PURPOSE. current as of 31 March, 2017.
