2017/18 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report September 1, 2017 – August 31, 2018 Greetings Dustin’s Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report provides a summary of the financial results and the corporate responsibility work we have undertaken during the 2017/18 financial year. This is the first time we are presenting financial information and sustainability information in a joint report. The report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards for sustainability reporting and describes our most important corporate responsibility issues, our focus areas and their respective targets and key performance indicators. The audited annual accounts and consolidated financial statements of Dustin Group AB can be found on pages 50-64 and 80-125. The Corporate Responsibility Report, which has been reviewed by the auditors, can be found on pages 37-45. The Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report is published in Swedish and English. The Swedish publication is the original version. 2 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB Introduction Greetings 2 Dustin as an investment 4 The year in brief 6 Dustin in brief 7 Our history 8 CEO comment CEO comment 10 Our strategic direction Our market and operating environment 12 Our vision and strategy 16 Operational targets 20 Our operations Our business segments 22 Focus on our online platform 26 Attractive customer offering 28 Efficient and responsible purchasing and logistics model 30 Dedicated employees 34 Our corporate responsibility efforts during the year Statement from the Head of Corporate Responsibility 36 Responsible manufacturing 38 Reduced climate impact 41 Business ethics and anti-corruption 43 Responsible use of resources 44 Diversity and equality 45 The share and shareholders Our share and shareholders 46 Directors’ Report Directors’ Report 50 Risks and risk management 58 Corporate Governance Report 66 Board of Directors 76 Group Management 78 Consolidated financial statements 80 Parent Company financial statements 84 Notes 88 The Board’s signatures 125 Auditor’s report 126 Auditor’s review report 131 2017/18 Annual General Meeting 133 Corporate responsibility information 134 Accounting policies 137 GRI Index 139 Multi-year overview 141 Source of alternative performance measures 142 Definitions 143 Glossary 145 Financial calendar 146 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 3 INTRODUCTION | DUSTIN AS AN INVESTMENT Dustin as an investment Strong market position the continued acquisition of attractive niche players, We are a leading IT partner in the B2B market. the launch of private label products and the further We gain loyal customers with our broad range of expansion of our offering, with a higher service content hardware, software and related services and solutions focusing primarily on the SMB segment, will enable us in combination with a high level of IT expertise and to achieve our target of an adjusted EBITA margin of fast and reliable delivery. The combination of our between 5 and 6 per cent over time. online platform and continuous expansion of our service offering provides us with an optimal position Low capital requirements and strong cash flow in a market characterised by a rapidly growing share of Our investment needs are low and working capital online sales, with increasing demand for mobility and is limited through a close relationship with suppliers cloud services. and a central warehouse and regional consolidation warehouses with efficient stockholding. Our operations Value-creating growth strategy generate strong cash flows, which allows for continued With our attractive customer offering, a broad and expansion through acquisitions and attractive dividends diversified customer base and a flexible sales model, we to our shareholders. Our aim is to pay dividends of more see significant potential for continued and profitable than 70 per cent of net profit. organic growth combined with continuous efficiency improvements. By conducting add-on acquisitions, Ethical and responsible core values we are continuously widening our range of advanced We strive for integrity, transparency and responsible products and services, which supports continued behaviour in everything we do. In recent years, we growth, strengthens customer loyalty and increases have worked to further integrate this into all areas of shareholder value. our operations, from values and corporate culture to our Code of Conduct, risk management and internal Initiatives to enhance margins control. The results of our proactive efforts have been We have defined clear initiatives to continuously favourably received, for instance in public procurements improve both gross and operating margins over time. and in the form of a growing interest in Dustin among We are convinced that growing the online channel, investors with a sustainability profile. 4 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB INTRODUCTION | DUSTIN AS AN INVESTMENT Net sales Gross margin 2017/18 10 9 15.9% 10.3 8 7 6 5 Adjusted EBITA 501 4 SEK 3 million SEK billion 2 1 0 3 /1 4 /1 5 6 /1 7 8 12 13/1 14 /1 15 16 17/1 20 20 20 20 20 20 Adjusted EBITA margin Cash flow from operating activities 4.9% SEK 748 million EBIT SEK 444 million Proposed dividend per share 2.72* Earnings per share SEK SEK 3.99 * After taking into account the outcome of the completed rights issue Share performance for the financial year 90 SEK 35.0% 80 SEK 70 SEK 60 SEK pt ct ov ec Ja n Fe b ar Ap r ay n Ju ly g Au Se O N D M M Ju ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 5 INTRODUCTION | THE YEAR IN BRIEF The year in brief Q1 • Dustin acquired the Denmark-based Norriq’s business area for hosting and outsourcing of IT services. • Dustin acquired Core Services in Norway, one of the leading players in the new generation of data centre solutions, Software Defined Data Center. • Dustin acquired Swedish JML-System, which offers installation and service of AV solutions for meeting rooms and conferences. • Dustin held its first Capital Markets Day, when new segment reporting was presented together with a detailed review of the company’s strategy and position. Q2 • Dustin divested IT-Hantverkarna and refines its offering towards standardised IT operating services. • Thomas Ekman took up his position as new President and CEO on January 1, 2018. Q3 • Dustin acquired the Gothenburg-based company DAV Partner, specialised in AV solutions. • Dustin acquired ITaito, a Finnish supplier of IT services, focusing on small and medium-sized businesses. Q4 • Dustin won a procurement of cloud-based services in the form of back-up and storage with Norwegian public service company NRK. • Dustin won the award decision for a new framework agreement via the Danish government, municipalities and regions (SKI). The annual value is estimated at approximately DKK 500 million. • Dustin entered the Dutch market through the acquisition of Vincere, specialised in managed services with focus on cloud and security solutions, along with IT solutions with associated value added hardware and consultancy services. 6 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB INTRODUCTION | DUSTIN IN BRIEF Dustin in brief Leading online IT partner sales of both products and core services are now taking Dustin is a leading online IT partner in the Nordic region, place online. The operations are supported by scalable and with a wide range of hardware, software and related shared central functions, including the online platform, services and solutions. Our centralised warehouse along purchasing, warehousing and logistics, pricing, marketing, with an efficient logistics and online platform ensure fast IT and HR. and reliable delivery. By adding high-level IT expertise we act as a strategic IT partner primarily for small and Increase in service sales medium-sized businesses, but also for large companies, We see increasing demand for more advanced and the public sector and consumers. The acquisition of the managed services as demand on mobility and accessiVincere Group towards the end of the financial year bility grow. We are continuously expanding our customer provides us with a strong position in the Netherlands, offering and our market, by combining products and primarily in advanced products and services. services into integrated solutions, and by adding more advanced services through acquisitions. We are able to Sales focusing on business customers solve more and more of our customers’ IT needs, which is Dustin employs a multichannel model where the majority in line with our vision. of sales take place online, supplemented by relationshipbased and consultative selling over the telephone or Clear focus on corporate responsibility through customer visits. Dustin conducts operations in Responsible business is a prerequisite for a sound Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands and successful company. For us, responsible business through three business segments, SMB (Small and encompasses the Group’s long-term impact on society Medium-sized Businesses) with a sales share of about and the environment, where our responsibility extends 43 per cent, LCP (Large Corporate and Public Sector) with throughout the entire value chain. The size of our operations a sales share of about 51 per cent and B2C (Business to provides us with a key role and an opportunity to influence Consumer) with a sales share of about 6 per cent. both suppliers and customers. We will now focus on making sustainable IT more easily accessible to our customers. Efficient online platform As the leading B2B e-retailer in the Nordic region Dustin Group AB is a Swedish public limited liability and through our recently acquired operations in the company with its head office in Nacka Strand outside Netherlands, Dustin has created a strong market position Stockholm, Sweden. The share has been listed on Nasdaq with our efficient online platform, since more and more Stockholm’s Mid Cap Index since 2015. Financial key ratios All amounts in SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 2017/18 2016/17 Net sales 10,300 9,306 Organic sales growth (%) 2.0 8.6 Gross margin (%) 15.9 14.8 Adjusted EBITA 501 426 Adjusted EBITA margin (%) 4.9 4.6 EBIT 444 349 Net profit for the year 305 239 Earnings per share, including discontinued operations, after dilution, SEK 3.97 3.13 Cash flow from operating activities 748 214 Net debt/adjusted EBITDA (multiple) 3.3 2.3 Return on equity (%) 18.5 16.1 Dividend per share, SEK 3.10* 2.80 * To make comparison between the financial years possible, the Board of Directors’ proposed dividend is stated before taking into account the outcome of the completed rights issue. After taking the outcome of the completed rights issue into account, the proposed dividend amounts to SEK 2.72 per share. For definitions and alternative performance measures, refer to pages 143 and 142 respectively. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 7 INTRODUCTION | OUR HISTORY Our history Founded in 1984 AB, through the subsidiary Axmedia AB. After the Dustin was founded in 1984 by two entrepreneurs, listing, Altor has gradually reduced its holding and sold Bo and Ulla Lundevall, as an ancillary business to the its last shares in the company in spring 2017. couple’s pet shop in Farsta, a suburb of Stockholm. The business concept was to sell computer accessories A stronger and broader offering via mail order using a catalogue as their main marketing A number of add-on acquisitions have been con­duc­ tool. The best-selling product was multi-coloured floppy ted in the Nordic region in recent years to strengthen disks. and broaden our offering of more advanced pro­ ducts and services. During the 2017/18 financial year, Online sales by as early as 1995 we completed additional acquisitions in line with Ten years later, the range was extended from pro­ our strategy. During the first quarter, we acquired ducts only to also include software licenses. Our online Denmark-based Norriq’s business area for hosting and sales be­gan as early as 1995, roughly the same time as outsourcing IT services, Core Services in Norway, which Amazon. For the first 20 years, sales focused exclusively is a strong player in the new generation of data centre on the B2B market, but with the launch of Dustin Home solutions and JML-System, which is one of Sweden’s in 2004, the offering was extended to the B2C market. leading suppliers of AV solutions for meeting rooms and conferences. In the third quarter, DAV Partner in Nordic expansion commenced in 2007 Sweden was added, which is specialised in AV solu­ Altor became the new principal owner in 2006 and the tions, along with Finnish ITaito, with a broad offering operations were then expanded in the Nordic region by in managed services, cloud services, security and data entering new markets and making add-on acquisitions. centres for small and medium-sized businesses. The Danish operations were established in 2007 thro­ ugh the acquisition of Computerstore, followed two Entering the Dutch market years later by a new e-commerce venture in Norway. Early in the fourth quarter 2017/18, we expanded our The Norwegian business was supplemented in 2012 geographic area through the acquisition of Vincere through the acquisition of Norsk Data Senter. In 2013, in the Netherlands. Vincere is specialised in managed operations were established in Finland through the services primarily for small and medium-sized busi­ acquisition of Businessforum, which was supplemented nesses. The acquisition has substantially increased with the acquisition of Resolute in 2015. E-commerce our addressable market and provides us with a strong was also launched in the Finnish market the following foundation for continued consolidation in the region. year. The launch of our online platform will be an important future step in developments. IPO in early 2015 Dustin was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm on 13 February 2015 and received a new principal owner, Axel Johnson 1984 1994 1995 Dustin founded by Bo and Dustin Partner launched Dustin launches Ulla Lundevall. Multi-coloured and begins selling e-commerce floppy disks is best-selling software licenses. services. product. 8 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB INTRODUCTION | OUR HISTORY 2017 2018 Acquisition of Idenet in  Acquisition of Saldab and JMLAcquisition of ITaito in Finland Sweden and IKT Gruppen System in Sweden, Norriq ICS and DAV Partner in Sweden. 2016 in Norway. Launch of in Denmark, Purity and Core Enters Dutch market with private label products Services in Norway. Sale acquisition of Vincere. and dustin.fi. of IT-Hantverkarna. 2015 2014 Dustin Group listed on Nasdaq Dustin celebrates 30 anniversary Stockholm. Acquisition of Commsec with about 900 employees in Sweden and Resolute in Finland. and a range of approximately Concept store in Stockholm opens. 200,000 products. 2012 2013 Acquisition of IT-hantverkarna Enters Finnish market and Best Office in Sweden and through the acquisition Norsk Data Senter in Norway. of Businessforum. 2009 2008 Enters Norwegian market with New 20,000 m2 logistics the launch of dustin.no. centre in Rosersberg. 2004 2006 2007 Launch of Altor Equity Partners Enters the Danish market. Launch Dustin Home. becomes new principal of dustin.dk. Acquisition of TCM in owner. Sweden. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 9 CEO COMMENT | CEO COMMENT CEO comment When I summarise my first year at Dustin, we can look back on an eventful time where we reached many milestones. During the year, we strengthened our position as an online IT partner in the Nordic region and entered the Dutch market. Our addressable market increased from SEK 162 billion to SEK 262 billion through geographic expansion, where the acquisition of Vincere in the Netherlands has provided us with a solid platform for continued growth. In addition to this, we completed five acquisitions in the Nordic region that have broadened our offering in advanced services and solutions and and thus the possibility to improved margins. We have a strong position in the Nordic countries and the Netherlands and are well-equipped for continued profitable growth. Sales growth solutions. We complement each other, see many This year, we exceeded SEK 10 billion in sales, which potential synergies and we will also launch our online grew 10.7 per cent to SEK 10.3 billion. Organic growth platform in the Netherlands. in our primary segment of small and medium-sized businesses (SMB) was strong at 9.6 per cent. The total Broader offering organic sales growth slowed slightly, which is solely During the financial year, we acquired another five linked to developments in the public sector in the LCP Nordic companies specialised in advanced services segment. Public sector sales is affected by the number and solutions to enable us to fulfil the changing needs of procurements conducted during the period and we of our customers. The acquisition of Danish-based continue to be selective and chose not to participate in Norriq’s business area for hosting and outsourcing procurements where margins are expected to be low. has broadened our offering in Denmark. In Finland, we have become an IT partner in earnest for small and Strong margin growth medium-sized businesses following the acquisition of The gross margin rose to 15.9 per cent compared to ITaito, which complements our existing business, with 14.8 per cent in the preceding year. EBITA increased to its previous focus on the LCP segment and online. In SEK 501 million from SEK 426 million. There are several Norway, we have strengthened our offering with the factors affecting the positive trend. During the year, acquisition of Core Services, which specialises in the new we had a favourable sales mix, with a larger share generation of data centre solutions and in Sweden we of advanced products and services where acquired complemented our offering with audio/video solutions companies make a positive contribution, as well as through the acquisition of JML-System and DAV Partner. a higher share of sales in the SMB segment, where margins are generally higher. Our private label products During the year, we saw several examples of synergies continued to develop very well and we launched several where we, in combination with the acquired companies, new products during the year that were positively have secured new deals. For example, with our joint received by customers. offering we have been awarded contracts for NRK in Norway and Öresundsbron in Sweden. The Netherlands – a new market This year, we took the first step outside the Nordic Rights issue region when we acquired the Dutch company Vincere After the end of the financial year, a rights issue of Group. This entails an increase of our addressable B2B approximately SEK 695 million was completed. The market from SEK 162 billion to SEK 262 billion. The Dutch reasoning behind the issue is the high level of activity market has many similiarities to the Nordic market, we see in the market, with many potential acquisition fragmented and with a large potential for consolidation. candidates and an opening for us to continue playing Vincere is similar to Dustin, but while Dustin stems an active role in the ongoing consolidation. The rights from hardware and adds services, Vincere stems from issue offers us the resources to take advantage of services and adds hardware. Vincere is specialised in these opportunities and creates flexibility and scope to managed services with focus on cloud and security continue with our acquisition strategy. The acquisitions 10 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB CEO COMMENT | CEO COMMENT help us to broaden our offering with advanced services rights issue will enable us to continue to acquire companies and solutions, which strengthen our margins and our and to strengthen our position, both in the Nordic countries market position. and in the Netherlands. Together with all my co-workers, I am looking forward to continue to drive development in our Greater focus on corporate responsibility markets and to be the natural IT partner for our customers. I am convinced that managing a successful business requires the integration of sustainability issues as a natural part of all areas of the company. In the long term, this is about creating a sustainable business strategy. We have five focus areas that we are continually following up and develop. We are ahead of plan in several of our focus areas to achieve the 2020 targets, including the target to recover 140,000 used IT products and to reduce our climate impact by 40 per cent. I am proud of our achievements and our level of ambition. In addition to help our customers make more sustainable choices, we also have an opportunity to help manufacturers become more sustainable, based on our insight into customer needs. We are constantly developing our focus areas. One example is in the area of Diversity and Equality, where we are working in parallel with our equality target to increase focus on diversity. During the year, we initiated a partnership “Mitt Livs Chans” to raise awareness of, and create tools for, working on greater inclusion. Responsible manufacturing In order to supply products of a good quality at a price that customers are wiling to pay in a competitive market, our industry often entails manufacturing in countries far from us. This means we have a particular responsibility to ensure that manufacturing operations are conducted in a sustainable manner, in terms of the environment and occupational health and safety. This is why we have a Supplier Code of Conduct, which regulates work environment and environment, and why we carry out our own factory audits. By following up documentation and being on site, we can see how the factory operates and talk with personnel to obtain our own picture. When we identify non-conformance, we have a clear procedure for following up and action based on working together with the factories. During the year, we conducted 19 factory audits and our target is to carry out 80 inspections by 2020. Strong market position To summarise, we are well positioned for sustained profitable growth. We posses a properly functioning core business with our central online platform and scalability in our support functions. Following the acquisitions in recent years, we have a broad offering of advanced services and solutions that are increasingly demanded from our customers. The recently completed ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 11 “Dustin’s vision is to be the customer’s preferred partner and set the standard for efficient and sustainable IT.” 12 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR MARKET AND OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Our market and operating environment In terms of geography, Dustin has operated in the Nordic region for many years and since the summer of 2018 also in the Netherlands, through the acquisition of Vincere. We have a clear focus on the customer segment for small and mediumsized businesses and is positioned as a complete IT partner in the Nordic region, with the majority of sales carried out online. So far, our operations in the Netherlands are concentrated to a comprehensive range of services and solutions. The IT market Structurally, the IT market is similar in the Nordic region and in the Netherlands, they are both highly fragmented with a few major players and a large number of minor and more local IT resellers. Market players can be described from two dimensions: cost efficiency and value content. IT service companies and system integrators generally provide a high level of value content and varying degrees of customised solutions, but with a low level of cost efficiency. These types of solutions mainly target large companies and the public sector. Online players have a relatively high degree of cost efficiency due to their efficient logistics resources, but generally have lower value content without specific product know-how or IT expertise. These players mainly target consumers and in many cases also offer other types of products in widely differing categories. Dustin is positioned at the centre of these dimensions. We offer a combination of centrally produced cloud solutions, with a relatively high and over time increasing value content, and online sales with a high level of cost efficiency. With our clear focus on the small and medium-sized business segment we mainly compete with minor local IT resellers, which are finding it increasingly difficult to compete as the range of, and interest for, cloud-based services and solutions grows. High Atea Advania Degree of value added service Small Small and medium-sized IT infrastructure businesses and IT service companies Komplett Verkkokauppa Low Low Cost efficiency High ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 13 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR MARKET AND OPERATING ENVIRONMENT The B2B market • Installation services, configuration, support The total IT market for the private and public sector and help desk. in the B2B segment in the Nordic region and the Netherlands comprises hardware, software and ser­ The advanced products and services category and vices. In 2017, its total value was estimated at approxi­ integrated solutions include: mately SEK 616 billion. Broken down by region, the • Workplace: managing computers, SaaS, licenses, market is estimated at the equivalent of about SEK 369 mobility and print. billion in the Nordic countries and at about SEK 247 • Infrastructure: cloud solutions, hosting, storage billion in the Netherlands. and application management. • Network and communications solutions. Our addressable B2B market • Security solutions, including virus protection, firewalls Dustin has a total market share of about 4 per cent of and continuity services. our addressable B2B market in the Nordic region and • Support services and service desk. the Netherlands, which was estimated at about SEK 262 billion in 2017. The market comprised core products Market trends in the B2B market and standardised services amounting to approximately We currently see three important trends that are SEK 121 billion, and advanced products and services ex­pected to drive the underlying growth in our amounting to about SEK 141 billion. Our addressable addressable B2B market in the Nordic region and the market in the Nordic region is an estimated SEK 162 Netherlands and to create the conditions for more billion and the acquisition in the Netherlands increased sustainable business: our total addressable market by about SEK 100 billion. 1. Increased share of sales online. The size of our addressable market is increasing as we 2. Growing interest in cloud solutions and mobility. expand the range of services through acquisitions and 3. Rising demand for sustainable IT and ethical with geographic expansion into new markets. procurements. 1 We believe that virtually all categories of core products and standardised services can be purchased online. More advanced products and services, as well as inte­ Increased share grated solutions, more often require initial contact of sales online with a salesperson or product specialist. In line with technological developments, today’s services are be­ Online sales of IT products and services have increased in coming increasingly standardised and will therefore recent years and more B2B customers are now transferring eventually be available for purchasing online. a higher share of their IT purchases to this channel. This trend is mainly due to customer benefits offered by online The core products and standardised services category retail: includes: • Computer hardware, such as computers, tablets Total IT market for B2B in the Nordic region and the and printers. Netherlands 2017: SEK ~616 billion • Computer software, such as operating systems Addressable B2B market: and Office suites. SEK ~262 billion +4% 309 +4% 262 ~6% 242 Average annual sales growth ~4% Advanced products and services Core products and services ~2% Offline ~4% Online ~5% ~8% 2015 2017 2021 14 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR MARKET AND OPERATING ENVIRONMENT • Accessibility and convenience. We believe these technological trends will influence • Broader range. purchasing by small and medium-sized businesses. An • Detailed and comparable information. increasing share of subscription services will, in turn, • Fast and convenient delivery adapted to accelerate and simplify investments in new technology specific customer needs. and new solutions. For large corporations, the transition • Competitive and comparable prices. from existing older and complex systems is often a major challenge while small and medium-sized businesses In our addressable B2B market, online sales still repre­ generally find it easier to transition and are more flexible sent a relatively small share. For 2017, the estimated in their IT purchasing. 3 share of online sales in the Nordic countries and the Netherlands was just under 20 per cent. As a com­ parison, the equivalent market in the US is estimated to Rising demand for sustainable have a share of online sales of almost 40 per cent. IT and ethical procurements The online shift in the B2B market has not progressed Demand for, and awareness about, sustainable IT has as far as the B2C market. This is partly because of the increased in recent years. Working conditions during digital maturity process is not as fast for companies manufacturing, the product’s energy consumption and as for consumers and partly because many business chemical content, and the potential for repairing, reuse customers maintain close relationships with minor or recycling of end-of-life products are often taken local resellers that do not have an online presence. into account. The public sector imposes demands for Business customers tend to gather their purchasing environmental considerations and social and ethical with one supplier and the online shift in the B2B respon­sibility as part of many procurements, which is one market is expected to accelerate as centrally produced of the drivers behind this change. The UN’s Sustainable cloud services replace locally produced services at the Development Goals for 2030 are another driver as is the customer’s site. growing awareness among small and medium-sized bus­ inesses, which are imposing more stringent demands on 2 their suppliers. During the year, the first public pro­cure­ ment was carried out in Sweden that included sustain­ Growing interest in cloud ability as one basis of evaluation by the authority for its solutions and mobility award decision. Cloud solutions and mobility promote a more flexible and sustainable IT environment, in terms of both cost The B2C market and utilisation and are expected to drive growth over The B2C market consists of IT products and other the coming years. Today, there are cloud services in the consumer electronics, excluding white goods, that are market suitable for all types of operations, everything offered to consumers and was estimated in the Nordic from basic e-mail services to services for storage and region at about SEK 54 billion in 2017. backup and the opportunity to transfer the entire bus­ iness IT environment into the cloud. The growth of these B2C market trends centrally produced cloud solutions offers Dustin an The B2C market is more competitive and generally has a opportunity to provide services and thereby move higher higher degree of price transparency and price pressure. in the value chain, which was not previously possible Behaviour in the B2C market is characterised by a large without a local presence. number of purchases with a lower average order value. The larger number of purchases is mainly a result of the We see a trend towards more outsourcing of IT manage­ market having a high pace of innovation and relatively ment and a request to receive IT as a service, and thus a short product life cycles. fixed monthly cost for IT. This provides an opportunity for growth for Dustin, and for more stable revenue Sales in the B2C market mainly take place through from cloud-based subscription services while leasing is physical retail chains and online resellers, with the becoming an increasingly common alternative to buying majority of retail chains also offering online sales. IT products. Leasing also ensures that returned products Traditional physical stores still account for the highest are anonymised, deleted and reused in a secure manner, share of total sales, but online sales are rapidly in­ which is also important from the perspective of data creasing and taking market shares from other sales protection. channels. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 15 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR VISION AND STRATEGY Our vision and strategy Dustin’s vision is to be the customer’s preferred partner and set the standard for efficient and sustainable IT. By clarifying our view of sustainability and by basing our work on our overall strategy, we not only want to highlight our own social and environmental impact, but also to make it easier for customers to choose sustainable IT products, services and solutions. Strategy for profitable and sustainable growth efficiency improvements offer us favourable We see significant potential for continued growth using conditions to improve profitability over time. The a flexible sales model and by continuously expanding implementation of our strategy is characterised by our portfolio of products, services and solutions. proactive sustainability efforts with regard to our Add-on acquisitions in existing markets together with social and environmental impact. the launch of private label products and continuous 2017/18 Average annual 2021/22 sales growth ~10% • Pan-Nordic operations with a • IT partner and one-stop-shop shared platform that supports for small and medium-sized the product and service offering businesses in the Nordic region and the Netherlands • Nordic control with a skilled • Based on financial targets for organic centrally located online team growth of 8 per cent over a business cycle • Fully-integrated online and a local sales organisation experience for product and • Add-on acquisitions in existing markets in the service sales • Approximately 250 sales Nordic countries and the Netherlands specialists who address more • Sales share of over 50 per cent • Scalability in the integrated platform for large companies in the LCP than 10,000 selected customers – infrastructure and customer offerings in with a broad portfolio of segment all geographical areas IT solutions • More than SEK 4 billion in • Realise sales synergies in recently acquired sales of advanced products • Cloud-based service platform offerings and expand the customer base and services, driven by acquired ensures growth in SaaS and • Accelerate sales of managed services to SMBs companies and organic growth managed services to increase recurring revenues and strengthen • More than SEK 1 billion in the margin recurring revenues • Continue the consolidation of specialised IT service companies through acquisitions Product distribution Product distribution Services and Services and Solutions Solutions Advanced Advanced Net sales Products Net sales Products SEK 10.3 billion SEK ~15 billion* Core products Core products EBITA margin EBITA margin Segment distribution 4.9% Segment distribution 5–6%* B2C B2C SMB SMB LCP LCP * Based on Dustin’s financial targets. 16 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR VISION AND STRATEGY Growth candidates to support continued growth and increase Dustin currently has a strong position in the market shareholder value. Acquisitions are evaluated on the for IT-related products and services. Our attractive basis of their potential to consolidate our position in sales model comprises a central online platform existing markets, expand the customer base, achieve combined with a consultative and relationship selling cost synergies and, above all, to broaden our existing organisation. offerings, thereby enabling us to capture a larger share of our customers’ total purchases of IT products and related services and solutions. 1 A prominent 3 online position Thanks to our proprietary online platform, we are Increased sales to well-positioned to benefit from the ongoing shift to existing customers an online market. Because of this shift, customers are We offer relationship selling to selected parts of choosing to allocate more of their IT purchases to online our large customer base of small and medium-sized channels, and also concentrate their purchases on businesses in order to increase loyalty from our cus­ fewer suppliers. to­mers and thereby grow the share of sales to each customer. We estimate that Dustin’s share of IT pur­ The online platform has proved successful as a first chases by customers is relatively low. We can see an point of contact with new customers. This is based on opportunity to increase our share by further develop­ high brand awareness, digital marketing, and attractive ing and strengthening customer relationships through offers and campaigns. The continued development of addi­tional sales in the form of more advanced pro­ducts, the platform will enable us to attract new customers services and solutions. in our markets and offer customers a comprehensive, integrated online experience. Consequently, we can The growth of, and increased interest in, centrally grow faster than the market. produced cloud services provides us with an oppor­ tunity to offer services and solutions mainly for 2 small and medium-sized businesses, which was not previously possible without a local presence. A wider Broader range of advanced services and solutions, which are customer offering often sold as subscription services, also increases the share of recurring revenues and thus strengthens We are continuously expanding our offering, both customer loyalty. organically and through acquisitions, to further im­ prove our range of services and solutions. Organically, 4 we achieve this by combining products and services into complete solutions mainly tailored for small and medium-sized businesses. Introduction of the offering in all markets Our add-on acquisitions focus on specialised niche Our acquisitions add expertise and strengthen our players in our existing markets in the Nordic countries local presence in our existing markets. Moreover, the and the Netherlands. This enables us to further ex­pand geographic spread of the entire product and service our offering. Our continuously expanding offering portfolio to all of our markets and customers, we can makes us a one-stop-shop, mainly for small and realise sales synergies, which makes further growth medium-sized businesses. These add-on acquisitions possible. For example, we can see great potential to in existing markets have increased our addressable launch the online platform in the Netherlands. market, along with a progressively broader offering. We continuously evaluate potential acquisition ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 17 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR VISION AND STRATEGY Profitability contribution of SEK 40 million by the end of the 2018/19 We have identified a number of areas to improve financial year. profitability over time. We can strengthen our margins through a focus on SMBs, the launch of private By replacing products from other suppliers with private label products, value-creating acquisitions and the label products, we can strengthen our customer offeintroduction of managed services, in combination with ring with quality-assured products at attractive prices continuous improvements. and enhance profitability. 3 Sustained growth in existing markets creates the conditions for favourable profitability in the form of Value-creating economies of scale in several areas. We have conacquisitions centrated scalable units as central functions in order to serve the entire Group as efficiently as possible and We can increase our profitability over time by conwork steadily to improve efficiency through continuous tinuously expanding, through acquisitions and orgimprovements. anically, our range of more advanced services and solutions. These ordinarily have higher margins com1 pared with core products. Acquired operations generally have higher profitability than Dustin’s core business Increased and make a positive contribution from the date of share of SMB acquisition. When we make the acquired product, We have an expressed focus on small and mediumser vice or solution available to our entire customer sized businesses, which purchase online to a greater base, we can create positive synergies in terms of both extent. We therefore particularly target our offerings growth and profitability. to this customer group. Small and medium-sized bus4 inesses generally have limited or no personnel resources in IT and are therefore more often interested in our range of services and solutions. By increasing Managed this customer group’s share of our total sales we can services improve our profitability. Focused initiatives, such as Dustin’s online platform for 2 cloud-based services, create opportunities for further margin expansion, as these replace conventional softLarger share of private ware with lower margins. The platform is scalable and label products makes a broad portfolio of SaaS configurations and applications available to the B2B market. We can see At the start of the 2016/17 financial year, we launched major opportunities to capture a considerable share private label products in some core product categories, of this market over time. Our aim is to reach 10,000 such as cables, USB flash drives and accessories for customers and SEK 300 million in sales of managed mobile phones and tablets. New products, including services by the end of the 2019/20 financial year. headphones, speakers and monitors have been successively launched aimed at achieving an annual earnings 0.3 – 0.5% ~ 6% Five-year vision to improve profitability, presented in November 2017 0.6 – 0.8% 0.2 – 0.4% 0.1 – 0.3% 4.6% Adjusted EBITA margin Increased Private Value-creating Managed Adjusted EBITA margin 2016/17 share of SMB label products acquisitions services 2021/22 18 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR VISION AND STRATEGY Corporate responsibility pervades our strategy Based on our strategy, we have in consultation with The implementation of our strategy is characterised a selection of our key stakeholders identified and by proactive corporate responsibility, which includes established long-term 2020 targets for five focus areas business ethics, human rights, labour conditions, occuwithin corporate responsibility. These focus areas are: pational health and safety, well-being, environmental considerations, diversity and equality. For us, respon1. responsible manufacturing sible business involves our long-term impact on society 2. reduced climate impact and the environment, where our responsibility extends 3. responsible use of resources throughout the entire value chain. The size of our opera4. business ethics and anti-corruption tions provides us with a key role and an opportunity to 5. diversity and equality. influence both suppliers and customers. Dustin’s five focus areas for corporate responsibility RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Ensuring that the products we offer come from manufacturers with a commitment to, expertise in, and ongoing activities for improving working conditions in the value chain. REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT Minimising the use of resources (energy, emissions and materials) in the operations in order to continuously reduce our negative impact on climate change and the environment. RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES Offering energy and resource-efficient services, solutions and products, including taking back end-of-life electronic products as a service. BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Engaging in ethical business practices and counteracting all forms of corruption by promoting a culture in which employees and business partners can openly discuss the ethical dilemmas they may experience in their day-to-day operations. DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Building a respectful and values-based corporate culture, improving equality across all levels of the organisation and promoting innovation through a diversity of perspectives, experience, cultural backgrounds, gender and views. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 19 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OPERATIONAL TARGETS Operational targets Dustin’s board of directors has established financial targets, corporate responsibility targets and a dividend policy for the Company’s operations. Our financial targets aim to maintain and strengthen the Group’s leading position, to create shareholder value and to help generate high total returns for Dustin’s shareholders. Financial targets Outcome 2017/18: Growth 2.0% Dustin’s target is to achieve average annual organic growth of 8 per cent over a business cycle. In addition to this, Dustin intends to expand through acquisitions. CAGR 5 years: 8.1% Outcome 2017/18: 2.0 per cent and CAGR (5 years) 8.1 per cent, respectively Margin Capital structure Dustin’s target is to increase the adjusted Dustin’s capital structure should enable a high degree EBITA margin over time, and to achieve an of financial flexibility and provide scope for acquisitions. adjusted EBITA margin of between 5 and 6 The Company’s net debt target is a 2.0–3.0 multiple of per cent in the medium term. adjusted EBITDA for the past 12-month period. Outcome 2017/18: 4.9 per cent Outcome 2017/18: 3.3 multiple Outcome 2017/18: 4.9%8% Dividend policy Dustin’s dividend payout target is 70 per cent of net profit. However, the Company’s financial position, cash 7% flow, acquisition opportunities and future prospects will 6% be taken into consideration. 5% Proposal by the Board 2017/18: 78 per cent of the net 4% profit for the year, corresponding to SEK 239 million. 78% 3% 2% 1% Outcome 0% 2017/18: 4 /1 5 6 /1 7 8 13/1 14 /1 15 16 17/1 20 20 20 20 20 20 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OPERATIONAL TARGETS Corporate Responsibility targets Responsible manufacturing Reduced climate impact Target: Starting in 2015/16, to conduct Target: To reduce our climate impact by 40 per cent by 80 factory audits by 2020, of which 2020, compared with 2014/15. 35 inspections by the end of 2017/18. Outcome 2017/18: The total amount of greenhouse gases Outcome 2017/18: We have we release has decreased 13.6 per cent since 2016/17, while conducted 19 factory audits our organic growth totalled 2.0 per cent. If we include and a total of 31 since the emissions savings relating to the reuse of end-of-life re­ target was established. turns, the recycling of waste together with carbon offset 31/35 from one of our logistics partners, the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions has decreased 38.4 per cent since 2014/15. Base year: 2014/15 Net sales: SEK 7,933 million Emissions: 2,652 tonnes of CO₂e 40% Organic growth, accumulated Total reduction of emissions 30% Total reduction of emissions, including climate Responsible use compensation and savings through recycling and reuse of products of resources 20% +15.0% +13.0% 10% +4,4% Target: Starting in 2014/15, to recover 140,000 sold products by 2020, of which 35,000 by the end of 0% -2% 2017/18. -10% -6% -13% Outcome 2017/18: During the year, we recovered a total of 35,342 products, of which 33,291 products -17% -20% -24,9% for reuse and the remaining 2,051 were recycled. Since this target was adopted, we have taken back -30% a total of 64,288 end-of-life units, representing 46 -38,4% per cent of the 2020 target. -40% 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Business ethics Diversity and anti-corruption and equality Target: 100 per cent of our business areas will under­ Target: By 2020, each gender is to make up at least go a risk assessment concerning business ethics 40 per cent of the entire organisation. At the end of and anti-corruption and 100 per cent of reported 2017/18, our interim target was to achieve a gender incidents will be followed up. balance (women/men) of 32/68 at senior level and 33/67 within the entire organisation. Outcome 2017/18: 100 per cent of our business areas underwent a business ethics and anti-corruption Outcome 2017/18: At the end of the financial year, our risk assessment. Two incidents were reported in the gender balance (women/men) at the senior level was whistleblower function and investigated in 2017/18. 36/64 (31/69) and within the entire organisation 30/70 No shortcomings relating to business ethics or (29/71). corruption were noted. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 21 “We have divided our operations into three business segments: Small and Medium-sized Businesses, Large Corporate and Public Sector and Business to Consumer.” 22 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR OPERATIONS | OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS Our business segments We have divided our operations into three business segments: SMB (Small and Medium-sized Businesses), LCP (Large Corporate and Public Sector) and B2C (Business to Consumer). Within the SMB and LCP segments, customers are served through both the online platform and relationship and consultative selling. In the B2C segment, customers are only served through the online platform. The segments are supported by scalable and shared central functions. SMB – Small and Medium-sized Businesses We define the SMB segment as small and medium-sized businesses with up to 500 employees. This is our main target group and the focus of our customer offering. Customers are served through the online platform and through relationship and consultative selling. SMB Net sales and segment margin SEK million 5,000 20% 18% 4,000 16% 14% 3,000 12% 10% 2,000 8% 6% 1,000 4% 2% 0 0% 7 8 16/1 17/1 20 20 2017/18 • Percentage of total sales: 43 per cent • Percentage of segment results: 58 per cent • Sales growth: 23.9 per cent, of which 9.6 per cent organic • Segment margin: 11.6 per cent • Number of customers: approx. 100,000 • Average order value: approx. SEK 7,000 • Typical customer: 1–49 employees • Purchasing behaviour: Minor orders, replacement purchases, new employees • Geographical presence: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands Typical customer Our typical SMB customers are small to medium-sized companies with 1–49 employees. Customers in this segment do not ordinarily have their own IT personnel or have limited staff resources for IT. Most purchasing concerns core products, such as computers, telephones, cables and accessories, but there is also a growing share of more advanced products and services, including conference equipment and security solutions. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 23 OUR OPERATIONS | OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS Sales to SMBs are characterised by a large number infrastructure, audiovisual equipment and opera­ of transactions with a low average order value. The tions and storage. With our comprehensive range of companies buy new products when something breaks products, services and solutions, combined with a high and needs replacing or when they are expanding and level of IT expertise, we are a strategic partner and can employing new staff. Most customers purchase on adopt a role as the customer’s IT department. our online platform, as this is both simple and easy. For larger orders and when purchasing more advanced The past year and the future services and solutions, the dialogue is conducted In 2017/18, the segment performed well in all markets, directly with each account manager. and the acquisition of JML-System in Sweden and ITaito in Finland, together with entry into the Dutch market, Broader customer offering were important steps in continuing to strengthen The acquisitions in recent years combined with internal our position in the SMB segment. Over the next few initiatives mean we are now a more complete IT partner years, we are looking forward to consolidating our for our customers. In addition to our more traditional leading position in Sweden and further strengthening product areas, such as hardware and software, we our SMB business in other Nordic countries and in the can now also provide complex solutions that include Netherlands. LCP – Large Corporate and Public Sector LCP We define the LCP segment as larger companies with more than 500 employees and the public sector. Net sales and Procurements and larger orders are mainly managed by segment margin the sales organisation, while regular minor orders are handled by using the online platform. SEK million Typical customer 6,000 20% A typical customer in the LCP segment is generally 18% a municipality or larger company. Sales are often 5,000 16% conducted through procurements and framework 14% 4,000 agreements or following lengthy discussions with a 12% potential customer. Larger deliveries are often supple­ 3,000 10% mented with purchases by individual employees, who 8% 2,000 frequently or on a daily basis, place minor orders for 6% specific products or accessories directly on Dustin’s 1,000 4% online platform or by using the company’s intranet. 2% 0 0% Characteristic products in the segment include 7 8 com­puters (including configuration), infrastructure, 16/1 17/1 20 20 projectors and accessories. An LCP customer normally purchases a smaller share of software and services compared with an SMB customer. 2017/18 • Percentage of total sales: 51 per cent • Percentage of segment results: 38 per cent Quarterly fluctuations • Sales growth: 1.9 per cent, of which -3.8 The segment has a more volatile sales trend between per cent organic quarters and years, and is dependent on when major • Segment margin: 6.3 per cent contracts are signed and terminated and when sub­ • Number of customers: approx. 5,000 • Average order value: approx. SEK 11,000 orders are placed. The average order value in LCP • Typical customer: 500–1,000 employees amounts to about SEK 11,000, which is twice that of • Purchasing behaviour: Larger orders, supplethe SMB segment. Margins are lower than for SMB, as a mentary, procurements, rollouts large share of sales comprise major orders where prices • Geographical presence: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands are under pressure, primarily for hardware. Dustin has a long-term ambition to increase the share of sales to large companies in the segment, as they have more 24 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR OPERATIONS | OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS stable purchasing patterns than the public sector. The period. This was primarily due to a more challenging public sector is governed by procurement rules, which competitive environment, mainly in Finland and create greater fluctuations in sales between quarters Denmark, and a conscious decision to refrain from and years. larger transactions with low profitability. A growing share of purchasing is also conducted online in the The past year and the future LCP segment, and we can see that our position as the The 2017/18 financial year was marked by a slightly leading online player in the Nordic countries will make weaker performance compared with the year-earlier us even more attractive as a supplier and IT partner. B2C – Business to Consumer B2C The B2C segment represents the consumer market and is served by the online platform. We consider the Net sales and consumer market as a complementary segment. segment margin Typical customer SEK A typical customer in our B2C segment is a consumer million who values fast and reliable deliveries and appreciates 1,000 20% our broad range and IT expertise. Since we are an 18% important partner to many suppliers, we often have 800 16% the latest products in stock, which may be difficult to 14% 600 12% find at other players. Price is, of course, important, but 10% is often not crucial for our customers. They value the 400 8% total experience. Computers, mobile phones, audio 6% 200 4% and visual, as well as accessories are the bestselling 2% products in the segment. 0% 7 8 16/1 17/1 Strong price competition 20 20 Sales to consumers are characterised by a large number of online orders for, above all, hardware products, with 2017/18 a lower average order value than other segments. • Percentage of total sales: 6 per cent Individual consumers show a much faster change in • Percentage of segment results: 4 per cent their purchasing behaviour, from physical stores to • Sales growth: 8.5 per cent, of which 7.9 online, compared with companies and organisations. per cent organic The B2C market is generally more competitive and has a • Segment margin: 4.9 per cent • Number of customers: approx. 350,000 higher degree of price transparency and price pressure • Average order value: approx. SEK 2,000 compared with the B2B market. • Typical customer: Consumers • Purchasing behaviour: Minor orders The past year and the future • Geographical presence: Sweden, Norway, The consumer segment has reported relatively stable Denmark and Finland sales over time, but is affected by temporary offers and campaigns conducted by our competitors. Both sales and profitability improved in the 2017/18 financial year, partly as a result of an expressed focus on margins before growth in the segment and partly due to more favourable currency rates in Denmark and Norway. We expect the segment to continue its stable growth, with substantial potential in Finland and Norway. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 25 OUR OPERATIONS | FOCUS ON OUR ONLINE PLATFORM Focus on our online platform The online platform is at the heart of Dustin’s business model and handles about 80 per cent of sales and more than 90 per cent of the number of transactions in the Nordic region. We also intend to launch the online platform in the Netherlands. The scalable platform allows us to grow our sales without a proportional increase in operating expenses. Dustin has a leading online position and a strong brand, where the largest share of online traffic is organic. Core business online sales volumes. Investments conducted by us in recent Our proprietary online platform is at the core of Dustin’s years are related to technology and expertise, and the business. The e-commerce solution, supported by continuous expansion of the service offering. automated order handling, is how we interact with and help most of our customers. In recent years, we have Efficient pricing invested in both technology and expertise to improve Dustin’s pricing platform is constantly evolving and our systems and processes. During the 2017/18 financial being streamlined to optimise purchase and selling year, Dustin had approximately prices in a broad range and in a 35 million Nordic website visitors, of which business customers acco­ “The online growing number of markets. The platform is based on a variety of unted for about 15 million. About 70 platform is at the parameters linked to supply and per cent of this traffic was organic, demand and performs several meaning unpaid traffic. We also heart of Dustin’s million price adjustments every in­tend to launch online sales in the business model.” day. For example, if purchase prices Netherlands. change or competitors change their selling prices, we adjust our prices quickly and effi­ciently We can improve the online customer experience by using the prevailing pricing strategies and rules. The adapting the content to user behaviour and needs, and pri­cing platform has provided us with good control over thereby maximising customer value. Simple navigation pricing, which has improved our profitability. and the ability to compare similar products is now an expected feature. Through automated processes, online Cloud-based service platform marketing can be adapted for each customer, based on Our online platform for cloud-based services offers their previous behaviour and interests. This will further our customers a simple way to use and manage strengthen the brand and increase our share of the their SaaS (Software as a Service) configurations and customer’s purchasing budget. business applications. We aggregate a large selection of quality-assured software from multiple providers, The intelligent platform is supported by several and offer them to the customer with guaranteed modules to optimise the packaging of offers, support from us, or the manufacturer. Customers can campaigns, pricing, marketing and online customer administrate the number of subscriptions and users for service, and to simplify expansion and the way we each application in a simple, cost-efficient and secure operate. Costs associated with our online platform manner. Most of the applications require no installation and its support features are recognised under central and are also updated automatically by the provider functions and are relatively constant, regardless of requiring no customer input. 26 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR OPERATIONS | FOCUS ON OUR ONLINE PLATFORM 90% of transactions 80% of net sales 35 m DUSTIN Nordic web visitors ONLINE PLATFORM. 70% organic traffic 15 m web visits from business customers ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 27 OUR OPERATIONS | ATTRACTIVE CUSTOMER OFFERING Attractive customer offering Dustin offers a wide range of IT products and related services and solutions. With our high level of IT expertise, we provide support for both individual products and packaged solutions. This is combined with attractive prices and fast and reliable delivery and enables the company to meet the majority of customer needs. We are perceived as an agile strategic partner for small and medium-sized businesses with comprehensive solutions and support to address their IT challenges. A broad product and service offering Hardware and software Dustin has adopted a role as aggregator and offers a Hardware and software are the core of our offering. wide range of hardware and software products, and Dustin’s comprehensive range of hardware and software related services and solutions at competitive prices. Our products has mainly been selected to meet the needs broad IT expertise characterises all sales channels and of small and medium-sized businesses, but also caters is adapted to customer needs – from a needs analysis, to large corporates and the public sector. Dustin is an to delivery and support. For most companies, using independent IT partner with a range comprising some IT equipment generates more value than owning it, 255,000 hardware and software products from about so we also offer a range of financing solutions so that 2,800 manufacturers. We work continuously to develop customers can lease IT equipment rather than buy. our offering, and follow product launches carefully to Financing solutions are based on a circular business ensure that new products are offered to our customers model that may include repairs and reuse. The service as quickly as possible. offering is often designed as a subscription service, which provides the customer with greater flexibility and The purchasing patterns of many of our customers are cost control, at the same time as strengthening loyalty often based on unplanned urgent needs rather than to Dustin as a supplier. planned purchases, which also makes us an attractive channel for the marketing strategies of manufacturers and distributors. LCP 5,000 SMB 100,000 B2C 350,000 2,800 brands Distributors Aggregator Customers 2,800 brands Distributors Aggregator Customers 28 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR OPERATIONS | ATTRACTIVE CUSTOMER OFFERING We can offer customers a continuous and attractive flow Our service offering includes client management, ranging of campaigns, due to close and frequent dialogues with from product selection and configuration to security, manufacturers and distributors. support and end-of-life returns to reduce environmental impact. We offer data storage, network and security Private label products solutions that make it easier for small-sized businesses At the start of the 2016/17 financial year, Dustin laun­ched to create a cost-efficient, functional and flexible IT private label products in some core product categories, environ­ment focused on performance and reliability. Our such as cables, USB flash drives and accessories for software services include license management, where mobile phones and tab­lets. New existing license agreements products, including head­­phones, speakers and monitors have also “We want to make it are compared with real needs to optimise license models and been successively launched. The easier for customers reduce costs. aim is that private label products should add an annual earnings to choose products Our mobility services and solutions contri­bution of about SEK 40 that are better for provide users with the flexibility to million by the end of the 2018/19 work wherever and whenever they financial year In this way, we can the climate.” want to, and from any device. We further strengthen our customer offer also offer a range of cloudoffering with quality-assured products at an attractive based storage, backup and disaster recovery services, in price. This also enables us to increase our control of the both public and private clouds. The service range also value chain, and working conditions in manufacturing includes different types of printing solutions, with a focus plants can be inspected by sustainability managers at on cost efficiency and sustainability. Dustin together with a team of local experts trained in our Code of Conduct. High level of IT expertise Since the company’s foundation more than 30 years ago It’s simpler to choose the eco-label in Sweden, Dustin has gathered a broad and deep level As part of our corporate responsibility efforts, we want of IT expertise. We design our offering so that customers to make it easier for customers to choose products can easily find the information and support they need that are better for the climate. Almost 23 per cent both before and after purchasing. This is conducted of sales are eco-labelled IT products we have as part through our customer service, either online or with the of our range (TCO Certified, EPEAT, Svanen, Energy consultative or relationship selling organisation’s guidance. Star, EU Ecolabel and Blå Ängeln). In order to ecoToday, it is increasingly important to ensure that the cust­ label a product, the manufacturer must minimise the omer’s IT is working effectively, and not only providing product’s environmental impact during its entire life the right products. This is particularly the case for small cycle. This includes recycling, using recycled materials and medium-sized businesses, which generally lack their in manufacturing, the product’s lifetime, packaging own IT personnel. By using our IT expertise, we become a material and size, and the content of hazardous sub­ complete partner that solves the customer’s IT challenges. stances in the product. In addition, energy-saving fea­ tures and other steps that reduce the product’s climate Customer offering helps to build a loyal customer base impact are often added. Different eco-labels fulfil one or The combination of our broad range of products, services more of these requirements to varying degrees. and solutions and a high level of IT expertise has provided Dustin with a large and diversified customer base and a Services and integrated solutions high degree of customer loyalty. We have further strengt­ Dustin offers a comprehensive portfolio of services hened customer loyalty by adding subscription services to and solutions, as either supplements to hardware and this offering. software purchases or as independent services. By com­­ bining several items of hardware, software and ser­vice In the B2B segment, there is a strong link between into an integrated solution, we can offer a sim­ple and the duration of the customer relationship and sales effective solution to a customer’s total IT needs in a single per customer. Sales to loyal customers are far higher pur­chase. Our range of advanced services and solutions is compared with a customer acquired in past year, both continuously growing due to acquired ex­pertise and our through a greater number of transactions and higher own development of the existing offering. order value. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 29 OUR OPERATIONS | EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS MODEL Efficient and responsible purchasing and logistics model Purchasing from both distributors and manufacturers increases our ability to offer competitive prices. It is important for us to ensure that the suppliers we have chosen to collaborate with work continuously to improve working conditions in the value chain. Our Supplier Code of Conduct provides a basis for where we conduct our purchasing. Our logistics model is based on a central warehouse in Sweden, complemented by smaller consolidation warehouses in Denmark, Finland and Norway as well as direct deliveries from suppliers to end customers. Sourcing from multiple suppliers per cent of hardware and software products were By sourcing from several different suppliers, both from purchased from distributors. The largest distributor distributors and directly from manufacturers, we can represented 22 per cent of our total purchases and offer our customers a broad range at competitive prices. together the three largest distributors accounted for Dustin collaborates with some 390 distributors that 49 per cent. stock and distribute IT products. In parallel, we are an important sales channel for many manufacturers and Follow-up and transparency in purchasing and our online platform and substantial customer base offer manufacturing operations an efficient route to markets. Our sales model and large Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct is part of the pur­ customer base therefore make us an important partner chasing agreement, which means all suppliers for direct for campaigns and product launches. Dustin’s range purchases are obligated to act in accordance with includes about 255,000 products from more than 2,800 these principles, and in accordance with all applicable brands. laws and regulations. For annual purchases exceeding SEK 200,000 we ensure that the Code of Conduct Our market position and high sales volumes offer us has been signed, or that the supplier can produce an an advantageous position with our suppliers when it equivalent code. At the end of the 2017/18 financial comes to volume discounts, terms for product returns, year, 99.8 per cent of our hardware suppliers, from price protection policies, marketing contributions and whom our total annual purchasing volume exceeds responsibility. In the 2017/18 financial year, about 70 SEK 200,000 or equivalent, had adopted our Code Responsible manufacturing SUPPLIER EVALUATION FOLLOW-UP CONTINUOUS SELECTION • Risk evaluation of • Factory audit IMPROVEMENT • Suppliers recognise and suppliers’ ability to • Corrective and • Training sign Dustin’s Supplier monitor and comply preven­tive actions • Capability building Code of Conduct with Dustin’s Code of • Follow-up actions, Conduct. • Requirements included if needed in contractual terms 30 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR OPERATIONS | EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS MODEL 99.8% of our hardware suppliers have adopted Dustin’s Code of Conduct. of Conduct or introduced their own code of conduct we use when we follow up how well a supplier lives that corresponds to our requirements (99.8 per cent up to the requirements of Dustin’s Supplier Code of in 2016/17). The Supplier Code of Conduct covers legal Conduct. Depending on the type of non-conformance requirements, freedom of association and the right to and the severity level, the manufacturer has a certain collective bargaining, the prohibition of discrimination, number of days to correct the non-conformance. A root salaries and remuneration, working hours, health and cause analysis is then carried out and preventive actions safety in the workplace, living conditions, prohibition are prepared. of child labour, terms of employment, prohibition of Zero-tolerance non-conformance – Unacceptable forced labour and disciplinary measures, environmental finding, with a significant impact that requires protection and environmental work, conflict inerals and immediate correc tive actions. This type of nonbusiness ethics. Our ambition is to work systematically conformance applies to children or slave labour, together with our suppliers based on the entire life immediate danger of injury, bribes and forgery. The cycle and to integrate sustainability aspects at each non-conformance must be repor ted to Dustin’s CEO stage. This encompasses everything from the choice of within 24 hours and corrected within 48 hours. products we purchase and the suppliers we choose to work with to how we work with existing suppliers and Critical non-conformance – Full violation of the requirehow we conclude business relations. ment, putting employee health, safety or rights, or the surrounding community at risk. Non-conformance must The majority of the world’s IT products are currently be corrected within 30 days. produced in Asia. Today, we carry out regular risk Major non-conformance – Significant violation of the analyses and factory audits to make certain that requirement. The finding indicates a systematic failure manufacturing is conducted in accordance with our in the management system and a lack of control. The Supplier Code of Conduct. By being physically in place impact on employee safety, employee rights or the and leading factory audits, we can link the result to surrounding community is moderate. Non-conformance our purchasing operations and work in an integrated must be corrected within 60 days. manner with corrective actions. At the end of the 2017/18 financial year, 96.0 per cent of our suppliers Minor non-conformance – A partial violation of the for direct purchases of hardware, from whom our requirement. The finding can be regarded as an isolated total annual purchasing volume exceeds SEK 200,000, case or a random incident. The impact on employee had been subject to a risk assessment (77.1 per cent in safety, employee rights or the surrounding community 2016/17). During the financial year, 19 factory audits is low. Non-conformance must be corrected within 90 were conducted. days. Observation – An observation that does not constitute Non-conformance management and follow-up non-conformance but can be used in several situations. We have identified five levels of non-conformance that ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 31 OUR OPERATIONS | EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS MODEL This could be the absence of sufficient evidence to we have a regional warehouse based in Enschede with de­cide on con­formity or non-conformance, the risk of a capacity of approximately 800 square metres. This future non-conformance and in cases where there are warehouse will also eventually be integrated into our improvement opportunities. In 2017/18, we identified logistics model. a total of 285 cases of non-conformance, which were systematically corrected and followed up. Most of the Efficient and sustainable logistics flows non-conformance was minor, and no “zero-tolerance” Our logistics work concerns continuously optimising discrepancies were revealed as part of the audits. stock levels and logistics to enhance efficiency and reduce our environmental impact. Customer deliveries Logistics model and warehousing currently constitute most of our environmental im­ Our Nordic logistics model is based on a central pact, measured as greenhouse gas emissions. It is ware­house in Rosersberg, north of Stockholm, com­ therefore important for us to stock the right products plemented by smaller consolidation warehouses in in the right quantities and to choose the right mode Denmark, Finland and Norway as well as direct deli­ of transportation, to reduce transport distances and veries from suppliers to end customers. This enables to maximise filling factor by co-loading. A combined both fast and reliable delivery to our customers. About delivery, instead of several small ones, reduces our cli­ 62 per cent of sales in the Nordic region passed through mate impact and reduces the customer’s administrative the central warehouse in the 2017/18 financial year. burden at the same time. The geographical location of Approximately 23 per cent passed one of our con­ the central warehouse means we can efficiently deliver solidation warehouses and the remaining 15 per cent products to customers across the Nordic region and was sent directly from suppliers to end customers. remain easily available for our main suppliers. We have created an efficient warehousing process at Our logistics system is integrated with several of our the central warehouse where we handle on average suppliers who provide real-time information about 18,000 products every day. During the 2017/18 financial product availability and warehouse status. This, com­ year, 1.2 million orders were sent from the central ware­ bined with our ability to determine which products house, which corresponds to about 4,700 deliveries per should be kept in stock, means that stock levels can be day. About 95 per cent of all orders available for direct kept low and deliveries can be made rapidly. delivery were picked, packaged and delivered on the same day the order was placed. The warehouse capacity We stock just under 10 per cent of products in our own of approximately 20,000 square metres is not yet being warehouse and had a stock turnover ratio of about 23 fully utilised, and can handle several more years of during the 2017/18 financial year. Rapid stock turnover growth. combined with price protection and the right of return with several of our suppliers produces a very low level We also perform customer-specific services, such of obsolescence. as configuration, installation and safety labelling in Rosersberg and in the smaller consolidation warehouses Direct deliveries from selected manufacturers and in Denmark, Finland and Norway. In the Netherlands, distributors to end customers also contribute to the low Dustin’s range includes about 255,000 products. 32 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR OPERATIONS | EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS MODEL level of obsolescence. This method of delivery is mainly Dustin’s operations should run on renewable energy. In used for major orders from a single supplier and for the last two years, we have noted a significant increase in deliveries outside of Sweden when it may offer faster the use of solar energy, and wind and hydropower in the deliveries to customers. We continuously evaluate an operation of our properties and our central warehouse. increase in the share of direct deliveries, in cases where distribution from the central warehouse only offers Dustin’s business also creates various types of waste. limited value creation. We sort the waste into multiple categories in order to maximise opportunities for recycling. We strive to reduce Responsible use of resources the total amount of waste we create, while at the same The climate issue, meaning a reduction in the impact time increasing the quantity of products we can recover the business has on the environment, is one of Dustin’s and that can be reused. focus areas for sustainability. The environmental asp­ ects that we have identified as important are energy End-of-life returns consumption, emissions of greenhouse gases, resource We endeavour to extend product lifetimes by encourag­ usage, as well as reuse and recycling. These are related ing our customers to return them to us when they no to our own operations and are regularly assessed. longer need them. Firstly, we ensure that functional Curren­tly, deliveries to customers constitute about 70 products are reused or sold as second hand and are per cent of our total environmental impact, measured thereby offered a new life. Products that cannot be as greenhouse gas emissions, though our properties and reused are recycled in a responsible manner. In 2016/17, business travel also contribute. As part of our efforts we launched an online service for end-of-life returns in all to reduce climate impact, our ambition is that all of of our Nordic markets. We handle around 18,000 products every day. Warehouse capacity 20,000 square 4,700 deliveries every day. We keep barely 10% of all orders 95% available for direct delivery are picked, packaged and delivered the of the products in our same day. own warehouse. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 33 OUR OPERATIONS | DEDICATED EMPLOYEES Dedicated employees Employees are our most important asset and the development of our corporate culture comes from developing people, who in turn shape our culture. Together, we build and maintain confidence among customers, employees, suppliers, the general public, shareholders and other stakeholders. Dustin’s values lay the foundation for how we work and act as a company. We believe in an inclusive corporate culture with respect for each other based on attributes, experience and values. Our values strive to simplify and improve both processes and our Dustin’s culture and success builds on being one com­ customer offering. pany that focuses on growth and entrepreneurship while remaining attentive to the changing needs of customers. Diversity and equality We have a flat organisational structure and it is not As one of the leading companies in the Nordic market, far from idea to action. Continuing our success while we have a responsibility and opportunity to promote acting in an ethical and responsible manner throughout greater diversity and equality in the IT industry. One the entire value chain requires both commitment and of our focus areas since the 2014/15 financial year has cooperation, among our employees and suppliers, cust­ been equality, with the aim of increasing the number omers, and other stakeholders. Dustin therefore has of women in senior positions. In the past year, we have “Win as a team” as its core value, which is supplemented further broadened our focus and work actively with by four support values: “live up to promises”, “strive inclusion and diversity. One initiative as part of these to improve”, “challenge all cost”, and “keep it simple”, efforts is the collaboration with Mitt Liv, which was which pervade our way of working. For us, this is about initiated in spring 2018. Our active work with diversity keeping our promises and trusting each other, remaining gives us new perspectives and we can challenge proactive and acting before problems arise at the same ourselves and drive the business forwards. We view time as we use our resources efficiently and constantly diversity as a success factor and are convinced that 4 focus areas for greater diversity and equality Recruitment Governance When we recruit, we always try to put together the best It is important that our commitment to gender equality is reflected and most dedicated team. We endeavour to make all job at all levels in the organisation, from the Board of Directors and advertisements available in both English and the local Group Management to our employees in all countries. Our aim is language and to have at least one man and one woman for each gender to make up at least 40 per cent of the organisation. with equal competence among the final candidates as part The current gender-balance between women and men on the of an executive recruitment. Board is 43/57 and in Group Management 40/60. Inclusion Mentorship An open and inclusive corporate culture is supported by Since 2018, Dustin has been actively involved in “Mitt Livs Chans,” both sound values and good examples within the company, which is a Mitt Livs mentorship programme. This has meant by clear guidelines and by long-term goals. We believe an all Dustin employees are offered an opportunity to mentor an organisation that represents diversity is better at allowing academic with a foreign background. These mentorships help employees to use their personal strengths and to express us to expand our network when recruiting and we can help job their needs. We disassociate ourselves from all forms of seeking academics with a foreign background to enter the labour discrimination. market. They also increase awareness and knowledge about inclusion and diversity in the organisation. 34 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR OPERATIONS | DEDICATED EMPLOYEES employees who reflect society as a whole also help us structure in terms of performance and management respond better towards our customers. by objectives for both managers and employees. We use two methods for strategic target attainment that We have chosen to work within four specific areas to support the entire process from target formulation to increase diversity and equality within the company: the development of individuals to achieve results; Target recruitment, inclusion, governance and mentorship. Management and Talent Management. Occupational health and safety Dustin Target Management Our objective is to create a working environment where The concept behind the management by objectives employees are motivated and thriving – physically, process is for senior executives to set overall targets in psychologically and socially. We wish to encourage terms of the strategy and annual budget, while middle leadership that promotes safety and creates an insight management and other employees create activities based that accidents can be prevented with the right behaviour. on the targets, which they then implement and follow Since 2016/17, occupational health and safety has been up. This ensures clarity in terms of direction and targeta part of Dustin’s Code of Conduct and we also have setting, as well as participation in the implementation. a separate health and safety policy that covers the company at a Nordic level. Dustin Talent Management The talent development process allows us to identify Our operations in Sweden are governed by work environ­ employees’ performance and potential, to help leaders ment management systems as per the requirements to develop and motivate their staff. It also helps provide of the OHSAS 18001 standard, and moving forward better and clearer feedback to and from employees. pur­suant to the ISO 45001 standard, as well as the Furthermore, possible internal career paths emerge AFS 2001:1 provisions. The line organisation bears the for employees and ensures internal recruitment, both responsibility. Managers coordinate and drive ongoing vertically and horizontally. health and safety efforts, through participation and responsible involvement on the part of employees. All Trainee programme Dustin employees must have at least one professional Five years ago, Dustin started a trainee programme to development meeting with their manager every year. attract and discover potential future leaders. The one-year programme is run at an overall level, and is not associated Business management and development with any particular field of expertise. A trainee follows The development of our corporate culture comes from the daily work of the CEO and Group Management with developing people, who in turn shape our culture. the aim of using the programme as a springboard into our All employees should be aware of our strategy and business operations. All five trainees who have completed our shared goals to ensure that they are given what the programme are still working in different areas of the they need to commit and participate. We have a clear business. WE WIN AS A TEAM LIVE UP TO PROMISES CHALLENGE ALL COSTS STRIVE TO IMPROVE KEEP IT SIMPLE ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 35 “As an IT partner, we are positioned between manufacturers and customers. That means we can have an influence at several stages — from how we choose our range, to how we guide our customers to a more sustainable choice of products, services and solutions.” ”xxxxxxxxx.” 36 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | STATEMENT FROM THE HEAD OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Statement from the Head of Corporate Responsibility I am very proud of the corporate responsibility initiatives we took this year. The commitment to and interest in integrating corporate responsibility into our daily operations have led to great advances towards achieving our long-term corporate responsibility targets. We have already reduced our climate impact by 25 per cent compared with 2014/15, with the target of achieving a 40 per cent reduction by 2020. The main reason behind this year’s decrease is our switch to renewable energy. We are also almost half way towards the target of recovering 140,000 products by 2020 — and we are also ahead of schedule here. Sustainable IT begins with responsible manufacturing, which is an area where both the company and I are involved. Being transparent and working in partnership with our suppliers are important to us. We are proud to report that for the second year in a row, 99.8 per cent of our hardware suppliers — with an annual purchase volume of over SEK 200,000 — have adopted the commitments in our Supplier Code of Conduct. To ensure compliance with the requirements, we carry out risk assessments and conduct on-site inspections at the factories. The inspections allow me to engage with staff and factory management, which creates mutual understanding and facilitates working together to address any non-conformance. During the year, we increased the number of inspections conducted to 19, compared with twelve the year before. As an IT partner, we want to pursue positive development in the industry by encouraging our customers to choose sustainable products and to return end-of-life products for reuse or recycling. During the year, we held four campaign weeks focusing on sustainability labelled IT products. We doubled the number of end-of-life returns compared with the previous year. One important cause was that the service was launched in all the Nordic countries and online as well. In 2017/18, nearly 23 per cent of our sales were eco-labelled IT products. It is encouraging to see the difference we can make by focusing on one area. Equality initiatives have been an important issue for us for several years, and we have also seen a major change over time because of it. The gender balance (women/men) among managers has evened out from 20/80 to 36/64, which is very close to our goal of 40/60. Even though this trend has not been as strong in the company as a whole, we see that more women managers over time also means a larger proportion of women employees in total. Internally, the issue of diversity at Dustin has roused the greatest amount of commitment and pride over the year, and it is an issue where we are now intensifying our focus. We have received a very positive response around the “Mitt Livs Chans” mentor programme, which is an initiative around the partnership with Mitt Liv. It means that our employees have the opportunity to become mentors for graduates with foreign backgrounds in order to facilitate their entry into the job market with work that corresponds to their education. In short, it has been a year in which we came a long way towards meeting our goals for 2020 and where we see that focus, goal-oriented activities and a commitment to the entire organisation produces results. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 37 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Responsible manufacturing We have a responsibility for how the products we sell are manufactured. For us, it’s a matter of working together with our suppliers, in a transparent manner, for positive working conditions in manufacturing. By visiting sites ourselves and leading factory inspections, we can link the results to our purchasing operations and work together with the factories on taking measures to correct any shortcomings. Our aim is to review 80 selected factories by 2020. Progress during the year Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The purpose is to Among our hardware suppliers with a total annual obtain greater insight early in the process into ongoing purchase volume exceeding SEK 200,000 in value, 99.8 activities, commitment and competence among per cent have adopted our Supplier Code of Conduct or suppliers in order to safeguard and improve working have introduced their own code of conduct equivalent conditions in warehouses, factories and further down to Dustin’s. In addition, 96.0 per cent of suppliers the value chain. The assessment provides Dustin with assessed their own ability to check and comply with an indication of which suppliers we need to work more actively with to reduce the risk of shortcomings. Target: 100 per cent of Dustin’s hardware suppliers, from whom our annual purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000, will have adopted the commitments described in Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 99.8% 99.8% 97.0% 85.0% Target: All of Dustin’s new hardware suppliers, from whom our annual purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000, will have adopted the commitments described in Dustin’s Code of Conduct. 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 92.9% Target: 100 per cent of Dustin’s hardware suppliers, from whom our annual purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000, will carry out a risk assessment regarding their ability to check and comply with Dustin’s Code of Conduct. 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 96.0% 77.1% Target: All of Dustin’s new hardware suppliers, from whom our annual purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000, will carry out a risk assessment regarding their ability to check and comply with Dustin’s Code of Conduct. 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 26.6% 38 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Result of factory inspections measures required to correct and rectify these. Dustin is During the 2017/18 financial year, we performed a supporting the factories in this rectification at the same total of 19 factory inspections (12), zero of which were time as the process to replace the suppliers has begun. unannounced (2). The majority of the inspections In 2016/17, it was resolved to phase out collaboration were led by Dustin’s Head of Corporate Responsibility with one factory. The process has taken longer than together with local experts trained in our Supplier estimated, which is why a small number of orders was Code of Conduct. Each audit scrutinises about 180 subplaced with this factory during this financial year. The demands in our Supplier Code of Conduct, including collaboration has now been terminated completely; age, working hours, wages, freedom of speech, discri­ as a result, Dustin has adapted its routines to provide mination, machinery safety, chemicals management, further support in correction efforts during the phasehousing conditions and waste management. out period as well. Discussions are also held with workers, both in groups and individually. The inspection group also visits worker Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct contains require­ dormitories and eats in the worker canteen. ments concerning conflict minerals. In 2017/18, we performed a risk assessment to identify the origin of During the inspections, 285 cases of non-conformance minerals in the supply chain of our proprietary products. (183) were identified. Most cases of non-conformance Some of the products contain tin, tantalum, tungsten were minor, but serious and critical cases of nonand/or gold, four minerals extracted in a conflict zone conformance were observed at several factories. and used in nearly all electronic products. At the end We were not made aware of any “zero-tolerance” of the financial year, 96 per cent of our own-brand non-conformances. More than 70 per cent of the products were free of conflict minerals. The minerals non-conformance cases were related to shortcomings come from certified smelters that have passed a review in human rights and occupational health and safe­t y, under the Conflict-Free Smelter Initiative (CFSI). A total such as social insurance, working hours, chemi­cals of 133 smelters were reviewed. For the remaining four handling and the lack of a well-functioning manage­ per cent, we are awaiting certificates or are working on ment system for the work environment. replacing the smelter. The aim is that our proprietary products will be free from conflict materials. Factory audits are conducted on an ongoing basis every quarter and measures are implemented continuously at factories where Dustin is actively involved. On average, 15 cases of non-conformance (15) were identified at each factory during the year. Dustin’s purchasing organisation, together with the corporate responsibility team and an external expert, hold regular follow-up meetings with the factories. Over 70 per cent of the cases of non-conformance identified in the first and second quarters of the financial year The share of non-conformances have been corrected, while correction of corrected in the first and second the non-conformance discovered in the quarter of 2017/18 third and fourth quarters is still ongoing. The main reason that rectifying the 70% corrected non-conformance has taken a long time 30% ongoing is largely due to external factors, such as a lack of permits or certificates. Two of the 19 factory inspections conducted during the financial year led to our initiating a process of terminating our collaboration with the factory in question. This was because of the number of cases of non-conformance and the attitude of factory management towards the work and ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 39 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Total non-conformances, 2017/18 Area Requirement Number of Examples of non-connon-conformance formances Right to Freedom of Association and Shortcomings in dialogue with factory 8 Collective Bargaining management and employees Non-discrimination 2 Discovery of discrimination regarding age and gender Grievance Systems 2 Lack of complaint mechanism Lack of social insurance or correct Fair Compensation 28 remuneration for overtime work Human rights Overly long working days and poor control of Decent Working Hours 26 and labour ensuring at least one day of rest per week Lack of action plan if a child is discovered Child labour avoidance 5 at the workplace Poor control in preventing overtime for young Juvenile and Student Worker Protection 8 employees Freely chosen employment 8 Lack of employment contract Shortcomings in training around Inhumane treatment 4 humiliation Shortcomings in management system for Health and Safety Management System 22 occupational health and safety Health and Safety Permits 2 Lack of occupational health and safety permits Emergency Preparedness 4 Lack of emergency preparedness plan Deficient documentation and follow-up of Injury and Incident Management 3 work-related injuries and accidents Physically Demanding Work 0 Health and safety Machine Safety 10 Insufficient safety devices Chemical Safety 32 Deficiencies in knowledge and handling of chemicals Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) 15 Lack of, or incorrect, protective equipment in use The workplace has not ensured that all employees Fire Protection 18 have taken part in fire drills First Aid 7 Deficient knowledge of first aid Environmental Management System 12 Shortcomings in environmental management system Environmental Permits and Reporting 6 Lack of environmental permits Resource Reduction and Continuous 2 Lack of improvement goals Improvement Hazardous and Non-hazardous Waste Deficiencies in control over amount of waste 8 Environmental Management and hazardous waste generated protection Wastewater Management 0 Storm Water Management 0 Air Emissions 0 Materials Restrictions 7 Discovery of prohibited process chemicals Housing Food and Water 6 Shortcomings in hygiene related to food handling conditions Worker Dormitories 9 Shortcomings in fire safety for employee housing Shortcomings in monitoring routines regarding Legal and Regulatory Compliance 21 legal requirements Legal Anti-corruption 1 Lack of training for employees exposed to risks related to corruption and bribes Compliance Whistleblower protection and Lack of opportunities for managing anonymous and Ethical anonymous complaints 2 complaints Business Information Protection 0 Practice Lack of policy concerning risk assessment and Conflict minerals 7 use of conflict minerals 40 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | REDUCED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Reduced environmental impact Dustin’s aim is to reduce its environmental impact and strain on the climate by 40 per cent in 2020 compared with 2014/15. During the financial year, we were successful in combining reduced emissions with organic growth. Progress during the year totalled 2.0 per cent. This means that we have made At the end of the financial year, the greenhouse gas progress within the framework of Dustin’s target to reduce emissions from operations amounted to 1,991 tonnes of environmental impact. One of the main reasons for the CO₂ equivalents (CO₂e). The total includes Scope 1, Scope 2 positive results during the year was the choice of renewable and Scope 3 emissions. The largest amount of greenhouse energy for our properties. If we include emissions savings gas emissions, 72 per cent, relates to transportation, relating to the reuse of end-of-life returns, the recycling of followed by business travel and lease vehicles. The total waste together with carbon offset from one of our logistics amount of greenhouse gases we release has decreased partners, the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions has 13.6 per cent since 2016/17, while our organic growth decreased 38.4 per cent since 2014/15. GHG emissions 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 GHG Scope 1 direct emissions from company-owned vehicles (kg CO2e) 19,889 10,709 18,805 14,216 GHG Scope 2 indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling (kg CO2e) GHG Scope 2 – ‘market-based’ 41,913 304,698 470,897 511,711 GHG Scope 2 – ‘location-based’ 1,610,894 1,401,262 1,253,799 1,236,881 GHG Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) Emissions from outbound transport activities (kg CO2e) 1,443,196 1,434,518 1,632,937 1,790,398 Offset emissions from transport activities (kg CO2e) -51,416 -32,734 -43,620 -40,996 Emissions from business travel (kg CO2e) 265,887 276,558 211,074 123,410 Emissions prevented through reuse of old devices (kg CO2e) -172,018 -129,688 -122,891 -33,035 Emissions prevented through recycling of waste (kg CO2e) -201,221 -96,181 -42,260 -36,660 Emissions from off-premises data centres (kg CO2e) 1,142 0 0 0 Emissions from lease vehicles (kg CO2e) 219,214 277,439 273,783 212,418 Total (Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3) 1,991,241 2,303,922 2,607,496 2,652,153 Total including offsets, recycling and end-of-life returns (kg CO2e) 1,566,586 2,045,319 2,398,725 2,541,562 Energy consumption for the 2017/18 financial year has increased over the past few years. The cause of the amounted to 4,894 MWh (4,257). Our 20,000 sqm increase is primarily continual acquisitions, which result central warehouse is the largest single source. Despite in an increased number of properties and data centres. efficiency enhancements, the consumption of energy Energy 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Electricity consumption, total (kWh) 3,462,896 2,710,809 2,513,687 2,431,460 Heating, total (kWh) 1,335,080 1,481,056 1,212,204 1,234,280 Cooling, total (kWh) 95,532 64,831 82,850 91,608 Total energy (kWh) 4,893,507 4,256,696 3,808,741 3,757,348 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 41 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | REDUCED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Waste generated 580 tons of waste at our central warehouse Dustin’s business creates waste of various types. We and head office. The amount increased in comparison sort the waste into multiple categories in order to with previous financial years, primarily owing to a maximise opportunities for recycling. In 2017/18 we thorough review of our central warehouse. Waste 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Recycling (kg) 145,884 108,129 104,163 121,344 Energy recovery (kg) 147,290 400,936 359,980 373,650 Landfill (kg) 0 70 0 1,000 Other treatment method 287,093 0 0 0 Total amount of waste (kg) 580,267 509,129 464,143 495,994 Between 2016/17 and 2017/18, legislation was changed For 2017/18, the volume of hazardous waste thus concerning the reporting of means of recovery for represents only the hazardous waste we have gener­ collected electrical and electronic products. During ated ourselves at our central warehouse and office these years, most of the hazardous waste generated by – such as old fluorescent lamps, batteries and end-ofDustin was linked to the collected electronic waste we life electronics equipment. No hazardous waste is sent are responsible for handling as producer. The collection to landfill; everything is either reused, recycled, diverted system no longer provides companies with data about towards energy recovery or handled in some other the means of recovery. form. The “Other treatment method” in the table below related to the final disposal of hazardous waste in accor­ d­ance with applicable laws and regulations, which differ depending on the type of waste. Hazardous waste 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Recycling (kg) 10,801 204,893 273,893 79,283 Energy recovery (kg) 105 31,966 65,617 17,054 Landfill (kg) 0 0 0 0 Other treatment method 75 6,784 5,924 2,146 Total amount of hazardous waste (kg) 10,981 243,643 345,434 98,483 • Waste – The total amount of non-hazardous waste • Hazardous waste – The total amount of hazardous generated. This includes wood, cardboard, waste waste generated. This waste includes batteries and paper, plastic, combustible household waste, coloured fluorescent lamps, as well as electronics. Hazardous and non-coloured glass, metal and aluminium cans. waste could, for example, be flammable or toxic to humans and the environment. Hazardous waste is sorted in accordance with local legislation. We recover waste consisting of electrical and electronic products as part of our producer responsibility, but this is not included in the reported figures for 2017/18. 42 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | BUSINESS ETHICS Business ethics and anti-corruption We strive for integrity and compliance with the principles of business ethics throughout our entire business. Our work is intended to create an open and responsible business culture. We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribes. Continuous training, interactive discussions and risk assessments help us increase awareness and act responsibly. Business ethics are one important aspect of responsible The whistleblower function is based on a secure web-based business for both Dustin and its stakeholders. We never reporting system. The function is managed by the chairman accept bribes or other violations of our principles of of the audit committee. bus­iness ethics. We make clear that violations of these principles may lead to the end of a partnership, and may Progress during the year also have con­sequences in labour law and criminal law During the year, we expanded training concerning ethical for the perpetrator. The purpose is to create a respon­ dilemmas to also include employees in acquired companies sible corporate culture and awareness of risks, thus and our suppliers in the Nordic region. At the end of the strengthening trust on the part of our stakeholders. 2017/18 financial year, we conducted training for companies including ITaito in Finland, Core Services and Purity IT in Guidance and compliance Norway and JML Partner in Sweden regarding our business Our business ethics guidelines contain a clear framework culture and how we handle anti-corruption, entertainment, for all employees to comply with. The guidelines are avail­ gifts and conflicts of interest. Training our personnel is a able in local languages and we require all employees are matter of routine. At the end of the financial year, 87.7 per obligated to read and sign our business ethics guidelines. cent (94.1) of active employees had undergone web-based training in our Code of Conduct. The implementation We apply the following principles in order to avoid the risk of a new HR system during the year delayed training for of bribery: new employees slightly, but over time this will lead to an • Our employees may not offer or accept any types of improvement. gifts or benefits, directly or indirectly, to or from a third party if it is not considered to be within the boundaries Using open dialogue and training for our suppliers concer­ of generally accepted business practices and applicable ning Dustin’s business ethics requirements, we intend to laws. build good and responsible business relationships and work • In case of any doubt, our employees are expected to to prevent risks. During the year, we conducted training seek the advice of their immediate supervisor, Group with our seven largest suppliers in the Nordic region. Our Management or the company’s chief corporation Suppliers also guarantee our business ethics requirements counsel. by using our Supplier Code of Conduct. All employees are encouraged and expected to report During 2017/18, as with previous years, 100 per cent of our suspected violations to their immediate supervisor, business areas underwent a risk assessment concerning Group Management or the company’s chief corporation business ethics and anti-corruption. Two incidents were counsel. There is also a whistleblower system that allows reported in the whistleblower function and investigated employees to anonymously report suspected violations. in 2017/18. No shortcomings relating to business ethics or corruption were noted. Total share of employees undergoing online training in our Code of Conduct 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 87.7% 94.1% — — Share of business areas that underwent an annual business ethics and anti-corruption risk assessment 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 100% 100% 100% 100% ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 43 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES Responsible use of resources In its role as aggregator, Dustin has an important role in the value chain, which gives us both a responsibility and the potential to reuse and recycle end-of-life products. The target for Dustin’s responsible use of resources focus area is to recover a total of 140,000 products by 2020. Progress during the year order an end-of-life return online. In 2017/18, 35,342 sold products (15,449) were recovered The products reused or recycled include the categories as end-of-life returns. 33,291 of these products (13,839) desktop computers, laptops, tablets, mobile phones, could be reused, and the remaining 2,051 were recycled monitors, servers, networking equipment and printers. (1,610). We have collected a total of 64,288 products Only one of two partners in our end-of-life return opeas end-of-life returns since 2014/15. One of the main ration is currently able to report carbon emissions. The reasons for these good results is that we launched our total amount of carbon-emission savings for 2017/18 service for end-of-life returns in Norway, Denmark and represents 20 per cent of the total number of end-of-life Finland during the year, and our customers can now returns during the year. Number of end-of-life returns 140,000 140,000 Interim target End-of-life returns 120,000 100,000 80,000 70,000 64,288 60,000 40,000 35,000 28,946 20,000 9,127 10,000 4,370 5,000 2,500 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 44 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS DURING THE YEAR | DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Diversity and equality Dustin strives continually for an even gender balance at all levels in the organisation. We set up annual interim targets, which we achieved during the past financial year. We intend to achieve a 40/60 gender balance in Dustin by 2020. Progress during the year balance is 43/57 (50/50). At the end of the financial year, In 2017/18, we achieved positive results in our work on gender balance in the company as a whole was 30/70 equality. At the end of the financial year, our gender (29/71). We note an increased proportion of women in balance (women/men) at the senior level was 36/64 the company, and the trend is a positive one. Statistics (31/69); the share of women managers increased for the percentage of terminated contracts indicates five percentage points during the year. In Group that the women we recruit enjoy working for us. The Management, we achieved a gender balance of 40/60 trend, however, is somewhat slower than we had (30/70), and on the Board of Directors the gender wished for in our annual goal of 33/67. Gender balance at Dustin 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Gender balance at Dustin: target 33/67 29/71 26/74 22/78 Gender balance at Dustin: outcome 30/70 29/71 27/73 22/78 Gender balance at the senior level: target 32/68 28/72 24/76 20/80 Gender balance at the senior level: outcome 36/64 31/69 31/69 20/80 Gender balance in Group Management: target 28/72 21/79 15/85 9/91 Gender balance in Group Management: outcome 40/60 30/70 11/89 9/91 Gender balance on the Board: target 31/69 26/74 22/78 17/83 Gender balance on the Board: outcome 43/57 50/50 29/71 17/83 Gender balance at Dustin Gender balance at senior level Totalt 2016/2017 Totalt 2016/2017 29 % Outcome 2017/18: 31 % Outcome 2017/18: 36% Kvinnor Kvinnor 71 % Women 30% 69 % Women 70% 64% Män Män Totalt inklusive förvärv Men Totalt inklusive förvärv Men Kvinnor 24 % Kvinnor 28 % Män 76 % Män 72 % Sverige Norge Danmark Finland Sverige Norge Danmark Finland 33 % | 67 % Employment 21 % | 79 % 21 % | 79 % 22 % | 78 % 34 % | 66 % Total 13 % | 87 % 29 % | 71 % Women | 78 % 22 %Men Total 922 (865) 272 (250) 650 (615) New employment 200 (219) 60 (67) 140 (152) Employment terminated 192 (171) 48 (34) 144 (134) Dustin’s workforce, incl. acquisitions Total Women Men Dustin’s workforce, incl. acquisitions 1,258 (1,144) 325 (273) 933 (871) Full-time employees 1,214 (1,119) 300 (256) 914 (863) Part-time employees 44 (25) 25 (17) 19 (8) Tabeller och något som gubbe ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 45 OUR SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS | OUR SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Our share and shareholders Dustin’s share has been listed since February 13, 2015 in the Mid Cap segment on Nasdaq Stockholm. At the end of the financial year, the price was SEK 90.10 (66.75) per share, representing a total market capitalisation of SEK 7.0 billion (5.1). Share price performance and market value Incentive programmes At August 31, 2018, Dustin’s share price was SEK The incentive programme for senior executives intro­ 90.10 (66.75) per share, representing a total market duced at an extraordinary general meeting in January capitalisation of SEK 6,958 million (5,085). The change 2015 entitles participants through the use of warrants in share price during the financial year represents an to subscribe for new shares in the company during the increase of 35.0 per cent compared with the yearfirst half of 2018. The programme was fully subscribed, earlier date. The OMX Sweden Mid Cap PI index and the number of shares increased 1,053,387 in total increased 13.6 per cent during the same period. to 77,226,502 shares. Turnover Dividends Total turnover during the financial year was just over In accordance with the dividend policy adopted by the 41.4 million shares (37.6) with a total value of just Board of Directors, Dustin’s target is to pay dividends over SEK 3.3 billion (2.4). The average daily turnover of more than 70 per cent of net profit for the year. amounted to about 164,000 shares (149,000), corres­ For the 2017/18 financial year, the Board of Directors ponding to a daily value of about SEK 13.0 million (9.7). proposes a dividend of SEK 239 million per share (213), corresponding to 78 per cent of net profit for the year. The dividend represents SEK 3.10 per share (2.80), be­fore taking the outcome of the resolved rights issue into account. Share-related key ratios 2017/18 2016/17 Dividend per share (SEK) 3.10* 2.80 Dividend in relation to net profit (%) 78.5 89.2 Closing share price (SEK) 90.10 66.75 Closing market capitalisation (SEK million) 6,958 5,085 Dividend yield (%) 3.4 4.2 Earnings per share including discontinued operations after dilution (SEK) 3.97 3.13 Equity per share after dilution (SEK) 21.32 19.50 Cash flow from operating activities after dilution (SEK) 9.72 2.80 Number of shares outstanding 77,226,502 76,173,115 Number of shareholders 6,534 5,129 * To make comparison between the financial years possible, the Board of Directors’ proposed dividend is stated before taking into account the outcome of the completed rights issue. After taking the outcome of the completed rights issue into account, the proposed dividend amounts to SEK 2.72 per share. 46 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OUR SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS | OUR SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Ownership structure Analyst coverage At the end of the period the company had a total of The following analysts cover Dustin: 6,534 (5,129) shareholders, equivalent to an increase • ABG Sundal Collier – Daniel Thorsson of 1,405. The table below shows the ten largest • Carnegie Investment Bank AB – Mikael Laséen shareholders and their holdings at August 31, 2018. • Danske Bank – Carolina Elvind • Handelsbanken Capital Markets – Magnus Råman • Nordea Bank – Predrag Savinovic • SEB – Victor Höglund Shareholders Shares % Axmedia AB (Axel Johnson AB) 19,043,280 24.7 Swedbank Robur Funds 8,530,501 11.0 Capital Group 4,221,011 5.5 Allianz SE 4,079,012 5.3 Franklin Templeton 3,914,017 5.1 ODIN Funds 3,257,119 4.2 Crux Asset Management Limited 2,198,110 2.8 Oddo BHF Asset Management 1,483,307 1.9 Nordea Funds 1,185,091 1.5 Danske Invest Funds 1,024,333 1.3 Total ten largest owners 48,935,781 63.4 Other 28,290,721 36.6 Total 77,226,502 100.0 Owner per geography Owner per category 12.8% • Sweden 9.8% •Swedish • USA 4.3% 21.0% institutional owners 5.7% • Norway • Swedish other • Swedish private 5.7% 6.2% 51.0% • France • UK 34.9% individuals • Other 25.6% •Foreign 18.7% institutional owners 4.4% • Foreign other • Anonymous owners Source: Modular Finance AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 47 “Dustin Group AB is a leading Nordic IT reseller, with a wide range of hardware, software and related services and solutions.” 48 ÅRSOCHAND ANNUAL HÅLLBARHETSREDOVISNING 2017/18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DUSTIN 2017/18GROUP DUSTIN AB GROUP AB Note 20 Cash and cash equivalents 113 Directors’ Report Note 21 Equity 113 Directors’ Report 50 Note 22 Borrowing 114 Risks and risk management 58 Note 23 Acquisition of businesses 116 Corporate Governance Report 66 Note 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income 118 Board of Directors 76 Group Management 78 Note 25 Cash-flow statement 119 Note 26 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 119 Financial Statements Note 27 Related-party transactions 119 Consolidated financial statements Note 28 Significant events after the Consolidated income statement 80 balance-sheet date 119 Consolidated balance sheet 81 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 82 Consolidated statement of cash flow 83 Parent Company notes Parent Company financial statements Note P1 Information on income and Parent Company income statement 84 expenses within the Group 120 Parent Company statement of comprehensive Note P2 Number of employees, employee income 84 Parent Company balance sheet 85 benefits expense and remuneration Parent Company statement of changes in equity 86 of senior executives 120 Parent Company statement of cash flow 87 Note P3 Auditor’s remuneration and expenses 120 Note P4 Financial items 120 Consolidated notes Note P5 Appropriations 121 Note P6 Tax 121 Note 1 Significant accounting policies 88 Note P7 Participations in Group companies 122 Note 2 Important estimates and assessments 95 Note P8 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 122 Note 3 Business segments and sales by geographic area 96 Note P9 Cash and bank balances 123 Note 4 Expenses by type of cost 97 Note P10 Equity 123 Note 5 Items affecting comparability 97 Note P11 Untaxed reserves 123 Note 6 Auditor’s remuneration and expenses 98 Note P12 Borrowing 124 Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits Note P13 Accrued expenses and deferred income 124 expense and remuneration of senior Note P14 Cash-flow statement 124 executives 98 Note P15 Related-party transactions 124 Note 8 Lease agreements 102 Note 9 Financial items 103 Other information Note 10 Tax 103 Note 11 Earnings per share 104 The Board’s signatures 125 Note 12 Intangible assets 104 Auditor’s report 126 Note 13 Tangible assets 107 Auditor’s review report 131 Note 14 Acquisition and divestment-related 2017/18 Annual General Meeting 133 assets and liabilities 108 Corporate responsibility information 134 Note 15 Deferred tax 109 Accounting policies 137 Note 16 Derivative instruments and hedge GRI Index 139 accounting 109 Multi-year overview 141 Note 17 Inventories 110 Source of alternative performance measures 142 Note 18 Accounts receivable and other current assets 111 Definitions 143 Note 19 Financial assets and liabilities 112 Glossary 145 Financial calendar 146 ANNUAL AND ÅRSCORPORATE OCH HÅLLBARHETSREDOVISNING RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 49 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | DIRECTORS’ REPORT Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the CEO of Dustin Group AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number 556703-3062, hereby present the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report that also includes the statutory Corporate Responsibility Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year September 1, 2017 to August 31, 2018. Operations These are supported in turn by a number of scalable Dustin Group AB (“Dustin”) is a leading online IT partner and shared central functions, including the online serving the Nordic region and the Netherlands. The platform, purchasing, warehousing and logistics, pricing, company offers IT products with related services and marketing, IT and HR. Sales to the SMB and LCP segments solutions to companies, the public sector and private amount to approximately 94 per cent of total sales. individuals, with a primary focus on small and mediumsized businesses. Dustin is a Swedish public limited company with its headquarters in Nacka Strand outside Stockholm. The share was listed in the Mid Cap segment on Nasdaq Stockholm on February 13, 2015. Net sales SEK 10,300 million Gross margin Dustin employs a multichannel model where the 15.9% Proposed dividend SEK 2.72* majority of sales take place online, supplemented by Adjusted relationship-based and consultative selling over the telephone or through customer visits. Dustin conducts EBITA margin 4.9% Organic growth 2.0% operations in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands through the business segments: SMB (Small and Medium-sized Businesses), LCP (Large Corporate EBIT SEK 444 million and Public sector) and B2C (Business to Consumer). * After taking into account the outcome of the completed rights issue Significant events during the year • Acquisition of the Dutch Vincere Netherlands B.V. • Dustin acquired the Denmark-based Norriq’s business Vincere is specialised in managed services with a area for hosting and outsourcing of IT services with focus on cloud and security solutions for SMB with annual sales of SEK 57 million. annual sales of about EUR 67 million. • Norwegian company Core Services AS was acquired, • Dustin won the award decision for a new framea leading player in data centre solutions. work agreement via the Danish government, The company has annual sales of about municipalities and regions (Staten og NOK 236 million. Kommunernes Indkobsservice, SKI). • Swedish company JML-System AB is Q4 Q1 The agreement came into force in acquired, specialising in AV solutions and September 2018 with estimated equipment. The company has annual annual sales of DKK 500 million. sales of about SEK 160 million. • Dustin signed agreement to • Thomas Ekman took up his position acquire Finnish ITaito Oy, a supplier of IT services with annual sales of about EUR 6 million. Q3 Q2 as new President and CEO on January 1, 2018. • All shares in IT-Hantverkarna Sverige AB • Dustin entered into agreement to acquire were divested. Annual sales for the divested DAV Partner AB, specialised in AV solutions. operation were approximately SEK 98 million. Annual sales total approximately SEK 74 million. • Dustin allocated warrants to management and other key • New share issue by exercising warrants in LTI 2015, personnel as part of the new long-term incentive which increased the number of shares to 822,074. programme, LTI 2018. • New share issue by exercising warrants in LTI 2015, which increased the number of shares to 231,313. 50 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | DIRECTORS’ REPORT Net sales and earnings Operating profit includes items affecting comparability of SEK 1 million (neg: 7), which mainly comprised Condensed income statement acquisition and divestment-related expenses of SEK 20 million and a positive effect from a change to acquisitionSEK million 17/18 16/17 Change % related liabilities of SEK 24 million. For more information, Net sales 10,300.5 9,306.2 10.7 refer to Note 5 Items affecting comparability. EBIT 443.8 349.5 27.0 During the year, adjusted EBITA rose 17.5 per cent to SEK Profit after net financial 501 million (426). The adjusted EBITA margin was 4.9 items 384.6 308.1 24.8 per cent (4.6). Adjusted EBITA excludes items affecting Net profit for the year 305.1 239.1 27.6 comparability of SEK 1 million (neg: 7), which are specified in Note 5 Items affecting comparability. Net sales for the year increased 10.7 per cent to SEK 10,300 million (9,306). Organic growth amounted to Financial items 2.0 per cent (8.6), of which SMB accounted for 9.6 per Financial expenses amounted to SEK 60 million (43), with cent (6.2), LCP for negative 3.8 per cent (pos: 11.8) and the costs for the year primarily pertaining to borrowing B2C for 7.9 per cent (neg: 2.7). Acquired growth was 7.3 costs of SEK 54 million (38) for external financing. percentage points (1.7) and exchange-rate differences Borrowing costs mainly comprise amortisation and had a positive impact of 1.4 percentage points (1.8). impairment of borrowing expenses of SEK 21 million (8), of which SEK 14 million (-) pertains to impairment of During the year, the former reporting segment B2B was borrowing expenses brought forward for raising loans divided and is now reported in the segments for LCP in connection with the new bank agreement signed (Large Corporate and Public Sector) and SMB (Small during the fourth quarter. Other financial expenses relate and Medium-sized Businesses). B2C (consumer market) primarily to discounting of acquisition-related liabilities continues to be reported separately. of SEK 4 million (0.9). Financial income amounted to SEK 1 million (1). SEK million 17/18 16/17 Change % Tax and net profit for the year SMB 4,375.1 3,530.8 23.9 The tax expense for the year was SEK 79 million (69), LCP 5,284.1 5,184.6 1.9 corresponding to an effective tax rate of 20.7 per cent, B2C 641.2 590.8 8.5 compared with 22.4 per cent in the preceding year. The Total 10,300.5 9,306.2 decline is mainly attributable to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to Gross profit rose SEK 257 million, corresponding to 18.7 the decision of the Riksdag on June 13, 2018 to lower the per cent, to SEK 1,637 million (1,380) in relation to the corporate tax rate. The total effect of the changed tax preceding year. The gross margin rose to 15.9 per cent rate during the year amounted to SEK 4 million. (14.8), mainly attributable to a more advantageous sales mix with a higher share of advanced products, services Net profit for the year amounted to SEK 305 million and solutions, primarily due to acquisitions. (239). Earnings per share amounted to SEK 3.99 (3.14) Operating profit amounted to SEK 444 million (349). before dilution and SEK 3.97 (3.13) after dilution. Net sales Adjusted EBITA & margin, LTM SEK SEK million million 10,000 500 6.0% 8,000 450 5.5% 6,000 400 5.0% 4,000 350 4.5% 2,000 0 300 4.0% 20 04 20 05 05 20 6 06 / /0 /1 /1 1 14 Q2 /1 5 55Q 20 07 07 20 08 08 20 9 / / /0 14 Q3 /1 15 4 /1 15 Q1 /1 5Q 6 6 2009 10 20 1 /1 11//1 10 15 Q2 /1 15 Q3 /1 16 Q4 /1 16 Q1 6 67 20 2 12 20 3 13 20 4 /1 /1 /1 16 Q2 /1 16 Q3 /1 7 7 7Q 14 20 5 15 20 6 16 20 7 17 /1 /1 /1 /1 8 14 17 4 14/1 17 Q1 /1 17 Q2 /1 17 Q3 /1 8 8 8 8 Q4 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 51 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | DIRECTORS’ REPORT Net sales and SMB segment earnings Segment results Profit for the segment rose 34.6 per cent, corresponding SEK million 17/18 16/17 Change % to SEK 131 million, to SEK 508 million (375). The improved Net sales 4,375.1 3,530.8 23.9 earnings were the result of higher sales and a better Segment results 508.2 377.5 34.6 product mix, largely due to acquisitions and increased Segment margin, (%) 11.6 10.7 sales of own-branded goods. The segment margin strengthened to 11.6 per cent Net sales (10.7). Investments in advanced products and services Net sales rose 23.9 per cent in total during the year continued and, for example, the customer base for SaaS to SEK 4,375 million (3,531), with 13.3 percentage configurations via the cloud platform increased to 1,227 points of the increase compared with the year earlier active customers (980), corresponding to 53,988 users attributable to acquisitions and divestments and (30,150) at the end of the financial year. 1.0 percentage point to exchange-rate differences. Organic growth amounted to 9.6 per cent (6.2) and SMB net sales was mainly attributable to strong sales in the mobile and segment margin SEK phone, computer and infrastructure product categories, million predominantly in Sweden and Denmark. The acquisition 5,000 20% 18% of the Danish business area for hosting was 4,000 16% consolidated into the SMB segment on October 1, 2018, 14% 3,000 12% JML-System on November 1, ITaito and DAV Partner on 10% June 1 and July 2, 2018, respectively, and Vincere on July 2,000 8% 6% 4, 2018. 1,000 4% 2% 0 % /17 8 16 17/1 20 20 Net sales and LCP segment earnings Segment results Profit for the segment was SEK 330 million (355), which SEK million 17/18 16/17 Change % was a decline compared with the year-earlier period. Net sales 5,284.1 5,184.6 1.9 The segment margin declined slightly to 6.3 per cent Segment results 330.5 355.4 -7.0 (6.9). The decrease was mainly attributable to a higher share of recently signed contracts with a lower average Segment margin, (%) 6.3 6.9 margin and a higher share of computers with low margins. Net sales Net sales increased 1.9 per cent during the year to SEK 5,284 million (5,185), positively impacted by acquisitions LCP Net sales SEK and segment margin corresponding to 4.0 percentage points and exchangemillion rate differences to 1.7 percentage points. Organic growth 6 000 20% was a negative 3.8 per cent (pos: 11.8) and attributable 18% in its entirety to the weak performance of the Public 5 000 16% Sector customer group. The decline was partially due 4,000 14% to a strong trend in the preceding year and Dustin’s 12% 3,000 decision to refrain from some large-scale procurements 10% 8% with low margins under certain framework agreements. 2,000 6% The Large Corporate customer group, with a sales share 4% 1,000 of 36 per cent at the end of the year, performed strongly 2% in all markets and reported total growth of slightly more 0 0% than 30 per cent in the financial year. Core Services was /17 8 16 17/1 20 20 consolidated in LCP on November 1, 2017. 52 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | DIRECTORS’ REPORT Net sales and B2C segment earnings Segment results The segment result increased 28.3 per cent to SEK 32 SEK million 17/18 16/17 Change % million (25), while the segment margin grew to 4.9 Net sales 641.2 590.8 8.5 per cent (4.2). Segment results 31.5 24.6 28.3 SEK B2C net sales Segment margin, (%) 4.9 4.2 million and segment margin 20% 1,000 18% 16% Net sales 800 14% During the year, net sales rose 8.5 per cent to SEK 641 12% 600 10% million (591). Organic growth was 7.9 per cent (neg: 2.7). 8% The financial year was positively impacted by healthy 400 6% sales growth in the product categories of consumer 200 4% 2% electronics, mobile phones and infrastructure. 0% 7 8 16/1 17/1 20 20 Central functions Dustin’s central functions hold the key to efficient delivery of the Group’s offerings in all markets, the generation of SEK million 17/18 16/17 Change % economies of scale and the simplification of the inteCost for central gration of acquired operations. Costs in the financial year functions -369.5 -331.3 11.5 for central functions amounted to 3.6 per cent (3.6) of sales. Costs in relation to Costs for central functions amounted to SEK 369 million net sales, (%) -3.6 -3.6 (331), with the increase attributable in absolute terms to continued investments in the product and service offering and the integration of acquired businesses. Financial position Condensed consolidated balance sheet Net working capital SEK million Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 SEK million Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Non-current assets 4,034.1 2,614.7 Inventories 395.8 261.9 Current assets 2,143.0 1,554.1 Accounts receivable 1,272.6 1,047.1 Total assets 6,177.1 4,168.8 Tax assets, other current Equity 1,646.6 1,485.1 receivables, as well as preNon-current liabilities 2,381.1 1,286.6 paid expenses and accrued Current liabilities 2,149.5 1,397.1 income 191.8 173.7 Total equity and liabilities 6,177.1 4,168.8 Accounts payable -1,568.5 -956.3 Tax liabilities, other current liabilities, accrued expenses Net working capital and deferred income -483.6 -408.2 Net working capital amounted to a negative SEK 192 Net working capital -192.0 118.1 million (pos: 118) at year-end. The low level of working capital at the end of the year was attributable to higher accounts payable due to the temporary extension of Net debt and cash and cash equivalents credit terms. The effect of the temporary extension of At the end of the year, net debt amounted to SEK credit terms was slightly higher than in prior periods, 1,731 million (998). In total, cash and cash equivalents mainly due to the higher share of purchases with amounted to SEK 278 million (71), up SEK 206 million. extended credit terms at the end of the year. The higher At the end of the financial year, there was also an level of inventories and accounts receivable compared unutilised overdraft facility of SEK 270 million (270). with the preceding year was mainly due to an increase in the scope of the operations. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 53 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Dutch subsidiary acquired also had a credit facility In June, ITaito Oy, a Finnish supplier of IT services, of a maximum of EUR 5 million, of which EUR 1 million focusing on small and medium-sized businesses, was had been utilised at the end of the financial year. acquired. In July, DAV Partner AB, a company specialised in audio/video solutions, with focus on the public Net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA was 3.3 (2.3) at sector, was acquired. In the fourth quarter, Vincere the end of the financial year. Netherlands B.V., was also acquired, a Dutch company focusing on cloud solutions, safety and IT solutions with associated hardware and consultancy services. Net debt and cash and cash equivalents Cash flow SEK million Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Liabilities to credit Cash flow, condensed institutions 1,984.8 1,068.6 SEK million 17/18 16/17 Current liabilities to credit Cash flow from operating institutions 12.6 activities 747.9 213.6 Financial leasing liabilities 10.9 1.2 Cash flow from investing activities -1,127.4 -201.0 Cash and cash equivalents -277.6 -71.5 Cash flow from financing activities 610.8 -186.1 Net debt 1,730.6 998.3 Cash flow for the year 231.3 -173.6 Investments in tangible and intangible assets Cash flow for the year was SEK 231 million (neg: 174). Investments made during the year mainly refer to Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK capitalised costs for the integrated IT platform totalling 748 million (neg: 214), of which SEK 386 million (neg: SEK 56 million (27) and other investments in computer 110) was attributable to changes in working capital. The equipment. positive change from working capital for the period was largely related to an increase in current liabilities of SEK SEK million 17/18 16/17 451 million (62), with the change primarily attributable Capitalised expenditure for IT deveto accounts payable. lopment (integrated IT platform and other long-term strategic IT systems) 22.9 16.9 Cash flow from investing activities amounted to a negative SEK 1,127 million (neg: 201), primarily due to Other investments in tangible and acquisitions of operations including a paid earn-out. intangible assets 29.2 10.3 Acquisitions during the year are: Danish company Investments in tangible Norriq AS’s business area for hosting and outsourcing assets through IT services SEK 141 million, Norwegian company Core financial leasing 4.0 Services AS SEK 104 million, Swedish company JMLTotal 56.1 27.3 System AB SEK 107 million, Finnish company ITaito Oy SEK 38 million, Swedish company DAV Partner AB SEK Acquisitions of businesses during the year 10 million and Dutch company Vincere Netherlands B.V. During the year, Dustin conducted six acquisitions. In SEK 655 million. Earn-outs paid pertain to Core Services September, the Denmark-based Norriq’s business area AS SEK 31 million, Purity IT AS SEK 14 million and merged for hosting and outsourcing IT services was acquired companies IKT Gruppen SEK 7 million and Commsec SEK on the basis of an asset transfer. In October, Dustin 1 million. acquired all of the shares outstanding in the Norwegian company Core Services AS, which is one of the leading Cash flow from financing activities totalled SEK 611 players in the new generation of data centre solutions, million (neg: 186) and mainly pertained to a new loans known as software defined data centres. In November, raised of SEK 2,165 million and a repayment on previous Dustin acquired all of the shares in the Swedish loans amounting to negative SEK 1,384 million. During company JML-System AB, which offers installation the year, dividends were paid to shareholders, which and service of AV equipment for meeting rooms and had an impact of SEK 213 million (183) on cash flow. conferences. 54 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | DIRECTORS’ REPORT Key ratios Dustin is benefitting from an increased share of Dustin applies financial measures that are not defined online spending, and trends in mobility and cloud under IFRS. Dustin believes that these financial measures solutions have accelerated. Dustin’s business model, provide the reader of the financial statements with with a shared and efficient IT platform, is expected to valuable information, and constitute a complement create scalability in future development. Furthermore, when assessing Dustin’s performance. The performance Dustin’s strong financial position is expected to provide measures that Dustin has chosen to present are relevant opportunities to further strengthen its position in the in relation to its operations and the company’s financial Nordic and Dutch IT market and to expand its range of targets for growth, margins and capital structure and more advanced products and services, both organically in terms of Dustin’s dividend policy. The alternative and through additional acquisitions. performance measures are not always comparable with those applied by other companies since these Seasonal variations companies may have used different calculation methods. Dustin is impacted by seasonal variations. Each quarter Definitions on page 143 present how Dustin defines is comparable between years. Sales volumes are its performance measures and the purpose of each normally higher in November and December, and lower performance measure. The data presented on page 142 is during the summer months when sales and marketing supplementary information from which all performance activities are less intense. Similar seasonal variations measures can be derived. occur in all geographical markets. Market overview and outlook The share In 2017/18, Dustin reported organic growth of 2.0 per cent The Parent Company’s share has been listed since (8.6), with SMB accounting to 9.6 per cent (6.2), LCP a February 13, 2015 in the Mid Cap segment on Nasdaq negative 3.8 per cent (pos: 11.8) and B2C 7.9 per cent (neg: Stockholm. At August 31, 2018, the price was SEK 2.7) Growth for SMB is in line with the financial targets 90.10 per share (66.75), representing a total market while growth for LCP made a negative contribution. capitalisation of SEK 6,958 million (5,085). At August 31, 2018 the company had a total of 6,534 shareholders During the year, Dustin continued to increase the share (5,129). The company’s three largest shareholders were of advanced products and services, largely through Axel Johnson AB with 24.7 per cent, Swedbank Robur acquisitions, which is one step in further strengthening Fonder with 11.0 per cent and Capital Group with 5.5 the company’s position in the addressable market. At per cent. Dustin’s shareholder register with the largest the start of July 2018, Dustin acquired Dutch company shareholders is presented on the company’s website. Vincere Netherlands B.V., a leading player specialised in managed services with focus on cloud and security During the 2017/18 financial year, LTI 2015 was exercised solutions. As a result of the acquisition, the addressable and the number of shares thus increased from 76,173,115 market increased from SEK 162 billion to SEK 262 billion to 77,226,502. As a result, the share capital increased by in a market that is very similar to the Nordic in terms of SEK 5 million and the share premium reserve by SEK 50 structure and customer needs. million. Multi-year overview All amounts in SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 Net sales 10,300.5 9,306.2 8,300.8 7,933.5 Organic sales growth (%) 2.0 8.6 4.4 5.7 Gross margin (%) 15.9 14.8 15.0 14.1 Adjusted EBITA 500.6 426.1 389.6 353.5 Adjusted EBITA margin (%) 4.9 4.6 4.7 4.5 EBIT 443.8 349.5 323.5 218.0 Net profit for the year 305.1 239.1 224.9 125.0 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 3.99 3.14 2.95 1.75 Cash flow from operating activities 747.9 213.6 447.2 58.6 Net debt/adjusted EBITDA (multiple) 3.3 2.3 2.1 2.6 Return on equity (%) 18.5 16.1 15.8 9.4 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 55 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | DIRECTORS’ REPORT Employees organisation is also to be adapted to the expansion in The average number of full-time employees was 1,152, the Netherlands. As a result, changes are being made compared with 977 in the year-earlier period. The to Dustin’s Group Management whereby new roles will increase was primarily attributable to acquisitions. be added while other functions will be removed. The changes were implemented as of October 1, 2018. Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives The most recently resolved guidelines for remuneration Rights issue of senior executives are described in Note 7 Number Dustin Group AB held an extraordinary general meeting of employees, employee benefits expense and on October 10, 2018, when a decision was made to remuneration of senior executives. approve the rights issue previously adopted by the Board of Directors. The terms and conditions of the The Board of Directors’ proposal for guidelines for rights issue mean that every seven (7) subscription remuneration of the CEO and other senior executives, to rights entitles the holder to subscribe to one (1) new be applied for the period from the next Annual General share at a price of SEK 63 per new share. Following Meeting, is largely unchanged compared with last year. the rights issue, the number of shares amounts to For more information regarding the guidelines, refer 88,258,859 and the total equity increased to SEK to Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits 695,038,518, of which SEK 55,161,788 pertains to share expense and remuneration of senior executives. capital. The rights issue will provide the company with greater flexibility and the ability to continue to Guidelines for the remuneration of senior executives broaden its customer offering through the acquisition are resolved by the shareholders at the Annual General of companies with a high level of advanced products, Meeting. The Annual General Meeting, which is to be services and recurring revenues. held on December 11, 2018, will make a decision about the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. Parent Company The Board proposes guidelines whose content is Dustin Group AB (Corp. Reg. No. 556703-3062), which essentially unchanged compared with the preceding is domiciled in Nacka, Sweden, only conducts holding year, but with the term salary replaced by the term fee, operations. Overall external financing is with the Parent as the Remuneration Committee has noted that senior Company. executives at the recently acquired company Vincere Netherlands B.V. remuneration as consultant fees. Net sales for the year amounted to SEK 0.4 million (0.4) Proposals ahead of the Annual General Meeting are and profit for the year totalled SEK 366 million (138). The available at www.dustingroup.com. change is mainly the result of the receipt of a dividend of SEK 300 million (10) from Group companies during Corporate Responsibility Report the year and the fact that the net currency position In addition to reporting its earnings trend, Dustin also amounted to a negative SEK 133 million (pos: 2). The reports on its corporate responsibility performance. net currency position is attributable to the external In compliance with the Chapter 6, Section 11 of the financing. The Group applies hedge accounting, whereby Annual Accounts Act, Dustin has chosen to prepare the net currency position is recognised against equity. the statutory Corporate Responsibility Report as a report separate from the Annual Report. The Corporate Annual General Meeting Responsibility Report was submitted to the auditor at Information about this year’s Annual General Meeting the same time as the Annual Report. The Corporate can be found on page 146. Responsibility Report can be found on pages 16-21, 30-45, 58-72 and 134-136 in this printed document. This Dividends Corporate Responsibility Report covers Dustin Group AB. Dustin’s target is to distribute not less than 70 per cent of the profit for the year. However, the company’s Significant events after the balance-sheet date financial position, cash flow, acquisition potential and future prospects must be taken into account. Changes to Dustin’s Group Management Dustin announced changes to its organisation to The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of a total create greater clarity within the segments and further payout of SEK 239 million (213), corresponding to SEK increase the scalability of its support functions. The 2.72 per share (2.80) after taking into account the outcome of the completed rights issue. 56 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | DIRECTORS’ REPORT Proposed appropriation of earnings In its proposed appropriation of earnings, the Board The Board of Directors proposes the distribution of SEK has taken into consideration the company’s operations, 239 million as an ordinary dividend, before taking into financial position, cash flow as well as financial targets account the outcome of the ongoing rights issue The and prospects. The Board of Director’s complete proposal states that this amount be appropriated as statement regarding the proposed dividend is available follows: on the company’s website, www.dustingroup.com. Appropriation of earnings SEK Dividends 239,402,156 To be carried forward 242,681,958 Total 482,084,114 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 57 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risks and Risk Management Risks are a natural part of all business operations and risk-taking is a prerequisite for financial growth. The Board of Directors bears ultimate responsibility for Dustin’s risk management, but activities intended to manage risk exposure are distributed across every level of the Group. Dustin’s risk management aims to maintain good control of the Group’s collective risk exposure and to ensure efficient management of the risks. Efficient risk management is a fundamental part of Dustin’s ability to manage and develop its business operations. Dustin’s Group-wide risk management process is been coordinated, supplemented and analysed by the integrated into the operations and is based on cooperation Risk Committee, which has decided which risks and between Dustin’s Risk Committee, Executive measures are to be followed up at Group level. All risks Management Teams and other individuals who work are classified into one of the following three categories: on different parts of the risk management process. The strategic risks, operational risks and external risks. process consists of four main activities: (i) Identification, This allocation provides support in choosing suitable (ii) Assessment and Prioritisation, (iii) Mitigation and (iv) methods to identify current, new and emerging risks, Reporting and Monitoring. the link between them and how to manage them. Risk is defined as a future uncertain event that could • The strategic risks are normally identified in have an adverse impact on Dustin’s ability to achieve conjunction with risk discussions connected to a the company’s strategic, financial and operational strategic initiative and are managed by measures targets and comply with laws and regulations. that restrict the impact and probability of the risk occurring. Risk Management Process • Operational risks arise in the business and are identified mainly through process reviews. Management of operational risks focuses on limiting 1. ID the probability of the risk occurring, for example, EN TIF through internal controls or process rationalisation. NGRING ICA O • The external risks comprise risks that are outside the 4 AND . REP N TIO direct control of the Group, for example, changes in MO OR NI TI regulations or altered market conditions. T Assessment and Prioritisation The extent of the identified risks is evaluated using S a risk tool that takes into account both the potential R I SM impact of the risk on the operations and the likelihood TI EN S A T AN of the risk occurring over a defined period of time. This TI O D N provides support when deciding upon the significance 3. M IT SE IG AT . AS R I O and prioritisation of the risk and what response it IO 2 P N should be given. Mitigation Identification The choice of response and mitigation is determined In the 2017/18 financial year, risk meetings were held by using a risk assessment and existing controls. This with all Executive Management Teams in the Group could include, for example, monitoring methods, with the aim of identifying the most significant risks implementing extra controls to reduce the risk, or for each area. The results of these meetings have since amending procedures and processes. An important 58 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT part of Dustin’s risk management is the appointment of a risk owner for all prioritised risks. The risk owner is Risk areas responsible for pursuing measures to manage each risk within a reasonable timeframe and with a high level of quality. Financial risks Risks related to Reporting and Monitoring acquisition operations Each risk owner monitors the current risk and reports their findings back to the Risk Committee. The Risk Brand risks Committee compiles, coordinates and develops the Sustainability risks Group’s risk management, after which reports are EXTERNAL STRATEGIC RISKS RISKS submitted to Group Management and the Board of Risks related to Directors. the customer Market risks offering OPERATIONAL RISKS The Group’s largest risks and the measures for managing them are reported at least twice per year IT-related risks Risks related to the Audit Committee. to customer satisfaction Below is a summary of the largest risks and how these Employee risks are managed. Strategic risks Description Mitigation Risks related to An important part of Dustin’s strategy is to Dustin continuously assesses a number of the acquisition support growth through the acquisition of companies to identify operations that could and integration operations. Strategic acquisitions, for example, to strengthen the Group’s offering. The operations of operations expand the customer base or customer offering are appraised according to financial and will remain part of the growth strategy moving commercial aspects. Before a decision is taken, forward. There is a risk that Dustin may not find a review of the entire business or company is suitable acquisition targets. conducted using a structured process to assess any risks. This work is coordinated by a dedicated resource and carried out by an M&A project group, supported by internal and external specialist expertise, such as legal and financial advisors. During the year, a more structured and powerful integration programme was introduced, to better integrate acquired assets into existing operations. The purpose of this was to secure the acquired company’s relationships with customers, suppliers and key personnel, to monitor integration costs and to ensure expected synergies. Reputational risk A good reputation is highly significant to Dustin undertakes preventive work with a Dustin’s success since one of Dustin’s success responsible entrepreneurial attitude by providing factors is a strong brand. If Dustin or any of the continuous information and training concerning Group’s suppliers, distributors, other partners its values, business principles, policies and or employees acts in a way that goes against guidelines. the values Dustin represents, this could have a negative impact on Dustin’s reputation. Read more about Dustin’s values on pages 34-35. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 59 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risks related to the Dustin operates in a dynamic market, and this To adapt Dustin’s strategy to this changeable customer offering could have an impact on its role in the market and market, Dustin’s management closely monitors the value chain. any changes in the market, customer expectations and technological developments. Changes include new market strategies from manufacturers (for example, manufacturers’ Dustin works intensively to develop new and acquisitions of companies that supply advanced attractive offerings for its customers. To meet the products and services), new customer behaviour heightened demand for more advanced products patterns (for example, heightened demand and services, Dustin has created a special function for packaged services, or greater focus on new that focuses on developing and enhancing the sustainable offerings) and the development Group’s product range and service offerings, of new technology (including new storage chiefly within managed IT services. This work is technology where hardware-based storage carried out in close collaboration with our suppsystems move to cloud-based storage services). liers and other business partners. During the year Dustin also added new expertise to the Group and An inability to create attractive and profitable strengthened our offering by acquiring companies customer offerings could have a negative impact in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and the on Dustin’s earnings and market position. Netherlands. During the year, we worked developing our business system to improve the management of our service offering to customers. Our vision is to be the customer’s first choice for efficient and sustainable IT. During the year, we conducted four campaign weeks focusing on eco-labelled IT products to further emphasise and highlight our commitment and offering in this area. We believe we can convince a larger share of our customers to opt for greener alternatives in their IT environment. Operational risks Description Mitigation IT-related risks The Group’s operations are highly dependent on Dustin works continuously to restrict the an efficiently performing IT platform. Increasing number of disruptions in the system and their digitisation has raised the threat from cyber consequences. Furthermore, regular followattacks, and these attacks pose a constant ups of customers’ views of the availability and and increasing risk for Dustin. Inadequate response of the IT platform are conducted to protection and incident management could lead ensure a high level of customer satisfaction. to considerable disruptions to the company’s IT Regular assessments are carried out to identify platform. improvement measures and the source of potential errors. The inability to ensure a modern, secure and operationally adapted IT infrastructure and IT To protect Dustin from cyber attacks, the Group’s platform could also have a considerable adverse security system and software are updated effect on the Group’s operations and earnings. continuously. The company conducts regular penetration tests and ensures strong incident and escalation procedures. Employee risks Dustin has enjoyed strong growth over the past Dustin works continuously on skills development few years, which in turns places great demands on with the aim of developing operations and its employees and necessitates continuous skills achieving set goals. The company has a talent development. development process that aims to identify the employees’ performance and potential, help The company’s ability to retain competent managers focus on the future development and committed employees is crucial to driving of their staff and enable managers to obtain development in accordance with the strategic qualitative input about their staff. plan and to achieving set goals. If the Group does not have access to the right skills at the right time, To identify focus areas expected to increase the Group’s operations and earnings could be employee satisfaction, the company regularly negatively impacted. carries out employee surveys. 60 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risks related A large proportion of Dustin’s sales are made Dustin works continuously to follow up and to customer online, leading to a greater distance from the improve its customers’ experience by using satisfaction customer compared to relationship selling. the Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is used to measure customer satisfaction and customer The inability to retain and attract new customers loyalty among online customers. These factors could have a significantly adverse impact on the are evaluated and updated continuously in order Group’s operations and earnings. to pinpoint new factors that have an impact on the overall experience. Wherever the results of the surveys fail to achieve the expected level, measures are taken to increase customer satisfaction and customer loyalty. During the year, we introduced text message notifications to customers whose orders were not dispatched as promised, phased out a number of distributors that failed to provide the agreed level of quality and improved the availability of products in stock through “on demand planning.” We have also worked continuously with our logistics partners to improve the quality of both deliveries and the customer experience. The risk of improper One of the largest business ethics risks for Dustin During the year, we worked continuously to benefits in connection is in the purchasing process and is related to the reduce the risk of bribes and other improper with purchases risk that employees receive improper benefits in benefits by increasing awareness internally connection with purchases. about how responsible collaboration with suppliers, customers and other partners should be conducted. The purchasing organisation was trained in what is considered a bribe and how they can work with activities within the framework of our business ethics guidelines. We also initiated discussions with strategically important suppliers with regard to our demands and expectations for ethically correct behaviour. During the year, new employees at Dustin Group were given induction training in our Code of Conduct. Dilemma discussions were also held at recently acquired companies. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 61 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risks related to Large quantities of data are handled in the Our work is governed by Dustin’s guidelines for information interaction with our customers. With increased handling of personal data, which specifies principles security and expectations and stricter legislation, we can see for collecting, processing and storing personal data as customer privacy that the management of risks linked to customer well as consumer rights. privacy is becoming increasingly important. During the year, we implemented the requirements During the year, the EU General Data Protection of GDPR by establishing a programme for data Regulation (GDPR) came into force. The new protection which is headed by a steering group and requirements have a substantial impact on our a cross-functional management organisation with business as the amount of personal data being responsibility for risk management, making strategic handed is increasing exponentially, cloud-based decisions and to ensure our processing complies services and cross-border data transfers are with laws and internal requirements by taking such becoming increasingly widespread, the threat measures as necessary to protect customer privacy. scenario is constantly changing and customer We have also designated an external data protection trust is a crucial factor in our business. officer who has assisted Dustin with advice during implementation and has been tasked with monitoThe inability to comply with GDPR could have ring Dustin’s compliance with GDPR over the coming a significantly adverse impact on the Group’s years. operations and earnings and could result in nonmaterial damage, such as badwill or other damage Moving forward, Dustin will mainly focus on risk to trust. management through controls and follow-up of the implementation and by continuously adjusting personal data processing in operations as responsible authorities provide clarifying guidelines. For example, we will prepare a supervision plan with regular reporting from our data protection officer, establish internal controls and conduct activities to increase awareness and strengthen governance linked to privacy and information security. Risks related to In 2016/17, Dustin launched products under To ensure that we, despite the increase in the non-conformance its own brand. In 2017/18, activities took place number of own-brand products, still comply with Dustin’s Code to double sales of own-brands that included with our Code of Conduct, we increased the our of Conduct for ownbroadening the range of products. internal expertise in leading factory inspections brand products in China. During the year, Dustin also changed to A rapid expansion of the range of products a digital system for managing non-conformance, resulted in a higher internal workload and risk which provides better overview, efficiency and that we cannot fully guarantee that working control of the follow-up activities. conditions at the factories where these products are manufactured meet with the requirements During the financial year, we performed a total of of Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 19 inspections. We were not made aware of any “zero-tolerance” non-conformances. Two of the 19 factory inspections conducted during the financial year led us to commence the termination of our collaboration with these factories. This was because of the number of cases of non-conformance and the attitude of factory management towards the work and measures required to correct and rectify these. Dustin is supporting the factories in this rectification at the same time as the process to replace the suppliers is in progress. 62 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT External risks Description Mitigation Market risks Dustin’s operations are impacted by the general By continuously monitoring market trends, Dustin economic climate, structural changes, as well as strives to adapt its prices, range, quality and procurement and distribution costs. service to match customers’ demands. Financial risks policy that regulates the distribution of responsibility Dustin’s operations are linked to various financial risks, between the Board of Directors, the CFO and the such as foreign exchange risk, credit risk, liquidity risk Head of Financial Reporting and Internal Control. The and interest rate risk. The financial risks are managed in management of the company’s main financial risks is accordance with the established financial management described below. Financial risks Description Mitigation Foreign exchange Foreign exchange risk is divided into transaction In accordance with the adopted financial policy, risk exposure and translation exposure. transactions with a net exposure exceeding SEK 50 million must be hedged. The CFO has the right Transaction exposure refers to risks associated to hedge transactions with suppliers based on with purchases and sales in foreign currencies. assessed risk under the financial policy. However, Translation exposure refers to the exposure of the transaction exposure is limited since the Group net assets of the foreign subsidiaries in Denmark, primarily operates in the Nordic and Dutch markets, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. where purchases and sales are chiefly conducted in the local currency. Outstanding currency hedging on the balance-sheet date is presented in Note 16 Derivate instruments and hedge accounting. The financial policy states that currency hedging must be conducted in foreign subsidiaries and be offset by raising external bank loans corresponding to the currency and level of the net investment. The Group CFO has the right to deviate from this hedge level for up to SEK 100 million in net exposure per currency. Loans raised in the respective currency (Danish kroner, Norweigan kroner and euro) are specified in the supplementary disclosures. The current hedge level is on par with the lowest level stipulated above. Credit and Credit and counterparty risk refers to the risk that The Group has established procedures to ensure counterparty risk the counterparty to a transaction may fail to meet that sales are only made with customers with its obligations, thereby resulting in a loss for the a good payment history. The Group’s credit Group. instruction includes credit limits, depending on the size and risk category of the company. The creditworthiness of corporate customers is verified before any supply of goods takes place. When private customers utilise credit, an external party acts as a guarantor for the entire credit risk. The maximum credit risk exposure is the carrying amount recognised in the balance sheet for each financial asset. Counterparty risk is specified in the Group’s financial policy and manages risk levels for the counterparty, maturities and amounts. Counterparties mainly refer to Scandinavian banks, authorities and municipalities. During the financial year, counterparty risks were very limited and the financial policy was complied with. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 63 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity risk The Group’s liquidity risk pertains to the risk of not The financial management policy includes short being able to reach agreements on external credit and long-term cash flow planning. The current facilities and external bank loans. financing for the Group is based on external bank loans, which are subject to covenants that are This also includes the ability to finance short-term reported to the banks. All conditions were fulfilled payment obligations. during the year. External borrowing was negotiated and renewed during the financial year. The increased facility is primarily part of guaranteeing financing for acquisitions. The short and longterm borrowing is specified in the supplementary disclosures under Note 22 Borrowing. Interest rate risk The Group’s interest rate risk pertains to the risk In accordance with the financial policy, interestthat material changes in market interest rates will rate risk must be minimised by structuring the affect the variable interest rate of external bank maturities of financial instruments to hedge the loans. variable interest rate against the fixed interest rate. Maturities for financial instruments must not mean that more than 50 per cent of the total interest period falls due within 12 months and that the maturities must be between two and four years. Permitted hedging instruments for interest rates are fixed income futures. At the end of the financial year, the Group had partly hedged the variable interest rates using fixed-income futures. The Group applies hedge accounting, which is described in the accounting policies. The Group’s external loans in each currency is specified in the supplementary disclosures. If market interest rates increase one percentage point, profit before tax would be reduced by about SEK 5.3 million based on the balance-sheet date’s loan structure, fixed-income futures and the distribution of currencies. 64 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 65 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report Good corporate governance is about ensuring that Dustin is managed in a sustainable, responsible and efficient manner. Governance supports the company’s long-term strategies and objectives and forms the foundation for continued profitable and sustainable growth. The overall aim is to increase the value for shareholders, while at the same time maintaining confidence among shareholders and other key stakeholders. Dustin Group AB (“Dustin”) is a Swedish public limited liability company that was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Deviation in February 2015. The Corporate Governance Report is According to Rule 2:4 of the Code, a Board member must not be the Chairman of the Nomination submitted in accordance with the Swedish Corporate Committee. Governance Code and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The Corporate Governance Report forms part of Explanation the Directors’ Report and has been reviewed by the The deviation, i.e. that Board member Caroline Berg company’s auditor, Ernst & Young AB, whose report is also is Chairman of the Nomination Committee, is available as part of the Audit Report. natural in view of the ownership structure. Swedish Corporate Governance Code Dustin applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code Applicable regulations for stock trading (the “Code”). In the 2017/18 financial year, Dustin Dustin has not violated either Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule deviated from the Code on one item: Book for Issuers or good stock market practice. Model for Corporate Governance Shareholders Nomination Auditor General Meeting Committee Remuneration Audit Committee Board of Directors Committee Internal control over President and CEO financial reporting Significant external rules and regulations Group Management Significant internal steering policies • Swedish Companies Act • Vision, mission and business plan • Swedish Annual Accounts Act • Articles of Association • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for • Rules of Procedure for the Board of Issuers Directors • Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Instructions to the CEO, Board • Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Committees, etc. • International Financial Reporting • Dustin’s policies, instructions and Standards (IFRS) values 66 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Shareholders and General Meeting The following major decisions were taken at the Annual The General Meeting is Dustin’s highest decision-making General Meeting: body, with all shareholders entitled to attend, raise issues for • Re-election of Mia Brunell Livfors, Caroline Berg, discussion and exercise voting rights. The Annual General Johan Fant, Tomas Franzén, Gunnel Duveblad and Meeting appoints the company’s Board of Directors and Mattias Miksche as Board members and the election external auditors and adopts the Annual Report. The of Morten Strand as new Board member. Mia Brunell Annual General Meeting also resolves on the principles for Livfors was elected as new Chairman of the Board. the appointment of the Nomination Committee and the Former Chairman of the Board Fredrik Cappelen and remuneration of Board members, approves policies for former Board member Maija Strandberg left the remuneration to senior executives and makes decisions Board. regarding dividends and any discharge from liability. • Re-election of the audit firm Ernst & Young AB as auditor, with Jennifer Rock-Baley as the Auditor in Shareholders Charge. Dustin’s share was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in • Adoption of 2016/17 Annual Report and resolution to 2015. All shares carry equal voting rights and equal distribute SEK 2.80 per share in dividends. The record entitlement to the company’s profits and equity. The date for the dividend was set for number of shareholders was 6,534 (5,129) at the end of December 17, 2017. The dividend was paid out to the financial year. The company’s largest shareholders, shareholders on December 20, 2017. representing at least 10 per cent of the share capital • Granting of discharge from liability for the Board each, were Axmedia AB (Axel Johnson AB) with 24.7 per members and CEO. cent and Swedbank Robur Fonder with 11.0 per cent as • Approval of fees to Board members and the auditor. of August 31, 2018. • Approval of instructions for the Nomination Committee and guidelines for remuneration to senior executives. Procentuellt ägande (röster) Ownership in percentage terms (voting rights and capital) • Resolution on Dustin’s share-related long-term incentive programme for 2018, involving up to 1,017,956 warrants and about 30 people. The minutes of the Annual General Meeting can be found on www.dustingroup.com. 2017/18 Annual General Meeting Dustin’s Annual General Meeting for the 2017/18 financial year will be held in Stockholm on December 11, 2018. For more information about the next Annual General Meeting, see page 133 and Dustin’s website, www.dustingroup.com. Nomination Committee Swedish legal Svenska entities: personer: juridiska 43.8% 60,73% The Nomination Committee is tasked with submitting, Swedish natural persons: 3.4% prior to the Annual General Meeting, proposals for Svenska fysiska personer: 5,95% the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting, Board Foreign shareholders: 52.8% members, as well as the Chairman of the Board, Utlandsboende ägare: 33,32% Source: Euroclear. remuneration for Board work and Committee work, the election and remuneration of auditors and proposals for the Nomination Committee for the next Annual General 2016/17 Annual General Meeting Meeting. The Nomination Committee also evaluates the Dustin’s Annual General Meeting for the 2016/17 Board’s work and assesses its competence. financial year was held on December 13, 2017. 121 shareholders were represented at the meeting, The Annual General Meeting resolved that, ahead of the corresponding to 58.51 per cent of the share capital 2017/18 Annual General Meeting and in accordance with and voting rights. Six of seven Board members and the the Nomination Committee’s proposal, the Nomination Group’s Auditor in Charge were present at the meeting. Committee is to comprise representatives of the four ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 67 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT largest shareholders in the company in accordance The composition of the Nomination Committee fulfils with the shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear the requirements of Rule 2:4 of the Code, with the Sweden at March 31, 2018 as well as the Chairman of the exception of the deviation explained above. Board. Ahead of the 2017/18 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Committee comprises only three members The Nomination Committee has held three meetings to and the Chairman of the Board, in view of the restrictions date during the financial year. In addition, discussions in the instruction adopted by the 2016/17 Annual and interviews have been held between the meetings. General Meeting that no more than eight of the largest The Chairman of the Board has informed the shareholders need to be asked unless this would result Nomination Committee of the work of the Board and in the Nomination Committee consisting of less than its the Committees and presented the Board’s evaluation minimum of three members appointed by shareholders. of its work. Together with the company-specific The Committee’s mandate period extends until such requirements, this evaluation has formed the basis time as a new Committee has been appointed. of the Nomination Committee’s work. A report of the Nomination Committee’s work will be submitted at the Ahead of the 2017/18 Annual General Meeting, Dustin’s Annual General Meeting. No special remuneration was Nomination Committee comprises the following paid to the members of the Nomination Committee, members: though the Nomination Committee is entitled to • Caroline Berg, Axel Johnson/Axmedia, remuneration for certain expenses. Chairman of the Nomination Committee • Lennart Francke, Swedbank Robur Fonder The Nomination Committee’s proposal and motivation • Jan Särlvik, Nordea Funds for the proposal to the Board of Directors can be found • Mia Brunell Livfors, Chairman of Dustin’s Board of on www.dustingroup.com. Directors (adjunct in the Nomination Committee) Board of Directors during the 2017/18 financial year Attendance at meetings Board members Elected Board of Audit Remuneration Director Dependent** Directors Committee Committee fees (SEK)* Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman) *** 2016 14/14 2/2 660,000 Fredrik Cappelen (Chairman) **** 2010 6/6 2/2 1/1 Caroline Berg 2016 11/14 3/3 330,000 Gunnel Duveblad 2016 14/14 3/3 350,000 Johan Fant 2016 14/14 5/5 400,000 Tomas Franzén 2013 13/14 3/3 330,000 Mattias Miksche 2006 11/14 300,000 Maija Strandberg **** 2013 3/6 2/2 Morten Strand ***** 2017 8/8 3/3 350,000 Total 2,720,000 = Dependent in relation to major shareholders. No member is to be considered dependent in relation to the company or company management. * Director fees include remuneration for committee work, as adopted by the 2016/17 Annual General Meeting. ** According to the definition in the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. *** Became Chairman of the Board at the Annual General Meeting on December 13, 2017. **** Stepped down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on December 13, 2017. ***** Became a member of the Board at the Annual General Meeting on December 13, 2017. 68 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of directors must be independent in relation to the company’s major The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the shareholders. The independence of the members of the company’s organisation and management by continuously Board is detailed in the table Board of Directors during following up the operations, ensuring an appropriate the 2017/18 financial year on the preceding page. organisation, management, guidelines and internal control. The Board of Directors establishes strategies and The Board of Directors has adopted rules of procedure goals, and makes decisions concerning major investments that regulate the Board’s work methods and assignand operational changes. The Chairman has a leading role ments, as well as instructions to the CEO, including and is responsible for ensuring that the Board’s work is well instructions for financial reporting. The Board has also organised and performed efficiently. adopted policies for important parts of the operations, for example, communication and ethics. All policies are Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Dustin’s Board evaluated when necessary and at least once per year. of Directors is to comprise a minimum of three and a maximum of ten members with no deputy members. The Board does not have any specific internal Dustin’s Board of Directors currently comprises seven distribution of work except for certain issues being members: Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman), Caroline prepared by Committees. Dustin has established an Berg, Gunnel Duveblad, Johan Fant, Tomas Franzén, Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Mattias Miksche and Morten Strand. During the 2017/18 members of the committees are elected annually and financial year, Dustin’s Board of Directors fulfilled the the duties are regulated in the instructions established Code’s requirement stating that the majority of the for each committee annually. The committees have members elected at the Annual General Meeting must a preparatory and administrative role. The issues be independent in relation to the company and company considered at committee meetings are recorded in management, and that at least two of the members minutes and reported at the next Board meeting. The Board’s annual calendar • Monitoring of strategy and risks • Q4 Interim Report* • Follow up of corporate responsibility AUG SEP • Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report • Q3 Interim Report* JUL OCT • Budget and financial outlook • Evaluation of the Board’s work JUN Q4 Q1 NOV • Q2 Interim Report* MAY Q3 Q2 DEC • Inaugrual Board meeting • Strategy Day APR JAN • Q1 Interim Report* • Significant steering instructions and MAR FEB policies *The interim reports also include corporate responsibility information. Evaluation of the Board’s work For the 2017/18 financial year, the annual evaluation was The work of the Board of Directors and CEO is evaluated carried out in survey form followed by reporting and annually through a systematic and structured process. discussion by the Board. The survey focuses on how The aim is to prepare a good basis for the Board’s the Board’s work is progressing, as well as the Board’s own development with respect to work methods commitment and competence. The results of the evaluation and efficiency, as well as provide the Nomination were also presented to the Nomination Committee. Committee with a basis for the nomination work. The In line with the results of previous years’ evaluations, Chairman of the Board is responsible for the evaluation. the Board’s work is deemed to be progressing very ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 69 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT well. The members are considered to be making The work of the Committee focused mainly on monitoa constructive contribution to both the strategic ring improvements pertaining to financial reporting and discussion and the governance of the company. The financial processes, with a special focus on identifying discussions are seen as open and the dialogue between risks and evaluating the internal control environment, the Board and management is perceived to be positive. as well as following up the results of the review by external auditors. The review of the company’s financial The Board is also evaluated within the scope of the reports, examination of company risks, examination Nomination Committee’s work. The Nomination and updating of internal control and the follow-up of Committee held meetings with all members of the reported whistleblowing cases were standing items Board and the CEO in order to put questions to individual on the agenda. During the financial year, the Audit members as to how the Board’s work is progressing. Committee also reviewed the annual impairment test of goodwill, evaluated the Group’s dividend policy, Corporate responsibility issues on the Board discussed the audit plans of the external auditors, and The responsibilities of the Board of Directors include appevaluated the independence of the auditors. roval of the Group’s business strategy and also corporate responsibility activities. The Board regularly addresses Remuneration Committee relevant corporate responsibility matters at its meetings. The main task of the Remuneration Committee is to In 2017/18, areas addressed included Dustin’s own factory review and provide recommendations to the Board of inspections and the outcome of corporate responsibility Directors pertaining to principles for remuneration of efforts connected to the company’s focus areas. senior executives. Audit Committee The Committee currently comprises three members: The main task of the Audit Committee is to ensure the Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman), Caroline Berg and Tomas quality of the financial and corporate responsibility reFranzén. During the 2017/18 financial year, the Commitporting, risk management and efficiency in the compatee held three meetings and work pertained primarily ny’s internal control and regulatory compliance. to remuneration of the CEO and senior executives, the structure for target formulation, financial goals and the The Committee currently comprises three members: performance management model. Johan Fant (Chairman), Gunnel Duveblad and Morten Strand. During the 2017/18 financial year, the Committee The company’s CEO and CFO are present at all Commitheld five meetings, which were recorded in minutes. tee meetings. However, they do not participate in the The company’s CEO, CFO, external auditors and repreitems on the agenda that relate to remuneration of the sentatives from specific functions of the organisation CEO or the CFO. were present at all committee meetings. Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Main tasks Main tasks • Monitoring the quality of financial Provide recommendations to the Board regarding reporting and risk management remuneration of senior executives (including long-term • Monitoring the effectiveness of internal control incentive programmes) and compliance Members Members • Johan Fant (Chairman) • Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman) • Gunnel Duveblad • Caroline Berg • Morten Strand • Tomas Franzén Meetings Meetings Five meetings were held during the financial year Three meetings were held during the financial year 70 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CEO and Group Management cooperation within management. A presentation of the The CEO is responsible for Dustin’s day-to-day members of Group Management is available under the management and daily operations. Distribution of work section “Group Management” on page 78. between the Board and CEO is outlined in the rules of procedure for the Board and instructions to the CEO. Auditors The auditor reviews the Annual and Corporate The CEO reports to the Board of Directors and ensures Responsibility Report for the company and the Group, that the Board receives the information required to and conducts a review of the quarterly report for the be able to make well-founded decisions. Pursuant to third quarter. The auditors report on the results of the adopted instructions, the CEO must keep the Board review of the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report continuously informed about the development of the and the review of the Corporate Governance Report, company’s operations, the sales trend, the company’s which are presented to the Annual General Meeting. earnings and financial position, liquidity forecast, important business events, as well as all other events, At the 2017/18 Annual General Meeting, Ernst & Young circumstances or conditions that may be considered AB was re-elected as the audit firm, with Jennifer Rockmaterial to the company’s operations. Baley as the Auditor in Charge for the period up to the end of the next Annual General Meeting. In addition Dustin’s CEO leads Group Management’s work and to her assignment with Dustin, Jennifer Rock-Baley is makes decisions pertaining to the operations in the Auditor in Charge for companies including DeLaval consultation with other senior executives in the Group. International AB, Recipharm AB (publ), HKScan AB, At the end of the financial year, Group Management Skånemejerier AB and Swedfund International AB. comprised nine individuals with each member holding responsibility for one of the Group’s business areas or When Ernst & Young AB is engaged to provide services functions. Group Management meetings were held other than the ordinary audit, decisions pertaining to monthly and otherwise as necessary. The meetings the nature, scope and fees for such work are made by focus primarily on strategic and operative monitoring the Audit Committee. Information about fees paid to and development, as well as performance followthe auditors for the 2017/18 financial year can be found up. In addition to these meetings, there is close daily in Note 6 Auditor’s remuneration and expenses. CEO Thomas Ekman Product Marketing Finance & Business Support Rebecca Tallmark Johan Karlsson Group People Development Operations Morten Jakobi Nielsen Jenny Ring Group Communication Private Label Stephanie Forsblom (act.) Robert Pap LCP SMB, B2C & Online Services & Solutions Michael Haagen Pontus Willquist Alexandra Drevenlid Petersen Following a reorganisation, Dustin’s Group Management has since October 1, 2018 comprised the following members: • Thomas Ekman, President and CEO and Acting VP Supply Chain • Michael Haagen Petersen, VP LCP Nordic • Johan Karlsson, CFO and VP Finance & Business Support • Henk Makaske, VP SMB & LCP Netherlands • Alexandra Drevenlid, VP Services & Solutions • Per Lengquist, Acting CIO • Rebecca Tallmark, VP SMB Nordic • Morten Jakobi, VP People Development ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 71 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal governance for responsible business New employees take part in online training in our Code Dustin’s Code of Conduct is our Group-wide policy of Conduct, with a subsequent test, and then confirm for company actions governed by core values and with a signature that they undertake to follow the code. responsibility. The Code is based on our values, voluntary At the end of the financial year, 87.7 per cent (94.1) of commitments and business that is consistently conducted active employees had completed the course. in accordance with prevailing laws and regulations. The Code of Conduct has been adopted by Dustin’s Board of Employees are encouraged to report suspected violations Directors. to their immediate supervisor, safety representative, Group Management or the company’s chief corporation In addition to Dustin’s Code of Conduct, policies and counsel. There is also a whistleblower system that guidelines clarify and exemplify expectations and provides employees with anonymous access to the requirements in the Code of Conduct linked to Dustin’s Chairman of the Audit Committee. The whistleblower corporate responsibility work. function is a secure web-based reporting system. The function is managed by the Chairman of the Audit • Dustin Supplier Code of Conduct Committee. Two reports were recorded in 2017/18. • Business ethics guidelines Internal control of the financial reporting • Conflict minerals policy Dustin’s internal control structure is based on the COSO • Environment, work environment and quality policy model, whose framework has been adapted to Dustin’s operations. The framework consists of the following Compliance five components: control environment, risk assessment, All employees are personally responsible for following control activities, information and communication, and the company’s external and internal regulations and for monitoring activities. Based on this framework, areas for acting in compliance with Dustin’s Code of Conduct and development are identified and prioritised for Dustin’s internal policies and instructions. internal control work. Our commitments Dustin has also committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the ILO conventions and core labour standards. We have also endorsed the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles taking into account the fundamental responsibilities of business in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Furthermore, we have committed to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. These voluntary commitments are incorporated into Dustin’s Code of Conduct and Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct, and apply to all companies in the Group. 72 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board of Directors is responsible for internal Control activities control of the financial reporting and for corporate Dustin’s control activities are defined in a Group-wide responsibility reporting. The Audit Committee supports control framework that is divided up into the company’s the Board by continuously monitoring the financial and most significant processes. The control activities are corporate responsibility reporting, any risks that could designed to manage the risks identified in the risk affect the reporting and the company’s internal control analysis. Examples of control activities included in environment. the framework are authorised approval of business transactions, accounts reconciliation, analysis of Dustin has an internal control function that aims to income statement items and documentation of critical support management in providing excellent internal processes. Each control has an assigned control owner control of the financial reporting including corporate who continuously evaluates the ability of the control to responsibility data. This work focuses on ensuring address the risk and the execution of the control. compliance with guidelines and following up control activities in significant processes relating to the Information and communication reporting. The Audit Committee is informed about Dustin’s control documents, in the form of policies, the results of the work conducted by Dustin’s internal instructions and procedures, insofar as they concern the control function pertaining to risks, control activities financial reporting and corporate responsibility data, are and follow-up. updated at least once per year and mainly communicated via the intranet. There is also a financial manual on the Control environment intranet containing instructions and procedures for The control environment forms the basis of the internal financial reporting. The financial manual is updated control of the financial and corporate responsibility continuously based on changes in external requirements reporting. The basis of Dustin’s control environment or changes in Dustin’s operations and processes. consists of the Group’s values, policies and instructions. Dustin’s Board of Directors has adopted fundamental To ensure that external information publication is policy documents such as rules of procedure for the consistent and of a high quality, an information policy is Board and Committees, instructions to the CEO, Code available describing how external information should be of Conduct, a financial management policy, information communicated. policy, Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct and business ethics guidelines. The aim of these control documents is Monitoring activities to achieve and maintain a high ethical standard within Dustin’s internal control function follows up and the Group and to lay the groundwork for excellent evaluates the Group’s control environment on a internal control. continuous basis by way of self-assessments and evaluations by external parties. Any deviations are Dustin has clear guidelines regarding the responsibilities reported to the control owner responsible for correcting and authorities of different levels and functions within shortcomings and improving the internal control in their the Group, and communicating this to the entire Group area of responsibility. is an important task. An important aspect of Dustin’s control environment is the internal control framework. Internal control developments are reported on a This includes documentation about the most important continuous basis to the Audit Committee. Furthermore, control activities and those responsible for each activity. the company’s external auditor reports the observations from the review and assessment of the internal control Risk assessment environment to the Audit Committee. Dustin regularly evaluates the risks that affect the internal control with respect to reporting. Measures to manage identified risks are established in connection Evaluation of a specific review function with the evaluation. Significant risks are discussed There is currently no specific review function at Dustin by the Board and the Audit Committee to establish (internal audit). The Board has examined the issue and determined that the current monitoring structure and measures aiming to ensure excellent internal control of activities conducted within the risk management and the financial and corporate responsibility reporting. internal control frameworks provide a satisfactory basis. The Board evaluates the need for a specific review function annually. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 73 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Remuneration to senior executives during the 2017/18 financial year on page 68 and in Note The shareholders resolve on guidelines for remuneration 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense to the CEO and other senior executives at the Annual and remuneration to senior executives. Remuneration General Meeting. Remuneration to the CEO and other for committee work was paid in line with the resolution members of Group Management is thereafter decided of the 2016/17 Annual General Meeting (SEK 100,000 by the Board, based on recommendation from the to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and SEK Remuneration Committee. 50,000 to each of the other two members of the Audit Committee, and SEK 60,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration to Group Management Remuneration Committee and SEK 30,000 to each of During the 2017/18 financial year, the remuneration the other members of the Remuneration Committee). to Group Management consisted of a fixed salary, Board members are not entitled to any benefits after short-term variable remuneration of between 40 their assignments as Board members have come to an and 100 per cent of fixed salary, long-term incentive end. programmes, pension and other customary benefits. The variable salary is linked to established, individual Guidelines for remuneration and measurable financial targets. The 2016/17 Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt guidelines for remuneration to senior executives within During the 2017/18 financial year, the total remuneration the Dustin Group, consisting of a fixed salary, shortto Group Management amounted to SEK 40.8 million term variable remuneration incentive (STI), which is and is reported in more detail in Note 7 Number linked to the achievement of Dustin’s financial targets of employees, employee benefits expense and and individual performance targets, and a long-term remuneration to senior executives. share-based or share-related incentive programme (LTI), in addition to pension and other benefits. The guidelines Long-term incentive programme can be found on www.dustingroup.com/sv/ersattning. The Board evaluates on an annual basis whether a long-term incentive programme is to be proposed to The 2017/18 Annual General Meeting will decide on the the Annual General Meeting or not. Dustin has three guidelines for remuneration to senior executives. The outstanding incentive programmes: LTI 2016, LTI 2017 Board proposes guidelines whose content is essentially and LTI 2018. None of these programmes include the unchanged. Board. Deviations from guidelines adopted by the 2016/17 The Annual General Meeting on December 13, 2017 Annual General Meeting resolved to introduce a new incentive programme for In exceptional circumstances, the Board of Directors senior executives (LTI 2018). The programme comprises may deviate from the guidelines outlined above. In a total of 1,017,956 warrants, acquired at a market value this case, the Board of Directors is obliged to explain of approximately SEK 4 million. Dustin has reserved the grounds for the deviation at the following Annual the right to repurchase warrants if the participant’s General Meeting. employment or assignment at the company comes to an end or the participant wishes to transfer the The current guidelines, as approved by the Annual warrants. General Meeting on December 13, 2017, have been followed and all approved remuneration was within the For further information, see Note 7 Number stipulated range. of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration to senior executives. The Remuneration Committee notes that a senior executive employed by the recently acquired company Board remuneration in the Netherlands, and who as of 1 October 2018 is a Remuneration and fees that were approved by the senior executive at Dustin, receives consultant fees 2016/17 Annual General Meeting and the attendance of instead of a fixed salary. The Committee does not Board members at meetings during the 2017/18 financial consider this a deviation from the guidelines adopted by year are described in the table The Board of Directors the 2016/17 Annual General Meeting. 74 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 75 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors MIA BRUNELL LIVFORS JOHAN FANT CAROLINE BERG TOMAS FRANZÉN GUNNEL DUVEBLAD MORTEN STRAND MATTIAS MIKSCHE Dustin’s board of directors comprises seven ordinary members, including the Chairman of the Board, with no deputy members, who are elected for the period until the end of the 2017/18 Annual General Meeting. MIA BRUNELL LIVFORS JOHAN FANT Chairman of the Board since 2017. Board member since 2016. Board member since 2016. Born: 1959 Born: 1965 Education: MSc in Economics from the Education: Business at Stockholm University. Stockholm School of Economics. Key competence: Mia Brunell Livfors has many years of Key competence: Johan Fant provides broad experience of experience of working on the board of directors at listed retail, business operations and comprehensive knowledge of companies. Mia Brunell Livfors contributes to the Board financing through his previous roles as CFO of Axel Johnson through her experience in retail, e-commerce, telecom and and Boliden, among other positions. media. Other current assignments: CEO of AltoCumulus. Board Other current assignments: CEO of Axel Johnson. Chairman member of AltoCumulus Asset Management, AxFast and of the Board of Axel Johnson International, Axfood, Kicks and Novax. Åhléns. Board member of Martin & Servera, Stena, Svensk Previous assignments: CFO of Axel Johnson, CFO Boliden, Handel and Efva Attling Stockholm. Senior Vice President Group Treasurer Electrolux, Corporate Previous positions (in recent years): CEO of Kinnevik. Controller Ericsson and CFO Assa Abloy. Shareholding1: Shareholding1: 76 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CAROLINE BERG MORTEN STRAND Board member since 2016. Board member since 2017. Born: 1968 Born: 1965 Education: Media and psychology at Education: Graduate in Business and Middlebury College, US. Information Management, University of San Francisco. Key competence: Caroline Berg has extensive Board experience from both listed and unlisted companies in the Key competence: Morten Strand contributes technical retail and service sectors. She is also deeply knowledgeable expertise, experience of the north European SMB market and about communication, sustainable business and HR from her operational experience of IT, service development and sales years in the management team at Axel Johnson. through positions at Cint and Visma Software. Other current assignments: Chairman of the Board of Axel Other current assignments: Senior Industry Advisor at Nordic Johnson Aktiebolag, Martin & Servera Aktiebolag and Erik och Capital. Göran Ennerfelts fond för svensk ungdoms internationella studier. Vice chairman of Nordstjernan Aktiebolag. Board Previous positions (in recent years): CEO of Cint and COO of member of Nordstjernan Kultur och Media, AxFast, Axfood Visma Software International AS. Aktiebolag, the Axel and Margaret Ax:son Johnson Foundation Shareholding1: and Stockholm School of Economics’ Advisory Board. Previous positions (in recent years): Director of Human Development and Communications and member of the management team of the Axel Johnson Aktiebolag group. Board member of Filippa K Group and Åhléns. Deputy board member of Axstores, AxRetail and Mekonomen Aktiebolag. Shareholding1: TOMAS FRANZÉN MATTIAS MIKSCHE Board member since 2013. Board member since 2006. Born: 1962 Born: 1968 Education: MSc in Engineering, Industrial Education: MSc in Economics from the Economy at Linköping University. Stockholm School of Economics. Key competence: Tomas Franzén has, through his current Key competence: Mattias Miksche contributes broad role as CEO of Bonnier and previous role as CEO of Com Hem, experience in digital business, through his roles as CEO and extensive and broad experience of leading major companies founder of E*TRADE Nordic, Boxman/LOVEFiLM and Stardoll and solid financial knowledge. and Board member of Avanza, Pricerunner and Sportamore. Other current assignments: CEO of Bonnier AB. Chairman Other current assignments: Chairman of the Board of Hem of the Board of Bonnier Broadcasting, Bonnier News and the Design Studio. Board member of Glorious Games Group Adlibris group. Board member of Axel Johnson. (former Stardoll), Sana Labs, Avanza Bank Holding, Pricerunner Group and EuroFlorist Intressenter. Previous positions (in recent years): CEO and Chairman of the Board of UPC Digital and Com Hem Holding. Previous positions (in recent years): Board member of Eniro and Sportamore. Shareholding1: 57,686 Shareholding1: 53,628 GUNNEL DUVEBLAD Board member since 2016. Born: 1955 Education: Systems Scientist, Umeå University. Key competence: Gunnel Duveblad contributes extensive board experience through her current and previous board assignments and her valuable expertise in the IT sector, where her positions have included several leading roles at IBM and CEO of EDS Northern Europe. Other current assignments: Chairman of the Board of companies including Team Olivia, Global Scanning A/S, the Ruter Dam Foundation and HiQ International. Board member positions including Sweco and Kindred Group plc. Previous positions (in recent years): Board member positions including PostNord, Anoto Group, and Aditro Holding. 1Own or related legal and/or natural persons’ holdings as of Shareholding1: 2,000 August 31, 2018. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 77 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Group Management THOMAS EKMAN JOHAN KARLSSON STEPHANIE FORSBLOM PONTUS WILLQUIST JENNY RING ALEXANDRA DREVENLID MICHAEL HAAGEN PETERSEN MORTEN JAKOBI REBECCA TALLMARK ROBERT PAP Dustin’s Group Management includes the CEO Thomas Ekman and an additional nine senior executives with various areas of responsibility. THOMAS EKMAN JOHAN KARLSSON President and CEO. Employed at Dustin since CFO & VP Business Support. Employed at 2018. Dustin since 2009. Born: 1969 Born: 1965 Education: Master of Business Administration Education: MSc in Business and Economics from Stockholm University. from the Gothenburg School of Economics. Previous assignments: CEO of Cabonline Group, Previous assignments: Regional Finance Director at CEO of Tele2 Sweden. Tech Data AB, as well as CFO at ACO Hud Nordic. Other assignments: Board member of Com Hem, Shareholding2: 282,734 Board member of Sportamore. Warrants: 282,535 Shareholding2: 7,000 Warrants: 239,387 Following a reorganisation, Dustin’s Group Management has since October 1, 2018 comprised the following members: • Thomas Ekman, President and CEO and Acting VP Supply Chain • Michael Haagen Petersen, VP LCP Nordic • Johan Karlsson, CFO and VP Finance & Business Support. • Henk Makaske, VP SMB & LCP Netherlands • Alexandra Drevenlid, VP Services & Solutions • Per Lengquist, Acting CIO • Rebecca Tallmark, VP SMB Nordic • Morten Jakobi, VP People Development 78 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STEPHANIE FORSBLOM MICHAEL HAAGEN PETERSEN Acting* VP Group Communication. VP LCP. Employed at Dustin since 2008. Employed at Dustin since 2016. Born: 1971 Born: 1983 Education: BSc in Economics from Aarhus Education: MSc from the University of University School of Business and Social Technology in Helsinki and MSc in Business Science. and Economics from the Hanken School of Previous assignments: Sales Manager at thy:data A/S. Economics in Helsinki. Market Manager at Logica A/S. Previous assignments: Head of Corporate Responsibility at Shareholding2: 179,784 Microsoft, Head of Corporate Responsibility at Nokia. Warrants: 172,565 Shareholding2: Warrants: 50,076 PONTUS WILLQUIST MORTEN JAKOBI VP SMB & B2C. Employed at Dustin since 2014. VP People Development. Employed at Dustin Born: 1973 since 2004. Born: 1975 Education: MSc in Engineering in Industrial Economics and Licentiate degree in Education: BA in History and Society from Innovation Technology from the Chalmers Aarhus University. University of Technology. Previous assignments: Executive Assistant at Dustin A/S. Previous assignments: Head of Pricing and Analytics at Dustin Senior team manager at Computerstore A/S. Business development and IT Director at Brandos. Shareholding2: 14,806 Other assignments: Board member of Formac. Warrants: 62,608 Shareholding2: Warrants: 80,299 JENNY RING REBECCA TALLMARK VP Operations. Employed at Dustin since 2015. VP Product Marketing. Employed at Dustin Born: 1978 since 2017. Born: 1976 Education: BSc in Business Administration from the University of Stockholm. Education: MSc in Economics from the Stockholm School of Economics. Previous assignments: Head of Nordic Contact Center & Ecom at Dustin Group, Consumer Sales Manager at GE Money Bank. Previous assignments: Head of Strategy and Business Development at Systembolaget, Business Area Manager Shareholding2: 2,000 Finance and M&A at Axel Johnson International and Warrants: 52,047 consultant at McKinsey. Other assignments: Board member at Giving Wings Foundation. Shareholding2: 21,525 Warrants: 159,465 ALEXANDRA DREVENLID ROBERT PAP VP Services & Solutions. Employed at Dustin VP Private Label. Employed at Dustin since since 2018. 2008. Born: 1967 Born: 1964 Education: KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Education: BSc in Economics from Linköping Road and Water Department University. Previous assignments: Chief Digital Officer at Tieto, Previous assignments: Managing Director, Spectra Stage & Chief Technology Information Officer at Tele2. Event Technologies. Director Vendor Management, Ingram Micro Nordics. Sales and Marketing Director, Computer 2000 Sweden. Shareholding2: Shareholding2: 75,000 Warrants: Warrants: 109,954 *Deputising for Caroline Rudbeck who is on parental leave. 2 Own or related legal and/or natural persons’ holdings as of August 31, 2018. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement SEK million Note 17/18 16/17 Net sales 3 10,300.5 9,306.2 Cost of goods and services sold 4 -8,663.7 -7,926.7 Gross profit 1,636.8 1,379.5 Selling and administrative expenses 4,6,7,8 -1,183.3 -1,016.3 Items affecting comparability 5 1.0 -7.3 Other operating income 6.8 5.9 Other operating expenses -17.5 -12.3 EBIT 443.8 349.5 Financial income and other similar income-statement items 9 1.1 1.2 Financial expenses and other similar income-statement items 9 -60.3 -42.6 Profit after financial items 384.6 308.1 Tax 10 -79.4 -69.0 Net profit for the year attributable in its entirety to Parent Company shareholders 305.1 239.1 Other comprehensive income (all items will be transferred to the income statement) Translation differences 115.3 -3.2 Cash-flow hedging -128.5 10.6 Tax attributable to cash-flow hedges 28.2 -2.3 Other comprehensive income 15.0 5.1 Comprehensive income for the year attributable in its entirety to Parent Company shareholders 320.1 244.1 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 11 3.99 3.14 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 11 3.97 3.13 80 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK million Note Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 12 3,221.7 2,105.8 Other intangible assets attributable to acquisitions 12 572.0 357.9 Other intangible assets 12 127.0 115.1 Tangible assets 13 91.7 24.6 Divestment-related receivables 14.19 1.6 – Deferred tax assets 15 2.1 8.4 Derivative instruments 16.19 2.0 – Other non-current assets 16.2 2.9 Total non-current assets 4,034.1 2,614.7 Current assets Inventories 17 395.8 261.9 Accounts receivable 18.19 1,272.6 1,047.1 Derivative instruments 16.19 0.2 – Tax assets 9.0 7.6 Other receivables 19 14.4 7.7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 168.3 158.5 Divestment-related receivables 14.19 5.0 – Cash and cash equivalents 20 277.6 71.5 Total current assets 2,143.0 1,554.1 TOTAL ASSETS 6,177.1 4,168.8 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 21 Share capital 386.1 380.9 Other contributed capital 443.0 393.7 Reserves 21.2 6.2 Retained earnings including net profit for the year 796.2 704.3 Total equity (attributable to Parent Company shareholders in its entirety) 1,646.6 1,485.1 Non-current liabilities Provisions for pensions and similar obligations – 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities 15 186.5 132.9 Liabilities to credit institutions 19.22 1,984.8 1,068.6 Acquisition-related liabilities 14,19,23 202.5 78.3 Derivative instruments 16.19 7.3 6.5 Total non-current liabilities 2,381.1 1,286.6 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 19.22 12.6 – Accounts payable 19.22 1,568.5 956.3 Tax liabilities 15.19 20.0 59.3 Derivative instruments 16.19 0.1 0.1 Other current liabilities 19.22 162.7 115.1 Acquisition-related liabilities 14,19,23 73.9 31.3 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 311.8 235.0 Total current liabilities 2,149.5 1,397.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 6,177.1 4,168.8 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Other Share contributed Translation Hedge Retained SEK million capital capital reserve reserve earnings Total equity Opening balance, Sep 1, 2017 380.9 393.7 12.0 -5.8 704.3 1,485.1 Net profit for the year – – – – 305.1 305.1 Other comprehensive income Translation differences – – 115.3 – – 115.3 Cash-flow hedging, changes in fair value – – – -128.5 – -128.5 Tax attributable to cash-flow hedges – – – 28.2 – 28.2 Total other comprehensive income – – 115.3 -100.3 – 15.0 Total comprehensive income for the year – – 115.3 -100.3 305.1 320.1 Dividends to shareholders – – – – -213.3 -213.3 Holdings of own warrants – -5.9 – – – -5.9 New share issue 5.3 50.1 – – – 55.4 Subscription with the support of warrants – 5.1 – – – 5.1 Total transactions with shareholders 5.3 49.3 – – -213.3 -158.7 Closing balance, Aug 31, 2018 386.1 443.0 127.3 -106.1 796.2 1,646.6 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Other Share contributed Translation Hedge Retained SEK million capital capital reserve reserve earnings Total equity Opening balance, Sep 1, 2016 380.9 392.1 15.2 -14.1 648.1 1,422.2 Net profit for the year – – – – 239.1 239.1 Other comprehensive income Translation differences – – -3.2 – – -3.2 Cash-flow hedging, changes in fair value – – – 10.6 – 10.6 Tax – – – -2.3 – -2.3 Total other comprehensive income – – -3.2 8.3 – 5.1 Total comprehensive income for the year – – -3.2 8.3 239.1 244.1 Dividends to shareholders – – – – -182.8 -182.8 Subscription with the support of warrants – 1.6 – – – 1.6 Total transactions with shareholders – 1.6 – – -182.8 -181.2 Closing balance, Aug 31, 2017 380.9 393.7 12.0 -5.8 704.3 1,485.1 82 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of cash flow SEK million Note 17/18 16/17 Operating activities EBIT 443.8 349.5 Adjustment for non-cash items 25 51.7 58.1 Interest received 1.1 1.2 Interest paid -34.6 -27.4 Income tax paid -99.8 -57.9 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 362.3 323.4 Decrease (+)/increase (-) in inventories -87.1 -28.5 Decrease (+)/increase (-) in receivables 21.8 -143.8 Decrease (-)/increase (+) in current liabilities 451.0 62.5 Cash flow from changes in working capital 385.7 -109.9 Cash flow from operating activities 747.9 213.6 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets -27.2 -18.1 Acquisition of tangible assets -24.9 -9.2 Acquisition of operations 23 -1,023.0 -147.2 Divestment of operations 1.5 – Contingent earn-out paid 23 -53.7 -26.6 Cash flow from investing activities -1,127.4 -201.0 Financing activities Cash flow from LTI programme 54.6 1.6 New loans raised 2,165.0 – Repayment of loans -1,383.6 – Paid liabilities start-up costs -8.4 -3.3 Dividends -213.3 -182.8 Change in financial leasing liabilities -3.6 -1.6 Cash flow from financing activities 610.8 -186.1 Cash flow for the year 231.3 -173.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 71.5 242.9 Cash flow for the year 231.3 -173.6 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -25.1 2.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 277.6 71.5 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company income statement SEK million Note 17/18 16/17 Net sales 0.4 0.4 Net sales P1 0.4 0.4 Operating expenses P1 Selling and administrative expenses P2,P3 -11.8 -10.4 Other operating expenses -0.1 0.0 EBIT -11.5 -10.0 Financial income and other similar income-statement items P4 314.2 20.0 Financial expenses and other similar income-statement items P4 -187.6 -45.9 Profit after financial items 115.1 -35.9 Appropriations P5 269.4 212.4 Tax P6 -18.7 -38.8 Net profit for the year 365.9 137.6 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income SEK million 17/18 16/17 Net profit for the year 365.9 137.6 Other comprehensive income – – Comprehensive income for the year 365.9 137.6 84 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company balance sheet SEK million Note Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Participations in Group companies P7 1,211.6 1,211.6 Total non-current assets 1,211.6 1,211.6 Current assets Receivables from Group companies P15 1,543.3 619.9 Tax assets – 0.6 Prepaid expenses and accrued income P8 0.8 6.3 Other receivables – 0.2 Cash and bank balances P9 247.0 42.9 Total current assets 1,791.1 669.8 TOTAL ASSETS 3,002.7 1,881.4 Equity and liabilities Restricted equity P10 Share capital 386.1 380.9 Total restricted equity 386.1 380.9 Non-restricted equity P10 Share premium reserve 438.3 388.1 Retained earnings -322.0 -251.5 Net profit for the year 365.9 137.6 Total non-restricted equity 482.1 274.3 Total equity 868.2 655.2 Untaxed reserves P11 137.7 109.4 Non-current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions P12 1,984.8 1,068.6 Total non-current liabilities 1,984.8 1,068.6 Current liabilities Accounts payable P12 0.0 0.2 Tax liabilities P12 6.6 45.1 Other current liabilities P12 0.4 0.3 Accrued expenses and deferred income P13 5.0 2.6 Total current liabilities 12.0 48.2 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,002.7 1,881.4 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Share premium Retained SEK million Share capital reserve earnings Total equity Opening balance, Sep 1, 2017 380.9 388.1 -113.8 655.2 Net profit for the year 365.9 365.9 Total comprehensive income – – 365.9 365.9 Dividends – – -213.3 -213.3 New share issue 5.3 50.1 – 55.4 Subscription with the support of warrants – – 5.1 5.1 Total transactions with shareholders 5.3 50.1 157.6 213.0 Closing balance, Aug 31, 2018 386.1 438.3 43.8 868.2 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Share premium Retained SEK million Share capital reserve earnings Total equity Opening balance, Sep 1, 2016 380.9 388.1 -70.3 698.7 Net profit for the year 137.6 137.6 Total comprehensive income – – 137.6 137.6 Dividends – – -182.8 -182.8 Subscription with the support of warrants – – 1.6 1.6 Total transactions with shareholders – – -43.5 -43.5 Closing balance, Aug 31, 2017 380.9 388.1 -113.8 655.2 86 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company statement of cash flow SEK million Note 17/18 16/17 Operating activities EBIT -11.5 -10.0 Adjustment for non-cash items P14 297.7 271.2 Interest received 14.2 9.6 Interest paid -29.8 -23.7 Income tax paid -56.6 -16.5 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 214.0 230.7 Decrease (+)/increase (-) in receivables -920.6 -162.3 Decrease (-)/increase (+) in current liabilities 2.3 1.2 Cash flow from changes in working capital -918.3 -161.0 Cash flow from operating activities -704.3 69.6 Financing activities Cash flow from LTI programme 60.5 1.6 New loans raised 2,153.2 – Repayment of loans -1,383.6 – Paid liabilities start-up costs P12 -8.4 -3.3 Dividends received 300.0 10.4 Dividends paid -213.3 -182.8 Cash flow from financing activities 908.4 -174.1 Cash flow for the year 204.1 -104.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 42.9 147.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 247.0 42.9 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES and assumptions are based on historical experience and Note 1 Significant accounting policies various other factors that under current circumstances seem reasonable and are regularly reviewed. The The consolidated financial statements for Dustin have actual outcome may differ from these estimates been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual and assumptions, but not significantly. A change in Accounts Act, International Financial Reporting Standards estimates is recognised in the period in which the (IFRS), and interpretations issued by the International change occurred. The areas that involve a high degree of Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) assessment and that are of material importance to the as adopted by the EU. In addition, the Swedish Financial Group are described in Note 2 Important estimates and Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary assessments. Accounting Rules for Groups is applied. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the The accounting policies outlined in this section are Group except for the cases described under the section applied consistently to all external reporting, unless “Parent Company’s accounting policies.” The Board otherwise stated. and the CEO approved this Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements for publication on New and amended accounting policies November 14, 2018. The consolidated and Parent Company None of the changes and interpretations in existing income statement and balance sheet will be adopted by standards that have been applied from the financial the Annual General Meeting on December 11, 2018. year beginning September 1, 2017 had any material impact on the financial statements for the Group or the Valuation basis in the preparation of the financial Parent Company. statements Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers except for certain financial assets and liabilities that are The standard deals with the recognition of revenue from measured at fair value. Financial assets and liabilities contracts with customers. The new standard replaces measured at fair value consist of derivative instruments IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IAS 18 Revenue and and acquisition-related earn-outs. related interpretations. The standard became effective for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, Functional currency and presentation currency which for Dustin means the financial year beginning The functional currency of the Parent Company is the September 1, 2018. In addition to what is described Swedish krona (SEK), which is also the presentation below, the standard entails more informative disclosures currency for both the Parent Company and the Group. in the company’s external reporting. This means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. All amounts, unless otherwise stated, are Sales of products rounded to the nearest million SEK. Sales of products comprise the largest share of the Group’s total income. Income is to be recognised at the Classification of current and non-current items point in time that control of the product is passed to Assets and liabilities are allocated as current or nonthe buyer, instead of the current policy whereby income current. Non-current assets and liabilities consist is recognised when the material risks and benefits primarily of assets and liabilities that are expected to are transferred to the buyer. Dustin believes that the fall due for payment more than 12 months after the company’s current policies for income recognition are balance-sheet date. Current receivables and liabilities essentially consistent with the new standard. consist primarily of assets and liabilities that are expected to fall due for payment more than 12 months Sales of licenses after the balance-sheet date. Dustin is the reseller of licenses and does not sell its own licenses to customers. Depending on the type of Estimates and assessments in the financial statements software license sold, Dustin has identified customer Preparing the financial statements in accordance contracts in which Dustin in certain contracts, for with IFRS requires management to make estimates specific licenses, is the principal, but acts as agent in and assumptions that impact the application of the other contracts. Dustin believes that the company’s accounting policies and the carrying amounts for current income recognition is essentially consistent assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates with the new standard. 88 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Income from bundled services reporting structure used by management, the Board of To recognise income for various bundled services, Directors and the chief operating decision maker (the an assessment is made of whether the service and CEO). Dustin presented new segment reporting at the hardware is to be deemed a performance obligation end of November, with the former B2B segment divided component and recognised over time or whether into two new segments. Dustin’s operations are divided the service and the hardware are to be recognised into three business segments: SMB (Small and Mediumseparately with income from hardware recognised with sized Businesses), LCP (Large Corporate and Public the transfer of control and the service to the customer Sector) and B2C (Business to Consumer). The segments over time. An analysis of current income recognition are followed up using the key performance indicators revealed that no material changes exist. of net sales and segment earnings. A central function also exists, to which all non-allocated costs and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments amortisation/depreciation are recognised. The divested The standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: lease operations in the B2B segment are included in the Recognition and Measurement. It contains rules for segment reporting for earlier periods. classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial instruments and hedge Consolidation policies accounting. Dustin will utilise the exemption to restate comparable information for prior periods with respect Group structure to changes in classification and measurement. The new The Group encompasses the Parent Company and standard entails changes in principle to the model for subsidiaries. The financial statements of subsidiaries impairment of anticipated credit losses. Dustin has are consolidated in the consolidated financial calculated and is of the opinion that the effect of the statements as of the date on which the controlling changes in principle will not have any material impact on influence is attained and until the date on which the financial statements. Furthermore, Dustin deems the controlling influence no longer exists. An overview of all type of hedge relationship for hedge accounting fulfils consolidated companies in the Group can be found in the requirements of IFRS 9 and is thus not expected Note P7 Participations in Group companies. to have any impact on the financial statements. The standard is effective for financial years beginning on Consolidation of subsidiaries and purchase price allocations or after January 1, 2018, which for Dustin means the Acquisitions of subsidiaries are recognised in accordance financial year beginning September 1, 2018. with the purchase method. Using this method, the acquisition of a subsidiary is regarded as a transaction IFRS 16 Leases whereby Dustin indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets This standard, which encompasses the recognition of lease and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. agreements, comes into effect on January 1, 2019, which for Dustin means the financial year beginning September In the event of an acquisition, the purchase price 1, 2019. The financial statements will be affected by this allocation is prepared to determine the cost of the shares standard, partly as a result of the current values of future or the business and the fair value at the acquisition date lease fees being recognised as assets and interest-bearing of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. liabilities in the balance sheet, and by the fact that the The difference between the purchase consideration and current lease expenses in the income statement will be the fair value of identified assets and liabilities assumed replaced by the recognition of depreciation and interest is allocated to goodwill. If the purchase consideration expense in net financial items. The contracts that will is lower than the fair value of the acquired company’s be recognised in Dustin’s balance sheet relate mainly net assets, the difference is recognised as revenue to buildings (offices and warehouses), transportation in the income statement. Transaction costs directly (vehicles and forklifts) and other equipment (e.g. IT and attributable to the acquisition are expensed continuously machinery). A project to evaluate the effects is in progress and are recognised under Items affecting comparability. and Dustin has not yet completed its quantification of the Any contingent earn-out to be paid after the acquisition impact of the new standard on the consolidated financial date is recognised as a liability at fair value. Measurement statements and key performance indicators. is subsequently carried out on a continuous basis at fair value and changes in value are recognised in profit or Segment reporting loss under Items affecting comparability. If a change in In Dustin, segment reporting is based on the Group’s value occurs before the purchase price allocation has end-customers and corresponds to the internal been finalised, and the change is of such a nature that ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES the event arose from the acquisition date, measurement • It is probable that any future financial benefits associated is carried out via the balance sheet. For more information with the income item will accrue to the entity, and on items affecting comparability, refer to Definitions on • the income can be calculated in a reliable manner. page 143. Dustin’s sales include the sale of IT products and Transactions eliminated upon consolidation advanced products and services to businesses (B2B) in Intra-Group receivables and payables, income and expenses the SMB (Small and Medium-sized Businesses) segment, arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated when and LCP (Large Corporate and Public Sector) as well as the consolidated financial statements are prepared. consumers (B2C). For sales of goods to the B2B segment, the risk passes to the buyer when the goods are Foreign currency delivered to the carrier, and for the B2C segment, the Foreign currency transactions are translated to the risk passes to the customer when the goods are handed functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing over by the carrier. on the transaction date. Exchange-rate differences arising in connection with the settlement of such Cost of goods and services sold transactions, or when translating exchange rates for Cost of goods and services sold includes the purchase monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies on price, customs, other taxes, distribution costs, expenses for the balance-sheet, date are recognised in profit or loss. consultants and other directly attributable costs. Discounts from suppliers, cash discounts, vendor bonuses and similar Functional currency is the currency of the primary items reduce the cost of goods and services sold. economic environment in which the entity operates, meaning that the local currency corresponds to Selling and administrative expenses the functional currency for the companies. Upon Selling expenses includes costs directly attributable consolidation, this means that all assets and liabilities to sales of goods and services. This item includes the included in the subsidiaries’ balance sheets are cost of freight to customers, marketing, remuneration translated at the closing day rate and all profit or of sellers, debt collection, credit information, etc. loss items are translated at the average exchange Administrative expenses include administration costs rate. Any translation differences are recognised in not attributable to the cost of goods and services sold other comprehensive income and accumulated in the or selling expenses. Administrative expenses include translation reserve in equity. costs for the finance department, HR department, IT department, depreciation and other expenses. The Group applies hedge accounting to hedge net investments in foreign subsidiaries. For effective hedges, Items affecting comparability exchange-rate differences from transaction of external Items affecting comparability relate to material income loans from credit institutes are recognised in other and expense items recognised separately due to the comprehensive income. Gains or losses attributable to significance of their nature and amounts to facilitate ineffective portions of hedges are recognised in profit or understanding of the Group’s financial performance. loss under net financial items. For further information, Items affecting comparability are specified in Note 5 refer to the section on Derivative instruments and Items affecting comparability. hedge accounting on page 93. Exchange-rate differences attributable to operating assets and liabilities are Financial income and expenses recognised in profit or loss under EBIT. Financial income and expenses consist of interest income from bank deposits and receivables and interest Net sales expenses from external financing. Interest expenses Net sales include income measured at the fair value of and interest income are recognised when they arise in what has been or will be received for sold goods and accordance with the effective interest method. services, excluding discounts, VAT and after eliminating intra-Group sales. Income is recognised in profit or loss Income tax when the following criteria have been fulfilled: Dustin’s total tax expense consists of current and • The goods or services are delivered to the customer deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss, (B2C) or the carrier (B2B) and the financial benefits except when the underlying transaction is recognised related to the goods or services have essentially been in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in transferred to the customer. which case the related tax effect is recognised in other 90 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES comprehensive income or directly in equity. Current tax The cash-generating units to which goodwill has been is tax that is to be paid or received in the current year, allocated are to be impairment tested by comparing the with the application of the tax rates that have been carrying amount of the unit, including goodwill, with decided or decided in practice on the balance-sheet date the recoverable amount of the unit.When impairment in the countries in which the company’s subsidiaries testing goodwill, the recoverable amount of the operate and generate taxable earnings. This also includes operating capital, including goodwill, is compared with adjustments of current tax attributable to prior periods. the carrying amount. Operating capital is defined as the net of operating assets and operating liabilities. Joint Lease accounting operating assets in Dustin include goodwill, inventory, accounts receivable, personnel receivables, tax assets Dustin as a lessee and accrued receivables. Joint operating liabilities in Dustin primarily include accounts payable, provisions, Financial leasing tax liabilities and deferred tax. A lease is classified as financial leasing when the risk and rewards associated with ownership have been The valuation is based on a business plan and a transferred to Dustin. The assets are recognised as discounted cash flow analysis, as the main approach tangible assets and the future payments as liabilities. in estimating the recoverable amount. A sensitivity analysis of the discount rate and growth assumptions is Operating leases made after each impairment test in order to determine Other lease contracts are classified as operating. Costs whether the remaining surplus value (the difference for operating leases are recognised in profit or loss for the between the recoverable amount and the carrying year on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. amount) is sufficient. Intangible assets Other intangible assets Other intangible assets consist of acquired customer Brands relationships and capitalised IT expenditure for the The Dustin brand is recognised as an intangible asset integrated IT platform and Dustin’s pricing platform. with an indefinite useful life since Dustin is actively Intangible assets are recognised in the balance sheet if continuing to support the brand via continuous further they meet the criteria for intangible assets according to development and strengthening. The brand is not IAS 38 Intangible Assets. amortised but is tested for impairment every year and whenever there is an indication of a decline in value. Capitalisation of IT expenditure for the integrated IT platform is only applied to systems that Dustin Goodwill considers strategic long-term systems. Expenditure for Goodwill arises when operations are acquired where the other systems are expensed immediately. Capitalised IT cost exceeds the fair value of Dustin’s share of the acquired expenditures consist of: operations’ identifiable net assets on the acquisition date. • System development that improves system Goodwill is recognised at cost reduced by any impairment. functionality. System development activities include functional and technical design, development/ Impairment of goodwill is tested annually and configuration, deployment, migration and project whenever there is an indication of a decline in value per management of said activities within the framework cash-generating unit. The carrying amount of goodwill of the architecture principles. is compared with the recoverable amount, which is the • Work to upgrade platforms, modules or systems in highest of the value in use and the fair value less selling order to gain significant new functionality. expenses. Any impairment is recognised as an expense • Work to expand the use of the platforms to new parts and is never reversed. of the organisation. The following cash-generating units have been identified: Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over • B2C: Private customers the estimated useful life and is recognised in profit • LCP: Business customers where the companies have or loss under Selling and administrative expenses. more than 500 employees per group/contract point Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised as and public limited companies/organisations. from the date the asset is available for use. The expected • SMB: Other business customers useful lives for intangible assets are as follows: ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Customer relationships 3-10 years Impairment of assets ERP platform 3-15 years Assets with indefinite useful lives are not depreciated Web platform 3-6 years but are tested for impairment at least once a year. Other technology 2-4 years Assets that are subject to depreciation are also tested Licenses and hardware 3 years for impairment. Any impairment of assets subject to Pricing platform 3 years depreciation is reversed only when there is no longer any indication of impairment and the assumptions used Tangible assets as the basis for calculating the recoverable amount have Tangible assets are recognised as assets in the balance changed. However, impairment of goodwill is never sheet when it is probable that the future financial reversed. An impairment loss is only reversed to the benefits associated with the assets will accrue to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount, after reversal, company and the cost of the asset can be measured does not exceed the recognised residual value that reliably. Tangible assets are recognised at cost less would have existed had the impairment not occurred. accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price and costs directly Inventories attributable to the asset for delivering it to its intended Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and place and in a condition that matches the intended net realisable value, less expected obsolescence. purpose. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the operating activities, less the estimated costs for The carrying amount of tangible assets is derecognised accomplishing a sale. Goods are considered to be from the balance sheet when the item is disposed of or included in Dustin’s inventory from the date on which sold or when no future financial benefits are expected the goods are owned by Dustin according to civil law. to accrue from the asset. Gains or losses on the sale The cost of inventories is measured according to a or disposal of an asset are calculated as the difference moving average method. This averaging approach is between the selling price (less direct selling expenses) considered to yield a safe and conservative approach to and the carrying amount of the asset. Gains or losses recognising financial results. Calculation of the moving are recognised as other operating income/expenses in average cost is made by dividing the total cost of the profit or loss. items purchased by the number of items in inventories. The average cost includes all inventory items in stock Depreciation is applied on a straight-line basis over and is re-calculated after every inventory purchase. the estimated useful life and recognised in Selling and administrative expenses in profit or loss. Useful lives Receivables are continuously assessed. The expected useful lives for Accounts receivable and other receivables are measured tangible assets are as follows: at fair value on initial recognition and subsequently at Investment in rented premises 5-10 years amortised cost less any impairment. The impairment Computers and accessories 3 years is recognised in profit or loss under Selling and Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 5 years administrative expenses. Accounts receivable are included in the balance sheet when an invoice has Deferred tax been issued. Since the expected maturity of an account Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences, receivable is short, the value is recognised without which is the difference between the taxable value of discounting. assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is Cash and cash equivalents calculated using the tax rates and tax regulations that Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank have been decided or announced as per the balancebalances that are readily available. Utilised bank sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised only overdrafts are recognised under short-term loans. to the extent that it is probable that future taxable surplus will be available for offsetting the temporary Equity differences within the foreseeable future. Deferred tax Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction liabilities and deferred tax assets are offset as far as costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares possible within the framework of local laws and tax or warrants are recognised (net of tax) in equity regulations. as a deduction from the issue proceeds. For more information about equity, refer to Note 21 Equity. 92 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Provisions Loans A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when External loans and drawdowns are initially measured Dustin has an existing legal or informal obligation as a at the fair value of the amount received, net after result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow transaction costs. Transaction costs include costs of financial benefits will be required to settle the that arise in connection with raising loans or loan obligation and when a reliable estimate of the amount commitments if it is deemed probable that loan can be made. If the effect of the date of payment is or credits will be utilised. The cost is recognised as material, provisions are calculated by discounting the prepaid expenses until the credits or loan is utilised. expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects Borrowing is thereafter recognised at amortised cost current market assessments of the time value of money and any difference between the amount received (net and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. after transaction costs) and the repayment amount is recognised in profit or loss distributed over the Remuneration of employees borrowing period, applying the effective interest method. Defined-contribution pension plans The Group only has defined-contribution pension plans. Liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless Defined-contribution plans are plans under which the Dustin has an unconditional right to defer payment of company’s obligations are limited to the payment of the liability for at least 12 months after the balancefixed contributions. Dustin has no legal or informal sheet date. obligations to pay further contributions should the fund not have sufficient assets to pay all employee Acquisition-related liabilities benefits relating to employee service in current and Acquisition-related liabilities pertain to contingent prior periods. For defined-contribution plans, Dustin earn-outs. Measurement is carried out on a continuous pays contributions to publicly or privately administered basis at fair value and changes in value are recognised pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual in profit or loss under Items affecting comparability. or voluntary basis. The contributions are recognised If a change in value occurs before the purchase price as expenses for employee benefits when the amounts allocation has been finalised, and the change is of such become due for payment. Prepaid contributions are a nature that the event arose from the acquisition recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund date, measurement is carried out via the balance sheet. or a reduction in future payments accrues to Dustin. Liabilities for contingent earn-outs are discounted and the effect of the discounting is expensed under financial Share-based remuneration liabilities. The fair value is calculated as defined for Level A number of senior executives and other key individuals 3 in IFRS 13, meaning according to inputs that are not at Dustin have been allotted warrants under the based on observable market data. The calculation of the framework of the Group’s share-based remuneration contingent earn-out liability is based on the parameters plan. Dustin receives services from these employees of each acquisition agreement. These parameters are as payment for the Group’s equity instruments usually linked to the outcome of performance measures (warrants). Furthermore, the programme also includes taken for up to three years from the date of acquisition. a limited number of warrants that are settled in cash, known as synthetic options. The fair value of liabilities Derivative instruments and hedge accounting including any social security contributions for cashDerivatives comprise interest-rate derivatives to cover based payment is charged to profit or loss at the the variable interest-rate risk associated with external corresponding change in liabilities. All warrants were bank loans and, in certain cases, currency futures to issued on market-based terms on the subscription date. cover the transaction exposure that may arise upon purchase of foreign currency. Derivative instruments are Dustin issues new shares when the warrants are recognised on the contract date and are measured at utilised. Payments received, less any transaction costs, fair value, both initially and in subsequent revaluations increase the share capital and other contributed capital via other comprehensive income, in the hedge reserve to the extent exceeding the quotient value. in shareholders’ equity, on condition that the hedge is effective. When the hedge is realised, the realised For more information regarding employee benefits, portion is reversed to profit or loss. see Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES If the hedge accounting ceases, the cumulative gain the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the standard or loss on the hedging instrument remains until RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. RFR 2 requires that, such time as the forecast transaction occurs. If the to the extent possible, financial statements for the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the Parent Company should comply with all IFRS standards cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument is and interpretations approved by the EU. Furthermore, immediately recognised in net financial items in profit the recommendation specifies permissible exceptions or loss. If the derivative is discontinued prematurely and from IFRS, as well as additions to IFRS that are required replaced with a new, similar derivative, the derivative’s in order for the Parent Company to be compliant with cost is recognised on an accruals basis in profit or loss Swedish legislation. over the original remaining term. Differences between the accounting policies of the From September 1, 2016, hedge accounting according Group and the Parent Company are presented below. to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement has been applied to net investments in Amended and new accounting policies foreign subsidiaries. This means that exchange-rate The Parent Company’s accounting policies were differences on external loans are recognised in other unchanged during the year. No new or revised IFRS or comprehensive income. Efficacy analyses are carried RFR 2 changes are deemed to have impacted the Parent out every quarter and in accordance with Dustin’s Company. IFRS 9 Financial instruments, which replaces Financial Policy. Any gains or losses from hedging IAS 39, will not be applied by the Parent Company. instruments attributable to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive Financial instruments income. Gains or losses attributable to the ineffective The Parent Company does not apply IAS 39 Financial portion are recognised in profit or loss under Financial Instruments. Financial instruments are recognised at expenses and other similar income-statement items. cost in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Unlike Accumulated gains and losses in other comprehensive the Group, the Parent Company does not apply hedge income are recognised in profit or loss when the accounting to net investments in foreign subsidiaries. foreign operations are fully or partly offset. The Group This means the Parent Company’s income statement meets the requirements for applying hedging of net recognises the exchange-rate effect of loans in foreign investments. currency. In accordance with Dustin’s Financial Policy, derivatives are to be used for hedging of variable Accounts payable interest rates on external loans. To minimise the risk Accounts payable are obligations to pay for goods or of fluctuations in interest expenses for the Group, the services that have been acquired from suppliers in the derivatives must be structured so that maturities are operating activities. Accounts payable are classified as spread over several periods. During the current and current liabilities if they fall due for payment within preceding financial years, derivatives were prematurely one year. If payment is expected to be made more than discontinued and replaced with new derivatives with 12 months after the balance-sheet date, the liability is wider maturity spreads. The effect of the derivatives recognised as a long-term liability. Accounts payable being prematurely discontinued is that the early are initially measured at fair value and thereafter at payment is recognised as an asset (prepaid expense) amortised cost applying the effective interest method. in the balance sheet and the cost is recognised on an accruals basis in net financial items over the original Contingent liabilities remaining duration. Disclosures about a contingent liability are provided when there is a possible obligation depending on Tax whether some uncertain future event occurs or when The Parent Company recognises untaxed reserves there is an existing obligation for which payment is not (appropriations) and deferred tax. probable or the amount cannot be measured reliably. Group contributions Parent Company’s accounting policies Dustin applies alternative regulations pursuant to RFR 2, The Parent Company Dustin Group AB’s financial which means that Group contributions are recognised statements have been prepared in accordance with as appropriations. 94 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Subsidiaries Note 2 Important estimates and assessments Shares in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company according to the cost method. Any dividend from subsidiaries is recognised in profit or loss for The preparation of these financial statements involves the Parent Company as financial income. If there management making estimates and assessments about is an indication that the value of the shares in the the future. These assumptions and estimates are based subsidiaries has decreased, an impairment test is on historical experience and other factors considered conducted. Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are for these important areas, and the estimates and to be recognised in cases where the Parent Company assessments are evaluated continuously. Estimates and has exclusive rights to decide about the size of the assessments recognised for the year are considered to dividend, and whether the Parent Company made be reasonable. The identified key estimates are: a decision about the size of the dividend before the Parent Company published its financial statements. Impairment of assets Goodwill is considered to be the most important asset Shareholders’ contributions for which impairment testing is deemed to be critical. Shareholders’ contributions are capitalised in shares The calculated recoverable amount of identified cashand participations. Any impairment requirements are generating units is based on a number of assessments taken into account. and estimates based on managements best assessment. Changes to these could have a material effect on the recoverable amount. The most significant assumption are outlined in Note 12 Intangible assets and Note 23 Acquisition of businesses. The sensitivity analysis shows that reasonable changes in assumptions made would not result in a lower recoverable amount than the carrying amount of goodwill. The impairment tests for the current financial year did not indicate any need of impairment. Performance-based contingent earn-out liability Dustin has often applied a price model to acquisitions whereby the total purchase consideration partly comprises a performance-based earn-out liability. The total earn-out is initially assessed when the preliminary purchase price allocation is determined in direct connection with the acquisition. Changes in the earnout liability are subsequently evaluated every quarter or when the need arises. The assessments on which the recognised liability is based comprise a number of critical assumptions with respect to, for example, growth and margins. Company management works actively on forecasts and follow-ups and ensuring that the assumptions forming the basis of recognised liabilities are deemed to be reasonable. For more information, refer to Note 23 Acquisition of businesses. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 3 Business segments and sales by geographic area Net sales Assets* Group By geographic Aug 31, Aug 31, Net sales 17/18 16/17 area 17/18 16/17 2018 2017 LCP 5,284.1 5,184.6 Denmark 1,638.5 1,563.0 538.3 258.5 SMB 4,375.1 3,530.8 Finland 1,631.0 1,571.6 366.8 267.4 B2C 641.2 590.8 The NetherTotal net sales 10,300.5 9,306.2 lands 167.6 – 738.5 – Norway 1,710.5 1,374.7 492.2 325.3 Segment results Sweden 5,152.8 4,796.9 1,876.5 1,752.2 LCP 330.5 355.4 Total 10,300.5 9,306.2 4,012.3 2,603.4 SMB 508.2 377.5 B2C 31.5 24.6 * Total assets excluding divestment-related receivables, deferred tax assets, derivate instruments and other assets. Segment results 870.2 757.4 Central functions -369.5 -331.3 Dustin’s operations were previously divided into two Adjusted EBITA 500.6 426.1 business segments: B2B and B2C, but since the 17/18 financial year B2B has been divided into two segments: LCP (Large Corporate and Public Sector) and SMB (Small Segment margin and Medium-sized Businesses). Within LCP and SMB, LCP, segment margin (%) 6.3 6.9 customers are served through both the online platform SMB, segment margin (%) 11.6 10.7 and relationship selling. Dustin’s sales model has been B2C, segment margin (%) 4.9 4.2 adapted to meet customer needs as efficiently as possible. In addition to the core LCP and SMB segments, Costs for central functions, excluding Dustin also serves private customers in the B2C items affecting comparability in business segment. In the B2C segment, customers are relation to net sales (%) -3.6 -3.6 only served through the online platform. Through this customer segment, Dustin gains insight into trends and Reconciliation with EBIT pricing as well as increased sales with limited additional Items affecting comparability 1.0 -7.3 costs. Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets -57.8 -69.3 These three business segments are supported by a EBIT, Group 443.8 349.5 number of Group-wide functions including product procurement, pricing, online, marketing, business Financial income and other support and people development. These Group-wide similar income-statement items 1.1 1.2 functions are referred to above as central functions. Financial expenses and other similar Dustin’s central functions hold the key to delivery of income-statement items -60.3 -42.6 the Group’s offerings in all markets, the generation of economies of scale and the simplification of the Profit after financial items, Group 384.6 308.1 integration of acquired operations. 96 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 4 Expenses by type of cost 17/18 16/17 Cost of goods and services sold from suppliers 8,604.1 7,863.6 Personnel costs included in cost of goods and services sold 59.5 63.1 Cost of goods and services sold 8,663.7 7,926.7 Personnel costs 870.7 639.9 Amortisation/depreciation of tangible and intangible assets 78.4 81.6 Other selling and administrative expenses including items affecting comparability 233.2 302.2 Selling and administrative expenses including items affecting comparability 1,182.3 1,023.6 Total 9,845.9 8,950.3 The item Cost of goods and services sold from suppliers Depreciation/amortisation encompasses intangible refers to direct costs for purchases of goods and direct and tangible assets and is included in the line Selling costs related to the delivery of services. Personnel costs and administrative expenses in the income statement. included in cost of goods and services sold refers to Other selling and administrative expenses including personnel costs that are directly attributable to the items affecting comparability primarily refer to rent for provision of a service. Personnel costs that are not premises, costs for temporary employees, marketing, directly related to the provision of a service are included IT and other personnel costs not related to salaries or in the item Selling and administrative expenses and refer social security contributions, in addition to the Items to payroll expenses including social security expenses. affecting comparability specified in Note 5. Note 5 Items affecting comparability 17/18 16/17 Acquisition and divestment-related expenses -20.2 -11.6 Recruitment costs, senior executives -2.9 – Change in value of acquisition-related liabilities 23.7 22.3 Gain attributable to divestment of operations 0.4 – Provision for repayment requirement – -18.0 Total 1.0 -7.3 Items affecting comparability for the year amounted with acquisitions and divestments. The change in value to SEK 1 million (-7) and mainly comprised costs of SEK of acquisition-related liabilities for the year is related to 20 million (12) for acquisitions implemented during the the acquisition of IDENET AB, the now merged company year and positive effects from the change in value of IKT AS and Core Services AS. For more information, refer acquisition-related liabilities of SEK 24 million (22). to Note 14 Acquisition and divestment-related assets and liabilities. The gain attributable to the divestment Costs for acquisitions and divestments primarily of operations relates to the sale of IT-Hantverkarna pertained to remuneration to consultants and attorneys Sverige AB. for financial and legal advisory services in conjunction ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 6 Auditor’s remuneration and expenses 17/18 16/17 Ernst & Young AB Audit assignment 3.0 3.0 Audit activities other than audit assignment 1.4 0.9 Tax consultations 0.1 0.1 Other services – 0.1 Total 4.5 4.1 Other auditing firms Audit assignment 0.2 – Total 4.7 4.1 Audit assignments are defined as the examination Audit activities other than audit assignment primarily of the Annual Report and accounting records and of relate to the auditor’s review of interim reports and the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s administration of review of the company’s Corporate Responsibility the Company, other tasks incumbent on the auditor, Report. as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations made in the course of such examinations For the 16/17 and 17/18 financial years, Ernst & Young or the performance of such other tasks. AB was appointed the auditor of the Group. Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives 17/18 16/17 Average number of employees Women Men Total Women Men Total Sweden 169 540 709 147 500 647 Norway 27 126 153 22 100 123 Finland 26 82 108 21 77 98 Denmark 20 105 125 20 90 110 The Netherlands (consolidated July 4) 8 49 57 – – – Total 250 902 1,152 211 767 977 17/18 16/17 Distribution of Board members and senior executives at the balance-sheet date Women Men Total Women Men Total Board members 3 4 7 4 4 8 Group Management, including CEO 4 6 10 3 7 10 Total 7 10 17 7 11 18 98 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives, cont’d. 17/18 of which, of which, Salaries and other remuneration of CEO and CEO Thomas CEO Georgi the CEO, Group Management and Group Ekman from Ganev until Other other employees Management Jan 1, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 employees Total Salaries and other remuneration 28.2 5.8 3.3 673.7 701.9 of which, variable remuneration 9.5 2.5 1.4 26.1 35.6 Social security expenses 12.4 2.8 1.4 215.9 228.3 of which, pension costs 4.8 1.0 0.4 63.7 68.5 Total 40.6 8.6 4.7 889.6 930.2 16/17 Salaries and other remuneration of CEO and the CEO, Group Management and Group of which, CEO Other other employees Management Georgi Ganev employees Total Salaries and other remuneration 28.1 9.0 514.1 542.2 of which, variable remuneration 9.0 3.5 17.9 26.9 Social security expenses 10.7 4.6 150.1 160.8 of which, pension costs 4.6 1.8 40.2 44.7 Total 38.8 13.6 664.2 702.9 Remuneration of senior executives Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives Remuneration of the CEO Thomas Ekman comprises Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives are fixed salary, pension and other standard benefits, as resolved by the shareholders at the Annual General well as variable remuneration. The CEO is entitled to Meeting. The Annual General Meeting, which is to be a fixed annual salary of SEK 4,800,000 and annual held on December 11, 2018, will take a decision about variable remuneration of a maximum of 60 per cent the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. of the fixed salary. The retirement age for the CEO is The proposal ahead of the Annual General Meeting is 65. Until the agreed retirement age, the company is to that the guidelines for the next year remain unchanged contribute a monthly amount corresponding to 30 per compared with the established guidelines. The proposal cent of the fixed salary in a pension. The CEO has 12 is available at www.dustingroup.com. months’ notice of termination from the company and six months’ notice on his/her own initiative. Board members Remuneration and fees that were approved for 2017/18 Remuneration of the former CEO Georgi Ganev are described in the table “Board remuneration”. During comprised fixed salary, pension and other standard the 2017/18 financial year, separate remuneration benefits, as well as variable remuneration. The was paid for committee work, in contrast to previous former CEO was entitled to a fixed annual salary of years, as resolved by the Annual General Meeting on SEK 4,800,000 and annual variable remuneration of December 13, 2017. a maximum of 100 per cent of the fixed salary. The retirement age for the CEO was 65. Until the agreed CEO and other Group Management retirement age, the company was to contribute a On December 31, 2017, Georgi Ganev stepped down as monthly amount corresponding to 30 per cent of the CEO of Dustin and was replaced by Thomas Ekman, who fixed salary in a pension. took over on January 1, 2018. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives, cont’d. Remuneration of other Group Management comprises prior years (LTI 2016 and LTI2016) that encompass a fixed salary, pension and other standard benefits, as total of 593,108 and 1,159,996 warrants, respectively, well as variable remuneration of a maximum of 60 with a duration period of 3.5 years. Full exercise of the per cent of the fixed salary. Pension for other Group warrants would result in a dilution of approximately Management is paid as a percentage of the fixed 3.4 per cent. The aim of the warrants programmes salary or premium-based pension scheme. In the event is to increase the proportion of ownership among of termination of other Group Management by the Group Management and other key individuals, and to company, the notice of termination is 6 to 12 months. motivate them to remain at the company. In addition, In the event of termination of other senior executives the ownership is expected to increase long-term on their own initiative, the notice of termination is six commitment to Dustin and its earnings performance. months. The long-term incentive programme LTI 2015 was Long-term incentive programme exercised in full by participants during the financial year, At the Annual General Meeting on December 13, and the number of shares thus increased by 1,053,387, 2017, the shareholders resolved to adopt a long-term from 76,173,115 to 77,226,502. The exercise price per incentive programme (LTI 2018) for senior executives warrant was SEK 52.60 and as a result, the share capital and other identified key individuals. The programme increased by SEK 5 million and the share premium has the same structure as the previous year’s incentive reserve by SEK 50 million. programme, and consists of warrants. Each warrant carries the entitlement to subscribe for one new Of the warrants in LTI 2016 and LTI 2017 held by the share in the company. The programme includes a former CEO Georgi Ganev, 25,000 per programme total of 866,713 warrants and carries the entitlement were purchased by the CEO Thomas Ekman during the to subscribe for an equivalent number of shares. The period. The remaining warrants held by the former CEO duration period for the warrants is 3.5 years. There were repurchased by Dustin Aktiebolag, as reported are also two long-term incentive programmes from in the table below. As a result, the former CEO has no remaining warrants from the LTI programmes. Exercise price Outstanding Exercise adjusted for new Dilution on Programme Period of utilisation warrants* price, SEK share issue, SEK full exercise* LTI 2018 Jan 31, 2021 – Jun 30, 2021 866,713 88.9 87.1 1.1% LTI 2017 Jan 31, 2020 – Jun 30, 2020 1,159,996 73.9 72.4 1.5% LTI 2016 Jan 30, 2019 – Jun 30, 2019 593,108 69.3** 67.9 0.8% Total 2,619,817 3.4% * The number of warrants will be counted by factor 1.02 following the rights issue decided by the board, which will affect the dilution effect at full utilization. ** The exercise price has been adjusted for dividend payments during its term. Number of warrants to exercise per programme Participant LTI 2018 LTI 2017 LTI 2016 CEO Thomas Ekman 189,387 25,000 25,000 Other Group Management 313,784 421,820 237,242 Other participants 363,542 474,527 118,622 Holdings of own warrants – 238,649 212,244 Total 866,713 1 159 996* 593,108 * Of which 92,271 warrants are synthetic options. 100 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives, cont’d. Remuneration Committee Audit Committee The main task of the Remuneration Committee is to The task of the Audit Committee is to monitor finanprepare matters regarding remuneration and other cial reporting, risk management and efficiency in the employment terms for the CEO and other senior execompany’s internal control and regulatory compliance. cutives. This work comprises preparing proposals for In 2017/18, the Board members Johan Fant (Chairman), guidelines on, for example, the distribution between Gunnel Duveblad and Morten Strand were members of fixed and variable remuneration and the relationship the Audit Committee. between performance and compensation, the principal terms and conditions for incentive programmes, the Board members terms for other benefits, pensions, notice of terminaRemuneration and fees that were approved for 2017/18 tion and severance pay, and to prepare proposals for at the Annual General Meeting are described in the individual compensation packages for the CEO and table below. The Annual General Meeting resolved that other Group Management. Further, the Remuneration remuneration should be paid for committee work, in Committee is to monitor and evaluate the outcome of contrast to previous years. Remuneration for committhe variable remuneration and the company’s complitee work is described in the table below in the column ance with the remuneration guidelines adopted by the Other remuneration. Remuneration of the Board is Annual General Meeting. In 2017/18, the Board memapproved annually at the Annual General Meeting and bers Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman), Caroline Berg and relates to the period until the next Annual General Tomas Franzén were members of the Remuneration Meeting. Board fees are paid by Dustin Aktiebolag. No Committee. For 2018/19 financial year, the Committee Board fees were paid to subsidiaries. will submit a proposal for remuneration of the CEO for the Board’s approval. The Committee will also assist the CEO in approving remuneration of other Group Management. Board remuneration (annual fees in SEK) 17/18 16/17 Board fee Other remuneration Board fee Other remuneration Mia Brunell Livfors (Chair) 600,000 60,000 250,000 – Fredrik Cappelen (former Chair) – – 750,000 – Caroline Berg 300,000 30,000 250,000 – Gunnel Duveblad 300,000 50,000 250,000 – Johan Fant 300,000 100,000 250,000 – Maija Strandberg – – 250,000 – Mattias Miksche 300,000 – 250,000 – Morten Strand 300,000 50,000 – – Tomas Franzén 300,000 30,000 250,000 – Total 2,400,000 320,000 2,500,000 – ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 8 Lease agreements Operating lease agreements (Dustin as a lessee) The Group’s lease expense for the year amounted to SEK 82 million (77). Future lease fees amount to: 17/18 16/17 Within 1 year 96.1 69.4 Year 2 84.3 52.9 Year 3 79.6 40.3 After 3 years 74.0 37.8 Total 333.9 200.4 The Dustin Group primarily leases premises, cars, trucks, IT equipment and office equipment in accordance with the definition of operating lease agreements. Maturity of the lease agreements is usually 24-60 months, with an option to renew. No lease agreements contain requirements for extension. There are index clauses in the lease agreements. Financial lease agreements (Dustin as a lessee) The Group leases assets under financial lease agreements. No financial lease agreements extend over a period that is longer than 36 months. No variable fees were reported in net profit for the year. The leased assets mainly apply to IT hardware and cars. 17/18 16/17 Future minimum lease fees Minimum Minimum amount to: lease fees Interest Current lease fees Interest Current Within one year 4.4 0.3 4.7 1.1 0.1 1.1 Between one and five years 2.2 0.2 2.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 6.6 0.6 7.1 1.1 0.1 1.2 Financial lease assets Financial lease assets recognised as tangible assets comprise: 17/18 16/17 Cost Cars 11.1 – IT hardware 10.5 6.7 Closing balance 21.6 6.7 Accumulated depreciation Cars -3.8 – IT hardware -5.9 -3.0 Closing balance -9.6 -3.0 Carrying amount 12.0 3.7 102 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 9 Financial items Interest income and similar income-statement items 17/18 16/17 Interest income 1.1 1.2 Other financial income 0.0 0.0 Total 1.1 1.2 Interest expenses and similar income-statement items 17/18 16/17 Borrowing costs for external financing 54.7 37.9 Currency differences on loans and other non-current liabilities 0.0 2.8 Discount on contingent earn-out 4.3 0.9 Other financial expenses 1.3 1.0 Total 60.3 42.6 Note 10 Tax Recognised effective tax Tax expense 17/18 16/17 The following components are included in the tax expense in the income statement: Current tax -73.1 -72.6 Deferred tax -6.1 3.7 Adjustments of current tax attributable to prior periods -0.3 -0.1 Recognised effective tax -79.4 -69.0 Recognised effective tax rate 20.7% 22.4% Recognised profit before tax 384.6 308.1 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Tax according to current tax rate for the Parent Company -84.6 -67.8 Tax effect of: Non-deductible expenses -3.8 -1.2 Non-taxable income 4.8 -1.3 Standardised income attributable to tax allocation reserve -0.1 -0.2 Adjustment of tax for previous years and others -0.3 0.7 Difference in tax rate between Parent Company and subsidiaries 0.1 1.6 Changed tax rate 4.5 -0.9 Recognised effective tax -79.4 -69.0 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 11 Earnings per share Earnings per share before dilution 17/18 16/17 Net profit for the year, SEK million 305.1 239.1 Weighted number of shares outstanding 76,548,031 76,173,115 Number of shares when calculating earnings per share 76,548,031 76,173,115 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 3.99 3.14 Earnings per share after dilution 17/18 16/17 Net profit for the year, SEK million 305.1 239.1 Weighted number of shares outstanding 76,548,031 76,173,115 Adjustment for adopted dilution through incentive programme* 370,780 165,672 Number of shares when calculating earnings per share after dilution 76,918,811 76,338,787 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 3.97 3.13 * For more information about the incentive programme, refer to Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives. Earnings per share before dilution Earnings per share after dilution The calculation of earnings per share before dilution When calculating earnings per share after dilution, has been based on net profit for the year in relation to the weighted average number of shares outstanding the weighted average number of shares outstanding according to the above is adjusted for a potential according to the above. dilution effect of the warrants outstanding. Note 12 Intangible assets Goodwill Change in goodwill for the year 17/18 16/17 Goodwill per segment Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Opening cost 2,105.8 1,894.7 B2C 7.7 7.7 Acquisition of operations 981.8 224.8 LCP 883.5 722.9 Reallocation of surplus values from SMB 2,330.5 1,375.2 preliminary purchase price allocations 1.6 -11.6 Total 3,221.7 2,105.8 Exchange-rate differences 132.5 -2.2 Closing residual value according to plan 3,221.7 2,105.8 Goodwill is attributable to surplus values upon Identified goodwill is primarily related to know-how and acquisitions of new entities. In conjunction with each organisational structures, where acquisitions during the acquisition, an analysis is carried out to allocate the year were in areas with advanced products and services. surplus value arising in connection with the acquisition to intangible assets. 104 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 12 Cont’d. Intangible assets Other intangible assets attributable to acquisitions Customer contracts Brands Other Total 17/18 16/17 17/18 16/17 17/18 16/17 17/18 16/17 Opening accumulated cost 296.1 257.2 318.3 318.3 – – 614.4 575.5 Acquisition of operations 231.4 39.4 – – 2.3 – 233.6 39.4 Divestments and disposals -51.2 – -6.3 – – – -57.5 – Exchange-rate differences 22.3 -0.6 – – 0.1 – 22.3 -0.6 Closing accumulated cost 498.5 296.1 312.0 318.3 2.4 – 812.9 614.4 Opening accumulated amortisation -250.5 -205.4 -5.9 -5.6 – – -256.5 -211.0 Acquisition of operations – -0.3 – – – – – -0.3 Amortisation for the year -29.7 -45.9 -0.4 -0.3 -0.1 – -30.1 -46.2 Divestments and disposals – – 6.3 – – – 57.5 – Exchange-rate differences -11.8 1.1 – – 0.0 – -11.8 1.1 Closing accumulated amortisation -240.8 -250.5 0.0 -5.9 -0.1 – -240.9 -256.5 Closing residual value according to plan 257.7 45.5 312.0 312.4 2.3 – 572.0 357.9 Brands refer to Dustin’s brand of SEK 312 million. The Individual assets may be tested more frequently if there Dustin brand was acquired in 2006 and has been assigare indications of impairment. ned an indefinite life given that the Dustin brand is well The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units established and it is difficult to estimate when it will were determined by using the value in use. The brand is cease generating revenues. All intangible assets with proportionally distributed over the two cash-generating indefinite useful lives are tested at least each year to units LCP and SMB. ensure that the value does not deviate negatively from the current carrying amount. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 12 Cont’d. Intangible assets Other intangible assets IT platform Other Total 17/18 16/17 17/18 16/17 17/18 16/17 Opening cost 160.4 143.4 53.2 42.7 213.6 186.1 Purchases 22.9 16.9 4.3 1.2 27.2 18.1 Acquisition of operations – – 21.8 10.0 21.8 10.0 Reclassification – – – – – Divestments and disposals* – – -7.2 -0.3 -7.2 -0.3 Exchange-rate differences 0.1 0.0 2.3 -0.3 2.4 -0.3 Closing accumulated cost 183.4 160.4 74.4 53.2 257.8 213.6 Opening amortisation -38.7 -22.2 -36.1 -28.1 -74.8 -50.3 Amortisation for the year according to plan -19.5 -16.5 -8.2 -6.5 -27.7 -23.1 Acquisition of operations – – -9.7 -2.0 -9.7 -2.0 Reclassification – – – – – – Divestments and disposals* – – 6.3 0.3 6.3 0.3 Exchange-rate differences -0.1 0.0 -1.1 0.1 -1.2 0.1 Closing accumulated amortisation according to plan -58.3 -38.7 -48.9 -36.1 -107.2 -74.8 Opening impairment -23.6 -23.6 – – -23.6 -23.6 Impairment for the year – – – – – – Closing impairment -23.6 -23.6 – – -23.6 -23.6 Closing residual value according to plan 101.5 98.0 25.5 17.1 127.0 115.1 *Of divestments for the year, SEK 0.3 million relate to disposals. Impairment testing of intangible assets Impairment testing is conducted based on the cash1.08 per cent (0.95) and an expected credit margin of 1.5 generating units’ value in use and these units are on an per cent (1.3). The calculation shows that the weighted equal footing with the Group’s reporting segments. The cost of capital could have been reduced by 0.5 percentage calculation of the value of Dustin’s cash-generating units points (0.8) but adjustments were not made in order to is based on management’s cash flow forecasts for a periobtain comparability between periods and the consisod of five years. Cash flow for the ensuing years has been tent application of selected models. extrapolated by applying a growth assumption of 2.5 per cent for LCP and SMB as well as 1.0 per cent for B2C. The In impairment tests for the past two years, the estimamain assumptions used by management in the calculated value exceeded the carrying amount for all units tion of forecasts of future cash flows are market growth, and no impairment was required. the cash-generating units’ expected market shares, the trend in product margins and personnel costs. The estiA sensitivity analysis with respect to growth assumptions mated market was based on external industry estimates. and the discount rate has been carried out. The analysis The market share trend, product margin and personnel shows that if the discount rate increased 0.5 percentage costs were determined based on previous experience. points the recoverable amount decreased 7.6 per cent (8.1). If the discount rate decreased 0.5 percentage points When calculating the value in use of the three cashthe recoverable amount decreased 6.5 per cent (6.5). The generating units, a discount rate of 8.2 per cent (8.2) analysis also included a calculation involving a 5-percenbefore tax was used. The main assumptions used pertain tage point increase in the discount rate (5) without any primarily to a risk-free interest rate of 2.0 per cent (2.35), indication of an impairment requirement. The sensitivity stock market premium of 5.2 per cent (5.2), share beta of analysis revealed the risk of impairment is low. 106 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 13 Tangible assets Cost of improvements on external properties Equipment Total 17/18 16/17 17/18 16/17 17/18 16/17 Opening accumulated cost 16.8 14.9 69.9 58.2 86.7 73.1 Purchases 1.0 1.6 27.9 7.7 28.9 9.3 Acquisition of operations 7.9 0.7 118.1 15.8 126.0 16.5 Divestments and disposals -0.3 -0.5 -2.3 -11.6 -2.6 -12.1 Exchange-rate differences 0.3 0.0 6.6 -0.1 7.0 -0.1 Closing accumulated cost 25.7 16.8 220.3 69.9 246.0 86.7 Opening accumulated depreciation -12.1 -10.1 -50.0 -42.7 -62.2 -52.8 Depreciation for the year according to plan -2.8 -2.3 -17.7 -10.0 -20.5 -12.3 Acquisition of operations -6.6 -0.2 -62.7 -8.9 -69.4 -9.1 Divestments and disposals 0.1 0.5 1.5 11.6 1.6 12.1 Exchange-rate differences -0.3 0.0 -3.6 0.0 -3.9 0.0 Closing accumulated depreciation according to plan -21.8 -12.1 -132.6 -50.0 -154.4 -62.2 Closing residual value according to plan 3.9 4.6 87.7 19.9 91.7 24.6 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 14 Acquisition and divestment-related assets and liabilities Change in acquisition-related liabilities measured at fair value based on inputs that are not based on observable market data (Level 3) 17/18 16/17 Opening balance 109.6 52.6 Remeasurements recognised in profit or loss: Unrealised revaluation of contingent earn-out recognised under Items affecting comparability -23.7 -22.3 Discount of contingent earn-out recognised under Financial expenses and other similar income-statement items 4.3 0.9 Remeasurements recognised under other comprehensive income: Unrealised exchange-rate differences recognised under Translation differences 12.2 -3.1 Changes recognised via the balance sheet: Payments attributable to previous acquisitions -53.7 -26.6 Acquisitions 227.7 108.0 Closing balance 276.3 109.6 Change in divestment-related receivables measured at fair value based on inputs that are not based on observable market data (Level 3) 17/18 16/17 Opening balance – – Changes recognised via the balance sheet: Estimated purchase consideration, divestment of subsidiary, long and short term 6.6 – Closing balance 6.6 – Fair value The measurement of acquisition-related liabilities and For this financial year, an earn-out liability of SEK 228 divestment-related assets is carried out on a continuous million (108) for new acquisitions was recognised, attribasis at fair value and the liability is settled as required butable to the acquisitions of JML-System AB, Core via profit or loss. If a change in value occurs prior to Services AS, ITaito Oy and the asset-transfer acquisition the preparation of the purchase price allocation and is of Norriq. The acquisition of Vincere Netherlands B.V. not the result of events following the acquisition date, also included an earn-out from an earlier acquisition measurement is carried out via the balance sheet. Of by one of the subsidiaries. Of the earn-out liabilities of SEK 276 million (110), SEK 186 million (106) is related to SEK 110 million recognised in the preceding year, SEK preliminary purchase price allocations. The fair value 54 million was settled in the current year. New assessis calculated as defined for Level 3 in IFRS 7, meaning ments were also conducted of liabilities to Core Services according to inputs that are not based on observable AS, the now merged company IKT AS and IDENET AB, market data. For more information regarding purchase which entailed an impairment of acquisition-related price allocation, see note 23 Acquisition of businesses. liabilities of SEK 15 million and SEK 3 million, respectively. The maximum performance-based earn-out liability for The calculation of the contingent earn-out liability is acquisitions during the year totals SEK 341 million, see based on the parameters of each acquisition agrenote 22 Borrowing. ement. These parameters are usually linked to the outcome of performance measures taken for up to three years from the date of acquisition. 108 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 15 Deferred tax Other Total Other Loss nonFinancial deferred noncarryTotal current Appropri instrutax current fordeferred assets ations ments liabilities assets wards tax assets Opening balance, September 1, 2017 80.7 54.2 -2.1 132.9 8.4 0.0 8.4 Recognised in net profit for the year -2.0 1.8 – -0.2 -6.3 – -6.3 Recognised in statement of financial position 52.3 0.5 – 52.8 – – – Recognised in other comprehensive income – – 1.0 1.0 – – – Closing balance, August 31, 2018 131.0 56.6 -1.1 186.5 2.1 0.0 2.1 Opening balance, September 1, 2016 80.9 45.0 -4.0 121.9 4.6 1.9 6.5 Recognised in net profit for the year -11.4 9.6 – -1.8 3.9 -2.0 1.9 Recognised in statement of financial position 11.1 -0.3 – 10.9 -0.2 – -0.2 Recognised in other comprehensive income 0.0 – 1.9 1.9 0.0 0.1 0.1 Closing balance, August 31, 2017 80.7 54.2 -2.1 132.9 8.4 0.0 8.4 There are no unrecognized deferred tax assets or tax liabilities in the Group at the end of accounting period or in the corresponding period of the previous year. Note 16 Derivative instruments and hedge accounting Derivative instruments measured at fair value consist of Current assets Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 interest-rate derivatives and currency futures. InteInterest-rate swaps 0.1 – rest-rate derivatives are intended as hedges for variable Currency futures 0.1 – interest on external bank loans. Currency futures Total 0.2 – pertain to hedging for USD purchases from China. The Group applies hedge accounting on derivatives and the fair value is measured as defined for Level 2 in IFRS Non-current assets Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 13. The valuation level is unchanged compared with Interest-rate swaps 2.0 – August 31, 2017. Changes in fair value are recognised in Currency futures – – other comprehensive income and accumulated in the Total 2.0 – hedge reserve in shareholders’ equity and are reversed to profit or loss when the hedged items are recognised Current liabilities Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 in profit or loss. No profit or loss was recorded in the Interest-rate swaps 0.1 – income statement due to inefficient hedging during the Currency futures – 0.1 financial year and all hedged items as of August 31, 2018 Total 0.1 0.1 qualify for continued hedge accounting. Non-current liabilities Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Interest-rate swaps 7.3 6.5 Currency futures – – Total 7.3 6.5 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 16 Cont’d. Derivative instruments and hedge accounting Interest-rate derivatives Nominal amount Interest at fixed exchange rate Maturity swap Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 SWAP SEK* 140,000,000 140,000,000 0.565% 0.565% Apr 29, 2022 Apr 29, 2022 SWAP SEK* – 70,000,000 – 0.165% – Apr 29, 2022 SWAP EUR* 12,500,000 12,500,000 0.049% 0.049% Apr 29, 2022 Apr 29, 2022 SWAP EUR* – 7,000,000 – -0.114% – Apr 29, 2020 SWAP EUR 40,000,000 – -0.075% – Jul 16, 2021 – SWAP NOK 160,000,000 160,000,000 1.545% 1.545% Oct 29, 2021 Oct 29, 2021 SWAP NOK** 70,000,000 – 1.950% – Jan 31, 2023 – SWAP DKK** 100,000,000 100,000,000 0.298% 0.298% Oct 29, 2021 Oct 29, 2021 * Swaps with a floating leg consisting of an interest-rate floor of 0 per cent. ** Swaps with a floating leg consisting of an interest-rate ceiling of 1.75 per cent. *** Swaps with a floating leg consisting of an interest-rate floor of 0 per cent and an interest-rate ceiling of a nominal DKK 40,000,000 of 0.50 per cent. Currency futures In total, the market value of outstanding futures was SEK 0.1 million (0.1) as per the balance-sheet date. Note 17 Inventories Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Goods for resale 395.8 261.9 Total 395.8 261.9 Cost of goods sold -8,604.1 -7,790.1 The obsolescence reserve amounted to SEK 16 million (9) at the end of the year. The cost of inventory impairment totalled SEK 5 million (2) for the year. 110 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 18 Accounts receivable and other current assets Accounts receivable Maturity structure of outstanding accounts receivable Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 0-30 days 1,207.9 963.4 31-90 days 50.1 53.4 91days 16.6 36.2 Impairment due to doubtful accounts receivable -2.0 -6.0 Total 1,272.6 1,047.0 Changes in the provision for doubtful accounts receivable Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Opening balance 6.0 2.6 Acquisition of operations 0.5 0.8 Provision for possible bad debt losses 2.8 6.8 Confirmed bad debt losses -6.9 -4.0 Reversed bad debt losses -0.6 -0.1 Exchange-rate differences 0.3 0.0 Closing balance 2.0 6.0 Due to the short-term nature of accounts receivable, the The provision due to doubtful accounts receivable was effect of discounting is not deemed to be material and SEK 2 million (6) and amounted to 0.2 per cent (0.6) in the carrying amount is considered to be consistent with relation to accounts receivable. Dustin has historically the fair value. This is thus the maximum exposure. low bad debt losses. The company continuously obtains The Group’s risk exposure in foreign currencies is credit information for all corporate customers and does deemed to be low. not offer any credit itself to private customers. Prepaid expenses and accrued income Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Prepaid expenses for suppliers 31.9 30.1 Accrued marketing subsidies 15.6 22.6 Accrued discounts from suppliers 52.7 62.6 Accrued lease income 0.8 14.9 Accrued income attributable to delivered but not invoiced 42.4 22.4 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 25.0 5.8 Total 168.3 158.5 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 19 Financial assets and liabilities Items Other Derivatives Accounts measured at financial used in Total receivable and fair value via assets and hedge carrying Fair Aug 31, 2018 loans receivable profit or loss liabilities accounting amount value Assets Derivative instruments (Level 2) – – – 2.2 2.2 2.2 Accounts receivable and other receivables 1,287.0 – – – 1,287.0 1,287.0 Accrued income 111.5 – – – 111.5 111.5 Divestment-related receivables (Level 3) – 6.6 – – 6.6 6.6 Cash and cash equivalents 277.6 – – – 277.6 277.6 Total assets 1,676.2 6.6 – 2.2 1,684.9 1,684.9 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions – – 1,997.4 – 1,997.4 1,997.4 Derivative instruments (Level 2) – – – 7.4 7.4 7.4 Accounts payable – – 1,568.5 – 1,568.5 1,568.5 Acquisition-related liabilities (Level 3) – 276.3 – – 276.3 276.3 Other current liabilities – – 162.7 – 162.7 162.7 Accrued expenses – – 280.5 – 280.5 280.5 Total liabilities – 276.3 4,009.1 7.4 4,292.8 4,292.8 Items Other Derivatives Accounts measured at financial used in Total receivable and fair value via assets and hedge carrying Fair Aug 31, 2017 loans receivable profit or loss liabilities accounting amount value Assets Accounts receivable and other receivables 1,054.7 – – – 1,054.7 1,054.7 Accrued income 122.5 – – – 122.5 122.5 Cash and cash equivalents 71.5 – – – 71.5 71.5 Total assets 1,248.7 – – – 1,248.7 1,248.7 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions – – 1,068.6 – 1,068.6 1,068.6 Derivative instruments (Level 2) – – – 6.6 6.6 6.6 Accounts payable – – 956.3 – 956.3 956.3 Acquisition-related liabilities (Level 3) – 109.6 – – 109.6 109.6 Other current liabilities – – 115.1 – 115.1 115.1 Accrued expenses – – 206.4 – 206.4 206.4 Total liabilities – 109.6 2,346.4 6.6 2,462.6 2,462.6 112 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 20 Cash and cash equivalents Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 277.6 71.5 Closing balance 277.6 71.5 The utilised overdraft facility amounted to SEK million The Group has a global cash pool with Nordea. (-) at the end of the financial year. The unutilised The Parent Company is the main account holder for the overdraft facility amounted to SEK 270 million (270) at Group account, which enables subsidiaries to utilise the end of the financial year. cash and cash equivalents deposited with the bank in one or more currencies. The purpose of this is to The Dutch subsidiary acquired also has a credit facility enhance the efficiency of liquidity management with of a maximum of EUR 5 million, of which EUR 1 million daily payments in different currencies and countries in had been utilised at the end of the financial year. operating activities. The Group account enables these transactions without needing the necessary funds to be allocated in each currency, on condition that equivalent funds are available in the Group account. Note 21 Equity Share capital Hedge reserve There is only one class of share in the Dustin Group and, The hedge reserve includes the effective portion of the accordingly, all shares carry the same number of votes fair value measurement of derivatives that were entered per share. During the financial year, the share capital into to hedge the variable interest rate on external bank increased by 1,053,387 shares following the dissolvement loans. of the warrants programme. As of August 31, 2018, the number of shares amounted to 77,226,502 (76,173,115). Share premium reserve As a result of the warrant programme, the share capital As a result of the warrant programme, the share premiincreased by SEK 5 million. um reserve increased by SEK 50 million. Other contributed capital Retained earnings This item pertains to equity that has been contribuRetained earnings include net profit for the year and ted by the owners. During the year, other contributed profit earned in the preceding year in the Parent Compacapital increased SEK 49 million, of which SEK 50 million ny and the Group’s subsidiaries. on account of the new share issue, SEK -6 million due to treasury warrants and SEK 5 million pertained to Capital management warrants. The increase in the preceding year related to Dustin’s internally generated financial strategy is based warrants amounting to SEK 2 million. on a capital structure with a high degree of financial flexibility and provides scope for, among other factors, Translation reserve acquisitions. The company’s net debt target is a 2.0–3.0 The translation reserve pertains to all exchange-rate multiple of adjusted EBITDA for the past 12-month pedifferences arising on the translation of foreign operariod. In addition to the Group’s equity, there is external tions that have prepared their financial statements in a bank financing of approximately SEK 2 billion (1) with currency other than SEK. financial covenants. In the current and preceding year, Dustin has fulfilled all reported covenant requirements. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 22 Borrowing Maturity structure of borrowing The table below shows the maturity structure for Dustin’s contractual financial liabilities. The figures are for non-discounted future cash flow and thus may differ from reported figures. Maturity Maturity longer than longer than Maturity one year but two years Maturity Total within one within two but within longer than Aug 31, 2018 borrowing year years five years five years Liabilities to credit institutions including future interest payments 2,103.7 32.5 20.0 59.9 1,991.4 Accounts payable 1,568.5 1,568.5 – – – Tax liabilities 20.0 20.0 – – – Derivative instruments 7.4 0.1 1.8 5.6 – Other current liabilities 162.7 162.7 – – – Acquisition-related liabilities 276.3 73.9 202.5 – – Accrued expenses 280.5 280.5 – – – Total 4,419.2 2,138.5 224.2 65.4 1,991.4 Maturity Maturity longer than longer than Maturity one year but two years Maturity Total within one within two but within longer than Aug 31, 2017 borrowing year years five years five years Liabilities to credit institutions including future interest payments 1,143.8 16.5 16.5 1,110.7 – Accounts payable 956.3 956.3 – – – Tax liabilities 59.3 59.3 – – – Derivative instruments 6.6 0.1 – 6.5 – Other current liabilities 115.1 115.1 – – – Acquisition-related liabilities 109.6 31.3 78.3 – – Accrued expenses 206.4 206.4 – – – Total 2,597.0 1,385.0 94.8 1,117.2 – 114 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 22 Cont’d. Borrowing Summary of cash flow from financing activities pertaining to external loans Change in liabilities to credit institutions for the year 17/18 16/17 Opening balance 1,068.6 1,066.4 Change in financial cash flow New loans raised 2,153.2 – New loans raised through acquisitions during the year 11.8 Paid liabilities start-up costs -8.4 -3.3 Repayment of debt -1,383.6 – Total change in financial cash flow 773.0 -3.3 Other changes Changes via the effective interest rate method 20.9 7.6 Exchange-rate differences, NOK, DKK and EUR 134.8 -2.0 Total other changes 155.7 5.6 Closing balance 1,997.4 1,068.6 Loans During the year, Dustin signed a new bank agreement, below. The bank agreement extends for three years which took effect during the fourth quarter. The new with the option of an extension of up to two years, by credit volume amounts to approximately SEK 2,000 slightly more than one year at a time. The loan is free million with the option of additional lending of SEK from amortisation during the term of the loan. 1,000 million. All former external loan agreements were repaid in their entirety whereupon the borrowing Fair value of external loans expenses relating to the former financing agreements The fair value of external loans is deemed to correspond were written down in full, which explains the increase to the carrying amount. The interest rate for bank loans in the amortisation/impairment item for borrowing is variable and the credit risk is not considered to have expenses compared with previous years. The interest changed significantly since entering into the loans. terms for bank loans utilised are described in the table Liabilities to credit Interest Group and Parent Company, Aug 31, 2018 institutions Interest terms period Bank loan SEK 106.5 Stibor + interest margin 0.75–1.45% 3 + 1 + 1 years Bank loan EUR 110.8 Euribor + interest margin 0.75–1.45% 3 + 1 + 1 years Bank loan NOK 280.0 Nibor + interest margin 0.75–1.45% 3 + 1 + 1 years Bank loan DKK 280.0 Cibor + interest margin 1.15–1.80% 3 + 1 + 1 years Overdraft facility Covenants The company had an unutilised overdraft facility of The current financing for the Group is based on external SEK 270 million (270) as per the balance-sheet date. bank loans, which are subject to covenants that are The overdraft facility was also unutilised on the same reported to the banks each quarter. All conditions were date for the comparative year. The acquired subsidiary, fulfilled as per August 31, 2018. Vincere Netherlands B.V., also had a credit facility of a maximum of EUR 5 million, of which EUR 1 million had been utilised at the end of the financial year. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 23 Acquisition of businesses Acquisitions 2017/18 On June 1, 2018, all shares outstanding were acquired in In 2017/18, Dustin conducted a total of six acquisitions. the Finnish company ITaito Oy, Corp. Reg. No. 2201996All of the acquisitions were in the advanced products 8, through the subsidiary Dustin Finland OY. ITaito Oy and services category. These acquisitions are presented supplies IT services, focusing on small and mediumin chronological order below. sized businesses. The purchase consideration amounted to SEK 72 million, of which SEK 25 million pertained to On September 29, 2017, the Dustin Danmark A/S an expected earn-out. subsidiary acquired, in an asset-transfer acquisition, a Danish business from Norriq Infrastructure & Cloud All of the shares in the Swedish company DAV Partner Services AS. The operations concern a business area AB , Corp. Reg. No. 556609-4842, were acquired on July for hosting and outsourcing IT services. The purchase 2, 2018. DAV Partner AB is a company specialising in AV consideration amounted to SEK 216 million, of which solutions. The purchase consideration amounted to SEK SEK 75 million pertained to a contingent earn-out. 15 million, with no expected earn-out. On November 1, 2017, Dustin acquired all of the On July 4, 2018, the Dutch company Vincere shares outstanding in the Norway-based company Netherlands B.V., Corp. Reg. No. 71903968, was acquired. Core Services AS, Corp. Reg. No. 995 962 292, through The Vincere Group is specialised in managed services the subsidiary Dustin Norway AS. Core Services with focus on cloud and security solutions, along with AS, which is one of the leading players in the new IT solutions with associated value added hardware and generation of data centre solutions, known as consultancy services primarily for small and mediumsoftware-defined data centres. The customer base sized businesses and organisations. The purchase primarily comprises companies in the LCP segment. consideration amounted to SEK 655 million, with no The purchase consideration amounted to SEK 198 contracted earn-out. million, of which SEK 54 million pertained to an expected earn-out. The effects of the acquisitions on the Group’s financial position are specified below. The purchase price All of the shares in the Swedish company JML-System allocations are preliminary and the final analyses of AB, Corp. Reg. No. 556643-2802, were acquired on acquired assets will take place within one year from November 1, 2017. JML-System offers installation the acquisition date. The purchase price allocations are and service of AV solutions for meeting rooms and preliminary to ensure high quality in internal processes conferences, primarily to small and medium-sized and procedures for the acquired companies before the businesses. The purchase consideration amounted to preliminary analyses are concluded and finalised. SEK 136 million, of which SEK 34 million pertained to an expected earn-out. Acquisition-related costs amounted to SEK 20 million (11). 116 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 23 Cont’d. Acquisition of businesses Preliminary purchase price allocations Norriq InfraCore JMLDAV Vincere Fair value of acquired structure & Services System Partner ITaito Netherassets and liabilities Cloud Services AS AB AB Oy lands B.V Total Intangible assets 32.8 7.0 7.4 – 5.8 203.0 256.0 Tangible assets 1.3 0.0 7.1 0.1 5.3 42.8 56.6 Financial assets – – 0.1 – – – 0.1 Inventories 0.1 – 6.9 7.2 0.5 25.5 40.2 Other current assets – 41.2 51.2 23.0 6.7 83.8 206.0 Cash and cash equivalents – 39.9 -4.2 4.9 8.8 – 49.4 Other current liabilities 11.8 30.1 43.6 23.3 10.2 170.2 289.2 Total identified assets and liabilities 22.4 58.1 24.8 11.9 16.9 184.9 319.1 Consolidated goodwill 193.3 139.6 111.5 3.3 55.3 469.7 972.8 Purchase consideration including estimated contingent earn-out 215.8 197.7 136.3 15.3 72.2 654.6 1,291.9 Less: Cash and cash equivalents – 39.9 -4.2 4.9 8.8 – 49.4 Estimated contingent earn-out 74.6 53.7 34.0 – 25.4 – 187.8 Net cash outflow 141.2 104.1 106.5 10.4 38.0 654.6 1,054.7 Income and earnings attributable to acquired companies Goodwill The acquisitions during the financial year of Norriq In the preliminary purchase price allocations, acquired Infrastructure & Cloud Services AS, Core Services AS, surplus values have been allocated in part to goodwill. JML-System AB, ITaito Oy, DAV Partner AB and Vincere Goodwill is deemed to be attributable to employee Netherlands B.V. have contributed during the year a know-how and expected synergies. Goodwill is not total of SEK 610 million (101) to Group’s income and SEK deemed to be tax deductible. 67 million (5) to the Group’s EBITA. Acquisition-related liabilities The acquisition of Vincere Netherlands B.V. has from Acquisition-related liabilities pertain to contingent earnthe acquisition date contributed to Group revenues outs. For further information on contingent earn-outs, with a total of SEK 168 million and to Group EBITA with refer to Note 14 Acquisition and divestment-related SEK 13 million. During the previous fiscal year (Jan 2017 assets and liabilitiess. Dec 2017), Vincere Netherlands B.V. reported revenues of EUR 67 million and an EBITA of EUR 4 million. Other companies are individually not deemed to be material in financial terms. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 23 Cont’d. Acquisition of businesses Acquisitions 2016/17 During the preceding financial year, three acquisitions were completed, two of which in Norway and one in Sweden. The total purchase consideration including estimated contingent earn-out amounted to SEK 270.5 million, of which the net cash outflow was SEK 143.0 million in 2016/17. In 2017/18, the final purchase price allocations were confirmed for acquisitions in 2016/17 without any adjustment as specified below: Final purchase price allocation IKT Gruppen AS including Fair value of acquired assets and liabilities IT Gruppen AS Purity IT AS Saldab IT AB Total Intangible assets 4.4 19.0 9.0 32.5 Tangible assets 0.1 5.3 1.9 7.4 Inventories 0.9 1.9 1.7 4.6 Other current assets 3.0 16.3 33.4 52.7 Cash and cash equivalents 4.3 11.6 3.6 19.4 Other current liabilities 6.6 33.4 30.9 70.9 Total identified assets and liabilities 6.2 20.8 18.7 45.6 Consolidated goodwill 46.2 87.1 91.6 224.8 Purchase consideration including estimated contingent earn-out 52.3 107.9 110.2 270.5 Note 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 Accrued personnel costs 142.1 112.0 Accrued expenses for suppliers 89.2 52.8 Accrued discounts to customers 7.6 2.1 Deferred marketing subsidies 4.1 7.7 Advance invoicing 27.2 20.9 Provision for legal dispute – 22.2 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 41.6 17.3 Total 311.8 235.0 Deferred marketing subsidies relate to payments that Dustin has received from suppliers on the basis that Dustin has an obligation to carry out marketing activities. 118 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 25 Cash-flow statement Adjustment for non-cash items 17/18 16/17 Depreciation of tangible assets 20.5 12.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 57.8 69.3 Unrealised revaluation of contingent earn-out recognised under Items affecting comparability -23.7 -22.3 Capital gain -2.3 – Exchange-rate differences – -0.3 Other items -0.6 -0.9 Total 51.7 58.1 Note 26 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2017 For loans and bank overdrafts Floating mortgages 98.3 85.3 Total 98.3 85.3 The increase in floating mortgages is related to previous taken out mortgages in companies acquired during the year. Dustin has not pledged any assets for its obligations under the current loan agreement. is also to be adapted to the expansion in the Netherlands. Note 27 Related-party transactions As a result, changes are being made to Dustin’s Group Management whereby new roles will be added while other Transactions with related suppliers and customers functions will be removed. The changes were implemented Dustin has transactions with suppliers and custoas of October 1, 2018. mers that have been defined as related parties. These transactions are normal business transactions and the Rights issue amounts have not been deemed to be material to the Dustin Group AB held an extraordinary general meeting on Group and thus are not presented. All Group companies October 10, 2018, when a resolution was taken to approve referred to in Note P7 Participations in Group comthe rights issue previously determined by the Board of panies are considered related. Transactions between Directors. The terms and conditions of the rights issue Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. With mean that every seven (7) subscription rights entitles the respect to salaries and remuneration of Board memholder to subscribe for one (1) new share at a price of SEK bers and senior executives, refer to Note 7 Number of 63 per new share. Following the rights issue, the number employees, employee benefits expense and remuneraof shares amounts to 88,258,859 and the total equity tion of senior executives. increased to SEK 695,038,518, of which SEK 55,161,788 pertains to share capital. The rights issue will provide the company with greater flexibility and the ability to continue Significant events after the to broaden its customer offering through the acquisition of Note 28 balance-sheet date companies with a high level of advanced products, services and recurring revenues. Changes to Dustin’s Group Management Dustin announced changes to its organisation to create greater clarity within the segments and further increase the scalability of its support functions. The organisation ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Parent Company Notes Note P1 Information on income and expenses within the Group 17/18 16/17 Income 100% 100% Expenses 0% 0% Note P2 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives Number of FTEs and gender distribution 17/18 16/17 Distribution of Board members and senior executives at the balance-sheet date Women Men Total Women Men Total Board members 3 4 7 4 4 8 Total 3 4 7 4 4 8 The Parent Company has no employees. Information about the remuneration of the company’s Board of Directors is outlined in Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives on page 98 for the Group. Note P3 Auditor’s remuneration and expenses Note P4 Financial items 17/18 16/17 Interest income and similar income-statement items 17/18 16/17 Ernst & Young AB Interest income 14.2 9.6 Audit assignment – 0.9 Dividends 300.0 10.4 Audit activities other than audit assignment – 0.1 Total 314.2 20.0 Total 0.0 1.0 Interest expenses and similar income-statement items 17/18 16/17 Audit assignments are defined as the examination of Borrowing costs on external the Annual Report and accounting records and of the financing 54.5 37.7 Board of Directors’ and CEO’s administration of the Currency differences on liabilities to Company, other tasks incumbent on the auditor, as well credit institutions 132.5 -1.9 as advice and other assistance occasioned by observaOther financial expenses 0.6 0.1 tions made in the course of such examinations or the Impairment of shares in performance of such other tasks. subsidiaries – 10.0 Total 187.6 45.9 Audit activities other than audit assignment primarily relate to the auditor’s review of interim reports and review of the company’s Corporate Responsibility Report. Costs for the Parent Company audit are paid by the subsidiary Dustin Aktiebolag. 120 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note P5 Appropriations 17/18 16/17 Group contributions received 297.7 271.2 Change in tax allocation reserve -28.3 -58.8 Total 269.4 212.4 Note P6 Tax Recognised effective tax Tax expense 17/18 16/17 The following components are included in the tax expense in the income statement: Current tax -18.7 -38.8 Adjustments of current tax attributable to prior periods 0.0 0.0 Recognised effective tax -18.7 -38.8 Recognised effective tax rate 4.9% 22.0% Recognised profit before tax 384.6 176.4 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Tax according to current tax rate -84.6 -38.8 Tax effect of: Non-deductible expenses -0.1 -2.2 Non-taxable income 66.0 2.3 Adjustment of tax for previous years and others 0.0 0.0 Recognised effective tax -18.7 -38.8 Current tax 17/18 16/17 Current tax liabilities 6.6 45.1 Total 6.6 45.1 The Parent Company has no recognised or unrecognised deferred tax assets or liabilities. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note P7 Participations in Group companies Parent Company’s holdings in Group companies Carrying amount Number of Net profit Company name Corp. Reg. No. Domicile shares Participation Equity for the year 17/18 16/17 Dustin Aktiebolag 556237-8785 Stockholm 25,000,000 100% 300.3 51.5 1,211.6 1,211.6 Total 1,211.6 1,221.7 The following companies are included in the Group in addition to the Parent Company’s direct holdings: Corp. Reg. Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2018 Company name No. Participating interest Participating interest ComPromise Domino B.V. 04062532 100% – Core Services AS 995962292 100% – DAV Partner AB 556609-4842 100% – Dustin A/S 26092183 100% 100% Dustin Finland Oy 0935141-3 100% 100% Dustin Norway AS 939483969 100% 100% Dustin Sverige AB 556666-1012 100% 100% IDENET AB 556443-9072 100% 100% Issys ICT B.V. 37104253 100% – ITaito Oy 2201996-8 100% – JML-System AB 556643-2802 100% – Purity IT AS 915291783 100% 100% Saldab IT AB 556645-4210 100% 100% Sincerus B.V. 51450976 100% – Sincerus Consultancy B.V. 08142104 100% – Switch IT Solutions B.V. 06070240 100% – TopCrowd B.V. 08142105 100% – Unilogic B.V. 14053559 100% – Unilogic Networks 2 B.V. 68329210 100% – Vincere Group B.V. 06070239 100% – Vincere Netherlands B.V. 71903968 100% – Webnamen B.V. 06088974 100% – Xcellent Automatisering B.V. 32119865 100% – Note P8 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 17/18 16/17 Pre-paid interest-rate swaps – 2.8 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 0.8 3.5 Total 0.8 6.3 During the previous financial year, an interest-rate swap was repaid early to ensure a wider maturity spread. The cost of the swap is recognised on an accrual basis over the remaining period from the exercise date. 122 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note P9 Cash and bank balances 17/18 16/17 Cash and cash equivalents 247.0 42.9 Closing balance 247.0 42.9 The Parent Company is the main account holder for the Group account with Nordea. For more information about the cash pool and overdraft facility and credit facility, see the Group Note 20 Cash and cash equivalents. Note P10 Equity Share capital Dividends See Note 21 Equity for the Group for information During the financial year, a total of SEK 213 million was about the Parent Company’s share capital and other paid in dividends in line with the resolution by the contributed capital. Annual General Meeting on December 13, 2017. For the current financial year, the proposed dividend is SEK 239 Retained earnings million (213), which corresponds to about 78 per cent of Retained earnings include net profit for the year and net profit for the year (89). profit earned in the preceding year. Share premium reserve During the year, the long-term incentive programme LTI 2015 was utilised, which increased the share premium reserve by SEK 50 million. Note P11 Untaxed reserves 17/18 16/17 Tax allocation reserve 137.7 109.4 Total 137.7 109.4 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note P12 Borrowing The Group’s external financing is with the Parent Maturity structure of borrowing Company with the exception of the recently acquired The table below shows the maturity structure for the company Vincere Netherlands B.V.. Total external loans Parent Company’s contractual financial liabilities. The amount to SEK 1,985 million (1,069). For more information figures are for non-discounted future cash flow and thus about borrowing, refer to the Group Note 22 Borrowing. may differ from reported figures. Maturity Maturity Maturity longer than longer than Maturity Total within one year but two years but longer than Aug 31, 2018 borrowing one year within two years within five years five years Liabilities to credit institutions including future interest payments 2,091.1 20.0 20.0 59.9 1,991.4 Accounts payable 0.0 0.0 – – – Tax liabilities 6.6 6.6 – – – Other current liabilities 0.4 0.4 – – – Accrued expenses 5.0 5.0 – – – Total 2,103.1 31.9 20.0 59.9 1,991.4 Maturity Maturity Maturity longer than longer than Maturity Total within one year but two years but longer than Aug 31, 2017 borrowing one year within two years within five years five years Liabilities to credit institutions including future interest payments 1,143.8 16.5 16.5 1,110.7 – Accounts payable 0.2 0.2 – – – Tax liabilities 45.1 45.1 – – – Other current liabilities 0.3 0.3 – – – Accrued expenses 2.6 2.6 – – – Total 1,192.0 64.8 16.5 1,110.7 – Accrued expenses and Note P13 Note P15 Related-party transactions deferred income 17/18 16/17 Transactions with subsidiaries Accrued expenses for suppliers – 0.4 For information about direct and indirect shareholdings Other accrued expenses and in subsidiaries, refer to P7 Participations in Group comdeferred income 5.0 2.2 panies for the Parent Company. Total 5.0 2.6 Transactions with subsidiaries 17/18 16/17 Purchases – – Note P14 Cash-flow statement Sales 0.4 0.4 Receivables as of August 31 1,543.3 619.9 Adjustment for non-cash items 17/18 16/17 Liabilities as of August 31 – – Outstanding Group contributions 297.7 271.2 Total 297.7 271.2 124 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL REPORTS | BOARD SIGNATURES The consolidated income statement and balance sheet will be put before the Annual General Meeting on December 11, 2018 for adoption. The Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and present a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and earnings. The Annual Report was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and presents a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and earnings. The Directors’ Report for the Group and the Parent Company presents a fair review of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s operations, financial position and earnings and describes the material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. The statutory Corporate Responsibility Report for Dustin Group AB (publ), the content of which is presented in the Directors’ Report, was approved for publication by the Board of Directors. Mia Brunell Livfors Caroline Berg Gunnel Duveblad Johan Fant Chairman of the Board Tomas Franzén Mattias Miksche Morten Strand Thomas Ekman CEO Stockholm, November 14, 2018 Our audit report was submitted on November 14, 2018 Ernst & Young AB Jennifer Rock-Baley Authorised Public Accountant ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Dustin Group AB, corporate identity number 556703-3062. Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated consolidated accounts are consistent with the content accounts of Dustin Group AB (publ) except for the of the additional report that has been submitted to corporate governance statement on pages 66-79 for the the parent company's audit committee in accordance year 2017-09-01 – 2018-08-31. The annual accounts and with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 50-125 in this document. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities in all material respects, the financial position of the parent under those standards are further described in the company as of August 31, 2018 and its financial performance Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with of the parent company and the group in accordance the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial in accordance with these requirements. This includes position of the group as of August 31, 2018 and their financial that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no performance and cash flow for the year then ended in prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts company or, where applicable, its parent company or its Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance controlled companies within the EU. statement on pages 66-79. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained accounts and consolidated accounts. is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Key Audit Matters We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial in our professional judgment, were of most significance statements section of our report, including in relation in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the accounts of the current period. These matters were performance of procedures designed to respond to our addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming assessment of the risks of material misstatement of our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consothe financial statements. The results of our audit procelidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a dures, including the procedures performed to address separate opinion on these matters. For each matter the matters below, provide the basis for our audit below, our description of how our audit addressed the opinion on the accompanying financial statements. matter is provided in that context. 126 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets with Valuation of contingent consideration and indefinite useful life purchase price allocation Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite During the financial year of 2017/18, Dustin has complelife represents a significant portion of Dustin Group ted six acquisitions of which five include an earn-out AB’s total assets, totaling SEK 3 534 million as of August which is based on future financial performance of the 31, 2018. That equals 57% of the group’s total assets acquired businesses. In accordance with IFRS 3 the total and 215% of the group’s Equity. Goodwill and intangible earn-out combined with the initial price of purchase assets with indefinite life are recorded at historical is reported at fair value per the acquisition date. The acquisition value and are annually tested for impairestimated total purchase price has a direct impact on the ment. An impairment is recorded if the recoverable Company's purchase price allocation and the allocation value of an asset is lower than its carrying value. to goodwill. As of August 31, 2018 the total debt related to earn-outs for acquisitions amounted to SEK 276 million. The recoverable value of the assets was based on the The earn-out is calculated as a multiple based on Company’s value in use from future potential and ability future financial performance of the acquisitions and to generate cash flows. The Company’s assessment of the Dustin has therefore estimated future earnings of the recoverable value was therefore per August 31, 2018 based acquired company. In order to calculate the fair value of on the Company’s forecast of future cash flows. The asthe estimated future earn-outs the net present value sessment also considers the discount rate to be used and has been calculated using a discount rate reflecting the annual growth rate after the initial five-year period. the related risks. As part of the purchase price allocation the Company has allocated the purchase price to As the value of goodwill and other intangible assets with acquired assets including goodwill. This has been done indefinite life in proportion to the total assets are subby identifying acquired assets and valuing them at stantial this is a focus area for our audit. In combination fair value based on applicable valuation methods. The with the uncertainty normally present with estimating remaining value after allocation to identified assets has recoverable values we have assessed valuation of goodbeen allocated to goodwill. will and other intangible assets with indefinite life as a key audit matter. When estimating the fair value of an earn-out and the fair value of the identifiable acquired assets there is Our audit procedures included assessing the Company’s normally a certain degree of uncertainty present. That process for preparing the impairment test. We evaluated in combination with the significant financial impact the forecast of future cash flow which the Company base that the estimate has we have assessed the valuation their impairment test on. The forecast was evaluated of earn-outs and purchase price allocation to be a key for reasonability in comparison to our knowledge of the audit matter in our audit. Company’s business and historical information as well as the Company’s past accuracy in developing forecasts. We have evaluated the Company’s forecast of future We have in our audit included our internal valuation financial performance of the acquired businesses used by specialists for the evaluation of the interest rate and valuthe Company to estimate the fair value. The forecast has ation model used. The reasonability of the used rates and been assessed for reasonability by taking in to account long term growth for the individual cash generating units previous financial performance of the acquired busineswas compared to similar companies. We have evaluated ses, the forecast used when calculating the enterprise the company’s identification of cash generating units value, the Company’s future plans for developing the and the allocation of Goodwill that has been allocated to acquired business and Dustin’s previous ability to prepare these units during the year. accurate forecasts. We have used our valuation specialists to evaluate the Company's discount rate. Refer to note 1 for accounting principles related to valuation of goodwill and intangible assets with an Refer to note 1 for the accounting principles regarding indefinite life and to note 2 and 13 for the company’s valuation of earn-outs and notes 2, 14 and 23 for the description of assumptions used for preparing the Company's description of the assessments made in impairment test. We have assessed if the disclosed connection with the valuation of earn-outs and purchase information is suited for the purpose. price allocations. We have assessed if the disclosed information is suited for the purpose. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT Other Information than the annual accounts and The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of consolidated accounts Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other This document also contains other information than things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-15, 22-29, 46-49, 133 and 137-147. Auditor’s responsibility The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance responsible for this other information. about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstateOur opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an accounts does not cover this other information and auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable we do not express any form of assurance conclusion assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a regarding this other information. guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and will always detect a material misstatement when it consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and information identified above and consider whether the are considered material if, individually or in the aggreinformation is materially inconsistent with the annual gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of we also take into account our knowledge otherwise these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional If we, based on the work performed concerning this scepticism throughout the audit. We also: information, conclude that there is a material misstate• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement ment of this other information, we are required to of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to Managing Director provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are ting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board control relevant to our audit in order to design audit of Directors and the Managing Director are also procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, responsible for such internal control as they determine but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on is necessary to enable the preparation of annual the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated acDirectors and the Managing Director. counts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a and using the going concern basis of accounting. The conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as going concern basis of accounting is however not applied to whether any material uncertainty exists related to if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a has no realistic alternative but to do so. going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual 128 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such discloduring our audit, including any significant deficiencies sures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about in internal control that we identified. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained We must also provide the Board of Directors with a up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future statement that we have complied with relevant ethical events or conditions may cause a company and a group requirements regarding independence, and to to cease to continue as a going concern. communicate with them all relationships and other • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on content of the annual accounts and consolidated our independence, and where applicable, related accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the safeguards. annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions and events From the matters communicated with the Board of in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Directors, we determine those matters that were of • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence most significance in the audit of the annual accounts regarding the financial information of the entities and consolidated accounts, including the most imporor business activities within the group to express tant assessed risks for material misstatement, and are an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these responsible for the direction, supervision and permatters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation formance of the group audit. We remain solely precludes disclosure about the matter or when, in responsible for our opinions. extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in the auditor’s We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other report because the adverse consequences of doing so matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public We must also inform of significant audit findings interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and Managing Director consolidated accounts, we have also audited the admiThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal nistration of the Board of Directors and the Managing for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At Director of Dusting Group AB (publ) for the period the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment 2017-09-01 – 2018-08-31 and the proposed appropriaof whether the dividend is justifiable considering the tions of the company’s profit. requirements which the company's and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders the parent company's and the group’s equity, consolithat the profit be appropriated in accordance with the dation requirements, liquidity and position in general. proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous Basis for Opinions assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial We conducted the audit in accordance with generally situation and ensuring that the company's organization accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsiis designed so that the accounting, management of bilities under those standards are further described in assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indepenare controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing dent of the parent company and the group in accordance Director shall manage the ongoing administration with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in instructions and among other matters take measures accordance with these requirements. that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufassets in a reassuring manner. ficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s responsibility The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance Our objective concerning the audit of the administrastatement tion, and thereby our opinion about discharge from The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corliability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a porate governance statement on pages 66-79 has been reasonable degree of assurance whether any member prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: Our examination of the corporate governance state• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission ment is conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing which can give rise to liability to the company, or standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the • in any other way has acted in contravention of the corporate governance statement. This means that our Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles examination of the corporate governance statement is of Association. different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provithereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasoded us with sufficient basis for our opinions. nable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden same law are consistent with the other parts of the will always detect actions or omissions that can give annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm with Jennifer Rock-Baley as auditor-in-charge, was appointed As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditor of Dustin Group AB by the general meeting of auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional the shareholders on December 13, 2017 and has been judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the company’s auditor since February 13, 2015 (Ernst & the audit. The examination of the administration and the Young AB has been appointed auditors since October 2, proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is 2006). Dustin Group AB (publ) has been a company of based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional public interest since February 13, 2015. audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, Stockholm, November 14, 2018 areas and relationships that are material for the operations Ernst & Young AB and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions Jennifer Rock-Baley taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our Auktoriserad revisor opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. 130 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Dustin Group AB’s Sustainability Report and statement regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report To Dustin Group AB (publ), Corp. id. 556703-­3062 Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Dustin Group AB to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Dustin Group AB’s Sustainability Report for the year 1 September 2017 – 31 August 2018. The Statutory Sustainability Report is integrated with the Sustainability Report and is defined on page 56 in the Annual and Sustainability Report. Our review covers the information related to the operations of Dustin Group AB. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors A limited assurance engagement consists of making and the Executive Management inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the The Board of Directors and the Executive Management preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Our Report including the Statutory Sustainability Report examination regarding the Statutory Sustainability in accordance with applicable criteria and the Annual Report has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s Accounts Act respectively. The criteria are defined accounting standard RevR12 The auditor’s opinion on the pages 137-138 in the Sustainability Report, and regarding the statutory sustainability report. A limited are part of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines assurance engagement and an examination according published by GRI (The Global Reporting Initiative), to RevR 12 is different and substantially less in scope that are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s well as the accounting and calculation principles that Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing the Company has developed. This responsibility also standards in Sweden. includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material Ernst & Young applies ISQC 1 (International Standard misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including Auditor’s responsibility documented policies and procedures regarding Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the compliance with ethical requirements, professional Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance standards and applicable legal and regulatory procedures we have performed and to express an requirements. We are independent of Dustin Group opinion regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report. AB in accordance with professional ethics for We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these other than audits or reviews of financial information. requirements. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT The limited assurance procedures performed and the We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient examination according to RevR 12 do not enable us and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions to obtain assurance that we would become aware of below. all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. The conclusion based on a limited assurance Conclusions engagement and an examination according to RevR Based on the limited review performed, nothing 12 does not provide the same level of assurance as a has come to our attention that causes us to believe conclusion based on an audit. that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by defined by the Board of Directors and Executive the Board of Directors and Executive Management as Management. described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. A Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. Stockholm, 14 November, 2018 Ernst & Young AB Jennifer Rock-Baley Charlotte Söderlund Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 132 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2017/18 Annual General Meeting Dustin’s Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday, December 11, 2018 at 3:00 p.m. at Westmanska Palatset, Holländargatan 17 in Stockholm, Sweden. Registration will begin from 2:00 p.m. Participation Trustee-registered shares Shareholders wishing to participate at the Annual To be entitled to participate in the Meeting, General Meeting must: shareholders who have their shares registered with • be entered in the shareholders’ register maintained a trustee must temporarily re-register the shares in by Euroclear AB no later than Wednesday, December their own name in the shareholders’ register (known 5, 2018; and as voting rights registration), in addition to their • notify the company of their attendance via e-mail: notification of participation in the Meeting. To ensure gm@dustingroup.com or by post to Dustin Group AB this registration is completed by December 5, 2018, (publ), Att: Bolagsstämma, Box 1194, SE-131 27 Nacka shareholders should contact their trustee or bank well Strand, Sweden, no later than Wednesday, December in advance of this date. 5, 2018. Dividends Notification The Board of Directors proposes a total dividend of In their notification to the company, shareholders must SEK 239 million in 2017/18, corresponding to SEK 2.72 state their name, personal identity number or corporate per share after taking into account the outcome of registration number, address and telephone number the completed rights issue. The proposed dividend and, where applicable, information regarding proxies represents approximately 78 per cent of the net profit and assistants. for the year. Thursday, December 13, 2018 is proposed as the record date for the dividend. The estimated If participation is to take place based on a power of payment date for the dividend is Tuesday, December attorney, such power of attorney must be dated and 18, 2018. signed. The power of attorney must be sent to Dustin Group AB at the address above well in advance of the Financial calendar Annual General Meeting. 2017/18 Annual General Meeting December 11, 2018 Interim Report, Sept Nov January 9, 2019 The power of attorney registration form is available Interim Report, Dec Feb April 10, 2019 in both Swedish and English on the Group’s website: Interim Report, Mar May July 3, 2019 http://www.dustingroup.com/en/agm1718 Year-End Report Sept Aug October 9, 2019 Representatives of legal entities must present a certified copy of the registration certificate or equivalent documents of authorisation. For information on the processing of personal data, refer to the Privacy Policy available on Euroclear’s website https://www.euroclear.com/dam/ESw/Legal/ privacy-notice-boss.pdf The notice and other information will be available at http://www.dustingroup.com/en/agm1718 four weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 133 OTHER INFORMATION | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION Corporate responsibility information About this report ever performed by Dustin. A total of 77 stakeholders Dustin’s Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report took part, including manufacturers, distributors, provides a summary of the financial results and the customers, business partners, employees, the Board, sustainability work we have carried out during the 2017/18 Group Management, investors, non-governmental financial year. This is the first time we are presenting organisations and other partners. The aim was to identify financial information and corporate responsibility the aspects that our stakeholders considered material. information in a joint report. Dustin has used the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines in its reporting since Dustin has used the results of the materiality 2014/15. For 2017/18, Dustin is following the GRI standards assessment and our five focus areas to define the and reporting at “Core” level. This means Dustin has sustainability areas described in this year’s Corporate identified the aspects that are material for the company Responsibility Report. The areas of corporate and has reported at least one indicator per aspect. responsibility are considered material for the entire organisation, as well as our external stakeholder groups. It encompasses the Group’s corporate responsibility efforts during the financial year from September 1, 2017 to August Because our corporate responsibility targets are long-term 31, 2018. Dustin presents corporate responsibility data every – until 2020 – we have decided to conduct a materiality year, and the report for the preceding year was published on assessment at least once every third year. In the event November 17, 2017. If you have any questions, please contact of significant changes to the company’s strategy or Stephanie Forsblom, Head of Corporate Responsibility. operational activities, such as geographic expansion or the launch of new product categories, more frequent Materiality assessment materiality assessments may be required. We are planning The 2015/16 materiality assessment was the most to conduct a new materiality assessment in 2018/19. comprehensive corporate responsibility assessment Sustainable and smart product packaging and green transportation Measures to prevent climate change and Dustin’s environmental impact Business ethics Open communication and transparency Very high relevance Responsible manufacturing Diversity, equality and discrimination prevention Management system certification for the environment, occupational health and safety and quality Responsible extraction and use of raw materials Essential for investor decision-making Energy and resource-efficient IT services and solutions Workplace wellbeing and health promotion Good governance model and risk management Talent and expertise attraction Privacy and customer data protection Green and energy-efficient Simple and efficient end-of-life services for electronic waste product offerings Eco-product Design Purchase of green electricity and renewable energy Water shortage and biodiversity High relevance Local community support, commitment and charity Prioritise Achieve Environmental lobbying Wait High relevance Very high relevance Essential for Dustin from an economic, environmental or social perspective 134 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OTHER INFORMATION | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION Stakeholder overview Dialogue with our stakeholders is conducted on an ongoing basis. Below is a presentation of the stakeholders we have identified as most significant for our corporate responsibility work, the dialogue channels and important issues during the year. Stakeholders Dialogue channels Key issues Customer • Customer contact and customer meetings • Conflict minerals • Concept store • Certified management system • Customer magazine and IT trade fair • Code of Conduct and compliance (Dustin Expo) • Factory inspections • Information on website, customer service and social media • Customer surveys and brand tracker Shareholders • Individual investor meetings • Risk analysis of value chain and factory • Webcasts/telephone conferences inspections for interim reports • Environmental targets • Presentations for investor lunches seminar and other meetings Employees • Daily meetings and interaction • Responsible manufacturing of Dustin’s • All-staff meetings own-brand products • Training, classroom and e-courses • Work on Dustin’s five focus areas • Annual employee surveys • Conflict minerals • Annual appraisals • End-of-life returns Suppliers • Separate meetings in purchasing process • Compliance with the Code of Conduct • Supplier assessments under framework of • Healthy working conditions and promoting Dustin’s Code of Conduct human rights • Seminars and panel discussions • Occupational health and safety • Factory inspections • Environmental protection • Anti-corruption and bribery • Country of origin and traceability Voluntary • Individual meetings • Sustainable IT and eco-labelling organisations • Conferences, training courses and • Environmental targets and partners panel discussions • Country of origin and traceability • End-of-life returns ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 135 OTHER INFORMATION | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION Employees At the end of the 2017/18 financial year, the gender balance A more detailed presentation is given below of age (women/men) at Dustin was 30/70 per cent. If we include distribution among new employees and employees leemployees at our acquired companies, the balance falls aving the company as well as the distribution between to 26/74 per cent. The main reason for this is the large countries, in addition to the employee data reported number of men working at the acquired companies. If on page 45. Dustin has few part-time employees and we compare the gender balance between countries, then the age distribution at Dustin is comparable with the Sweden is at the forefront with a gender balance of 35/65 age distribution at medium-sized companies in the IT per cent while Denmark is lagging behind with a gender industry. balance of 16/84 per cent. Age distribution employees Aged -29 Aged 30 49 Aged 50 New employees (number) 70 (116) 116 (89) 14 (14) New employees (%) 35% (53%) 58% (41%) 7% (6%) Employees leaving (number) 62 (79) 107 (74) 23 (18) Employees leaving (%) 32% (46%) 56% (43%) 12% (11%) Employees Total Sweden Norway Denmark Finland New employees (number) 200 (219) 136 (160) 8 (19) 41 (18) 15 (22) New employees (%) 68% (73%) 4% (9%) 21% (8%) 7% (10%) Employees leaving (number) 192 (171) 130 (106) 16 (18) 28 (27) 18 (20) Employees leaving (%) 68% (62%) 8% (10%) 15% (16%) 9% (12%) Gender balance at Dustin Total Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Gender balance at Dustin 30/70 (29/71) 35/65 (33/67) 23/77 (21/79) 16/84 (21/79) 29/71 (22/78) Gender balance including acquisitions 26/74 (24/76) Gender balance at the managerial level 36/64 (31/69) 40/60 (34/66) 38/62 (29/71) 16/84 (13/87) 44/65 (22/78) Gender balance at managerial level 34/66 (28/72) incl. acquisitions Age distribution Group Management and Board of Directors Aged -29 Aged 30 49 Aged 50 Total 24% (24%) 64% (63%) 12% (13%) Group Management 0% (0%) 70% (70%) 30% (30%) Board of Directors 0% (0%) 0% (37%) 100% (63%) The collective bargaining agreement for employees in Finland is generally binding. Since the spring of 2017, the majority of employees in Sweden are also covered by collective bargaining agreements. No employees in Denmark and Norway are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 136 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OTHER INFORMATION | ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies Data collection and measurement on the basis of financial control and economic interest. Environmental data, energy and emissions are collected For this reason, the following emission sources are used: through the Group’s environmental reporting process. • Trips with vehicles owned by Dustin (Scope 1) Group-wide definitions are used for all environmental parameters in order to increase quality. The consolidation • Electricity consumption, heating and cooling of principles used for environmental data include all Dustin’s offices in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and companies within the Group. Acquired companies are Finland with more than 15 employees. The Dustin included in reporting for environmental data within Concept Store in Sweden, Dustin’s central warehouse 12 months of the acquisition date. All data has been in Sweden and smaller consolidation warehouses in collected in accordance with Dustin’s reporting period Finland are also included (Scope 2) September 1 to August 31 for 2014/15, 2015/16, 2016/17 • Outbound shipments from warehouses to customers. and 2017/18. The collection of data related to emissions This includes shipments from Dustin’s central and energy uses the reporting period August 1 to July 31. warehouse in Sweden, consolidation warehouses in Finland and Norway together with direct deliveries Employee data has been collected separately from from distributors to customers (Scope 3) countries where the Group operates and has been • Dustin’s off-premises data centres (Scope 3) consolidated at Group level. Consolidation principles for employee data include all majority-owned companies • Leasing vehicles for staff (Scope 3) within the Group, including Dustin’s acquisitions. • Business travel by train and air (Scope 3) Internal consultants, meaning consultants with their • Recycling and energy recovery of waste from the own e-mail address from Dustin, are also included. head office and central warehouse (Scope 3) During the 2016/17 financial year, IKT Gruppen became an • Reuse of sold end-of-life returns (Scope 3) operational part of Dustin and Commsec was integrated • Specific emission factors have been used to in 2017/18. This means employee data reported for calculate all Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions, Dustin also includes IKT Gruppen and Commsec, while in accordance with the “location-based” method. DAV Partner, Idenet, JML-System, Saldab, Purity IT, Calculating Scope 2 emissions in accordance with the Core Services, Norriq and iTaito are reported under “market-based” method uses Nordic residual mix for acquisitions. Dustin IT-Hantverkarna was divested during 2017 (329.19 g CO₂/kWh) the 2017/18 financial year. Vincere Group is not included in collected data and measurements. Energy The total quantity of energy consumed is reported in Greenhouse gas emissions kilowatt hours and includes electricity consumption, Climate data produced by companies are often heating and cooling. The calculations encompass all of associated with uncertainty. This is because of scientific Dustin’s office properties with more than 15 employees, uncertainty about measurement methods but also the central warehouse, small consolidation warehouses uncertainty about the data used in the measurement in Finland and the Dustin Concept Store in Sweden. methods. The total amount of greenhouse gas The boundary is in accordance with the calculations of emissions is reported in kg CO₂ equivalents (CO₂e), Scope 2 emissions. Consumption furthermore includes and primarily includes CO₂ greenhouse gases. Biogenic electricity and cooling at off-premises data centres. emissions are insignificant and have not been reported. The office properties in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and The reporting is performed in accordance with the GHG Finland are used only partly by Dustin, and their heat Protocol, and includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 consumption is allocated based on space. The same emissions. We chose the “operational control” approach applies to the consolidation warehouse in Norway as for consolidating greenhouse gas emissions. This means well as the Dustin Concept Store. For the data centres, that we calculate units based on whether we can consumption is measured using PUE (Power Usage introduce policies and operating measures, rather than Effectiveness) values. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 137 OTHER INFORMATION | ACCOUNTING POLICIES Waste both reported figures from IL Recycling for the first half The total reported quantity of waste encompasses of 2016/17 and from Stena Recycling for the second half Dustin’s waste from its head office and central warehouse. of 2016/17. The change contributed to an increase in Other properties or warehouse space are not included. emissions prevented from 27,325 kg CO₂e to 96,181 kg CO₂e. Hazardous waste The total reported quantity of hazardous waste only Significant changes concerning scope encompasses hazardous waste from the central and boundaries warehouse and electronics waste that we as a producer The decision to include all acquisitions in the are responsible to accept. Dustin does not currently have environmental report for energy and emissions within an accepted method to measure the quantity of waste 12 months of the acquisition date has entailed an from our other properties that is sent for recycling. increase in the number of data centres and properties included in the report. Based on this principle, Saldab, Between 2016/17 and 2017/18, legislation was changed Idenet and Purity are included in energy and emissions concerning the reporting of means of recovery for reporting, while Commsec and IKT Gruppen are already collected electrical and electronic products. During an operational part of Dustin. these years, most of the hazardous waste generated by Dustin was linked to the collected electronic waste we Precautionary principle are responsible for handling as producer. The collection The precautionary principle is one of the fundamental system no longer provides companies with data about principles for sound accounting standards applied by the means of recovery. For 2017/18, the volume of Dustin. The precautionary principle is currently being hazardous waste thus represents only the hazardous applied to corporate responsibility as needed, for issues waste we have generated ourselves at our central such as estimated emissions from leasing vehicles. The warehouse and office – such as old fluorescent lamps, principle is defined in the company’s Code of Conduct. batteries and end-of-life electronics equipment. Statutory Corporate Responsibility Report End-of-life returns of electronics products Dustin is subject to the requirements for statutory The quantity of returned products includes the corporate responsibility reporting in accordance with categories of desktop computers, laptops, tablets, requirements in the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory mobile phones, monitors, servers, networking Corporate Responsibility Report is available in the Annual equipment and printers. Categories not included are and Corporate Responsibility Report under the following computer mice, keyboards, cables, laptop docking headings and encompasses reporting requirements stations, external hard drives, removable hard drives, including the environment, social responsibility, CDs and removable computer components. CO₂ savings personnel, human rights and anti-corruption: are only calculated for products that can be reused. • Targets and key performance indicators on pages 20-21 • Business model and value creation on pages 16-19 Employees Active employees refers to all employees at Dustin and • Privacy and risk management on pages 43, 58-64 and 72 acquired companies, including internal consultants • Internal governance on pages 66-72 with their own e-mail address at Dustin. Individuals on • Materiality assessment and stakeholders on pages parental leave or on long-term sick leave are not included. 134-135 Active employees are reported in connection with the proportion of employees who have completed the online • Responsible purchasing on pages 30-31 and 38-40 course on Dustin’s Code of Conduct. Certain GRI indicators • Human rights on pages 30-31 and 38-40 concerning our employees have not been broken out by • Environment on pages 32-33 and 41-42 age group and country, when the difference between the ages was not considered important. • Personnel on pages 34-35, 45 and 136 Changed information compared with preceding External assurance Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate responsibility information in the Annual and In 2016, Stena Recycling acquired the company IL Corporate Responsibility Report for 2017/18 has been Recycling. As a result, emissions prevented from the reviewed by Dustin’s auditors, Ernst & Young. In addition, recycling of waste for 2016/17 were adjusted to include it has been approved by the Dustin’s Board of Directors. 138 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OTHER INFORMATION | GRI-INDEX GRI-Index GRI Standard Description/disclosures Page GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation 50 102-2 Products, services and brands 7 102-3 Location of headquarters 50 102-4 Location of operations 50 102-5 Ownership and legal form 50 102-6 Markets served 7 102-7 Scale of the organisation 7 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 45 102-9 Supply chain 30-33 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 6 & 13-15 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 138 102-12 External initiatives 72 Confederation of 102-13 Membership of associations Swedish Enterprise, WWF and Womentor Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 10-11 & 37 Ethics and integrity Values, principles, standards, 102-16 34, 43 & 66-74 and norms of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure 66-79 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 135 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 136 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 134 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 135 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 134-135 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 122 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 134 102-47 List of material topics 134 102-48 Restatements of information 137 102-49 Changes in reporting 138 102-50 Reporting period 137 102-51 Date of most recent report 134 102-52 Reporting cycle 137 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 134 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 134 102-55 GRI content index 139-140 102-56 External assurance 131-132 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 139 OTHER INFORMATION | GRI-INDEX GRI Standard Description / disclosure Page Outstanding information GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 205 43 & 72 Operations assessed for risks related 205-1 43 to corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption and 205-3 43 actions taken GRI: 301: Materials 2016 103 – 1/2/3 Management Approach 301 33 & 44 Reclaimed products and their Focus on the number as it is key for 301-3 44 packaging materials Dustin’s 2020 target GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 302 32, 41 & 137 Energy consumption within the 302-1 41 organisation GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 305 41 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 41 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 305-2 41 emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 305-3 emissions 41 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 41 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 308 30-31 New suppliers that were screened 308-1 using environmental criteria 38-40 GRI 401: Employment 34-35, 45 & 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 401 136-138 New employee hires and employee 401-1 45 & 136 turnover GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 405 34-35 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 45 & 136 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 414 30-31 New suppliers that were screened 414-1 38-40 using social criteria 140 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OTHER INFORMATION | MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW Multi-year overview All amounts in SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 13/14 Income statement Organic sales growth (%) 2.0 8.6 4.4 5.7 21.0 Gross margin (%) 15.9 14.8 15.0 14.1 14.4 EBIT 443.8 349.5 323.5 218.0 301.0 Adjusted EBITDA 521.2 438.4 400.2 364.1 361.9 Adjusted EBITA 500.6 426.1 389.6 353.5 353.5 Adjusted EBITA margin (%) 4.9 4.6 4.7 4.5 4.8 Return on equity (%) 18.5 16.1 15.8 9.4 22.0 Balance sheet Net working capital -192.0 118.1 31.6 158.3 7.1 Capital employed 48.5 269.1 173.3 292.6 145.1 Net debt 1730.6 998.3 826.3 936.9 1,076.7 Net debt/adjusted EBITDA (multiple) 3.3 2.3 2.1 2.6 3.0 Maintenance investments -52.1 -27.3 -4.7 -8.9 -8.0 Equity/assets ratio (%) 26.7 35.6 36.5 34.4 20.4 Cash flow Operating cash flow 854.8 301.2 500.7 217.2 458.9 Cash flow from operating activities 747.9 213.6 447.2 58.6 255.7 Data per share Earnings per share, including discontinued operations 3.99 3.14 2.95 1.75 2.48 before dilution (SEK) Earnings per share, including discontinued operations 3.97 3.13 2.95 1.75 2.48 after dilution (SEK) Equity per share before dilution (SEK) 21.32 19.50 18.67 17.38 11.24 Cash flow from operating activities per share before 9.77 2.80 5.87 0.82 3.87 dilution (SEK) Cash flow from operating activities per share after 9.72 2.80 5.87 0.82 3.87 dilution (SEK) Average number of shares 76,548,031 76,173,115 76,173,115 71,545,731 66,095,090 Average number of shares after dilution 76,918,811 76,338,787 76,173,115 71,552,025 66,095,090 Number of shares issued at end of period 77,226,502 76,173,115 76,173,115 76,173,115 66,095,090 Dividend per share (SEK) 3.10* 2.80 2.40 1.70 0.00 * To make comparison between the financial years possible, the Board of Directors’ proposed dividend is stated before taking into account the outcome of the completed rights issue. After taking the outcome of the completed rights issue into account, the proposed dividend amounts to SEK 2.72 per share. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 141 OTHER INFORMATION | ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Source of alternative performance measures All amounts in SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 13/14 Organic growth Sales growth (%) 10.7 12.1 4.6 7.6 35.5 Acquired growth (%) -7.3 -1.7 -1.2 -0.6 -14.3 Currency effects in sales growth (%) -1.4 -1.8 1.0 -1.3 -0.2 Organic sales growth (%) 2.0 8.6 4.4 5.7 21.0 Earnings before financial items including EBIT from discontinued operations EBIT from continuing operations 443.8 349.5 323.5 218.0 294.9 EBIT from discontinued operations – 0.0 0.4 8.5 6.1 Total 443.8 349.5 323.9 226.5 301.0 Adjusted EBITA 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 13/14 EBIT including discontinued operations 443.8 349.5 323.9 226.5 301.0 Depreciation and impairment of intangible 57.8 69.3 60.6 58.3 53.6 assets Items affecting comparability -1.0 7.3 5.0 68.7 -1.1 Adjusted EBITA 500.6 426.1 389.6 353.5 353.5 Adjusted EBITDA 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 13/14 EBIT including discontinued operations 443.8 349.5 323.9 226.5 301.0 Depreciation and impairment of 20.5 12.3 10.6 10.6 8.5 tangible assets Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 57.8 69.3 60.6 58.3 53.6 Items affecting comparability -1.0 7.3 5.0 68.7 -1.1 Adjusted EBITDA 521.2 438.4 400.2 364.1 361.9 142 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OTHER INFORMATION | DEFINITIONS Definitions IFRS measures: Definition/Calculation Earnings per share Net profit/loss in SEK in relation to average number of shares, according to IAS 33. Alternative performance Definition/Calculation Purpose measures: Acquired growth Net sales for the relevant period attributable to Acquired growth is eliminated in acquired and divested companies in relation to the calculation of organic growth. net sales for the comparative period. Adjusted EBITA EBIT according to the income statement before Dustin believes that this performance items affecting comparability and amortisation measure shows the underlying earnings and impairment of intangible assets. capacity and facilitates comparisons between quarters. Adjusted EBITA margin Adjusted EBITA in relation to net sales. This performance measure is used to measure the profitability level of the operations. Adjusted EBITDA EBIT according to the income statement before Dustin believes that this performance items affecting comparability and amortisation/ measure shows the underlying earnings depreciation and impairment of intangible and capacity and facilitates comparisons tangible assets. between quarters. Capital employed Working capital plus total assets, excluding Capital employed measures utilisation goodwill and other intangible assets of capital and efficiency. attributable to acquisitions, and interestbearing receivables pertaining to finance leasing, at the end of the period. Cash flow from operating Cash flow from operating activities, after Used to show the amount of cash flow activities changes in working capital. generated from operating activities. Cash flow from operating Cash flow from operating activities as a Used to show the amount of cash flow activities per share percentage of the average number of shares generated from operating activities per outstanding. share. Currency effects The difference between net sales in SEK Currency effects are eliminated in the for the comparative period and net sales calculation of organic growth. in local currencies for the comparative period converted to SEK using the average exchange rate for the relevant period. EBIT EBIT is a measurement of the company’s This measure shows Dustin’s profitability earnings before income tax and financial items. from operations. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 143 OTHER INFORMATION | DEFINITIONS Equity/assets ratio Equity at the end of the period in relation to Dustin believes that this measure total assets at the end of the period. provides accurate view of the company’s long-term solvency. Equity per share Equity at the end of the period in relation to Shows Dustin’s equity per share. the number of shares at the end of the period. Gross margin Gross profit in relation to net sales. Used to measure product and service profitability. Items affecting comparability Items affecting comparability relate to Dustin believes that separate recognition material income and expense items recognised of items affecting comparability increases separately due to the significance of their comparability of EBIT over time. nature and amounts. Maintenance investments Investments required to maintain current Used to calculate operating cash flow. operations excluding financial leasing. Net debt Non-current and current interest-bearing This performance measure shows liabilities, excluding acquisition-related Dustin’s total liabilities adjusted for liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents at cash and cash equivalents. the end of the period. Net debt/EBITDA Net debt in relation to adjusted This performance measure shows the EBITDA. company’s ability to pay its debt. Net working capital Total current assets less cash and cash This performance measure shows equivalents, current financial lease assets and Dustin’s efficiency and capital tied up. current non-interest-bearing liabilities, at the end of the period. Operating cash flow Adjusted EBITDA less maintenance Used to show the amount of cash flow investments plus cash flow from changes generated from operating activities and in working capital. available for payments in connection with dividends, interest and tax. Organic growth Growth in net sales for the relevant period Provides a measure of the growth adjusted for acquisitions, divestments and achieved by Dustin in its own right. currency effects. Return on equity Net profit for the year in relation to equity at Dustin believes that this performance the end of the period. measure shows how profitable the Company is for its shareholders. Segment results The segment’s operating profit excluding Dustin believes that this performance amortisation/depreciation and items affecting measure shows the earnings capacity of comparability. the segment. Sales growth Net sales for the relevant period in relation to Used to show the development of net net sales for the comparative period. sales. 144 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB OTHER INFORMATION | GLOSSARY Glossary Word/Term Definition/Calculation B2B Pertains to sales to companies and organisations, divided into LCP and SMB according to the definition below. B2C Pertains to all sales to consumers. Central functions Includes all non-allocated central expenses, including amortisation and depreciation, and excluding items affecting comparability. Clients Generic name for the product categories computers, mobile phones and tablets. LCP Pertains to all sales to large corporate and public sector. As a general rule, this segment is defined as companies and organisations with more than 500 employees or public sector operations. LTI Long-term incentive programme that encompasses Group Management and other key individuals at Dustin. LTM Last twelve months, also known as rolling 12 months. Refers to going back 12 months regardless of financial year. SaaS Software as a service (SaaS) is a type of cloud service that provides software over the Internet. SMB Pertains to all sales to small and medium-sized businesses. ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 145 OTHER INFORMATION | FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial calendar December 11, 2018 November 14, 2019 Annual General Meeting in Stockholm 2018/19 Annual Report January 9, 2019 December 11, 2019 Interim report for the first quarter, 2018/19 Annual General Meeting September 1, 2018 – November 30, 2018 For more information, please contact: April 10, 2019 Interim report for the second quarter, Dustin Group AB December 1, 2018 – February 28, 2019 Johan Karlsson, CFO johan.karlsson@dustin.se July 3, 2019 +46 0708 67 79 97 Interim report for the third quarter, March 1, 2019 – May 31, 2019 Fredrik Sätterström, Head of Investor Relations fredrik.satterstrom@dustin.se October 9, 2019 +46 705 10 10 22 Year-end report, September 1, 2018 – August 31, 2019 146 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017/18 DUSTIN GROUP AB 147
