MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 1 ON LAND AT SEA IN THE SKY IN SPACE Contents 2 Introduction 2 To Our Readers Introduction 4 Snapshot of MHI Group 6 Management Strategies 6 President’s Message 13 Board of Directors 14 CFO’s Message 18 CTO’s Message 22 Creating a Management Foundation That Responds to Global Society: ESG Initiatives Management Strategies 26 Value Creation through Our Business 26 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 28 Eleven-Year Financial and Non-Financial Data 30 Business Segment Highlights 32 Power Systems Domain 36 Industry & Infrastructure Domain 40 Aircraft, Defense & Space Domain Value Creation through Our Business 44 Corporate Governance 44 Message from the Outside Directors 46 Basic Approach 48 Corporate Governance Structure and Roles WE TRANSFORM THE PRESENT INTO A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE (Including Internal Control Systems) 50 Officers’ Remuneration Structure / Risk Management 52 Corporate Data Corporate Governance 53 Overseas Head Offices and Networks / Overseas Offices Our Principles Corporate Aspiration A global group with the vision to mold an innovative and agile > We deliver reliable and innovative solutions that make a lasting difference to customers organization that leverages our dedication to technological and communities worldwide. advancement and engineering excellence in order to deliver solid growth amid constant changes and make a lasting difference in the communities we serve. Reference Guidelines > We act with integrity and fairness, always respecting others. International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) > International Integrated Reporting Framework > We constantly strive for excellence in our operations and technology, Global Reporting Initiative > Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) building on a wide global outlook and deep local insights. Tagline Ministry of the Environment of Japan > Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) Structure of Information Disclosure Corporate Identity Statement MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines MHI Report contains information that is important to understanding MHI. The tagline advocates that we to “Move the world forward” More detailed information is available on our website. MHI strives to move the world toward a more secure future. together with our global customers and local communities > http://www.mhi.com/ Through our technology, our business practices and our people, we: toward a more sustainable future. Financial Information Non-Financial Information Important MHI Report Care for the planet We are eco-conscious, and engineer environmentally-friendly Reason for Publishing This Report Financial Section technologies that improve sustainability and protect the Earth of MHI Report Website “Investor Website“CSR” (Separate booklet) Relations” This corporate identity statement represents our intention to MHI Group conducts management based on its firm will to Detailed (Exhaustive) “continuously provide an assured future where people can Create a more harmonious society realize its corporate identity statement, “Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow.” live safe, secure, and enriched lives through technologies that We embrace integrity and proactive participation to solve To enhance the understanding of our philosophy among Forward-Looking Statements can excite people and passion as a manufacturer for the societal challenges shareholders, investors, and a host of other stakeholders, Forecasts regarding future performance in these materials are based on judgments made in accordance with information available at the time this presentation was prepared. As such, these projections involve risks and sustainability of the earth and humankind.” from fiscal 2013 (the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014) we insecurity. For this reason, investors are recommended not to depend solely on these projections for making Inspire the future have integrated financial information, including management investment decisions. It is possible that actual results may change significantly from these projections for a strategy and operating performance, with non-financial number of factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, economic trends affecting the Company’s operating We cultivate global talent who share a vision and desire to move information related to the Group’s environmental and environment, currency movement of the yen value to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies, and trends of stock markets in Japan. Also, the results projected here should not be construed in any way as being guaranteed by the world forward for generations to come social activities into this MHI Report. the Company. 2 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 3 TO OUR READERS Introduction Through our ongoing reform Since the time of its founding, MHI Group has moved in step with society, creating a variety of technologies and products that it has passed on to the next generation. In this manner, we have efforts, we aim to become responded to the world’s diverse needs. At the same time, the global business environment in a truly global company that which the Group operates has grown increasingly complex, and the speed of social change is accelerating. Operating in this changing environment, in recent years we have promoted a continues to provide value Management Strategies number of management reforms, revamping our organizational structure and transforming our to a changing society. corporate governance. We are now undergoing a strategic reconfiguration that will transform the diverse businesses, products, and human resources MHI Group has historically cultivated. At the same time, we are leveraging our diversity in a way that is better suited to current needs. MHI Group will continue working to provide value to society. To this end, all members of the Group are pulling together to promote reforms, with a clear vision of becoming a unique Value Creation through Our Business and truly global company. Hideaki Omiya Chairman of the Board Corporate Governance 1880s 1910s 1930s 1950s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s The Company’s history At the Kobe Shipyard & As Japan entered World After the war, in 1950 the We reintegrated our origAs Japan’s period of In 1999, we delivered a Leveraging our intedates back to1884, when Machinery Works, we War II, our leading-edge General Headquarters of inal three companies in rapid economic growth CO2 recovery plant to grated capabilities, we we entered the shipbuilt the very first technologies were the Allied Powers broke 1964. We then developed came to an end, our own Malaysia, channeling our pushed our businesses building business by Mitsubishi Model A, applied toward the proup MHI into three entities power plants, monorails, growth stagnated for technological capabilities toward addressing taking a lease on the govJapan’s first mass-production of military equipin line with its policy of oil-drilling rigs, and other approximately 30 years. toward the resolution of global-scale issues such ernment-owned duced passenger car. We ment, startling the world dissolving the zaibatsu. large-scale infrastructure During that time, howenvironmental issues, as infrastructure develNagasaki Shipyard. We also embarked on the with the “Zero” fighter We turned our energies products, supporting ever, we built the world’s and we began to proacopment and environmenbuilt up a track record in development of transporaircraft and the Musashi to competing in the Japan’s rapid economic first large-scale ultratively roll out our prodtal preservation, shipbuilding, constructing tation equipment, such as battleship. development of diverse growth. energy-saving ships and ucts overseas. including the Taiwan Japan’s first steel steamsteam locomotives and products, including tankthe world’s largest comHigh-Speed Rail, the ship and large cruise aircraft, as well as interers, scooters, tractors, bined cycle power plants, Dubai Metro, and other ship. nal combustion engines. and air conditioners, honing the leading-edge transportation systems. thereby contributing to technologies that we Japan’s reconstruction. retain to this day. 4 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 5 SNAPSHOT OF MHI GROUP In principle, MHI and its consolidated subsidiaries For the year ended March 31, 2017 and as of March 31, 2017 Net Sales Reduction in CO2 from Using MHI’s Products Introduction (Compared with Fiscal 1990 Levels) ¥ 3,914.0 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent billion Number of Employees 62,592.6 kilotons Management Strategies ¥ 87.7 billion 82,728 Value Creation through Our Business Corporate Governance Free Cash Flows Overseas Sales Ratio Ratio of Outside Directors ¥ 104.6 billion 53.5% 45.5% Research and Development Expenses Number of Patents Held in Japan and Overseas 160.7 ¥ billion 14,004 6 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 7 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE Introduction Sustained Growth Through Structural Reforms and Global Diversity Management Strategies Shunichi Miyanaga President and CEO What We Have Achieved in Structural Reforms So Far Since launching our 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan* 1, we have carried out a large-scale program of structural reforms and reform initiatives which continue today. To give some background as to Value Creation through Our Business why such reforms were needed, we must look back to the 1990s. Until then, MHI Group had continued to grow thanks to domestic demand, driven by the growth of the Japanese economy. However, with the collapse of the “bubble economy,” Japan’s economy slipped into a prolonged phase of slow growth, and as a consequence our own growth dropped off. In response, we attempted to find breakthrough solutions, but through the first decade of the new millennium we were unable to implement radical measures to turn around businesses with worsening earnings and languishing domestic investment. As the domestic market for our products reached maturity and demand dropped off, MHI Group had to shift its sights to overseas markets in an unprecedented way to return to a positive growth trajectory. As expected, we faced a completely different level of competition in overseas markets Corporate Governance compared to the Japanese market. The risks were greater as well, and for that reason it became imperative that we undertake reforms in our management policies, business execution practices, and business administration processes. We also needed to rethink our corporate culture itself. Clearly, companies that have a strong presence in the face of global competition are those that benefit from scale merits as they skillfully manage their risks. *1. The plan spanned the three-year period from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2014. Operating Performance in the 2000s Operating income Income before income taxes Net sales (right scale) Billions of yen Trillions of yen 350 4.5 300 ¥ 3.91trillion 4.0 250 3.5 200 3.0 ¥169.7billion 150.5billion ¥ 150 2.5 100 2.0 50 1.5 〜 〜 0 0 Average for fiscal 2000 Average during Average during Average during Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 through fiscal 2007 the 2008 Medium-Term the 2010 Medium-Term the 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan Business Plan Business Plan 8 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 9 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE Introduction With that in mind, we put in place structures that would enable us to compete against overseas competitors, starting with our 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan (which I helped to formulate as Senior Executive Vice President and then Head of the Presidential Administration Office). We set two overriding targets: scale expansion and profitability enhancement. Specifically, we consolidated what had been separate business headquarters and regional offices to a structure consisting only of business headquarters. Furthermore, we reorganized the business headquarters into larger “business domains.” This restructuring move gave us greater freedom in using our management Management Strategies resources and enabled us to make timely investments of resources into areas offering high growth potential and profitability. The outcome was business growth and expansion. We also launched a business evaluation system under which we: a) classified business positions according to business maturity (nascent, prime, or mature) and profitability/financial soundness; and b) set return requirements and optimized our allocation of invested capital commensurate with those positions. In this way, we retooled our business portfolio and improved our profitability. As a result of these various initiatives, in fiscal 2016 our orders received and net sales both achieved 30%–40% growth compared to fiscal 2011, each increasing by approximately ¥1 trillion. > For details on medium-term ­operating performance, Additionally, our profit levels also improved significantly. Throughout this period we continued to please see the Eleven-Year make major investments and for seven consecutive years (fiscal 2010–2016) we successfully Financial and Non-Financial Data Value Creation through Our Business secured positive free cash flow, a major achievement symbolizing our corporate transformation. on page 28. Another issue is the growing uncertainty that has surrounded the global economy in recent years. Factors include substantial declines in oil prices, subsequent economic downturns in Actualized Risk and Impending Challenges oil-producing nations, reluctance to make large-scale investments in energy-related infrastructure These achievements notwithstanding, today we face risks of a different nature and larger scale than and, in the case of Japan, the strengthening of the yen. Meanwhile, an imbalance has come to the ever before as a result of globalization and our entry into new business areas. It is clear that gaps fore between our business scale and fixed costs, attributable to factors such as slower than have emerged between the targets we set when formulating the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan*2 expected progress with post merger integration (PMI) at Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. and our current situation. A prime example is our large-scale cruise ship construction project. We (MHPS) and other joint ventures, as well as decreased production demand for commercial air> For details about factors behind changes in operating profit initially accepted orders in the belief that, based on our track record, we were fully up to the task. craft. Concurrently, LNG carrier costs have fallen. As a result of these combined factors, our operin fiscal 2016, please see the CFO’s Ultimately, however, we lacked sufficient knowledge and expertise to match the facilities and speciating income in fiscal 2016 dropped roughly 50% from the previous year, to ¥150.5 billion. For this Corporate Governance Message on page 16. fications required for large-scale cruise ships in Western markets. As a result we struggled with reason, we have inevitably shelved achieving the targets we had set for fiscal 2017, the last year in the construction and incurred significant losses. Another example is the MRJ project*3, our bold our 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan: namely, net sales of ¥5 trillion, operating income of ¥450 initiative to develop Japan’s first domestically built passenger jet in half a century, which was billion, and profit attributable to owners of parent of ¥200 billion. spurred by expectations that MRJ-related business will become one of our core strengths in the *2. The plan spans from fiscal 2015 through the current fiscal 2017. future. However, in January 2017, as a result of having to modify the aircraft’s design in order to *3. MRJ: Mitsubishi Regional Jet meet the latest safety standards, we were forced to push back the delivery schedule of the first production unit from mid–2018 to mid–2020. Current Status of Large-Scale Risks and Their Countermeasures Despite these disappointments, the outlook is now improving, with the most risk-laden projects drawing to a close and the remaining issues affecting the MRJ business becoming clearer. The second and final cruise ship in the beleaguered project referenced above was delivered in Performance Forecast for Fiscal 2017 April 2017, bringing that project to an end. Going forward, based on the findings of our internal > For details about future directions Billions of yen Reasons for revision evaluation committee, we will limit cruise ship operations and projects to those that can be handled in the ­commercial ship business, 2016 2017 2017 by our own personnel and supply chain. In addition, we will take the knowledge of highly complex please see Business Segment Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Overview, Industry & Infrastructure FY (actual) (previous plan) (revised forecast) ship engineering acquired through this project and apply it to our other businesses to help us (Thermal power business) –350.0 Domain, on page 37. achieve technological differentiation. Orders received 4,275.6 5,500.0 4,500.0 Land transportation systems –220.0 Furthermore, regarding the arbitration case relating to the San Onofre Nuclear Generating (Overseas sales ratio) (48%) (64%) (55%) Station in California, in March 2017 an award was passed down that in large part accepted our Commercial aircraft –200.0 Net sales 3,914.0 5,000.0 4,150.0 claims, bringing that issue to a close. Primetals Technologies As to the MRJ project, the development phase, which encompasses numerous flight tests, Operating income 150.5 450.0 230.0 (Metals machinery) –120.0 is gradually coming to an end. We are now progressing toward the final hurdle of acquiring type (Operating income ratio) (3.8%) (9.0%) (5.5%) certification (safety approval), while initiatives are underway to improve future business viability. Compressors–110.0 Profit attributable to In November 2016 we launched a new MRJ Business Promotion Committee under the direct 87.7 200.0 100.0 owners of parent Total orders –1,000.0 ­oversight of the CEO. Through the efforts of this committee, decision making pertaining to important matters and Groupwide support are being carried out with appropriate speed. In striving to ROE 5.1% 10.2% 5.5% enter the full-scale commercial aircraft business, we continue to face the anticipated difficulties; 10 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 11 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE Introduction but looked at from a different angle, because of the high entry hurdles for this field, it is unquesDomain Restructuring  > For details about future directions Billions of yen Billions of yen tionably a business which is expected to continue to grow in the future. We intend to do everything in the MRJ business, please see possible to make up for the delays experienced until now, and to grow the MRJ business into a Net sales Operating income Net sales Operating income Business Segment Overview, major pillar of our operations. Aircraft, Defense & Space Domain, Energy & Environment 1,470.4 110.5 In order to respond to the expanding risks that accompany increasingly large-scale and complex on page 41. Power Systems 1,448.4 108.1 projects, we launched a new Business Risk Management Division in April 2016 and also established Commercial Aviation & a “Business Risk Management Charter” which provides the core risk guidelines for the Group. We 515.3 -51.9 Transportation Systems Management Strategies also created the Business Risk Management Committee headed by the CEO. In my role I will be Industry & Infrastructure 1,747.0 50.0 deeply involved in the committee’s operations, taking the lead in developing a risk management > For details related to Integrated Defense & 470.6 27.9 risk management, please see Space Systems culture and strengthening risk entry point management. Active exchanges are now underway Risk Management on page 51. between highly experienced experts in risk management and the business segments, and as the Machinery, Equipment & Aircraft, Defense & Space 703.4 0.9 1,438.0 72.5 number of personnel with experience in risk management increases, we expect a further buildup Infrastructure of relevant expertise within the Group. Note: Operating performance figures are actual for fiscal 2016. F  or details on domain restructuring, please see the Business Segment Highlights on page 30. Fiscal 2017, The Year We Complete Our Structural Reform Agenda Operations in the Power Systems domain center on the thermal power generation business of Value Creation through Our Business In 2013 we shifted to a domain-based structure, and subsequently made a thorough review of our > Please see Business Segment Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. (MHPS) and the technologically affiliated businesses of aero organizational structure to foster growth as a global enterprise. In April 2017 we then reconfigured Overview, Power Systems Domain, engines and compressors. Through these business alignments we are seeking synergies within on page 32. our domain structure to incorporate improvements that the review process had deemed necessary. the turbo machinery business as a whole and reinforcement of our after-sale servicing operations. This reorganization was aimed at further Group synergies to strengthen our global competitiveness We are also striving to improve MHPS’s earning capacity via consolidation and reorganization of and engineering operations, and drive radical reforms in our commercial aircraft and commercial the company’s bases and through greater use of IoT and AI. ship businesses. The Industry & Infrastructure domain essentially carries on the business previously conducted Specifically, from our original four domains—Energy & Environment, Commercial Aviation & within the Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure segment, with new emphasis on expanding > Please see Business Segment Transportation Systems, Integrated Defense & Space Systems, and Machinery, Equipment & Overview, Industry & Infrastructure earnings through improved portfolio management of its various machinery and equipment businesses Infrastructure—we reorganized into three new domains: Power Systems, Industry & Infrastructure, Domain, on page 36. and the creation of global niche products. In addition, by consolidating into this domain those and Aircraft, Defense & Space. This was achieved by reallocating our strategic business units businesses heavily oriented toward EPC (engineering, procurement, construction)—businesses in (SBUs) that handle business for individual products. Corporate Governance commercial ships, chemical plants, transportation systems, etc.—we will be able to integrate and strengthen our engineering operations going forward. In our commercial ship business, by forming alliances with dedicated shipbuilders, we will pursue synergies between MHI’s engineering strengths—primarily our energy efficiency and environmental protection technologies—and the construction capabilities of our alliance partners. The new Aircraft, Defense & Space domain oversees business handled by the earlier Integrated > Please see Business Segment Defense & Space Systems segment, as well as operations in commercial aircraft and the MRJ that Overview, Aircraft, Defense & were subsumed within the Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems segment. By transferring Space Domain, on page 40. the latter businesses, we now strive for synergies within aircraft operations and more effective use of management resources. At the same time, to carry out reforms in our commercial aircraft business’s supply chain, we will strengthen use of the shared technology framework launched in April 2016 to integrate Companywide technologies, marketing, procurement, etc. Specifically, we have shifted our commercial aircraft procurement functions to the Value Chain Headquarters, and we are now seeking new suppliers while implementing reforms in our procurement processes. Additionally, it should be pointed out that upon its launch, the Aircraft, Defense & Space domain was not placed under the charge of an appointed head officer; rather, this domain is directly managed by the CEO, a result of the MRJ business being placed under the CEO’s oversight. Because businesses in this domain are all developed over long periods of time, under the new structure we will target the early formation of strong foundations for such development as well as the stabilization of segment earnings. Fiscal 2017 is the third and final year of our 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan, and will be a year in which the overall structural reform agenda will be brought to fruition. Although some follow-up measures relating to the MRJ will carry over into fiscal 2018, we intend to complete our Groupwide structural reforms and remedial measures for dealing with problematic businesses all within fiscal 2017. Then, starting in fiscal 2018, we hope to achieve a dynamic shift to a new phase of sustained growth. 12 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 13 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE BOARD OF DIRECTORS As of July 1, 2017 Becoming an Organization Capable of Sustained Growth 1. Chairman of the Board 2. President and CEO*1 3. Director, Executive Vice President 4. Director, Executive Vice President Introduction (CFO*2, Head of Business (CTO*3) Hideaki Omiya Shunichi Miyanaga by Adapting to Change and More Diversity Strategy Office) Michisuke Nayama MHI has a history stretching back more than 130 years. Managing a complex conglomerate is Masanori Koguchi perhaps more complicated than managing a dedicated manufacturing business, but there are aspects in which being a conglomerate offers distinct advantages: our ability to respond to social 5. Director, 6. Director, 7. Director 8. Director changes or diversity needs, for example. Full Time Audit and Supervisory Full Time Audit and Supervisory Today, I believe we must seek new ways to thrive as a global conglomerate for machinery and Naoyuki Shinohara Ken Kobayashi Committee Member Committee Member engineering while integrating our recent experiences and measures to respond to the significant ( Professor, The University of Tokyo, ( Chairman of the Board, Seiji Izumisawa Toshifumi Goto Policy Alternatives Research Mitsubishi Corporation) and dramatic changes we expect in our industry and, more broadly, in the world going forward. Institute) As mentioned previously, MHI has traditionally achieved growth in the domestic market in Management Strategies tandem with Japan’s economic growth. Today, there are still areas within the Japanese market where our products and technologies can thrive, and going forward we will continue to strengthen 9. Director, 10. Director, 11. Director, *1. CEO: Chief Executive Officer those areas. However, at the same time we need to allocate more of our management resources Audit and Supervisory Audit and Supervisory Audit and Supervisory *2. CFO: Chief Financial Officer *3. CTO: Chief Technology Officer into products and businesses that have growth potential in overseas markets. As innovations take Committee Member Committee Member Committee Member place in many different fields, particularly ICT, it will be crucial for us to flexibly incorporate the Nobuo Kuroyanagi Christina Ahmadjian Shinichiro Ito most up-to-date technologies and expert knowledge into our engineering business—our area of  (Senior Advisor,  (Professor, Hitotsubashi University  (Chairman of the Board, foremost strength—and into the technologies that form the core of our products. In other words, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.) Graduate School of Commerce and ANA Holdings Inc.) Management) we need to be an organization capable of two things: maintaining technologies cultivated over a long period of time, while being highly flexible and in step with changes in the world around us. To grow our business overseas, beyond the “global” perspective, it is also essential to take a Value Creation through Our Business local perspective attuned to each specific region. In fiscal 2018 we are due to relocate our global headquarters functions to Tokyo’s Marunouchi district. With this relocation we will focus on strengthening our global management structure while delegating authority to and clarifying the 11 responsibilities of each local base. In this way we aim to seamlessly combine global management 9 10 5 with local management and regional characteristics. 8 7 6 2 1 4 For MHI to continue to create value while meeting society’s needs, in addition to developing 3 the organizational structure outlined above, we will also need the right people. As it becomes increasingly difficult to prolong the lifespan of—i.e., demand for—a product over long periods, > For details on human resource development, please see Creating it is also becoming more important to have human resources who can swiftly understand and a Management Foundation That adapt to society’s evolving needs. To develop human resources that can take the lead in moving Corporate Governance Responds to Global Society: ESG the organization forward and overcoming new challenges, it is necessary to create an environInitiatives, Material Issue 2: The ment conducive to continuous human resource development. This means communicating and Use of Global Human Resources, sharing with employees what goals the Company is pursuing, identifying ways to achieve these on page 22 and 24. goals, and encouraging employees to build experience in taking on and overcoming challenges in multiple fields. Through our agenda of ongoing structural reforms, we have now laid the groundwork for taking our next big step. In our next medium-term management plan we will continue to give our best in making progress toward a phase of sustained growth, including the growth of our human resources and knowledge base. Please watch the video on the website below. > http://www.mhi.com/finance/mr2017 14 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 15 CFO’S MESSAGE Introduction Focusing on Cash Flow Management and Optimal Financial Balance to Increase Corporate Value in the Medium-to-Long Term Management Strategies Masanori Koguchi Member of the Board, Executive Vice President and CFO Value Creation through Our Business Cash Flow (CF) and Interest-Bearing Debt Steady Progress Made in Strengthening Our Financial Foundations Billions of yen Billions of yen 1,325.6 billion 1,500 300 Corporate Governance ¥ From around 2010, MHI Group began a major shift in management fiscal 2016 meanwhile was 44%, the lowest level in our history, 211.6 focus toward portfolio optimization based on a strategic business and our interest-bearing debt was down 40% compared to fiscal 200.5 1,000 200 evaluation system and a new emphasis on cash flow. The shift 2009. These achievements were made despite undertaking largewas carried out in order to strengthen our financial foundations scale future investments while setting aside funds to deal with 144.6 925.5 billion ¥ 153.3 in preparation for future growth-oriented investments, and to our cruise ship construction business and other risk issues. ¥104.6 billion build up risk resilience amid intensifying global competition and Regarding development of the MRJ business—an undertaking 500 100 the aftermath of the global financial crisis that began around that requires large investment outlays—our fundamental financial 2007. Between fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2016, we successfully secured policy is to rely wholly on our own funds, i.e. without resorting to a cumulative free cash flow near ¥1.6 trillion (excluding extraordiloans. This stance is taken in consideration of our determination 38.6 7.5 0 0 nary factors* 1). This was achieved primarily through improvement to develop the MRJ into a core business. Taken together, these Investing Liquidation activities of profitability, resulting from concentration into our core compevarious accomplishments demonstrate that we are truly making CF tencies, and enhancement of balance sheet efficiency. Of the total steady progress in improving our financial soundness. free cash flow, some ¥810 billion has been allocated to new busi–500 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) nesses and risk resilience. A further ¥570 billion was committed Operating activities CF Investing activities CF Liquidation Interest-bearing debt Free cash flow (FCF), excluding extraordinary factors (right scale) FCF (right scale) to achieving financial soundness and approximately ¥210 billion went to shareholder dividends. Our debt/equity (D/E) ratio in FY2010–FY2016 Accumulated FCF (excluding extraordinary factors* 1): Approx. ¥ 1,600 billion New business and risk management Shareholder return (dividend) Achieving sound financial position Approx. ¥810 billion Approx. ¥210 billion Approx. ¥570 billion (Including dividends for non-controlling shareholders) *1. E  xpenditures relating to the cruise ship construction business, development of the MRJ, and the power plant project in South Africa; also, earnings in fiscal 2016 accrued from asset management initiatives. 16 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 17 CFO’S MESSAGE Introduction Imbalance between Business Scale and Balance Sheets / Fixed Costs Reinforcing Our Regular Earning Capacity and Financial Foundation in the Short-to-Medium Term This progress aside, in fiscal 2016 a new issue came to the fore. was originally about 2 years, has generally expanded to around In our quest for MHI Group to develop a strong presence in the 2.5 or even 3 years. This means that orders which would normally In fiscal 2010 MHI launched a “strategic business evaluation system” factors. We will take effective measures for the short-to-medium global market, we have simultaneously pursued business scale have been booked to sales in fiscal 2016 partially carried over to under which the Company has been reviewing how it allocates term. First, as an issue requiring an immediate response, we will expansion and higher profitability; and in the process, we have built fiscal 2017 or later. As a result, sales in fiscal 2016 were sluggish, management resources. From the perspective of profitability, I strive to curb unnecessary cash outflows. While pursuing enhanced up a corporate structure toward our targeted business scale of ¥5 leading to imbalances between net sales on one hand, and balance believe that considerable progress has been made in optimizing efficiency, systemization, and outsourcing of routine work, we will trillion. This has resulted in the expansion of our balance sheets sheets and fixed costs on the other. This was a key factor in the our business portfolio; however, going forward we must maintain maximize use of our Group resources and internalize work curand fixed costs. Meanwhile, due to the sluggish global economy and erosion of our earnings for the year. In response, for the time being Management Strategies keen awareness of where society’s needs exist. Beyond simply rently performed externally. longer time needed to complete domestic coal-fired power plant we will strive first to squeeze our balance sheets and fixed costs, growing businesses that offer robust revenues while reducing Second, as a short-term undertaking, we will strive to achieve projects, the time span from order receipt to booking to sales, which targeting higher earnings even at our current business scale. capital investments into businesses with low profitability, we have greater efficiency throughout our production systems. In addition now reached a stage where we must consider how we can change to consolidating and reorganizing our production bases and optiOperating Income our portfolio to respond to society’s demands. In order to develop mally reallocating our internal resources, we will improve our  FY2015 business on a global scale, there will surely be occasions when productivity by reviewing our business processes, as a way of ¥ 309.5 billion (2) FX impact we will have to take up major new challenges: for example, enterimproving our cash conversion cycle. Thermal Cost ing into new businesses or pursuing M&A opportunities. As CFO, I In parallel with this, in the medium-to-long term, we will also power deterioration would like to see the Company in a position to utilize about ¥1 take steps to generate revenue and cash flow from our balance Commercial for LNG Increased trillion in preparation for such needs. To achieve such a position, sheets by making broad use of our diverse assets, and not merely aircraft (Tier1) carriers Value Creation through Our Business development I strongly believe that carrying out cash flow management and using them internally. This will involve not only tangible fixed Commercial costs maintaining a sound financial structure are key objectives. assets but also technologies, intellectual property, and expertise. ships FY2016 As mentioned before, in fiscal 2017 and beyond we will continue By steadily carrying out measures such as these, I hope to make MRJ Others ¥150.5 billion to further squeeze our balance sheets to enable us to move forward, our balance sheets—a burden until now—a source of revenue as on the strength of our own efforts, without being subject to external quickly as possible. (1) Impact of contraction in business scale (1) Decline due to imbalance between business scale and balance sheets/fixed costs, following delayed post merger integration (PMI) at major joint venture Corporate Governance (JV) businesses. Other factors included decreased activity in commercial aircraft (Tier1) business. (2) Forex movements mainly affected the ‘Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems’ and ‘Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure’ segments. Dividend Policy From my vantage point as CFO, I believe the ideal situation any value over the medium-to-long term by strengthening our financial company should aim for is what I call a “1:1:1” proportion. This structure through use of retained earnings to expand our business means an equal balance between the three constituent factors of scale, preparing for potential risks and creating new businesses business scale, scale of assets, and market value. At MHI, our scale for the future. Creating Value from Balance Sheets Through Asset Management of assets currently exceeds our business scale, and our market Our intention of course is to pursue a dividend policy that value is significantly smaller than both of these. As such, what we accords prime weight to shareholder returns by boldly implementneed to do first is reduce the scale of our assets, increase our ing management reforms and raising our ROE. In the near term, In addition to reducing this “waste” from our balance sheets as the transferred assets. Meanwhile, in March 2017 we sold our Head earning capacity, and boost our operating and net income levels. however, in light of our investments into growth businesses and described, we are further stepping up efforts to squeeze our balance Office Building in Yokohama. Our plan is to rebuild our Dai Ichi Furthermore, for increasing our market value, I believe that the like, we aim to distribute dividends at a payout ratio of 30%. sheets and make them more efficient from a perspective different Tamachi Building in Tokyo to serve as a strategic base consolidating shareholder returns should be one of the most important considBased on that position, in fiscal 2016 we disbursed an annual from before. Principally, we aim to create value from our balance our business promotion and support functions. By shuffling our erations. As I noted earlier, since fiscal 2010 we have accrued dividend of ¥12 per share, unchanged from the previous year. Once sheets through effective asset management. “Asset management” assets this way, we aim to gain greater utility from our office close to ¥1 trillion in free cash flow from business income, etc.; our corporate makeup reaches the appropriate proportions, we in this sense doesn’t mean simply selling off properties and assets in the Tokyo metropolitan area, and to garner higher added and of that amount we have allocated roughly ¥210 billion—around will be able to achieve our vision as a leading company that is fully undertaking equivalent exchanges. It consists of finding new and value and profitability through expansion of total floor space. 20%—to shareholder returns. Although this is by no means a able to compete in the global arena. We appreciate the continued unprecedented value from pre-existing assets in parallel with Through these approaches, in fiscal 2016 we generated particularly high ratio, as a company in the process of undertaking understanding and support of our shareholders and investors as cash generation, through collaboration with other companies, approximately ¥197 billion in cash, comprising ¥79 billion from real robust management reforms, I hope to increase our shareholder we progress towards that goal. asset shuffling, and other measures. estate assets and ¥118 billion from investment securities. In our To give an example, in February 2017 we spun off the real estate 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan, we had set a target of creating operations of Ryoju Facility and Properties Co., Ltd., a wholly owned cash flow—operations in real estate and investment securities MHI subsidiary, and sold 70% of the new company’s shares to West combined—of ¥200 billion over the course of three years. Having Japan Railway Company (JR West). We did so in the belief that achieved ¥197 billion through fiscal 2016, we will aim in fiscal 2017 through collaboration with JR West, which considers real estate to come up with further innovative approaches for generating one of its core businesses, higher value can be anticipated from greater value and cash flow. 18 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 19 CTO’S MESSAGE Introduction PromotingTechnology and Knowledge-Sharing among Business Areas and Management Strategies Making Product Diversity an MHI Strength Michisuke Nayama Executive Vice President and CTO Value Creation through Our Business Working to Make Product Diversity a Major Strength Corporate Governance In April 2016, MHI launched a “Shared Technology Framework” MHI is sometimes seen as a collection of small or medium-scale Applications of Cutting-Edge Technologies to Diverse Products (Example: Gas Turbine) consolidating the Company’s technologies as well as marketing, companies, with weak horizontal connections between businesses. procurement and other functions. The Shared Technology In the days when the Japanese market was growing, this structure Axial flow compressor: Rotor: Rotor: multibody Combustor: unsteady Framework, which is overseen by the Chief Technology Officer was acceptable. However, in the current environment, with a Acquisition and full-stage CFD (computational structural analysis dynamics analysis combustion analysis fluid dynamics) analysis 燃焼器 development of (CTO), encompasses the Technology Strategy Office, Marketing & shrinking domestic market, there is a limit to how much can be 先端技術の cutting-edge Innovation Headquarters, Value Chain Headquarters, ICT Solution achieved from a system of highly specialized knowledge of 獲得・開発 technologies Headquarters, and Research & Innovation Center. The new frameparticular fields. It is therefore necessary to make active use of オープンイノベー (“open innovation” Flow d work seeks to strengthen MHI’s technological and marketing MHI’s overall expertise and technologies in a holistic manner. In ションを活用 approach) irectio n infrastructures, optimize the value chain across the Company order to make this approach more effective, the cross-disciplinary (including in procurement), and reinforce the competitive strength business integration enabled by our Shared Technology of MHI’s businesses in the medium-to-long term. Framework will be vital. In fiscal 2016, we focused our efforts on bringing each of the Producing such a wide array of products is sometimes seen as components into alignment. We held discussions with all new disadvantage. However, I believe the technology developed and framework members, debating how to improve the Companywide experience gained from developing such products can be an technology structure. From these discussions a number of common inherent strength. This is particularly true for energy-related issues emerged which came to determine the overall mission, products such as gas turbines and defense and space related vision, and strategy for the new framework. We then addressed products, where the most advanced technologies are demanded. how these could be applied across all organizational units. Such technological advances can frequently lead to the developAlready, synergies are beginning to emerge from this unification ment of further new products and businesses in other fields. 各種製品へ Applications for process. In the Marketing & Innovation Headquarters, for example, This also applies to procurement and marketing, where synergies various products ・・・ joint discussions between employees with backgrounds in marketing can be achieved that would not be possible for manufacturers 展開 and R&D-focused engineers have led to a number of new solutions specializing in only one area. In this way, we intend to employ the コンプレッサ Compressor ターボ冷凍機 Turbo chiller 蒸気タービン Steam turbine ターボチャージャー Turbocharger to meet society’s needs. We have also been able to significantly cross-disciplinary developments of our Shared Technology improve and expedite the process of proposing new products and Framework as the means to turn a “weakness” into a “strength.” services to customers. © 2016 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LTD. All Rights Reserved. 20 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 21 CTO’S MESSAGE Introduction Dual Challenges: Being a Technology Leader While Applying Innovation Center (Tentative Name) Incorporating Outside Knowledge and Expertise Technological Base Groupwide MHI’s product development process requires a clear time-scale of new knowledge and expertise through tie-ups with domestic and key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure progress and and global partners that will lead to significant breakthroughs. Under the Shared Technology Framework, we develop prototypes small-scale production sites but has been successfully applied at success. However, this approach may be difficult to marry with In order to elevate our research activities and create more and also apply them across multiple businesses. We are not only various businesses, including in the production of wings for the the development of new products or businesses over a long time opportunities, we plan to make the center a wholly owned corpoaccumulating knowledge of cutting-edge technologies like IoT and AI Boeing 787. By building up a track record of this kind, we can period. Today various domestic-focused business environments rate entity specializing in R&D. By giving a free hand to project for individual businesses, but also working to leverage this expertise improve the cohesive strength of MHI Group, and pursue further have reached maturity, making it difficult to foresee significant managers hired from outside the Company, the new facility will be developing prototypes across the Group and in various markets. sharing of technical expertise and best practices. growth in future. In response, we believe it is necessary to make able to absorb the latest knowledge and ideas, and accelerate One example is the project underway at the UK and Denmark In recent years, we have heard concerns about our technological Management Strategies investments for the long term, which will break down our standard research and development of a common technological base and factories of MHI Vestas Offshore Wind, a joint venture in offshore strength, particularly in relation to various risk-bearing projects. business operations in a positive sense. We have therefore new products. While we are not currently considering any immewind power systems with Vestas Wind Systems. Under this project, While this does not apply to fields such as gas turbines, aircraft, decided to establish a new Innovation Center (tentative name). diate large-scale investments, we have selected a number of engineers from the Shared Technology Framework were dispatched space launch vehicles, and defense equipment, all of which Since we launched the Shared Technology Framework, we have targets that, if realized, have the potential to bring about significant to the JV’s three plants. At each plant they diagnosed the manurequire cutting-edge technologies, there is concern about areas focused on open innovation, increasing investment outlays, and changes. We are taking a long-term view and expect that innovafacturing processes and then developed and introduced systems where the domestic market is shrinking. In particular we are enhancing our workforce. We have also increased the number of tions will emerge that could be game-changers for the market in necessary for improving those processes. As a result, “takt time” seeing a gradual decrease in personnel, including engineers, business partners we work with, especially overseas. The center will the future. (i.e. the production time required to meet ongoing customer involved in these businesses. Responding to this across the entire further develop these approaches, and will pursue the acquisition demand) was reduced by more than 50% in some cases, thereby Company is another important mission of the Shared Technology enabling a significant improvement in capacity without expanding Framework. We intend to tackle this concern directly by signififacilities. This scheduling system was originally developed for cantly raising our technological capabilities. Value Creation through Our Business production sites at MHI’s factories in Japan. It evolved out of Building a Technological Base to Respond to Society’s Future Needs At MHI, our culture has traditionally focused on understanding has the potential to become a baseload power in the future. When society’s needs and then developing products in response, rather that happens, the roles of thermal and nuclear energy will change Corporate Governance than the “top-down” approach of establishing a technological substantially. Also, as demand for electricity strengthens, the concept and pursuing development around it. The very foundation proportionate share occupied by electricity as an energy source of MHI in shipbuilding came about from demand for ships to will further increase. In response to this, MHI will pursue research support the Company’s other businesses. This then led to the into systems for controlling the operability of thermal power development of engines, boilers, and power systems. However, if plants, auxiliary services, and so on. customers are to look to MHI to fulfill their emerging needs, we My role is to oversee the establishment of our technological must continuously improve our technological capabilities to base and the pursuit of new innovation. Even if outstanding product respond to their expectations. ideas are produced from within the various business segments, One area in which society’s needs are likely to increase in they cannot be fully realized without the necessary technological the years ahead is the oil and gas market. Today, the market is base and generation process for innovation. To enable new prodsluggish due to the fall in crude prices, but we are making proactive ucts, services, and businesses to flourish in the near future, we moves into areas where technologies and products we provide will contribute to the expansion and strengthening of our busioffer strong potential in the medium-to-long term. In the energy nesses with a long-term perspective. field, the use of renewable energy is expanding, and we believe it 22 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 23 CREATING A MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION THAT RESPONDS TO GLOBAL SOCIETY: ESG INITIATIVES To evolve as a truly global corporation, MHI Group is creating a management foundation that achieves harmony with global society, taking the environment, society, and governance (ESG) into account. We are Material Issue 1 An Optimal Governance Structure Based on Our Corporate Culture Introduction also working to achieve sustainable growth by accommodating the dramatic environmental changes and Conforming with International Codes of Conduct in Japan and Overseas  broad-ranging diversity occurring around the world to generate high added value for society. In 2004, MHI joined the United Nations Global Compact. We are In the second half of Identifying the Three Material Issues committed to the spread and practice of the Compact’s 10 principles fiscal 2016, we developed In fiscal 2014, MHI Group identified three material ESG issues that significantly affect both society and corporate value, taking into account spanning four basic areas—human rights, labor, environment, and the e-Learning course of the current external environment and the Group’s own situation with regard to business execution and progress on globalization. From anti-corruption—and are pursuing business activities in conforthe said Code of Conduct the viewpoint of society, this process incorporates various international standards, including ISO 26000 and the Global Reporting Initiative mance with international codes of conduct. to facilitate deeper (GRI), as well as stakeholder opinions and mega trends. At the same time, from a business viewpoint we have conducted hearings of In terms of corporate governance, we aim to develop understanding. Management Strategies individual divisions, performed risk analysis from a business perspective, and obtained management approval as one aspect of the “Japanese-style global management,” focusing on the improveFurthermore, in fiscal formulation of business strategies. ment of management soundness and transparency, as well as on 2016, we placed compliance Compliance introduction training for local staff in individual regions Through initiatives involving these three material issues, we are creating the management foundations to adapt to global society. diversity and harmony. To this end, to date we have carried out a promotion specialists in our 1 number of reforms; we have increased our number of outside strategic regional headquarters in each area—China, Asia Pacific, directors, revised our executive compensation system, and Europe, and North America—to promote global compliance Material Issue An Optimal Governance Structure Based on Our Corporate Culture transitioned to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee. activities adapted to the characteristics of their respective counAs part of our compliance efforts, in 2001, we established the tries and regions. In August 2016, we held our first introductory • An optimized organization to continually contribute to society “MHI Compliance Committee” and developed the “MHI training in Shinagawa for specialists responsible for audits and KPI: Number of whistleblowing cases through business We have established the MHI Whistleblowing Hotline, which is available to all employees, Compliance Guidelines.” In 2015, we established the “MHI Group compliance in each region. Each member made a presentation • The assurance of fair operating practices and appropriate including those of Group companies, and the MHI External Whistleblower Hotline. The Global Code of Conduct.” As a global company, MHI Group employs on efforts in their region. One participant stated, “This was a Value Creation through Our Business Compliance Committee secretariat promptly investigates and responds appropriately to labor practices all reports made to these hotlines. approximately 83,000 individuals from different backgrounds, good opportunity to interact with members from other regions Objective FY/cases nationalities, and cultures. who we don’t normally get a chance to communicate with, and it Number of whistleblowing cases, by Type 2014 2015 2016 We recognize MHI Group needs to make the most of diversity was very motivating to see what the situation is like in other Ensure an organizational culture in which values are shared globLabor and the work environment 48 39 42 ally and universally and operate with a single corporate culture that enables it to regions. I think it was a very worthwhile experience.” In short, we Overall discipline and breaches of manners 49 24 28 compete successfully in the global market. will continue to promote global compliance in cooperation with Strategic KPIs Transaction-related laws 14 8 11 Consultations and opinions 26 11 3 The Code of Conduct describes how MHI Group employees the members in each region. • Instill globally consistent policies that conform with Other 48 49 34 should conduct themselves in such categories as fair competithe international code of conduct (establish universality) Total (number of corrections and improvements) 185 (110) 131 (85) 118 (64) tion, anti-corruption, and compliance with export-related laws • Enhance transparency (assure universality) and regulations. • Enhance disclosure and stakeholder engagement 2 Corporate Governance Material Issue The Use of Global Human Resources Dialogue with Stakeholders  • The attraction and development of human resources with the ability to KPI: Number of female managers MHI seeks to incorporate into its management activities input respond to globalization In July 2014, MHI set a target to increase the number of Date: September 14, 2016 the Company’s female managers (in positions of section from a host of stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, • Diversity and equal opportunity, including the empowerment of female Overseas experts: Mr. Roel Nieuwenkamp manager and higher) threefold from the current level by business partners, Group employees, and members of local employees 2020, and is promoting the active participation of women (Chair, OECD Working Party on in the workplace in conjunction with its pursuit of divercommunities. Through our business activities, we communicate Objective Responsible Business Conduct) sity management. with a variety of stakeholders on a daily basis. In addition, Be an organization that embraces diversity FY/people Mr. Thomas Thomas through dialogue with outside experts on CSR and social issues, (Ensure that barriers to diversity are removed) 2014 2015 2016 we actively seek to reflect society’s perspective. In fiscal 2016, (CEO, ASEAN CSR network) 85 102 126 Strategic KPIs we engaged in dialogue with two outside experts with extensive Dialogue contact: CSR devision Improvement in diversity-related indicators * In principle, these figures include Mitsubishi Heavy knowledge in such areas as human rights, the environment, Facilitator: Mr. Saul Takahashi Industries, Ltd., and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. (Japan Representative, Business & Human 3 and governance. During the dialogue, Mr. Nieuwenkamp introduced leading Rights Resource Centre) Material Issue Response to Mega Trends examples of other companies’ due diligence efforts in the supply chain, particularly with regard to minerals involving a high risk of • Innovation and quality control to meet global needs human rights abuses. As a first step, he advised identifying and • Enhanced safety and security, including improved information disclosure and transparency recognizing areas of potential risk by risk-mapping the supply chain. Mr. Thomas noted the fact that MHI had not come head to Objective Strategic KPIs head with serious human rights problems to date was a good Enact strategic measures and business operations that meet the Improvement in stakeholder evaluations sign. In order to respond appropriately to such issues if they needs of global society (SRI surveys, customer satisfaction surveys, etc.) occurred, however, he suggested it was necessary to constantly remain vigilant about human rights risks throughout MHI’s extenPlease see our segment-specific strategies (pages 35, 39, and 43) for examples of initiatives to address these material issues in our three business domains. sive business activities. Going forward, we plan to continue Please see our website for information on CSR initiatives and detailed data on the environment, society, and governance (ESG). This site contains information incorporating such stakeholder opinions into our management. on our policies and strategies for CSR and ESG, various initiatives, and ESG data related to socially responsible investment. CSR site > http://www.mhi.com/company/csr/index.html 24 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 25 CREATING A MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION THAT RESPONDS TO GLOBAL SOCIETY: ESG INITIATIVES Material Issue 2 The Use of Global Human Resources Material Issue 3 Response to Mega Trends Introduction Establishing a Global HR Department  Domestic and Overseas Market Initiatives  The Group’s composition of human resources has changed sigTo promote our further growth as a global company, we launched opportunities and risks for MHI Group. In addition to creating nificantly, in line with the transition to business companies, the the Marketing & Innovation Headquarters in fiscal 2016. The diverse strategies and ideas for expanding and strengthening our onward march of globalization, and an increase in mergers, Marketing & Innovation Headquarters conducts surveys to ascerbusinesses in Japan and overseas, the Marketing & Innovation acquisitions, and joint ventures. tain changes in the business environment and technology trends, Headquarters will propose business ventures, products, and as well as social trends and technological needs in specific services, and validate their viability in cooperation with customComposition of Employees in 2008 and 2016 regions around the world, and then analyzes market ers and business partners. Management Strategies 2008 2016 Increasing Open Innovation  Approximately Approximately 64,000 83,000 Rolling out measures that incorporate Group companies overseas (HR conference in Europe) MHI’s FY2015 Business Plan called for the Company’s Research & Innovation Center to serve as an integrated laboratory with two value chain. This is achieved by collaborating with leading universities and research institutions in Japan and overseas. We are people people pillars of activity: to enhance the ability to innovate proactively by already applying large-scale numerical simulation technology, As well as expanding measures that we have already been making use of outside capabilities throughout the value chain, which is a key to product development and design in such areas implementing, in April 2017, we launched a new Global HR and to strengthen the technology platform by concentrating on of gas turbines. By collaborating with leading universities and ■ MHI, standalone basis ■ Group companies in Japan ■ Group companies overseas Department as a specialized organization to further strengthen and comparative advantages in global markets. research institutions around the world, we intend to reduce our Value Creation through Our Business To date, MHI Group has sought to create a system for cultivating promote human resource management (eg. talent management) Specifically, the R&I Center is concentrating on the developdevelopment period for technologies and products. global human resources that takes business needs into account, globally on a consolidated Group basis. Seeking to anticipate ment of elemental technologies that can be applied to multiple To continue developing products that will win out in global with initiatives aimed at enhancing responsiveness on both the future changes in the business environment and personnel products in the areas of materials, fluids, and heat transfer, as competition, we aim to augment development efficiency by skill and mindset fronts. Our global developments in recent years structure, the scope includes overseas acquisitions and joint well as manufacturing process technologies throughout the increasing our number of collaboration partners and fields. have necessitated a number of additional measures. These ventures. In addition to further grassroots efforts to utilize include cooperating with people in charge of human resources at human resources regardless of whether they are located in overseas Group companies from the planning stages to effecJapan or overseas, the new department aims to accelerate meaGlobal Expansion of Manufacturing Technologies Transfer  tively utilize our resources, introducing and utilizing an effective sures to maximize resources at the global level, particularly In pursuing the global expansion of technologies, we recognize factories and suppliers. Such support includes revising manufacrecruiting platform that leverages the Company’s brand, and high-level executives. that simply transferring the technologies and expertise we have turing specifications, developing the supply chain with alternative liaising with overseas business schools to strengthen the local As one example, we are introducing a platform system in the cultivated in Japan is unlikely to go smoothly. The Value Chain parts and materials available locally, and providing training to Corporate Governance human resource development function. We are nearly finished talent management field to make full use of the human resource Headquarters supports the local adaptation of technologies and workers and suppliers. with our creation of a global human resource database that data we are accumulating, as outlined above. For instance, the transfer of know-how, taking into account the capabilities of local contains HR information on some 83,000 employees at 180 comnew system enables us to scour the Group in Japan and overseas panies on a consolidated basis, including those overseas. for candidates to take over important management positions. At Through this database, we will be able to conduct statistical the same time, we are formulating common Group HR guidelines analyses from various angles, including by region and that will form the basis for these measures. Innovation Center (Tentative Name)  type of work. In a global market changing at dizzying speeds, in considering organizations to appoint researchers from outside MHI Group, MHI Group’s long-term growth strategy, which involves multiple who will have the ability to take an unprecedentedly creative companies that are strong in the fields of machinery and engiapproach to their research activities. We will apply their research Promoting the Active Participation of Women  neering, we must go beyond efforts from within MHI Group. outputs to develop fundamental technologies and new products MHI is promoting the active participation of women in the the number of female managers is rising steadily: 85 in fiscal Additionally, we will draw upon cutting-edge knowledge from for MHI Group. workplace in conjunction with the Company’s pursuit of 2014, 102 in fiscal 2015, 126 in fiscal 2016, and 149 in fiscal 2017.* outside MHI Group. To realize such initiatives, we are planning to diversity management. establish the Innovation Center (tentative name). This laboratory For strategies on the technology front, * In principle, these figures include Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., and Mitsubishi Our current phase of activity addresses the following themes: will have a higher degree of freedom than traditional R&D > Please refer to the CTO’s Message on page 18. Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. expanding the number of female employees, offering career support for employees raising children or providing nursing care by setting up a system that does not interrupt careers, and fostering a corporate culture that supports an active role for female employees. Moreover, we are considering flexible working styles that facilitate a quick return to work after childbirth or raising children, and creating a framework and an environment to further promote the careers of female employees. In July 2014, MHI set a target to increase the number of the Company’s female managers (in positions of section manager and higher) threefold from the current level by 2020. MHI systematically cultivated female employees for managerial positions, so Project team to reinforce hiring of women in the sciences 26 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 27 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Introduction INPUT ACTIVITIES OUTPUT OUTCOME As of March 31, 2016 Year-on-year change As of March 31, 2017 (Compared with fiscal 2015) Total assets*1 Research and development expenses Pursuit of the 2015 Medium-Term Orders received Profit attributable to owners of parent Total assets 5,500.7 160.7 4,275.6 87.7 5,481.9 Business Plan 6.7% 4.7% 37.4% 0.2% ¥ billion ¥ billion UP Expand business scale: Enhance global ¥ billion DOWN ¥ billion UP ¥ billion DOWN competitiveness through accelerated expansion to achieve a scale exceeding Net assets*1 Capital investment ¥5 trillion as soon as possible Net sales Dividend payments (for FY2016) Net assets 1,999.7 204.4 3,914.0 40.2 2,107.2 Management Strategies 16.5% Strengthen finances and profitability: 3.3% NO 5.5% ¥ billion ¥ billion UP Further bolster financial strength and ¥ billion DOWN ¥ billion CHANGE ¥ billion UP pursue high profitability; increase both Interest-bearing debt Energy input*2 owners’ equity and ROE Operating income EBITDA Interest-bearing debt • Equity buffer greater than ¥250 billion ¥ 1,052.1 billion 5,995 TJ 18.9% DOWN • Borrowing capacity above ¥600 billion • Earning S&P “A” rating • ROE above 10% ¥ 150.5 billion 51.4% DOWN ¥ 339.8 billion 29.1% DOWN ¥ 925.5 billion 12.0% DOWN • EBITDA margin above 12% Number of employees Number of overseas employees Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions*2 Reduction in CO2 from using MHI’s products Number of employees 83,932 28,751 318 82,728 Evolve global Group structure: Promote (Compared with fiscal 1990 levels) 0.7% 21.7% 1.4% 62,592 global-standard corporate governance and people people DOWN kilotons DOWN 35.9% people DOWN management processes Value Creation through Our Business kilotons UP ‌• Transition to a company with an Audit Number of patents held and Supervisory Committee Number of patents held ‌• Capital policy clarification 14,056 14,004 EBITDA margin ROE 0.4% 8.7 % 3.2 POINTS DOWN 5.1 % 1.4 POINTS UP DOWN Total Assets Net Assets / Equity Ratio Number of Employees / Net Sales / Operating Income / Total Income Taxes / Ratio of Overseas Employees Overseas Sales Ratio Operating Income Ratio Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Billions of yen Billions of yen % % Billions of yen % Billions of yen % Billions of yen 6,000 2,400 45 120,000 60 6,000 60 400 16 200 5,481.9 Corporate Governance 2,107.2 53.5 32.5 82,728 300 12 150 3,914.0 4,000 1,600 30 80,000 40 4,000 40 34.8 200 8 100 87.7 150.5 64.4 2,000 800 15 40,000 20 2,000 20 100 3.8 4 50 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Net assets Equity ratio (right scale) Number of employees Net sales Overseas sales ratio (right scale) Operating income Total income taxes Ratio of overseas employees (right scale) Operating income ratio (right scale) Profit attributable to owners of parent Number of Patents Held in Research and Development Expenses / Depreciation Return on Assets (ROA) / Cash Dividends / Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Emissions*3 Japan and Overseas As a Percentage of Net Sales Return on Equity (ROE) Dividend Payout Ratio Billions of yen % Billions of yen % Yen% Kilotons 8,000 180 7.5 240 12 15 90 900 160.7 824 6,948 7,056 12.00 172.7 6,000 120 5.0 160 8 10 60 600 4.1 4,000 5.1 45.9 318 60 2.5 80 4 5 30 300 2,000 1.6 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Domestic Overseas Research and development expenses ROA ROE Cash dividends Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions: non-consolidated As a percentage of net sales (right scale) Dividend payout ratio (right scale) Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions: consolidated *1. M  HI acquired shares in UniCarriers Holdings Corporation (now UniCarriers Corporation) on March 31, 2016. The cost of this acquisition was provisionally posted in fiscal 2015. This transaction was finalized in fiscal 2016, with the acquisition price finalized and the allocation of this acquisition price revised. *2. In principle, MHI on a non-consolidated basis. *3. Data is for production sites of MHI on a non-consolidated basis. However, figures for the fiscal year 2014, include the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. 28 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 29 ELEVEN-YEAR FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL DATA Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Introduction Billions of yen % Net income ROE (right scale) 160 16 120 12 87.7 80 8 5.1 40 4 Management Strategies 0 0 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 Years ended March 31 or as of March 31 2006 Medium-Term Business Plan 2008 Medium-Term Business Plan 2010 Medium-Term Business Plan 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Millions of Billions of yen U.S. dollars*1 Orders received ¥3,274.7 ¥3,715.2 ¥3,268.7 ¥2,476.2 ¥2,995.4 ¥3,188.8 ¥3,032.2 ¥3,420.0 ¥4,699.1 ¥4,485.5 ¥4,275.6 $38,110 Net sales 3,068.5 3,203.0 3,375.6 2,940.8 2,903.7 2,820.9 2,817.8 3,349.5 3,992.1 4,046.8 3,914.0 34,887 Operating income 108.9 136.0 105.8 65.6 101.2 111.9 163.5 206.1 296.1 309.5 150.5 1,341 Income before income taxes and 83.7 101.3 64.9 28.1 39.4 69.8 155.4 214.4 232.6 132.6 169.7 1,512 minority interests Profit attributable to owners of parent 48.8 61.3 24.2 14.1 30.1 24.5 97.3 160.4 110.4 63.8 87.7 781 Value Creation through Our Business Research and development expenses ¥ 106.3 ¥ 107.9 ¥ 101.3 ¥ 129.2 ¥ 123.2 ¥ 121.4 ¥ 120.0 ¥ 138.5 ¥ 145.5 ¥ 150.6 ¥ 160.7 $ 1,432 Capital investment 175.9 191.4 196.6 177.1 126.6 120.7 118.8 148.6 156.1 175.5 204.4 1,821 Depreciation 106.7 129.2 153.8 140.4 134.4 126.2 119.4 134.9 157.0 158.7 172.7 1,539 Total assets ¥4,391.8 ¥4,517.1 ¥4,526.2 ¥4,262.8 ¥3,989.0 ¥3,963.9 ¥3,935.1 ¥4,886.0 ¥5,520.3 ¥5,491.7 ¥5,481.9 $48,862 Net assets*2 1,446.4 1,440.4 1,283.2 1,328.7 1,312.6 1,306.3 1,430.2 1,774.2 2,120.0 1,998.0 2,107.2 18,782 Interest-bearing debt 1,273.5 1,365.3 1,612.8 1,495.3 1,325.6 1,157.1 1,031.2 957.4 975.5 1,052.1 925.5 8,249 Cash flows from operating activities ¥ 158.7 ¥ 161.8 ¥ 79.5 ¥ 117.9 ¥ 337.8 ¥ 200.3 ¥ 288.3 ¥ 296.2 ¥ 212.8 ¥ 270.0 ¥ 95.9 $ 854 Cash flows from investing activities (158.6) (193.0) (156.5) (180.7) (137.2) (47.0) (76.7) (151.5) (174.1) (262.4) 8.7 77 Free cash flows 0.0 (31.2) (77.0) (62.7) 200.5 153.3 211.6 144.6 38.6 7.5 104.6 932 Cash flows from financing activities 48.7 71.2 262.0 (105.2) (169.7) (183.6) (154.2) (136.6) (45.8) (23.1) (162.0) (1,443) Corporate Governance Per share information of common stock Yen U.S. dollars Net income–basic ¥ 14.56 ¥ 18.28 ¥ 7.22 ¥ 4.22 ¥ 8.97 ¥ 7.31 ¥ 29.01 ¥ 47.81 ¥ 32.90 ¥ 19.02 ¥ 26.12 $ 0.232 Net assets 425.54 423.17 369.94 380.80 376.17 374.08 410.90 459.99 530.65 500.30 530.86 4.731 Cash dividends 6.00 6.00 6.00 4.00 4.00 6.00 8.00 8.00 11.00 12.00 12.00 0.106 Ratios Overseas sales ratio 47.7% 48.7% 48.9% 50.3% 49.0% 41.9% 44.8% 49.3% 53.4% 55.4% 53.5% Operating income ratio 3.5% 4.2% 3.1% 2.2% 3.5% 4.0% 5.8% 6.2% 7.4% 7.6% 3.8% Return on equity*3 3.5% 4.3% 1.8% 1.1% 2.4% 1.9% 7.4% 11.0% 6.5% 3.7% 5.1% Return on assets*4 1.2% 1.4% 0.5% 0.3% 0.7% 0.6% 2.5% 3.6% 2.1% 1.2% 1.6% Current ratio 154.2% 160.9% 158.7% 181.7% 167.9% 153.9% 155.0% 139.2% 146.2% 135.7% 139.4% D/E ratio*5 88% 95% 126% 113% 101% 89% 72% 54% 46% 53% 44% Equity ratio*6 32.5% 31.4% 27.4% 30.0% 31.6% 31.7% 35.0% 31.6% 32.3% 30.6% 32.5% Dividend payout ratio*7 41.2% 32.8% 83.2% 94.8% 44.6% 82.0% 27.6% 16.7% 33.4% 63.1% 45.9% *1. U.S. dollar amounts in this report are translated from yen, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥112.19 = U.S. $1, the exchange rate prevailing at March 31, 2017. Non-financial indexes *2. In calculating the net assets, MHI and its consolidated subsidiaries have applied the “Accounting Standard for Number of employees 68,887 68,213 80,583 81,845 83,932 82,728 Presentation of Net Assets in the Balance Sheet” (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) Statement No. 5) and the “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Presentation of Net Assets in the Balance Sheet” (ASBJ Guidance Number of overseas employees 13,036 14,129 19,909 27,489 28,941 28,751 No. 8) since the year ended March 31, 2007. Number of female managers*8 67 82 74 85 102 126 Consolidated *3. Return on equity = profit attributable to owners of parent income / (net assets –share subscription rights – nonIndustrial accident frequency rate*9 (%) 0.27 0.11 0.23 0.15 0.20 0.37 0.35 *10 controlling interests) *4. Return on assets = profit attributable to owners of parent income / total assets Energy input*11 (TJ) 10,346 10,303 9,796 9,885 7,398 5,995 15,344 *12 *5. D/E ratio = interest-bearing debt / net assets Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions*13 (kilotons) 474 533 538 548 406 318 824 *12 *6. Equity ratio = (net assets – share subscription rights – non-controlling interests) / total assets Water usage*13 (million cubic meters) 7.22 7.02 6.82 6.23 5.08 4.00 8.65 *12 *7. Dividend payout ratio = dividends / profit attributable to owners of parent *8. Number of section managers or above, excluding medical staff, as of April 1. Figures through fiscal 2013 are for Social contribution expenses (billions of yen) 2.0 1.4 1.4 1.9 2.1 2.5 MHI on a non-consolidated basis. Figures from fiscal 2014 include Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. *9. In principle, MHI and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd on a non-consolidated basis. *10. Includes MHI on a non-consolidated basis and 20 Group companies. *11. MHI on a non-consolidated basis (production plants and offices). However, the figure for the fiscal year 2014, includes the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. *12. Includes MHI on a non-consolidated basis and 133 Group companies. *13. Data is for production sites of MHI on a non-consolidated basis. However, figures for the fiscal year 2014, include the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. 30 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 31 BUSINESS SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS Overview of Fiscal 2016 Introduction Energy & Environment Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems Integrated Defense & Space Systems Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure In overseas markets, MHI Group received orders in the United States In transportation systems, MHI received an order for fully automated, In the space-related business, MHI Group received an order to provide Consolidated orders received rose year on year, to ¥1,464.3 billion. and Mexico for “J-series gas turbines,” which achieve the world’s driverless cars for New Transit Yurikamome and signed a new contract service to launch the successor to the Michibiki, the first quasi-zenith Contributing factors included increased business in material handling highest level of thermal efficiency. In Indonesia, we also received an to provide 20 Mitsubishi Regional Jets (MRJs), which are currently under satellite, via an H-IIA launch vehicle. The Group also received an order equipment due to the effect of the merger of UniCarriers Holdings order for facilities for use in ultra-supercritical-pressure thermal development. This order brought the total number of MRJs on order to 427. to provide H-IIB launch services for an H-II Transfer Vehicle. These Corporation, which joined MHI Group at the end of the previous fiscal power plants. We won orders in Japan for the world’s most advanced However, consolidated orders received dropped year on year, to ¥415.1 orders, plus an order for Patriot advanced-capability surface-to-air year. Also, sales of turbochargers increased, amid the reinforcement integrated coal gasification combined-cycle power plants in Iwaki and billion, stemming from fewer orders in the commercial ship and land missiles (PAC-3MSEs) in the defense-related business, pushed up of environmental and fuel performance regulations for automobiles. Futaba in Fukushima Prefecture. However, consolidated orders transportation systems businesses. In the first category, orders of LNG consolidated orders received in Integrated Defense & Space Systems Consolidated net sales remained flat, at ¥1,438.0 billion; while sales of received came to ¥1,688.7 billion, lower than in the previous fiscal year and LPG vessels were down, associated with the shale gas revolution in to ¥702.1 billion. Consolidated net sales were down year on year, to material handling equipment and turbochargers increased, sales of Management Strategies because of a decrease in orders for gas turbine combined-cycle the United States. In the second category, the decrease reflected comparison ¥470.6 billion, due mainly to decreased sales of missile systems, metals machinery and compressors were lower, affected by a down(GTCC) and chemical plants for large-scale overseas projects, and with numerous orders received for large-scale products in the previous despite an uptick in the space-related business owing to an increase turn in business investment. Operating income was down year on year, other factors. Consolidated net sales were ¥1,470.4 billion, down year year. Consolidated net sales came to ¥515.3 billion, down year on year in of the number of H-IIA/B launches, from three in the previous fiscal to ¥72.5 billion, due to decreased compressor sales and other factors. on year due to such factors as a drop in sales of thermal power genpart because of lower sales of commercial airplanes, despite higher year to four in the year under review. Operating income rose to ¥27.9 eration systems. Operating income fell to ¥110.5 billion, partially transportation system orders. The segment reported an operating loss of billion owing to streamlining of operations. attributable to the impact of yen appreciation. ¥51.9 billion due to such factors as a drop in sales of commercial airplanes, increased MRJ development expenses, and the effect of yen appreciation. Orders Received / Net Sales / Operating Income Orders Received / Net Sales / Operating Income Orders Received / Net Sales / Operating Income Orders Received / Net Sales / Operating Income Billions of yen Billions of yen Billions of yen Billions of yen Billions of yen Billions of yen Billions of yen Billions of yen 2,500 250 1,500 90 1,000 50 2,000 100 2,000 200 1,200 60 800 40 1,600 72.5 80 1,688.7 702.1 1,464.3 1,438.0 Value Creation through Our Business 1,470.4 1,500 150 900 30 600 27.9 30 1,200 60 110.5 470.6 1,000 100 600 515.3 0 400 20 800 40 415.1 500 50 300 –30 200 10 400 20 –51.9 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) –60 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 Orders received Net sales Operating income (right scale) Orders received Net sales Operating income (right scale) Orders received Net sales Operating income (right scale) Orders received Net sales Operating income (right scale) ⑤ Corporate Governance Objectives of the Domain Restructuring: Harnessing Group Synergies and Promoting Reforms in the Power Systems Domain Industry & Infrastructure Domain Aircraft, Defense & Space Domain Commercial Aircraft and Commercial Ships Businesses • Thermal power (Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems) • Core machinery business companies • Integrated Defense & Space Systems Segment In April 2017, MHI Group restructured its business domains into three. Forklifts/Engines/Turbochargers Integrated Defense & Space Systems From 2013 to 2014, we consolidated and reconfigured our nine business • Turbomachinery other than Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Forklift, Engine & Turbocharger • Commercial Aviation Systems Segment headquarters based on customer and market characteristics into four Aero engines , compressors Holdings), Metals Machinery (Primetals Technologies), Air Tier1 business domains, minimizing our conventional top-down business • Nuclear power, renewable energy Conditioning and Refrigeration, Machinery and Equipment management and seeking to harness Group synergies. While maintaining • MRJ Business (Reporting directly to the CEO) Aim for a business model that can stand up to GE and Siemens, • Engineering + related machinery businesses the objectives of our previous reconfiguration, the new restructuring pursuing greater synergies in the turbomachinery business as a Ship engineering, Commercial ships , Transportation and urban As long-term growth businesses, cultivate synergies with Integrated seeks to clarify roles and management concepts to achieve Group growth whole and reinforcing our service business. systems , Chemical plants , Environmental systems Defense & Space Systems and pursue growth. At the same time, concenin individual domains. We aim to promote dramatic reforms in the com*Transferred Engineering Headquarters from the shared technology trate on rebuilding Tier1 and the MRJ businesses. mercial aircraft and commercial ships businesses. framework into the I&I domain Through stable growth in the Power Systems and Industry & Infrastructure domains, we aim to ensure their ongoing contribution to earnings and will Pursue earnings expansion and creation of global niche products through promote autonomous management in line with domain characteristics. portfolio management in various machinery businesses, and the integraRather than assigning a domain head, the Aircraft, Defense & Space Domain tion and strengthening of engineering businesses. will operate under the CEO’s direct oversight, pursuing the prompt formation of a strong development foundation and a rapid shift to stable earnings. Composition of the Four-Domain Structure  Composition of the Three-Domain Structure  Total Assets Orders Received Net Sales Operating Income Orders Received Net Sales Operating Income As of March 31, 2017 FY2016 FY2016 FY2016 FY2016 FY2016 FY2016 Revised April 2017 5,481.9 ¥ ¥ 4,275.6 ¥ 3,914.0 ¥150.5 ¥ 4,275.6 ¥ 3,914.0 ¥ 150.5 billion billion billion billion billion billion billion Energy & Environment Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems Integrated Defense & Space Systems Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure Others, eliminations or corporate Power Systems Industry & Infrastructure Aircraft, Defense & Space Others, eliminations or corporate 32 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 33 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW POWER SYSTEMS DOMAIN Introduction We aim to be the industry leader in the energy solutions and turbomachinery businesses. • T hermal Power: • Thermal Power: Net Sales by Core Business Generation systems offering the world’s highest levels of Profitability (delayed PMI) Directions for Fiscal 2017 and Focus Strategies for the Medium to Long Term thermal efficiency and output •N  uclear Power: A full range of output levels, from small and medium-sized Little experience in constructing new plants overseas to large • Renewable Energy: We expect the operating environment to remain challenging in the world’s highest. At the same time, we are stepping up collaboState-of-the-art environmental technologies (AQCS*1, IGCC*2) Limited lineup Abundant experience in EPC capabilities (offshore wind turbines, geothermal, organic Rankine cycle) fiscal 2017. Even so, we plan to meet our sales and profit targets, ration with the AREVA Group of France, working in the nuclear Management Strategies • Nuclear Power: • Compressors: thanks to growth in the service business and steady progress on fuel cycle process field and engaging in new overseas projects. Highest levels in the world in safety technologies and Fiscal 2016 Track record in the oil and gas market product quality •A  ero Engines: Net sales the construction of large-scale domestic thermal power plants for Offshore wind power generation facilities are a focal area in the • Renewable Energy: Extensive track record in orders for offshore wind turbines (second-largest share of the world market (MVOW*3)) Market led by European and US engine manufacturers ¥1,448.4 which we have already received orders. Also, as we move forward toward the new business plan that will commence in fiscal 2018, renewable energy field. In this category, we are working with MVOW of Denmark. We plan to launch a cutting-edge 9.5MW turbine and • Turbomachinery (rotating machinery): billion we will seek to bolster profitability by accelerating PMI at MHPS and expand the North American, Asian, and other markets. To respond to Turbomachinery synergies (Mutual use of technologies, human resources, and facilities) augmenting competitiveness through turbomachinery synergies, the increase in demand for supply and demand adjustment, which is Gas turbines, aero engines, aero-derivative gas turbines (PWPS*4), compressors, pumps, MET turbochargers*5, building a solid financial and technological foundation. caused by growth in renewable energy generation, we will provide Organic Rankine cycle (ORC) Over the medium to long term, we expect the composition of systems that leverage our aero-derivative gas turbines—with their *1. AQCS: Air quality control system Thermal Power generation systems power generation sources to change and become more diverse in rapid startup capabilities—as well as demand for facilities to *2. IGCC: Integrated coal gasification combined cycle Compressors Aero Engines Nuclear Power *3. MVOW: MHI Vestas Offshore Wind A/S response to needs to lower environmental impact and move store electricity. Renewable Energy Others Value Creation through Our Business (Joint venture with Vestas of Denmark) *4. PWPS: PW Power Systems, Inc. toward a low-carbon society. Responding accordingly to customer From the perspective of energy-efficient operation, we propose S *5. Turbochargers for marine engines W demands in these respects, it will become increasingly important solutions that utilize Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence WEAKSTRENGTHS NESSES for us to develop more sophisticated generation technologies and (AI) technologies. Specifically, we will begin offering the MHPSprovide optimal solutions for the efficient use of energy. TOMONI™ digital solution service for optimizing facility operation • Thermal Power: •T  hermal Power: Operating Performance In thermal power generation facilities, we have taken the lead and maintenance, as well as the ENERGYCLOUD® Service, which Need for high-efficiency, green power generation in line Increasingly stringent competition with overseas with increasingly stringent environmental regulations companies Billions of yen 145.0 and are moving enthusiastically forward in the gas turbine comrealizes energy-efficient operations at factories and other facilities. Need for supply and demand adjustments in accordance Backlash against fossil fuel generation in advanced (8.8%) with the expansion of renewable energy countries 108.1 bined cycle (GTCC) arena by accelerating the development of a We will also seek to maximize synergies from consolidating Market domination by renewable energy (7.5%) •N  uclear Power: 1,650°C-class next-generation gas turbine that realizes one of the our turbomachinery technologies, centered on gas turbines. In Introduction of new generation capacity, centered on •N  uclear Power: emerging markets Trend away from nuclear power generation in advanced 1,950.0 world’s highest levels of efficiency. In coal-fired generation, we are compressors, we intend to secure orders for petrochemical • Renewable Energy: countries 1,726.3 1,650.0 proceeding with the construction of integrated coal gasification plants, which has typically been an area of strength for MHI. We Growing demand for offshore wind turbines • Renewable Energy: Corporate Governance Demand for rapid reduction in the unit cost of wind power 1,448.4 combined cycle (IGCC) facilities that offer increased generation will also seek to combine these offerings with gas turbines to • Compressors: Increasingly vigorous oil and gas markets generation (decline in government subsidy systems) Competitors expanding scale of business through M&A efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions. provide new compressor trains, increasing their introduction into •A  ero Engines: Sustained market growth (pursuing economies of scale) In nuclear power generation systems, we are concentrating on the upstream oil and gas market. In aero engines, we aim to • Compressors: Delayed recovery in the oil and gas market, increasingly providing support for the restart of a pressurized water reactor expand the business of maintaining engines that are currently in severe competition (PWR) that conforms to Japan’s new standards, which are some of operation, as well as developing next-generation engines. •A  ero Engines: Aircraft component business changing due to technological innovation Orders Net sales Orders Net sales received received FY2016 (actual) FY2017 (forecast) MHPS* Others Business Directions at a Key Subsidiary: MHPS O T Operating income (operating margin) OPPOR* MHPS: Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems TUNITIES THREATS Fiscal 2016 was characterized by a lackluster global market for the Middle East; and Eastern Europe. This move will strengthen (thermal power generation systems) thermal power plants, and orders and sales did not meet our our ability to accumulate information about potential business. targets as a result. In fiscal 2017, we will commence full-scale We will also reinforce our ability to structure projects by obtaining construction of new plants in Japan for which we have already support from export credit agencies, and leveraging yen loan Operating Environment received orders. Orders should thus rebound, but we do not systems. Going forward, we anticipate growth in the market for expect the business environment to improve significantly for the large-scale gas turbines of 300MW or more. We aim to take the Over the medium to long term, in the power generation field In wind power and other types of renewable energy, demand foreseeable future. We will face this difficult business environment lead over our competitors in the development of superior new models demand related to renewable energy is likely to grow due to is forecast to continue growing. Going forward, needs in this area head on, striving to sustain our business expansion by adopting that should garner a top share of the market. We aim to launch measures to counter global warming and increasingly stringent will include increased generation efficiency and lower unit genernew strategies and shoring up our retrenchment strategies. the first of these 1,650°C-class next-generation gas turbines in environmental regulations, while that for generation using fossil ating costs. We also expect the need for supply and demand First of all, in new strategies we will operate the MHPS TOMONI™ fiscal 2019, 1.5 years ahead of schedule. fuels is expected to taper off. adjustment systems and electricity storage systems to grow, in service system for thermal power plants. This system, which we As to retrenchment strategies, we will work to restore profitability The main business in this domain—natural gas and coal-fired order to stabilize sources of electric power. have already begun providing, employs IoT and AI technologies. by accelerating PMI. In particular, we will streamline product lineups thermal power generation facilities and nuclear power generation At the same time, future prospects in the oil and gas field are Through the system, we will work to expand our service business in at each factory in the aim of augmenting production efficiency and facilities—will continue to represent major sources of power. subject to the protracted curtailment of investment as the price the areas of long-term plant maintenance and operational support. using assets more effectively. Through these measures, we expect Therefore, demand for maintenance services for our main business of crude oil falls. Nevertheless, we anticipate a resurgence in As orders for overseas projects increase, we will expand our bases to cut fixed costs by between ¥10.0 billion and ¥15.0 billion. We will remains robust. On the other hand, we expect demand for newly condemand for compressors as the market recovers. Given the in the core markets in Asia; North, Central, and South America; also strive to optimize our supply chain by utilizing overseas locations. structed power plants to stagnate—particularly for coal-fired thermal globally robust aircraft market, we believe the market for aero generation. Competition for orders is likely to heat up as a result. engines will continue to deliver solid growth. 34 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 35 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW: POWER SYSTEMS DOMAIN Addressing Social Issues Initiatives in This Domain Related to Material ESG Issues Introduction Material issue 3: Response to Mega Trends An Energy Portfolio that Contributes to the Realization of a Low-Carbon Society Solutions Combining IoT and AI Technologies, as Well as the Knowledge Cultivated Over Many Years Social Issues second-largest share of the world market for offshore wind Since the second half of the 20th century, global warming has power generation facilities (cumulative performance as of the end In this domain, we are leveraging leading-edge IoT and AI experience in power generation facilities and related businesses, as been driving changes in the climate: atmospheric and ocean of 2016). The company’s generation facilities boast world-leading technologies to respond to diverse customer needs. For thermal well as comprehensive analysis from the Group’s own diversified temperatures have been rising, increasing ocean levels and output and are contributing substantially to lowering customers’ power plant customers, in March 2017 MHPS began providing plant operation expertise, configured with our unique ENERGY reducing the amount of polar ice. The Intergovernmental Panel on generation costs. MHPS-TOMONI™, which optimizes operational and maintenance CLOUD® Brain AI technology. Data is measured through our newly Climate Change (IPCC) surmises that rising concentrations of CO2 In the field of geothermal generation, MHI Group has accumucosts of thermal power generation facilities and enhances their developed facility operation monitoring system, and analysis is Management Strategies and other greenhouse gases are highly likely to be a major cause. lated orders for more than 100 projects in 13 countries, including environmental performance. Leveraging big data analysis and AI performed using this AI technology. The data and analysis enable Worst-case scenarios predict that average global air temperatures Mexico and Kenya. With combined capacity of more than 3 million technology derived from the innovative technologies and specialized energy demand to be forecast to a high level of accuracy—higher will rise by around 4°C by the year 2100, presenting the serious risk kW, we hold a leading share of the world’s installed geothermal knowledge we have cultivated in thermal generation over decades, than 90%. By performing this forecasting and ascertaining facility of climate change across the entire world. Global efforts to counter power generation capacity. We believe geothermal is a promising in-house O&M know-how, total plant knowledge, and customer operational status, the system helps improve energy procurement this situation by realizing a low-carbon society, such as by adopting generation method, as it emits no CO2 and generates stable partnerships, MHPS-TOMONI™ is a comprehensive family of digital and production efficiency. ENERGY CLOUD® can also be configured the Paris Accord, are growing. As electric power generation has power that is unaffected by the weather. solutions MHPS developed for the power industry. into an energy management system (EMS) that uses a network a particularly large effect on CO2 emissions, renewable energy use Meanwhile, demand for coal-fired generation is high in Also, in April 2017 we began providing the ENERGY CLOUD® connection and operates over multiple business sites. We have begun is forecast to grow substantially over the medium to long term. coal-producing countries in Southeast Asia and other parts of the Service for customers that use large amounts of energy. ENERGY considering an overseas rollout in line with needs in various regions. world. There, we propose integrated coal gasification combined CLOUD® is a general term for the energy solution service based We anticipate that this could become a ¥100.0 billion business. Forecast of Global Changes in Average Global Surface Air cycle (IGCC) systems, which feature world-leading technologies. on MHI Group’s industry-leading technological strength and Value Creation through Our Business Temperatures The IGCC process gasifies coal at high temperatures and pressures °C +6.0 in air-blown gasifiers and utilizes a combined-cycle method that ENERGY CLOUD® Service Scheme combines gas and steam turbines, thereby achieving substantially +4.0 Market needs IoT Service provision higher generation efficiency than with conventional coal-fired +2.0 Management generation and reducing CO2 emissions by around 15%. IGCC systems Management 0.0 facilitate the use of low-grade coal, which is problematic with Energy deregulation • Energy infrastructure support -2.0 1950 2000 2050 2100 (CY) conventional thermal generation. This is expected to achieve the Business expansion IoT technology • Operational and maintenance 1950 Source: 2000 Intergovernmental Panel 2050 on Climate Change (IPCC) 2100（年） Fifth Assessment Report dual benefit of making effective use of resources and helping to cultivated through support Red shows the scenario if greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced. Blue indicates protect the environment. Combining an IGCC system with our manufacturing Operation the scenario if all measures are implemented. AQCS curtails the environmental impact of coal-fired generation, Facility operation Promotion of energy Corporate Governance optimizing facilities for the regions where they will be used. conservation • EMS By commercializing SOFCs as a next-generation technology, CO2 reduction • Most suitable overall system MHI Group’s Solutions from fiscal 2017 MHI Group will begin launching hybrid units MHI Group provides some of the world’s most efficient Performance combining SOFCs and micro gas turbines. SOFCs reform natural Facility maintenance thermal power plants. We also have an extensive menu of power gas and LNG into hydrogen and carbon monoxide, reacting with the Technology transfer generation offerings in the area of renewable energy, including • Predictive diagnosis oxygen in the air to generate power directly. As the heat produced Manufacturing expertise offshore wind turbines and geothermal generation systems. • Preventive maintenance in this process can also be used effectively, energy efficiency is Through combined systems that incorporate AQCS and SOFC*, extremely high, leading to expectations for future use in distributed we can contribute to a reduction in greenhouse gases, meeting or concentrated power sources. needs in regions around the world. Looking first at our thermal power plants, which boast some * SOFC: Solid oxide fuel cell of the highest efficiencies in the world, as one aspect of our R&D Case Study activities as a world leader in high-efficiency gas turbine combined cycle (GTCC) systems, at our demonstration facility in the Takasago Development of Elemental Technologies for 1,650°C-Class Next-Generation district (Hyogo Prefecture) we are promoting a cycle of developGas Turbines ment, design, manufacturing, demonstration (our proprietary tests on the burden of long-term operation), mass production, and reflection (simultaneously employing the results we have received MHI has developed high-efficiency gas turbine combined cycle and flashback (backfire) associated with higher turbine inlet into the next round of development, design, and manufacturing). (GTCC) systems for many years. We are now working on the temperatures, as well as prediction technology for turbine blade Throughout, we pursue high levels of efficiency, reliability, and development of elemental technologies, including the gas turbines heat transfer coefficient distribution to minimize the rise in cooling environmental friendliness. with a turbine inlet temperature in the 1,650°C class and a nextair temperature, leading to increased generation efficiency. In the MVOW is developing the offshore wind turbine business in generation air cooling system, in the aim of achieving combined aim of gaining the top share of the market for gas turbines larger Europe, where the use of renewable energy is expanding rapidly. thermal efficiency of more than 64%, exceeding that of new than 300MW, the main market for these technologies, we are accelEstablished in 2014 as a 50–50 joint venture between MHI and machines offered by our competitors. Specifically, we are develerating development with a view to market launch in fiscal 2019. Vestas Wind Systems of Denmark, MVOW is steadily accumulating oping technologies to predict the risk of combustion instability © Image Courtesy of Grupo Dragón orders for the construction of large-scale wind farms off the coast Geothermal generation facility (Mexico) of Denmark and the United Kingdom. MVOW has the world’s 36 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 37 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW INDUSTRY & INFRASTRUCTURE DOMAIN Introduction While continuing to strengthen earning capabilities through the reorganization of small-to medium-sized businesses and PMI implementation for joint venture companies, we are focusing on further growth in core businesses and expanding engineering-related businesses. • E xpertise cultivated in a wide range of product fields and • Tendency to be affected by short-term economic Net Sales by Core Business effective utilization of resources within the domain fluctuations Directions for Fiscal 2017 and Focus Strategies for the Medium to Long Term • Metals machinery: • Redundancy in functions and bases after integration Full product lineup and global presence • Chemical plants: • Turbochargers: Volatility in sales amount In fiscal 2017, we aim to meet our targets by expanding sales of areas, such as gas-powered ships, that leverage our technological Development of highly efficient products leveraging high• Commercial ships: Fiscal 2016 speed rotational technologies Relatively weak cost competitiveness on repeated material handling equipment and turbochargers, by securing expertise. In chemical plants, we will work to stabilize earnings Management Strategies Net sales •F  orklift trucks: construction of ships with the same specifications profit through acceleration of PMI*2 at joint ventures, and through by participating in the operation, maintenance, and after-sales •A Third in the world by business scale  ir-conditioning and refrigeration: ¥ 1,747.0 structural reforms in the commercial ship business. Over the service businesses, while also striving to expand orders in strategic Extensive product lineup and world-class environmental billion medium to long term, we will promote increases in both sales regions. Taking advantage of our track record with large-scale CO2 and energy-saving technologies •C  hemical plants: and operating income, focusing on further growth in core busirecovery plants featuring the highest processing capability in the Engineering prowess based on technologies and expertise nesses and expanding engineering-related businesses. world, we plan to make a full-scale entry into the CO2-EOR*3 cultivated through the construction of various types of plants • L and transportation systems: Material handling equipment Turbochargers In turbochargers, to ensure continuous growth we will probusiness. In land transportation systems, based on our strengths Overall system integration capabilities and optimized Engine and energy Metals machinery mote the development and introduction of products for diversiin system integration and AGT*4 systems, which are competitive technology for a bogie design of rubber-wheel vehicles Air-conditioning and refrigeration • Commercial ships: Automotive thermal systems fied automotive powertrains—such as for electric vehicles (EVs), and reliable, we will develop the total solution business in the area Superiority over competitors in environmental and energysaving technologies Mechatronics systems, Intelligent transport systems (ITS) hybrid vehicles (HVs), and plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHVs)—and of urban transport, including O&M*5. In engineering-related Industrial and precision instruments Machine tools Environmental systems Land transportation systems the establishment of a global supply structure capable of deliverbusinesses, including environmental systems, we will enhance Value Creation through Our Business Chemical plants Commercial ships Others ing 11 million units per year. In air conditioning and refrigeration, our project management capabilities and quality, cost, delivery S W we will leverage our industry-leading product lineup and envi(QCD) control and pursue horizontal development into other STRENGTHS WEAKNESSES Operating Performance ronmental and energy-saving technologies to expand the thermal businesses. Furthermore, we aim to create new businesses Billions of yen 85.0 (4.6%) solutions business, thereby promoting global expansion and and cultivate new fields by managing resources and enhancing • Turbochargers: • Rise of manufacturers in emerging countries Growing trend toward downsized engines with • Sense of uncertainty in the global economy 50.0 (2.9%) reinforcing our services business. In ITS, we will sustain profitsynergies among engineering-related businesses. Meanwhile, turbochargers in response to environmental and fuel • O ngoing commoditization 1,900.0 ability in the Japanese market, where model changes are we are making steady progress on reorganizing smalland performance regulations •M  etals machinery: 1,747.0 1,850.0 •M  aterial handling equipment: Global overcapacity forecasted to continue 1,590.3 expected to spark demand. We also aim to cultivate new business medium-sized businesses to strengthen business operations Increasing market for logistics solutions with expansion of • Chemical plants: based on an ongoing new project in Singapore for a next-generaand aim to complete this process during fiscal 2017. e-commerce business Geopolitical risk in gas-producing countries • Engines: • L and transportation systems: tion electronic road pricing (ERP) system. See the section below, entitled “Business Directions at Key Subsidiaries,” regarding Growing power generation market in line with increases in Increasingly strong Chinese and big-three competitors In the commercial ship business, we consolidated the business our business strategies for metals machinery and material handling equipment. demand for distributed power systems • Commercial ships: Corporate Governance • A ir-conditioning and refrigeration: Increasingly severe competition in the gas carrier and ferry integration and engineering functions in July 2017. We are increasing Rising awareness toward environmental protection *2. PMI: Post-merger integration (the integration process following a corporate or markets, as the gap between supply and demand for new our ability to build ships primarily involving outfitting work, •C  hemical plants: ships persists business merger) Growing capital investment for high-value-added natural developing energy-saving ships, and collaborating with other *3. EOR: Enhanced oil recovery gas in gas-producing countries Orders Net sales Orders Net sales *4. AGT: Automated guideway transit • L and transportation systems: received received domains to step up initiatives in new fields. Furthermore, through *5. O&M: Operation and maintenance Numerous infrastructure plans, including urban transport FY2016 (actual) FY2017 (forecast) alliances with other companies we intend to cultivate business in new • Commercial ships: Increasingly stringent environmental regulation of maritime Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Forklift, Engine & transport Turbocharger Holdings, Ltd. (M-FET)*1 Engineering*2 Air conditioning and refrigeration, Automotive thermal systems Metals machinery Mechatronics systems, ITS, Industrial and precision instruments, Machine tools Commercial ships O T Others Operating income (operating margin) Business Directions at Key Subsidiaries: Primetals Technologies and M-FET OPPORTHREATS *1. Material handling equipment, Turbochargers, Engines TUNITIES *2. Chemical plants, Land transportation systems, Environmental systems At Primetals Technologies, a joint venture with Siemens AG of In October 2017, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Forklift, Engine & Germany, we are seeing a gradual upturn in orders, but we still Turbocharger Holdings, Ltd. (M-FET) will undergo management forecast global steel overcapacity and a tough market environment integration with two M-FET group companies: Mitsubishi Nichiyu Operating Environment to persist. Under these conditions, we are promoting further PMI Forklift Co., Ltd., and UniCarriers Corporation. As a result, we plan to secure earnings at the current scale of business. To date, we to pursue PMI that will raise the operating margin in the material Comprising 13 businesses, the Industry & Infrastructure domain continue expanding over the medium to long term. In chemical have pursued organizational reforms and workforce optimization. handling equipment business to 8% by fiscal 2019. Specifically, is affected by a variety of global trends. The logistics industry is plants, as gas prices fall the need for high-value-added natural gas We will implement PMI by consolidating our current 40 worldwide we are pursuing optimization of production bases by separating increasingly active worldwide due to such factors as the growing is increasing, leading to more business opportunities. In ITS, the locations to 26, setting new cost targets, and optimizing the design, functions and consolidating redundant functions. As a result, we popularity of e-commerce. The global market for forklifts is Japanese market remains flat, while the overall global market is procurement, and manufacturing processes. We also aim to expect to boost productivity, reinforce the procurement system, expanding along with this trend, and the market for logistics expanding, as road networks are progressing in Southeast Asia bolster our market share by meeting customer needs and techand lower costs substantially. In addition, starting from the solutions, such as unmanned and automated systems, is growing and other regions. In land transportation systems, a rising number nology trends, pushing ourselves into a leading global position. development structure at bases in Japan, North America, and at a rapid pace. Along with substantial increases in awareness of of airport expansion projects is expected to push up demand for Europe, we will pursue a regionally tailored multibrand strategy environmental protection, the turbocharger market continues to APMs* 1. In commercial ships, while a persistent global oversupply to expand our global scale. expand as the percentage of passenger cars with turbocharged continues, we anticipate movement in response to increasingly engines grows in response to increasingly stringent environmental strict environmental regulations on ships. regulations. The market for air conditioning and refrigeration that *1. APM: Automated people mover requires high environmental performance is also expected to 38 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 39 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW: INDUSTRY & INFRASTRUCTURE DOMAIN Material issue 1: An optimal governance structure based on our corporate culture Addressing Social Issues Initiatives in This Domain Related to Material ESG Issues Introduction Optimization Initiatives for Rapidly Changing On-Site Logistics Governance at Primetals Technologies, Where People of Different Nationalities and Cultures Work Together (Establishment and Promulgation of Global Guidelines for Business Processes) Social Issues Primetals Technologies (PT) was established in January 2015 as on its intranet. This system enables all PT staff to easily access The rapid expansion of the e-commerce market, the proliferation a joint venture between Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery, global and local guidelines for their regions and fosters a clear of the Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI), and Inc., and Siemens VAI Metals Technologies GmbH, the metals understanding of each business process, encouraging systematifalling childbirth and aging populations are resulting in a shortmachinery division of Siemens AG of Germany. Headquartered in zation and regularization. At the same time, METRIS provides the Management Strategies age of on-site personnel to perform forklift and order picking London, PT is one of the largest global group companies in the necessary information in relation to actions required in order to operations. Consequently, the social environment surrounding MHI Group. Worldwide, PT employs around 7,000 people in more execute the guidelines. By publicizing and providing this informathe logistics industry is undergoing profound change. than 20 countries. PT promotes organizational governance tion on its intranet through METRIS, PT is making apparent its Accordingly, global demand for optimization is growing at wareacross numerous countries and differing cultures and aims to intent to promulgate the guidelines and promote the global houses, factories, and other on-site logistics locations. integrate diverse cultures into one corporate culture. As one such standardization of processes. initiative, PT has created certain Global Guidelines, which stipulate In relation to compliance, the company has set up a structured MHI Group’s Solutions the standard of each business process common to all PT Group organization to ensure that PT staff follow company guidelines. MHI Group companies Mitsubishi Nichiyu Forklift Co., Ltd. and companies around the world. The Global Guidelines are impleWorking under global leadership, locally responsible staff operUniCarriers Corporation have unveiled a series of firsts, both in Laser-guided automated guided forklift for the Japanese market mented in each country. If necessary the Global Guidelines may ate directly under compliance leaders for each region, so that Japan and the world: Japan’s first battery-powered forklift (1939), be complemented by local guidelines to cover special regional compliance checks and reports can operate systematically and Value Creation through Our Business Japan’s first engine-powered forklift (1949), and the world’s first requirements. To increase awareness of and support for the at a global level without concern for national borders and time automated guided forklift (1971). In so doing, we have improved Rather than focusing just on forklifts, MHI Group aims to proguidelines among all PT staff, PT has set up the “METRIS” system differences, as well as to promote paperless operations. working environments and safety and responded to the social vide logistics solutions that improve customer operations and need for higher levels of efficiency and reduced labor. The autoenergy efficiency, reducing expenses and generating profits. In mated guided forklift, in particular, has a raising/lowering funcresponse to the need to automate forklifts and save labor, we are MANAGEMENT PROCESSES tion that enables automated loading at various heights in addition developing warehouse management systems that integrate the Strategy Governance Controlling Internal Audit Customer satisfaction / Lifecycle Partnership to automatic travel, contributing significantly to the automation of management of in-warehouse storage (automated warehouses) Market / Customer requirements CORE PROCESSES logistics locations. and material handling (laser-guided forklifts). Portfolio and Product Sales (Bid process) Management For conventional automated guided forklifts, it was common To meet demand for efficiency, safety, and peace of mind, we R&D Business development Project Acquisition Bid Planning Bid Preparation / Compilation Contract negotiation to use electromagnetic signaling to guide travel paths. Now, MHI are pursuing various ways to achieve increases in safety by using Supply Chain Quality Management Engineering Manufacturing IoT to gather and analyze big data on forklifts. We will also proManagement / EHS Group is accelerating the market introduction of a laser-guided Corporate Governance automated guided forklift that does not rely on signal lines. vide information aimed at better preventive maintenance and Project Execution Service higher levels of safety. In addition, we intend to offer proposals Project Engineering Manufacturing Project Following introduction in Europe, which leads the market, we Installation Commissioning Planning and procurement and dispatch Closing launched this forklift in Japan in April. The new forklift addresses on optimizing vehicle layouts and equalizing operations, which SUPPORT PROCESSES some of the issues faced by conventional automated guided should help in conserving energy and extending battery life. Legal and Human Accounting Information Finance Intellectual Property Communication Real Estate Compliance Resources and Taxes Technology and Marketing Management Management forklifts (the time and cost required to construct electromagnetic On October 1, 2017, Mitsubishi Nichiyu Forklift Co., Ltd. and Example of a METRIS screen. From the left, the screen shows the overall structure and enables access to individual process guidelines (global and local). signal lines and the need to change complex routes). By leveragUniCarriers Corporation will undergo management integration, ing the new forklift’s advantages, we are working to optimize forming Mitsubishi Logisnext Co., Ltd. Under the “Logisnext” logistics sites. name, signifying “Logistical Equipment & System Solutions Next,” we aim to contribute to the future of global society as a nextgeneration logistics leader. Going forward, MHI Group will conR&D Case Study tinue providing advanced logistics solutions that match the needs of customers in areas around the globe. Development of a Marine SOx Scrubber in Response to Increasingly Stringent Regulations on Sulfur Oxide Emissions MHI’s Ship & Ocean Division and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power ships. The new scrubber was developed in response to stringent Systems, Ltd. (MHPS) have jointly developed a Large-scale new SOx emissions regulations in all oceans that come into effect Rectangular Marine Scrubber that efficiently removes sulfur globally in 2020. It is able to purify exhaust gas emitted from oxides (SOx) from the exhaust gases emitted by marine diesel inexpensive heavy fuel oil to a level equivalent to more expensive engines. The scrubber was developed based on MHPS’s comprelow-sulfur fuels, and has been designed to allow easy installation hensive flue-gas treatment technologies cultivated through on existing ships. Aiming to begin delivering the scrubber in 2020, desulfurization systems for thermal power plants, leveraging both companies will seek certification from selected countries MHI’s expertise in marine engineering. The adoption of a rectanwhile conducting extensive tests on ships. Sales offerings will gular box-shape configuration—a world first—offers outstanding focus on installations for both newly commissioned ships and ease of installation in small spaces and superlative emissions ships already in service, including ships constructed by MHI as Laser-guided automated guided forklift for the European market treatment for high-output engines used on large-scale container well as other shipyards. 40 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 41 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW AIRCRAFT, DEFENSE & SPACE DOMAIN Introduction We are dramatically improving the profit-earnings structure of the Tier1 commercial aircraft business and concentrating on the faithful execution of the MRJ development schedule as we cultivate our base of operations from a long-term perspective. © JAXA / NASA Commercial Aircraft Commercial Aircraft Net Sales by Core Business Long-term customer relationships, a long history of High degree of reliance on specific customers Directions for Fiscal 2017 and Focus Strategies for the Medium to Long Term expertise in building aircraft, and the creation of High sensitivity to foreign exchange fluctuations, relationships with parts suppliers based on the foundation of as business concentrated on overseas customers a domestic aircraft industry Shortage of experience in aircraft development In the Tier1 commercial aircraft business, we are working to quickly which is currently under Japan–US joint development. We will also Design and manufacturing technologies for large composite main wings and other structural components Defense and Space improve earnings. First, we are using robotics to automate make use of key technologies cultivated in the defense and space Management Strategies • Defense: Complete aircraft (MRJ) offering high levels of efficiency and assembly and enhancing the efficiency of management and indirect systems business. At the same time, initiatives are underway with reliability and outstanding economy Limited experience in pursuing and leading projects Fiscal 2016 overseas Net sales work processes through the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and the Japanese government toward potential international joint Defense and Space • Space: the Internet of Things (IoT). We are also engaging in supply chain development projects. International companies are also discussing Leading-edge technologies fostered through the development of defense and space products Inadequate cost competitiveness in global markets ¥ 703.4 reforms. These efforts include the configuration of harmonized the adoption of MHI components for use in overseas equipment. • Defense: billion Ability to make proposals for integrated defense systems production processes, collaboration through the shared technology Future initiatives include delivering the F-35 as the first domestiExpertise and channels cultivated through Japan–U.S. framework, and the optimization of order placements through the cally assembled aircraft, building up a track record in this area and joint development of the SM-3 missile • Space: establishment of the Commercial Aircraft Procurement Center. preparing to erect an MRO&U* facility. Regarding the SM-3, in line Development capabilities in launch vehicles and launch vehicles’ enginesWorld-leading levels of reliability Over the medium to long term, we will pursue synergies with the with government policy we will commence preparation of a joint Commercial Aviation Systems MRJ business, developing differentiation technologies that include production system. We will also produce and export components Integrated Defense & Space Systems weight reduction and material development. We are also promoting for Japan/US deployment missiles. In the second strategy, dual-use Value Creation through Our Business initiatives into new fields, such as functional components and development, in fiscal 2016 we began specific considerations S W equipment. Furthermore, we will leverage comprehensive Group toward adapting cybersecurity technology for control systems in WEAKSTRENGTHS NESSES strengths, harnessing integrated traffic control system synergies and defense products. We are currently assessing potential applicacomponent-related synergies with the defense and space business. tions in control systems for power plants. Regarding expansion Commercial Aircraft Commercial Aircraft Operating Performance In these ways, we aim to flexibly reconfigure our business portfolio. in existing fields, we will promote attractive business proposals New demand for approximately 33,000 aircraft over the next The globalization of aircraft production (business being Billions of yen 20 years promoted separately in advanced countries and emerging In the defense and space business, we are pursuing three that leverage our leading-edge technologies and track record in E xpected market scale over the next 20 years of around countries) 3,500 aircraft with 70–90 seats Increasingly stringent competition in the market for regional 10.0 (1.5%) principal growth strategies: overseas expansion, dual-use develthe future fighter program and the Patriot system. In satellite aircraft opment (commercial business), and expansion of existing fields. launch services, through the price-competitive H3 launch vehicle, Defense and Space Ongoing yen appreciation • Defense: In the first category, overseas development, we will leverage the we aim to obtain more commercial and overseas orders. Cabinet approval of the Three Principles on Transfer of Defense and Space 0.9 (0.1%) Defense Equipment and Technology • Defense: international joint development know-how and channels we have See the section below, entitled “Business Directions at a Key Subsidiary” regarding Corporate Governance Accelerating development and procurement of new Severe competition with domestic and overseas 955.0 cultivated through the F-35 stealth fighter and the SM-3 Block IIA the MRJ business strategy. products in line with the formulation of Japan’s Mediummanufacturers Term Defense Program • Space: 703.4 600.0 650.0 (ballistic missile defense interceptor with enhanced capabilities), *MRO&U: Maintenance, repair, overhaul, and upgrade • Space: Concern regarding price-cutting by new U.S. companies Increase in the need for satellite launches in emerging entering the market for overseas launch services countries Under Japan’s Basic Plan on Space Policy, domestic market scale expected to grow to ¥5 trillion over the next 10 years Orders Net sales Orders Net sales received received A growing launch market in line with expanding needs for the use of satellites FY2016 (actual) FY2017 (forecast) Business Directions at a Key Subsidiary: Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation Commercial Aviation Systems Integrated Defense & Space Systems Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation, which is handling the MRJ of Komaki in Aichi Prefecture, Seattle, and Moses Lake in the United Operating income (operating margin) O T development, aims to acquire type certification in 2019 and, with States. The development organization has also been revised from OPPORTUNITIES THREATS the aim of delivering the first aircraft in mid-2020, will undergo one led by Japanese employees with foreign advisors to one centered static structure tests and the construction of final test aircraft in on non-Japanese members of the general manager class. This Japan. The aircraft will then be subjected to flight tests in Japan structural change is aimed at making full use of foreign experts. and the United States, and the company is putting together a Simultaneously, the company is reinforcing customer relations to Operating Environment customer support structure. Going forward, Mitsubishi Aircraft prevent market launch delays from affecting orders already received. will continue working to achieve aircraft performance that surAlongside these MRJ Development Team efforts, the Future In the Tier 1 commercial aircraft business, the business environment The MRJ is the only next-generation aircraft in the 70-seat class. passes competitors and provide extensive customer support. At Advanced Technology Development Team is pursuing the develwas characterized by reduced production levels by customers As the defense and space business is largely dependent on the same time, the company will implement cost reductions while opment of further advanced technology from a mediumto long-term and a downward trend in contract prices from fiscal 2016. As we government budgets, the scale of this business has remained maintaining development and schedules and draft development perspective. The team is also engaging in technical strategy expect this situation to continue for the foreseeable future, we essentially flat for more than 20 years. This is one issue we face in and marketing strategies for subsequent commercial production planning and development of next-generation aircraft concepts. recognize that strengthening cost competitiveness is essential. terms of expanding our scale of business. Another issue is a fragile and the MRJ70’s commercial viability. Development expenses are forecast to peak in fiscal 2019, and Also, ongoing yen appreciation depresses sales. In the MRJ profit structure. In the defense business, we view the Cabinet decision To these ends, in November 2016 we established the MRJ we plan to cover these costs with the free cash flow generated by business circumstances, the market for 70-to 90-seat regional on the Three Principles on Transfer of Defense Equipment and Business Promotion Committee, chaired and directly overseen by the MHI Group as a whole. Although the payback period will be jets is forecast to grow by 4% annually for the next 20 years, to Technology and government consideration of the National Defense MHI’s CEO. The committee aims to accelerate decision-making and prolonged, the impact of increased development expenses on around 3,500 aircraft. However, as a competitor is slated to Program Guidelines as opportunities to increase the defense business. implementation through the seamless exchange of information profit for each fiscal year should be minimal, and we anticipate launch a next-generation 90-seat aircraft in 2021, in order to Similarly, we believe the revision of the Basic Plan on Space Policy among the three-base development structure, comprising the city virtually no impact on the management of the entire MHI Group. maintain our predominance we will need to catch up with the and Implementation Schedule and the formulation of the Vision for delay in our development schedule. the Space Industry present opportunities in the space business, and we believe these moves will translate to business growth. 42 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 43 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW: AIRCRAFT, DEFENSE & SPACE DOMAIN Addressing Social Issues Initiatives in This Domain Related to Material ESG Issues Introduction Material issue 2: The Use of Global Human Resources Cybersecurity Technologies That Protect Infrastructure Control Systems MRJ Development Structure Incorporating Foreign Experts Social Issues MHI Group’s Solutions To restructure the development schedule in the MRJ business, in Technical Managers and Core Engineers late 2016 we began actively recruiting foreign engineers with (Including the Seattle Engineering Center and the Moses Lake Flight Center) The proliferation of the Internet has led to an increase in conveIn March 2016, MHI and NTT concluded an agreement for joint experience in the airframe business, and we have been allocating People% nience, with all manner of systems and large numbers of physiresearch in cyber security technologies applicable to critical 1,200 35 cal items being connected over networks. At the same time, this infrastructure control systems. At the same time, MHI opened the key roles in our organizational structure to these personnel. As connectedness has prompted a sharp increase in cyberattacks, Cyber Lab to serve as a base to verify the effectiveness of secuof June 2017, some 2,000 employees were involved in the MRJ 1,000 30 and measures to protect important infrastructure are of particurity at power generation facilities and in a broad range of other business at our three locations. Foreign engineers have reached Management Strategies lar importance. Effective security measures have been develfields. By combining the high-reliability and safe control technolone third of this number, or around 600 people. At our development 800 25 oped to address such cyber threats as malware, including ogy developed by MHI in the fields of defense and space and the base in Komaki, Aichi Prefecture, foreign staff participate in 600 20 malicious software and computer viruses, and distributed denialsecurity orchestration technology* 1 developed by NTT, in late meetings, which are held in English. We are conducting training on of-service (DDoS) attacks aimed at bringing down systems via a November 2016 we completed a prototype of InteRSePT®*2 cybercross-cultural communications and training non-Japanese staff 400 15 huge volume of data requests. However, recent years have seen security technology, which enables real-time anomaly detection on Japanese-style leadership in an effort to facilitate communia rise in serious malware that monitors the operational characof unknown cyberattacks. cations and mutual understanding. By building a globally fluent 200 10 teristics and control commands of equipment being targeted for InteRSePT® consists of a real-time network monitoring organizational structure and culture, we are working to reinforce attack, and then seeks to damage the targeted equipment by system and an advanced security management system, and leadership and the transfer of authority, thereby accelerating 0 2008 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 (CY) 5 decision-making. At the same time, by fostering open-minded Japanese engineers (design and development) Japanese engineers (customer altering the timing and content of these instructions. New meamonitors real-time data flows in networks in an integrated support development) Foreign engineers Percentage of foreign engineers sures are sought to counter such potential attacks. manner. The system delivers real-time security measures that communication and information-sharing, we are enhancing Value Creation through Our Business place importance on availability*3 by changing the security remeteamwork and speeding up development activities. Project spearheaded by Promotion by MHI Group under InteRSePT Framework and Characteristics diation rules on each operating state of the target device. This Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation a structure headed by the CEO enables protection against cyber-attacks that exploit control Customer systems commands. Going forward, MHI and NTT will evaluate the technology prototype at Cyber Lab and verify its adaptability to control systems, to further advance InteRSePT® and expand its application to the operation and maintenance business. We will focus on commercial fields in which availability is essential, such as at Control system Control system 1 Control system 2 Control system 3 … thermal power plants and chemical plants. Corporate Governance Operation device Monitoring Controller Device to be device controlled Real-time network monitoring system (RNMS) … Detect Respond R&D Case Study Advanced security management system (ASMS) ✓ Improving Engine Combustion Stability to Integrate Lower Costs and Improve Reliability on the H3 Launch vehicle Cyber Lab Security orchestration system*1 Targets: *1. S  ecurity orchestration technology/system: Technologies/systems that collect and MHI is currently developing the H3 launch vehicle in the aim of injector and resonator by establishing and applying a proprietary Critical infrastructure such as power plants and transportation systems where analyze cyberattack related information including target device and system status continuous availability is of high importance. and anomaly events, and comprehensively control diversified security appliances. reducing costs and improving reliability in comparison with the combustion stability evaluation tool. By July 2017, a combustion C ollects and analyzes packets of sensor information flows in the control system *2. InteRSePT®: Abbreviation of Integrated Resilient Security and Proactive current H-IIA/B launch vehicle. In the development of a launch test of the total engine system had been conducted, confirming network to monitor the overall operating status. Technology, a registered trademark of MHI. vehicle, its engine is an important factor affecting reliability, cost, its technical feasibility. MHI has earned a strong international Processes the real-time detection data in an integrated manner with the ASMS and *3. Availability: Continuous operation of a system without stoppage. monitors the behavior of the entire control system to enable early detection. and performance. Ensuring combustion stability is essential in reputation for the reliability of its launch services, but further Performs appropriate control over different devices based on integrated security developing a launch vehicle engine capable of generating propulcost reductions are an issue. By bolstering cost competitiveness information and changes the communication control rules of the RNMS in response to operational conditions. sive power at hydrogen and oxygen combustion temperatures through the development of the H3 launch vehicle, we aim to A nalyzes and blocks the packets based on rules according to the operating status exceeding 3,000°C. In fiscal 2016, a significant improvement in expand the number of commercial and overseas launch orders. determined by the security orchestration system/technology. combustion stability was attained through improvement in the 44 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 45 MESSAGE FROM THE OUTSIDE DIRECTORS Nobuo Kuroyanagi Aiming for an organization in which all employees can link Introduction Senior Advisor, global changes to their individual roles The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. As an outside director, I consistently focus on how we can enhance MHI’s brand value. For many years Appointed statutory auditor of MHI in June 2009, and director and Audit MHI has been a provider of outstanding products globally, and in that context expectations have been held and Supervisory Committee member high among shareholders and other stakeholders. However, at a time when globalization is occurring at in June 2015 rapid pace, what worked in the past will not necessarily be effective in future. In order for MHI to continue Appointment Background: to meet society’s needs and enhance brand value, it is important not only for management but also for Extensive knowledge and experience individual employees to maintain focus on how MHI products and services bring value and satisfaction to serving in top management at international financial institutions people’s lives and on where the source of global competitive strength lies. When I served as part of the executive management team at a global bank, I repeatedly told the officers Management Strategies and management staff to visit workplaces “a hundred times,” a practice I carried out myself. There are things that can only be properly communicated to employees, and that can only be observed, by going directly to actual work sites. I firmly believe that if we can get a global grasp on the macro-changes From left: Kuroyanagi, Ito, Ahmadjian, Shinohara, Kobayashi taking place in society and simultaneously, at the micro level, maintain awareness of what is demanded of MHI, of each department, and of each individual, then MHI will become a much stronger organization. Naoyuki Shinohara Proactively using external strengths while upholding Christina Ahmadjian For MHI to become a truly global company, Professor, The University of Tokyo, MHI’s traditions and diversity Professor, Hitotsubashi University all employees must be given opportunities to contribute Value Creation through Our Business Policy Alternatives Research Institute Graduate School of Commerce and (Former Deputy Managing Director of Management Today we live in an increasingly multipolar world, where technological innovations have significantly Five years have passed since I became an outside director at MHI, and during this time I have seen the the International Monetary Fund (IMF)) reduced cross-border costs. Given the rapid pace of change and global uncertainty, we must constantly Appointed director of MHI in June consistent progress made in implementing management reforms. I have also observed an increased Appointed director in June 2015 consider how we should respond effectively to these shifts. 2012, and director and Audit and sense of urgency—in a positive sense—throughout the Company due to awareness of global competition. Supervisory Committee member in Appointment Background: MHI has a highly diversified combination of human resources, but relying on this alone will present June 2015 Big strides have also been made with respect to diversity. In 2016, for the first time women accounted Provides a range of insights related major challenges in this rapidly changing global environment. What MHI must do is actively pursue for 10 percent of all new recruits working in tech. The number of women in management roles has also to financial policy gained as a Appointment Background: tie-ups with other industries and bring in outside human resources to provide new perspectives, while been trending upward in recent years. regulator, as well as global perspecA broad knowledge and global tives gained as an executive at also preserving the values it has cultivated through the years. In this respect, I think the joint venture perspective developed during her However, for MHI to advance while keeping morale high, it is important to give employees responsibilities a major international institution Primetals Technologies serves as a good example. career as a researcher in the field of and authority from a young age, and to provide them with opportunities for development and growth. For corporate governance and corporate When I worked for an international organization, I personally experienced working with people of management many years I have been involved in the study of business management and corporate governance, and I different nationalities and backgrounds, and the challenges involved. From this, I learnt that the best way have seen how companies around the world approach these issues. Unfortunately, there are still too few Corporate Governance to adapt to a cross-border world is to put oneself in the midst of diversity. At MHI, increasing opportunities Japanese companies that give clear missions to all their employees and evaluate them based on results. for employees to establish global contacts and networks from a young age is vital for incorporating and As MHI increasingly pursues M&A and collaboration with outside partners, it will need to create such making good use of knowledge derived from outside the Company. growth opportunities and put the right evaluation mechanisms in place. MHI is seeing significant changes in its external environment while facing the challenge of implementing Groupwide reforms. If all employees are able to understand the Company’s vision for the future and the necessity of these reforms, then I believe MHI will achieve strong momentum towards achieving this. Ken Kobayashi Collaborating with the “right partners” key to global success Chairman of the Board, Mitsubishi Corporation Japan, a trading nation, was able to develop rapidly on the strength of its commercial trading capabilities, backed by a diligent workforce and reliable technology. Today, that is no longer sufficient. As many markets Appointed director in June 2016 develop local manufacturing capacity, growth in global trade volumes has slowed significantly. The days Shinichiro Ito MHI must continue to take on new challenges, Appointment Background: when Japan could rely on merely making good products and selling them overseas have ended. Chairman of the Board, using its c­ omprehensive strengths and diversity ANA Holdings Inc. Extensive knowledge and experience Much has also changed in the global environment. We now face increased geopolitical risks, widening of top management, experience MHI’s long history sometimes means it dwells too much on past successes, leading to inflexibility within operating across global markets socio-economic gaps, rapid technological change and remarkable demographic shifts. In light of these Appointed statutory auditor of MHI in June 2013, and director and Audit and the organization. However, thanks to the management reform initiatives of recent years, such as the changes, MHI must take aggressive steps towards leveraging its well-established technological Supervisory Committee member in introduction of the business domain system, new synergies are now being realized, resources are more strengths to expand business globally. June 2015 effectively used, and the speed of decision-making has improved substantially. More than ever before, what is vital in this context is identifying the “right partners” and working with Appointment Background: At the same time, the Company has faced a number of major risks large enough to impact earnings. Some them to provide products and solutions that more precisely meet local needs. Today, what is demanded isn’t Extensive knowledge and experience degree of risk is inevitable when conducting business at a global level, but in order for MHI to continue providjust economic value, but also the pursuit of societal and environmental value. As a major corporation MHI serving in top management at airline companies, focus on quality and ing value to society it cannot cease to take up new challenges. To weather such risks and difficulties, I believe must pursue these aims in a way that enhances its trustworthiness in the eyes of the global community. safety management it is important to share among the experience and knowledge acquired in these processes among the Group. I believe MHI is on the right path in proactively pursuing lucrative M&A opportunities, but greater speed In my own case, as managing officer at a major airline I devoted significant energy to educating will be needed in integrating such companies if synergies are to be realized. For this to happen, the Group employees about the difficult periods experienced by the company and the various challenges it encounneeds to be proactive in raising awareness internally about the changes that ought to be made, while tered throughout the years. Based on that experience, I realized the influence that top management can retaining the best aspects of its corporate culture. Raising awareness will take time, and there is no quick have on the development of both corporate culture and employees. measure for achieving the desired results in one leap, but I trust that MHI will be able to make steady Today, MHI is involved in a number of new business endeavors, like the MRJ. To make an even greater progress in its business initiatives, while maintaining transparency and sound governance at all times. leap into the future, I would like to see the Company actively apply the diversity it has cultivated, unifying its Groupwide technologies and human resources, and taking on the challenges of tomorrow with its comprehensive strengths. 46 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Basic Approach Outside Directors As a company responsible for developing the infrastructure that forms the foundation of society, MHI’s basic policy is to execute manageThe Company has five outside directors (of whom three are Audit Introduction ment in consideration of all stakeholders and strive to enhance corporate governance on an ongoing basis in pursuit of sustained growth of and Supervisory Committee members). Outside directors are Principal Activities of Outside Directors MHI Group and improvement of its corporate value in the medium and long terms. In accordance with this basic policy, MHI endeavors to expected to enhance the soundness and transparency of the Naoyuki Shinohara improve its management system, such as by enhancing its management oversight function through the separation of management overCompany’s management decision-making by providing beneficial Attended 14 of 14 meetings of the Board of Directors sight and execution and the inclusion of outside directors, and develop “Japanese-style global management,” focusing on the improvement views and candid assessments on the Company’s management in fiscal 2016 of the soundness and transparency of its management as well as on diversity and harmony. from an objective standpoint that is not biased by an internal Ken Kobayashi company perspective. These individuals have diverse backAttended 9 of 10 meetings of the Board of Directors grounds in such areas as corporate management, public finance, in fiscal 2016 Recent Corporate Governance Reforms and corporate governance. Management Strategies Each of the outside directors meets MHI’s independence criteria Principal Activities of Outside Directors 2005 2013 • Abolished stock options and introduced a new for outside directors.* Accordingly, the Company judges all outside • Shortened the term of office for directors from • Consolidated and restructured the nine stock remuneration system for directors (Audit and Supervisory Committee Members) directors to be independent from its management team and has two years to one Business Headquarters, transitioning to the (excluding outside directors and directors who Nobuo Kuroyanagi reported them as independent directors to the Tokyo Stock • Introduced an executive officer system Business Domain Structure (full transition by are serving as Audit and Supervisory 13 of 14 meetings of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2016 • Increased the number of outside directors April 2014) Committee members) and executive officers. Exchange and other financial instruments exchanges in Japan. All the outside directors are independent from management 16 of 17 meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Committee from one to two and outside statutory auditors (Directors who are Audit and Supervisory 2014 in fiscal 2016 from two to three Committee members receive base remuneraand supervise or audit management. At meetings of the Board of • Introduced the Chief Officer System Page 49 • Reduced the number of directors from 28 to 17 tion only.) Directors, they receive reports on the status of the establishment Christina Ahmadjian • Reduced the number of representative • Formulated the Corporate Governance 2006 directors from 12 to six and operation of internal control systems, including compliance, 13 of 14 meetings of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2016 Guidelines of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. • Abolished the system of director retirement • Decreased the number of directors from 17 to 12 risk management, and other activities, and the results of internal 15 of 17 meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Committee Value Creation through Our Business allowances and bonuses, switching to system 2016 audits, and they state their opinions when appropriate. The Audit in fiscal 2016 2015 of monthly remuneration and performance• Established the Nomination and Remuneration • MHI transitioned to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee, a majority of whose members are Shinichiro Ito linked remuneration Meeting Page 50 • Introduced a stock option system for directors, and Supervisory Committee. The number of • Reduced the number of directors from 14 to 11 outside directors, also conducts audits in collaboration with the 13 of 14 meetings of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2016 directors was reduced to 14, including five Internal Audit Department, Management Audit Department, and except outside directors (with the number of outside directors remain15 of 17 meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Committee Audit and Supervisory Committee members. ing constant at five) accounting auditor. In addition, the Audit and Supervisory in fiscal 2016 2007 (Prior to the transition, the Board of Directors • Board Evaluation of Board of Directors Committee shares information about the status of audits with • Increased the number of outside directors comprised 17 members, including the statueffectiveness from two to three tory auditors.) The number of outside directors outside directors who are not serving as Audit and Supervisory was set at five, including three Audit and 2017 Committee members. 2011 Supervisory Committee members. Page 49 • Restructuring into three business domains • Integrated a matrix structure of Business * Indicated in the Corporate Governance Guidelines of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Headquarters and Works into the Business Corporate Governance Headquarters Structure 2016~ Board Evaluation Total number of directors: 11 MHI took the enactment of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code as an opportunity to analyze and evaluate the effectiveness each year of Outside directors: 5 the overall Board of Directors. We seek to increase the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and ensure it is substantially fulfilling its Percentage of outside directors: duty of accountability to shareholders by verifying the overall effectiveness and role of the Board of Directors. In fiscal 2016, this evaluation 2004 45.5% was conducted as follows. 50 Total number of directors 50 and statutory auditors: 32 Changes in the Number of Directors and Statutory Auditors Key Points of Analysis and Evaluation Initiatives Targeting Principal Issues Recognized in Fiscal 2015 Outside directors: 1 and the Percentage of Outside Directors% • Composition of the Board of Directors • Ongoing consideration regarding the selection of agenda items Outside statutory auditors: 2 • Operation of the Board of Directors for the Board of Directors of a company with an Audit and 40 Percentage of outside directors: 40 • Supervisory function performed by the Board of Directors Supervisory Committee 9.3% • Support system for outside directors • Decentralization of agenda items based on the proposed annual schedule for the Board of Directors, sending Board of Directors 30 30 Evaluation Process materials in advance (1) Self-evaluation by all directors using a questionnaire survey • Providing and operating an information environment in which (2) Opinion exchanges in meetings among independent outside directors have access to basic management data at outside directors all times 20 20 (3) Deliberation at the Board of Directors based on questionnaire results Principal Issues Recognized in Fiscal 2016 and Future Initiatives (4) Following the above, Board of Directors resolution based on • To ensure a more effective Board of Directors supervisory the results of the Board of Directors evaluation function, expand opportunities for training on changes in the 10 10 environment and MHI’s initiatives in response Evaluation Results • Enhance deliberations at the Board of Directors by providing The Board of Directors confirms it functioned effectively more extensive materials in advance 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 in fiscal 2016 • Strengthen the Board of Directors supervisory function by (CY) setting agenda items appropriately as a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee Total number of directors Total number of statutory auditors Number of outside directors Number of outside statutory auditors Percentage of outside executives (right scale) • Expand opportunities for communication among outside directors 48 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Structure and Roles (Including Internal Control Systems) Introduction MHI has adopted the form of a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee as its corporate structure under the Companies Act. The Company delegates decisions on certain important matters of business execution to the president and CEO in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors based on the Company’s Articles of Incorporation. These initiatives enable MHI to facilitate swift decision making and flexible business execution and strengthen the Board of Directors supervisory function by promoting the separation of management supervision and business execution. (As of June 22, 2017) General Meeting of Shareholders 1 Directors (Board of Directors) Management Strategies Of the Company’s 11 directors (of whom five are Audit and Supervisory Committee members), five (of Election / Dismissal Proposal / Report Election / Dismissal Report / Provide opinions Election / Dismissal whom three are Audit and Supervisory Committee members) are elected from outside the Company. 1 Directors Audit / Report 2 Audit and Coordination In addition, the Company delegates decisions on the execution of important operations to the presi(Board of Directors) Supervisory Committee Accounting Auditor dent and CEO. This approach enables swifter decision making and enhances the flexibility of business execution while also strengthening the Board of Directors’ oversight of business execution. Report on accounting audit Two Three Audit and Supervisory Six internal Five outside internal outside Support Committee’s Office 2 Audit and Supervisory Committee (All five directors) Accounting Audit To ensure the effectiveness of the Audit and Supervisory Committee’s activities, the Company’s Nomination / Oversight Articles of Incorporation stipulate the selection of full-time members of the Audit and Supervisory Proposal / Delegation of important Nomination and Audit Committee. Accordingly, two full-time members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee are mutually Value Creation through Our Business Report Remuneration Meeting decisions on business execution selected by the committee’s members. The full-time members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee attend meetings of the Executive Consult Opinions / Advice Report Committee and other key meetings related to business planning, enabling them to accurately assess Consult 3 • CSR Committee and monitor the status of management in a timely manner. As part of the audit, Audit and Supervisory President and CEO Recommendation •Compliance Committee Committee members make sure the execution of directors’ duties comply with laws and regulations •International Trade Control Committee Coordination and the Articles of Incorporation and ascertain whether or not business operations of the Company •Environment Committee, etc. Deliberate are being executed appropriately by conducting spot checks and verifying compliance with relevant Partial delegation of Directions / authority and responsibility Orders laws and regulations, and by monitoring the status of the establishment and operation of internal Executive Committee control systems, including those in relation to financial reporting. Furthermore, one member of the 3 3 Audit and Supervisory Committee has extensive knowledge of finance and accounting from many CFO CTO Corporate Governance 3 years of business experience in the accounting and finance departments. Domain CEOs (Presidents and CEOs The Audit and Supervisory Committee periodically exchanges information and opinions with the 3 3 for each Domain) Standing Executive GC Management Audit Department and accounting auditors, and it collaborates closely with them in other in charge of HR ways, including receiving audit results and attending accounting audits. Audit and Supervisory Directions and Directions / orders on Directions / Orders Committee members also receive reports from the internal control department and other departOrders Management Audit business Directions / Department Directions / Report / ments concerning the status of compliance, risk management, and other activities on both a regular execution Survey Orders Consult in domains Directions / Internal auditing / Orders and an individual basis. To support auditing activities, an Audit and Supervisory Committee’s Office Orders Supervision has been set up with its own dedicated staff of six to facilitate the work carried out by the Audit and Supervisory Committee. Senior Vice Presidents Senior Vice Presidents Management / Business departments Control (Domains, etc.) Support Corporate Departments 3 Chief Officers and Standing Executives in Charge of Operations The CEO* 1 takes charge of overall business strategies and issue-response initiatives, and the domain CEOs take control of executing businesses within their individual domains based on overall Group Management / Control Internal auditing / Supervision Internal auditing / Supervision strategies. The CFO*2 takes charge of finance, accounting, and management planning. The CTO*3 is in charge of the supervision and execution of overall operations related to technology strategies, Group Companies research and development of products and new technologies, ICT, value chain, marketing, innovation, and engineering in general. In addition, the CFO and CTO have Companywide authority to give instructions and commands and provide support to business domains. The GC*4 and standing executive in charge of HR*5 assist the CEO with his duties by supervising and executing activities in line with the CEO’s mission. The GC takes overall control of management audits, general administration, legal affairs, and global base support. The standing executive in charge of HR takes overall responsibility for human resources and labor relations. *1. CEO: Chief Executive Officer *2. CFO: Chief Financial Officer *3. CTO: Chief Technology Officer *4. GC: General Counsel *5. HR: Human Resources 50 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Officers’ Remuneration Structure Risk Management The remuneration of directors (excluding Audit and Supervisory Committee members and outside directors) consists of base remuneration, Throughout its history, MHI Group has achieved sustained growth by taking up diverse new challenges and initiatives in numerous busiIntroduction performance-linked remuneration, and stock remuneration from the viewpoint of reflecting earnings and sharing values with shareholders. ness areas. At the same time, on occasion we have experienced losses on a large scale. In recent years especially, with the globalization of Performance-linked remuneration is determined based on consolidated earnings while also taking into account the roles of each director its business activities, the expanding scale of individual projects, and ongoing development of increasingly complex technologies, the scale and the business performance and accomplishments of the business of which he or she is in charge, etc. of attendant risks is becoming larger than ever before. For stock remuneration, the Board Incentive Plan Trust structure is used. MHI shares are issued, and remuneration is paid based on In order for MHI Group to mark sustained growth amid an ever-changing business environment, it is necessary to continue to take up stock award points that are granted in accordance with return on equity (ROE) and other such indicators linked to MHI’s medium/long-term challenges in new fields, new technologies, new regions, and new customers as well as to improve and strengthen operations in its existearnings and stock price. ing business markets. Such challenges will entail business risks, and a company’s ability to curb risks wields significant influence on its The remuneration of directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members consists exclusively of base remuneration business results and growth potentials. from the viewpoint of ensuring duties such as audit work and supervision of execution of operations are conducted appropriately. To promote challenges of this kinds and prepare for the next leap into the future, MHI Group, applying its past experience and lessons Management Strategies The remuneration of chief officers and administrative executive officers who are not directors is the same as for directors (excluding Audit learned, aims to create the mechanisms that will ensure the effective execution of business risk management, to foster a culture responand Supervisory Committee members and outside directors). sive to risk, and to forge the foundation for consistent growth. Remuneration of Directors Organized Business Risk Management  Monetary Remuneration Stock Remuneration Specifically, through the following measures we are pursuing more organized business risk management and clarifying the roles of Performance-Linked Total Amount of Base Remuneration management, business segments, and corporate departments. Remuneration Remuneration Total Amount Total Amount Total Amount Position People People People (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 1 2 Directors who are not Audit and 10 268 7 176 4 87 532 Supervisory Committee members Establish “Business Risk Management Charter” Establish “Business Risk Management Committee” (Of which, outside directors) (3) (26) (—) (—) (—) (—) (26) as Company’s foremost set of rules headed by CEO Value Creation through Our Business Clarify risk management targets, etc. Discuss policy response by top-level management Directors who are Audit and 5 210 — — — — 210 Supervisory Committee members (Of which, outside directors) (3) (50) (—) (—) (—) (—) (50) Total 15 478 7 176 4 87 742 “Business Risk Management Charter” (Of which, outside directors) (6) (76) (—) (—) (—) (—) (76) Notes: 1. The recipients include four directors who were not Audit and Supervisory Committee members who stepped down in fiscal 2016. CEO Business Risk Management Committee 2. T he maximum permitted monetary remuneration amount for directors who are not serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members is ¥1,200 million per year (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015). CFO CTO • Resource allocation based on strategic 3. T he total amount of stock remuneration is the amount of expenses recognized for the 228,000 stock award points granted in total during fiscal 2016 (equivalent to 228,000 decision-making shares of MHI*) concerning the Board Incentive Plan Trust, which is a stock remuneration system that delivers or provides shares of MHI and money in the amount equivaManagement officers (GC, HR, etc.), • Fostering risk management culture lent to the liquidation value of MHI shares based on stock award points granted to directors (excluding outside directors and directors who are serving as Audit and Corporate departments • Establishment of business risk Corporate Governance Supervisory Committee members) in accordance with, among other factors, the rank of the position of each director and the financial results of MHI. The maximum permitted amount of stock award points is 500,000 points (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015) per fiscal year for directors (excludmanagement system; ing outside directors and directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members). consolidation and strengthening of personnel • Implementation of risk management process 4. T he maximum permitted monetary remuneration amount is ¥300 million per fiscal year for directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members • Improvement of business execution capability • Deliberation on specific projects (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015). • Monitoring project implementation • Development of highly risk-sensitive human resources * MHI will consolidate its shares on a one for 10 basis on October 1, 2017. The corresponding number of Company shares after that date will be 22,800 shares. Business Risk Business segments Management Division Remuneration of Directors Base remuneration Performance-linked remuneration Stock options Stock remuneration Number of subject directors (including those who assumed positions or stepped down during the fiscal year) Millions of yen People 1,500 25 Content of Activities  1,200 20 With the Business Risk Management Department as the responsible department that reports directly to the CEO, MHI Group engages in business risk management activities in line with the activity cycle outlined below, bringing together management, business segments, and corporate departments. 900 15 Business risk management infrastructure • Secure experts from the Expert Company 600 10 Occurrence of business risk • Prepare management tools (visualization, knowledge sharing) Create special response team • Educate business department managers, SBU managers and carry out response 300 5 (monitoring, etc. in PDCA cycle) Risk prevention and reduced frequency of occurrence 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 • A pply results of monitoring and • Define and categorize business risks Monitoring Risk designation • Have knowledgeable specialists participate improvement to management processes CHECK/ in risk assessment discussions ACT Nomination and Remuneration Meeting • Improve project execution capability Risk analysis / • Develop tools through appropriate involvement of Execution PLAN experienced human resources evaluation risk quantification, visualization, AI utilization The Nomination and Remuneration Meeting is composed solely of the five outside directors and the president and CEO. Prior to deliberation by DO the Board of Directors, this meeting serves as a forum for eliciting the opinions and advice of outside directors on the nomination of director Designation of Consideration • Strengthen discussions participation of top management, business candidates, the dismissal of directors, the appointment and dismissal of other executive officers, and matters related to remuneration.* The residual risks / execution of divisions and corporate departments countermeasures aim of this meeting is to further augment transparency and fairness. In fiscal 2016, the Nomination and Remuneration Meeting met twice. • Review decision-making authority * Excluding directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members. 52 MHI REPORT 2017 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 53 CORPORATE DATA (AS OF MARCH 31, 2017) OVERSEAS HEAD OFFICES AND NETWORKS / OVERSEAS OFFICES Head Office: 16-5, Konan 2-chome, Minato-ku, Stock Listings: Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka, and Tokyo 108-8215, Japan Sapporo Stock Exchanges Phone: +81-3-6716-3111 Ticker Code: 7011 Fax: +81-3-6716-5800 Manager of the Register of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Established: January 11, 1950 Shareholders: Banking Corporation Paid-in Capital: ¥265.6 billion 4-5, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8212, Japan 6 Total Number of Issuable Shares: 6,000,000,000 7 Total Number of Shares Issued: 3,373,647,813 Independent Auditors: Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Hibiya 5 Kokusai Bldg., 9 Number of Shareholders: 281,648 17 2-3, Uchisaiwai-cho 2-chome, 12 Number of Employees: 82,728 (Consolidated) 10 Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0011, Japan 8 18 1 2 16,824 (Non-consolidated) 15 19 11 20 4 21 14 22 Major Shareholders Number of shares owned by major shareholders % of total shares 23 13 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 170,156,900 5.04% 24 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 146,123,000 4.33% The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. (Retirement Benefit Trust Account for The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.) 105,263,000 3.12% 3 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 80,022,741 2.37% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 61,577,000 1.82% 16 State Street Bank West Client-Treaty 505234 48,495,460 1.43% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 1) 45,662,000 1.35% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 45,238,000 1.34% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 2) 45,143,000 1.33% THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON SA/NV 10 37,168,172 1.10% Overseas Head Offices and Networks Overseas Offices Classified by Type of Shareholder Classified by Number of Holdings North America  Europe  1 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. 17 Turkey Liaison Office 1,000 shares and above Less than (216,267 persons) 1,000 shares 2 MHI Shared Services Americas, Inc. 10.79% (14,521 persons) Middle East  Individuals and others Financial institutions 0.08% Latin America  18 Basra Liaison Office 28.04% 31.26% 5,000 shares and above (30,200 persons) 100,000 shares 3 Mitsubishi Industrias Pesadas do Brasil Ltda. 19 Dubai Office and above 5.36% (964 persons) 4 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. 10,000 shares 73.93% Asia  and above Europe  Securities companies 20 Taipei Office Foreign institutions (18,939 persons) and individuals 2.54% 8.42% 5 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries France S.A.S. 21 Hanoi Liaison Office 29.39% Other corporations 50,000 shares 6 MHI Russia LLC 22 Ho Chi Minh City Liaison Office 8.77% and above (757 persons) 7 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Europe, Ltd. 23 Kuala Lumpur Office 1.42% 24 Jakarta Liaison Office Africa  8 MHI Technologies S.A.E Stock Price Range and Trading Volume (Tokyo Stock Exchange) MHI common stock price range TOPIX Yen TOPIX Asia and Oceania  800 2,000 9 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (China) Co., Ltd. 10 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 600 1,500 11 ‌ Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Hong Kong) Ltd. 400 1,000 12 M  HI KOREA, Ltd. 200 500 13 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 14 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 15 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd. Thousands of shares 1,200,000 16 MHI Australia, Pty. Ltd. 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 For information on overseas Group companies not provided above, please refer to the “Global Network” section of our website. 200,000 > http://www.mhi.com/network/ 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY)
