SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-18 ABOUT THIS CONTENTS REPORT A message from our CEO 5 About us 7 This is the fifth annual sustainability report issued by Crescent Enterprises to inform Our sustainability paradigm 10 stakeholders about its economic, social, governance, and environmental performance. Enabling ethical business 15 Our corporate governance 16 Period and information covered Changes during the reporting period Our commitment to business integrity 17 This report captures our performance from 1 January 2017 to 31 In 2017, Crescent Enterprises reorganised its activities into four December 2017 and includes selected business updates up to the core verticals: CE-Operates, CE-Invests, CE-Ventures, and Our commitment to ethical sourcing 17 issuance date of the report. CE-Creates to better reflect its expansion strategy and the Our risk management approach 19 breadth of its activities. In line with our sustainability vision, ‘Enabling Sustainable Growth’, Enabling a stronger society 20 the report illustrates the progress we made against our economic, Our economic value creation 21 social, governance, and environmental framework. It also explains Scope of the report our long-range plans and includes forward-looking statements Initiating dialogue on emerging topics 24 based on the latest forecasts available at the time of reporting. The reporting boundary covers the activities of three of our four core verticals: CE-Operates, CE-Ventures, and CE-Creates. Our corporate citizenship model 26 CE-Operates includes our subsidiaries and affiliates: Gulftainer, Enabling talent 29 Momentum Logistics, Uruk Engineering & Contracting, and Gama Reference guidelines used Aviation Plc. Nurturing our people 30 This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Promoting learning and development 32 Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. Expanding our 2017 reporting boundary, we have included our Kava & Chai and ION operations under CE-Creates. Ensuring health and safety 33 As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Enabling stewardship of the planet 37 since July 2013, the report serves as our fourth annual The reporting boundary excludes disclosures on CE-Invests, our Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 communication on progress on the implementation of the ten strategic investments division, which holds our private equity Managing our energy and water consumption 38 UNGC principles, in addition to highlighting our efforts to advance and other alternative investments. Reducing our waste 39 the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Contact information We value your feedback on our sustainability journey and welcome any comments, inquiries, or suggestions on cesustainability@crescent.ae. This report is printed on 100 per cent recycled paper and has been designed to optimise paper usage. A MESSAGE Titled Enterprising for Tomorrow, our fifth sustainability report To better conserve natural resources, we adopt technological describes how we leverage innovation as a force for good solutions that help us minimise our energy requirements. Over throughout our operations. the past five years, we have reduced our energy and water FROM consumptions per employee at our headquarters by 47 per cent In 2017, we strengthened our commitment to high-impact and 39 per cent, respectively. Our recycling initiatives, combined entrepreneurship by launching CE-Ventures, our corporate with those of our operating businesses, enabled us to save 806 OUR CEO venture capital arm that plans to invest US$150 million in nascent trees during the same period. technology-enabled enterprises across supply chain, healthcare, finance, software, and niche consumer-centric domains by 2020. Since 2013, we have generated US$1.85 billion in economic value We believe that such start-ups are the key to revitalising local and created over 1,400 employment opportunities across our economies while tackling the challenges of the future. countries of operations. Our indirect economic contribution reached US$593 million to governments through tax payments, This year, our start-up incubator, CE-Creates, expanded our fees, and other charges while our corporate citizenship activities portfolio of socially responsible businesses by launching ION, benefited 113,463 individuals from all walks of life. a sustainable transport company that aims to accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles in the Middle East in line with the Looking ahead, we will continue to identify and promote global efforts to limit global warming. opportunities that can generate lasting value for the benefit of our stakeholders and generations to come. To amplify our business impact, we maintained our support to the Pearl Initiative, a non-profit organisation that promotes a culture of transparency and accountability in the Gulf region of the Middle East, by jointly launching a Corporate Governance for Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises programme that aims to foster a nurturing business environment for smaller and emerging companies in the region. Badr Jafar Believing that prosperity can last only if it is shared, every year we CEO, Crescent Enterprises dedicate five per cent of our projected cash flow to our corporate citizenship activities, which aim to promote impact innovation among all members of society by fostering entrepreneurship, arts and culture, and environmental conservation. In 2017, our activities In the age of creative disruption, sustainability has emerged as a reached 31,237 children, students, businesswomen, aspiring entrepreneurs, and artists. cornerstone of businesses that address local and global challenges while remaining economically resilient. As sustainable growth starts from within, we seek to empower and reward our talent by offering a transparent work culture, continuous learning and advancement opportunities, performance At Crescent Enterprises, we believe that the current global wave of management schemes, and 360-degree wellness programmes. technological innovation can usher in a new era of sustainability, one Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 We also regularly revise our safety standards across our company characterised by wide-scale efficiencies, inclusive participation, and and operating businesses to provide our employees with a hazard-free work environment. continuous advancement. 1 2 ABOUT US Crescent Enterprises is a diversified global business CE-Operates is the operating businesses division that maintains headquartered in the United Arab Emirates. Our operations a balance between infrastructure-related industries and other span sectors such as ports and logistics, power and engineering, consumer-centric sectors while CE-Invests is the strategic venture capital, private equity, business aviation, and healthcare. investments division that holds all the private equity and other alternative investments of Crescent Enterprises. In 2017, we reorganised our operations around four core verticals: CE-Operates, CE-Invests, CE-Ventures, and CE-Creates, which CE-Ventures is our recently launched corporate venture capital synergistically work towards positioning the company as a arm that focuses on making strategic investments in early-to-late corporate leader at the forefront of developing innovative, stage technology-enabled businesses and select venture funds sustainable, and profitable businesses. globally. CE-Creates is our internal business incubation division that develops early-stage concepts into viable businesses, which generate a sustainable social impact. Our 2017 highlights Our resources Our operations and investments Our impact ports and power and corporate venture business business strategic US$357 healthcare million revenues logistics engineering capital aviation incubation Investments US$1.3 US$117 million payments billion total assets to governments CE-Operates CE-Ventures CE-Operates comprises our subsidiaries and affiliates that operate in ports and CE-Ventures includes our investments in technology-enabled start-ups and global logistics, power and engineering, and business aviation sectors and include venture capital funds, such as Wamda Capital, Hedosophia MENA, FreshToHome, Gulftainer, Momentum Logistics, Gama Aviation Plc, and Uruk Engineering & ColubrisMX, and XCath, among others. US$84 Contracting. million payments to employees US$30 33% million invested of total procurement venture capital from Small and Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 Medium Enterprises (SMEs) CE-Invests CE-Creates CE-Invests holds our investments in private equity funds and other alternative asset CE-Creates is our internal business incubator that developed Kava & Chai, Shamal, 31,237 classes, including investments in Growthgate Capital, TVM Healthcare Partners, and ION. community Samena Capital, and Siraj Palestine, among others. members reached 4,591 For further information, please visit employees pages 19, 25, and 29. 3 4 Our values Our partnerships Crescent Enterprises partners with local and global Diversity and Entrepreneurship non-profit organisations to promote best governance practices, impact entrepreneurship, and corporate inclusion Foster a culture of impactful thought leadership in the region. Respect cultural diversity and innovation by supporting the work effectively and inclusively exchange of knowledge. with every individual. Our Recognitions values Crescent Enterprises was awarded at the Women’s Economic Empowerment Global Summit for its Gulftainer won best ‘Technology Implementation of the Year’ category at Logistics Middle East (May 2017). pledge to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) (November 2017). Wamda Capital1 was ranked the most active investor in Responsibility Integrity the Arab world by Forbes Middle East in 2017. Serve the community and Conduct business ethically Crescent Enterprises received a recognition Award at protect the environment in and adhere to the highest Ajman CSR Summit (January 2018). Siraj Fund Management Company2 became a signatory which we work. governance standards at every to the United Nations-supported Principles for level of our operations. Gulftainer won the Port and Terminal Operator Responsible Investment (PRI), the first corporate in Award at Seatrade Maritime Awards for the second Palestine to join the international network of investors. consecutive year (October 2017). 1 Crescent Enterprises is a limited partner in Wamda MENA Ventures I. 2 Crescent Enterprises is a limited partner in Siraj Palestine Fund I. Our global footprint China UK Pakistan Switzerland Turkey USA Iraq Lebanon Hong Kong Palestine Saudi Arabia Mexico Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 India Bahrain Singapore Sri Lanka Kenya CE-Operates CE-Invests UAE Crescent headquarters CE-Ventures CE-Creates 5 6 Our sustainability At Crescent Enterprises, we place sustainability at the core of our growth paradigm as we seek to create lasting value for all our To help us quantify and optimise our various business impacts, we embarked on our sustainability reporting journey five years stakeholders. ago and formalised our commitment to sustainability by devising paradigm in 2015 a three-year sustainability roadmap that streamlines our efforts to promote sound corporate governance, ethical business practices, and economic diversification while nurturing talent and protecting the environment. Our five-year sustainability journey (2013 to 2017) Delivered a total capacity Completed 5.8 million Reduced water Made 16 new investments. Increased aircraft under of 1,142 MW of power man-hours without any consumption per management by 185% plant projects that major accidents. employee by Executed US$978 million without any major or generate electricity to 39% at headquarters. worth of projects and minor accidents. 50,000 homes. investments. Reduced energy consumption per Generated US$1.85 billion employee by 47% at in economic value. headquarters. Paid US$431 million in employee wages and benefits. Created over 1,400 new jobs. Moved more than 30 GOVERNMENT million twenty-foot Contributed US$593 equivalent units (TEUs). million to governments in royalties and taxes. Experienced a 20% improvement in gross move per crane hour. Complied with ISO 9001:2015. Complied with Recorded 183.62% OHSAS 18001:2007. improvement in safety rating (overall safety while out on the roads). Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 Reached 113,463 community members through corporate citizenship programmes. Recycled 586,248 kg of waste. Environmental impact Planted 111 trees. Health and safety impact Saved 806 trees Socioeconomic impact across Crescent Group. Data and figures illustrate Crescent Enterprises and its operating businesses’ major achievements since the start of its sustainability reporting journey in 2013. 7 8 Our contributions to the UN SDGs As disruptive technologies are creating growth opportunities To align our sustainability performance with global priorities, we and solutions to global challenges, we focused throughout 2017 endorse the SDGs, the ten principles of the UNGC, and the GRI on enterprises that leverage technology to address widespread Standards. economic, social, and environmental issues. In so doing, we emphasised innovation across our operating businesses, We actively encourage other business players in the Middle East launched a corporate venture capital arm, and incubated socially and North Africa (MENA) to commit to the SDGs as advancing responsible businesses. sustainability requires the private sector’s concerted involvement. At Crescent Enterprises, we seek to optimise our sustainability efforts by contributing to the following UN SDGs: Participating in initiatives and events on Empowering youth and women through our corporate sustainable practices. citizenship programmes. Building a network of strategic local and global partners Generating local employment opportunities. to promote sustainable development. Advocating corporate transparency and accountability. Committing to corporate governance, adherence to laws Ensuring the well-being of our employees by conducting and regulations, and promoting a culture of ethics and awareness activities. compliance. Committing to the safety of our employees. Supporting biodiversity conservation programmes. Providing our employees with continuous training and development opportunities. Promoting employability skills in local communities. Educating our employees on climate change. Contributing to cleaner economies by adopting energy-efficient practices. Supporting women in our organisation through our employment policies, including an extended maternity leave and flexible hours for new mothers. Reducing our generated waste by reducing our resource Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 Implementing community programmes that empower consumption, reusing materials, and recycling our waste. women. Endorsing sustainable practices and integrating sustainability data into our reporting cycle. Supporting local SMEs through our supply chain. Enabling young entrepreneurs through strategic alliances Engaging with our communities and appreciating our and initiatives. social and environmental impacts. Offering our employees competitive benefits. Providing a safe, fair, and empowering work environment. Investing in infrastructure projects to support economic development. Enabling the inclusion of all through our non-discrimination Rehabilitating power plants to provide communities with policies. access to electricity. 9 10 Our sustainability Identifying our framework Enabling Sustainable Growth focus areas We describe our sustainability Material topics reflect the environmental, social, and governance The following graph represents our identified material topics for progress with regards to our aspects of an organisation that substantively influence the 2017, in descending order of their relevance to stakeholders and framework, which helps us decision-making of its stakeholders. impact on our business. realise our sustainability vision, Enabling ethical Enabling ‘Enabling Sustainable Growth’. business stewardship In 2017, we updated our list of material topics according to the of the planet feedback of our internal stakeholders, the outcomes of a peer Enabling responsible business operations through analysis exercise, and a review of the GRI Standards. Understanding our impact on a strong commitment to the environment and transparency and identifying opportunities for accountability. improvement. Enabling a stronger society Enabling talent Driving the socioeconomic Being an employer of choice development of our and supporting young Sustainable Development Goals countries of operation. people and entrepreneurs. 1 Anti-corruption and bribery (GRI 205) 2 Employee well-being (GRI 401, 404) Our stakeholder 3 Governance (GRI 102-18, 102-22) engagement 4 Training and career development (GRI 404) At Crescent Enterprises, our Our operating Customers 5 Occupational health and safety (GRI 403) business activities either influence businesses or are influenced by ten stakeholder groups throughout our countries of Governments and Capital providers 6 Economic performance (GRI 201) regulators operation. Employees Our Industry counterparts 7 Regulatory compliance (GRI 307, 419) stakeholder In our quest to promote inclusive groups leadership, global competitiveness, Non-profit organisations Communities 8 Energy and emissions (GRI 302, 305) and shared value, we regularly engage with our stakeholders and Business leaders Suppliers 9 Infrastructure development (203-1) seek to foster trust, collaboration, and entrepreneurs and lasting relationships with them. 10 Effluent and waste (GRI 306) 11 Human rights (GRI 412) 12 Inclusiveness (GRI 405, 406) Our channels of 13 Community engagement (GRI 413) Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 engagement 14 Biodiversity (GRI 304) Informing: Involving: 15 Local market presence (GRI 202) We participate in, and hold, industry events We hold skill-based workshops for the local to share best practice with our peers; publish community; engage in volunteering and industry-case studies; issue annual and community engagement activities; and sustainability reports; and distribute bi-monthly participate in career fairs. newsletters. Collaborating: We share our expertise with students and partner with non-profit organisations across our Ethical businesses Socioeconomic Talent Environmental key focus areas. 11 12 ENABLING ETHICAL BUSINESS Corporate governance promotes responsible decisionmaking, risk regulation, asset protection, effective communications to stakeholders, and the respect of employees’ rights. At Crescent Enterprises, we have implemented a robust system of corporate processes, practices, and policies to empower us to make sustainable business decisions. Through our corporate governance practices, we seek to inspire companies across the region to implement and follow the highest levels of governance standards. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 2017/18 Successful SMEs help spearhead employment, impact innovation, and economic development. I am proud of our support to the Pearl Initiative’s micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises programme, which will foster an empowering business climate for SMEs in the Gulf region. Through this programme, we will be encouraging SMEs to adopt best practices to ensure their sustainability and profitability. Ananth Achanta Head of Accounts Related Sustainable Development Goals 13 14 Our corporate Our commitment to governance business integrity Our governance structure enables us to maintain a culture of As our internal stakeholders, our employees play a key role in Crescent Enterprises is determined to help advance ethical When making a new investment or acquisition, we consider a set accountability and responsibility whilst ensuring our continuity implementing our policies and control processes, nurturing a business practices in the countries in which it operates. of factors that include not only financial considerations, but also as a family business. A subsidiary of Crescent Group, Crescent culture of sound corporate governance and transparency. the respect of human rights and compliance with applicable laws Enterprises is governed by the Crescent Group Board of Directors. As a member of the UNGC and a founding partner of the Pearl and regulations. We have defined distinct levels of authority, where our Board of Initiative, we contribute to Principle 10 on Anti-Corruption by Directors and five committees ensure the implementation of a adopting and promoting anti-corruption best practices. A testament to the effectiveness of our anti-corruption practices balanced governance approach across our operations. and advocacy efforts is the fact that we, along with our portfolio Our zero-tolerance policy to corruption applies to our employees of operating businesses, did not report any instance of corruption and those of our operating businesses and subsidiaries. Our team or non-compliance in 2017. guide and orientation programme emphasise our Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) policies, in addition to our standards of professional conduct. Crescent Enterprises’ Executive Committee We advise companies of all sizes on corporate governance matters as we appreciate the role of the latter in promoting effective management and sustainable growth. Corporate governance is not a practice reserved for large multinationals and publicly listed firms. It is inspiring to see that companies such as Crecent Enterprises are promoting the adoption of the best governance practices among SMEs in the region. Fahim Al Qasimi Partner, AQ&P Badr Jafar Neeraj Agrawal Ravi Kumar Tushar Singhvi CEO Executive Director Executive Director Director Case study: Promoting governance through our partnership The Executive Committee exercises strategic oversight and decision-making regarding Crescent Enterprises and its operations by with the Pearl Initiative performing strategic reviews, assessing capital resources, and evaluating investment and operational opportunities. As a founding partner and member of the Pearl Initiative, a nonprofit organisation established in collaboration with the United Nations Office of Partnerships, we help promote the adoption The Investment The Human Resources of robust corporate governance standards and ethical business Committee Committee practices in the Gulf region. The Investment Committee The Human Resources assesses decisions related to Committee manages all Our support enabled the Pearl Initiative to launch in 2017 a threeby increasing participation in the Gulf Integrity Indicator, publishing investment, divestment, joint employee-related policy year programme designed to facilitate the uptake of cost-effective insight reports and practical guides, and hosting round tables. ventures, and other strategic Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 matters at Crescent partnerships for Crescent Enterprises, in alignment with and practical corporate governance practices across Gulf-based Enterprises and its operating our pledge to the UN Global micro, small, and medium-sized businesses (MSMEs). In 2017, The Pearl Initiative’s events and workshops reached 1,200 businesses. It is also responsible for implementing The Executive Compact and Women’s Empowerment Principles, to people across the Gulf region. The organisation also facilitated the our environmental, social, and Representing over 90 per cent of all registered companies participation of 400 students in workshops and competitions on governance principles across Committee provide safe and fair working conditions for all. in the region, MSMEs are anticipated to drive its job creation the topics of corporate governance and anti-corruption in 2017. evaluation and decision-making processes. and economic growth. The Corporate Governance in MSMEs programme aims to support its adopters’ geographical expansion while helping them attract talent and funds. The Sustainability Committee The Corporate Citizenship Committee Our Sustainability Committee develops Our Corporate Citizenship Committee 30 1,200 400 and oversees the implementation of devises and monitors the implementation In 2017, the Pearl Initiative also launched the Gulf Integrity Crescent Enterprises’ sustainability of a disciplined approach to achieve our Indicator, the first tool in the region that assesses corporate targets at all levels of the organisation corporate citizenship objectives. performance according to regional and international standards. and evaluates progress. events and people reached students participated The Pearl Initiative is working to intensify its anti-corruption efforts workshop across the Gulf in events on corporate region governance and anti-corruption 15 16 Our commitment to In addition to promoting local procurement, we, along with our operating businesses and subsidiaries, follow a supplier evaluation process that considers environmental, social, and governance criteria. ethical sourcing To ensure that our procured goods and services are produced and In 2015, we set to dedicate 20 per cent of our total procurement delivered ethically, we at Crescent Enterprises seek to conduct budget to SMEs by 2018, which we exceeded by nine per cent our sourcing activities at the highest levels of responsible and in 2016. We currently aim to devote 35 per cent of our total CE-Operates: sustainable business practices in alignment with the UNGC procurement budget to SMEs. Principle 1 and Principle 2. Gama Aviation Plc In 2017, following the results of a survey we conducted among our Throughout our supply chain, we also endeavour to support local SME vendors, we introduced the following initiatives to facilitate Global business aviation service provider Gama Aviation Gama Aviation plans to include Corporate Social Responsibility suppliers and SMEs to support the economies of the countries we our procurement process: Plc evaluates all prospective suppliers with regards to their activities and ISO 9001 compliance in its questionnaire over the operate in. compliance with local and international aviation legislation. coming years. In the US, the company follows a custom-made Committed to supporting local suppliers that are compliant with supplier accreditation questionnaire that assesses legislation requirements, the company spent 63 per cent of its compliance with ISO 14001 and legislation requirements 2017 MENA procurement budget on local suppliers. in addition to suppliers’ environmental qualifications. Increasing SMEs’ Expanding our Dividing large participation: e-procurement: contracts: CE-Creates: For every three bids or quotes required for We aim to simplify processes and We offer smaller contracts to enable Kava & Chai each procurement order, we aim to receive templates regarding quality and specialised vendors to bid. at least one bid or quote from an SME. delivery requirements, supply contracts, bid evaluation criteria, and invoicing Kava & Chai, the speciality tea and coffeehouse launched by The coffeehouse has defined environmental criteria in its supplier requirements. CE-Creates, procures only direct trade coffee—or coffee that evaluation process and considers only environmentally certified is purchased by coffee roasters directly from the growers— suppliers. and selects environmentally responsible companies across its supply chain. During its first year of operation, Kava & Chai spent 60 per cent of its procurement budget on local suppliers registered in the UAE. Managing Integration into a larger Encouraging reviews Our risk management working capital: supply chain: and feedback: We strive to provide better payment terms We offer SMEs the opportunity to extend Every quarter, we evaluate our SME approach to SMEs and help them access financial their services to all companies in Crescent vendors and seek their feedback regarding Risk oversight enables companies to gain resilience and grow in In 2017, we refined our organisational processes to better identify, products, such as bill discounting, at a Enterprises’ portfolio. our procurement process. the highly dynamic global business environment. evaluate, and mitigate the risks that are likely to impact our lower cost. business strategy. At Crescent Enterprises, we constantly monitor our macroenvironment and update our risk management approach to reflect emerging business opportunities and challenges. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 Increasing share of SMEs Promoting information security in Crescent Enterprises’ With the acceleration of technological innovation, cybercrimes Moreover, we continued to raise the IT security awareness of our procurement spend since 13 % 29 % 33 % 7 % and data theft have emerged as a serious threat to businesses. employees by sending quarterly newsletters and conducting a year-long Information Security Awareness campaign, which 2014 In 2017, we conducted a series of internal initiatives to ensure included two workshops on IT security, sessions on encryption the soundness of our cybersecurity measures. We also engaged and password management, and a hackathon event. SMEs Non-SMEs with a third-party security firm to review our IT security architecture, examine any internal or external vulnerabilities, and In line with our focus on investing in global technologies, in 2018, conduct penetration testing. Following the audit, we corrected CE-Ventures invested in a US-based threat intelligence company all identified vulnerabilities and amended our IT architecture to that enables organisations to identify and thwart potential cyber93% 87% 71% 67% enhance security. attacks. 2014 2015 2016 2017 17 18 ENABLING A STRONGER SOCIETY In our mission to generate lasting value for all stakeholders, we strive to foster social cohesion, economic empowerment, and human development through our business activities and community initiatives. In 2017, we renewed our commitment to investing in highimpact sectors of the economy and empowering local businesses while bolstering our corporate citizenship programmes. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 2017/18 Empowering women is our shared resposibility. I had the pleasure to teach girls, some as young as eight, the basics of digital marketing as they learned to design their own mobile app in an entrepreneurship workshop we hosted in collaboration with the Shajrah Ladies Club. It was inspiring to contribute, even by a little, to helping girls reach their full potential to be tomorrow’s leaders. Amar Majali Communications Manager Related Sustainable Development Goals 19 20 Our economic CE-Operates: CE-Operates: value creation Momentum Logistics Uruk Engineering & Contracting Our business strategy focuses on nurturing enterprises across supply chain management, healthcare, finance, software, emerging such high-impact sectors of the economy as technology, technologies, and consumer-centric domains. CE-Ventures plans to Throughout 2017, engineering, procurement, and healthcare, and infrastructure, enabling us to contribute to the invest US$150 million in many such start-ups by 2020; 50 per cent construction solutions provider Uruk repaired power socioeconomic growth of the countries we operate in. of which will be in the Middle East and North Africa. plants that were damaged during armed conflicts in Iraq. In 2017, a decrease in our revenues—driven by challenging To further support our diversification strategy, we invested US$49 One major rehabilitation project that Uruk completed in market conditions faced by some of our operating businesses— million in 2017, a 63 per cent increase from 2016, and expanded partnership with the Iraqi Ministry of Electricity was the encouraged us to continue to invest in new sectors and our geographical footprint in new markets like India and Sri Lanka. 724 MW Al-Mansurya power plant. technologies to further diversify our existing portfolio while generating value on a wider scale. Our internal incubator, CE-Creates, continued to pioneer concepts Following the repair of the plant, Uruk resumed work that address regional social challenges whilst aiming for scale, Integrated third-party logistics provider Momentum on its variation order for Al-Mansurya power plant. To streamline our investments in the ventures space, we launched profitability, and measurable impact. In 2018, CE-Creates launched Logistics witnessed a robust performance throughout The order entailed the construction, installation, and CE-Ventures, our corporate venture capital arm that works to offer the UAE-based ION, a company that aims to offer sustainable 2017, with its container repair subsidiary recording a 28 commissioning of two demineralised water drains and patient and resilient capital to technology-enabled start-ups across transport options across nine cities in the MENA region by 2020. per cent increase in sales volumes. evaporative cooling for the inlet of the gas turbines. During the year, the company also implemented Looking ahead, Uruk remains committed to contributing Payments to Employee wages CargoWise, the industry’s only integrated supply chain to the revitalisation of the energy infrastructure in Iraq. Revenue governments Total investment and benefits (royalties and taxes) logistics management system, to improve its visibility, efficiency, quality of service, and profitability. CE-Operates: Gama Aviation Plc US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Gama Aviation Plc recorded a solid performance in 2017, generating revenues of US$207.4 million, a 5.8 per cent increase from 2016, and total operating profits of US$18.7 million, up by 28.3 per cent from the previous year. CE-Operates: The company’s key achievements in 2017 were: Gulftainer Merging its US business with that of global aviation services provider BBA Aviation plc, forming the country’s In 2017, Gulftainer exhibited resilience against a backdrop In 2017, Gulftainer leveraged the latest technologies to largest aircraft management business. of rising overcapacity in global shipping markets and a improve its operational efficiency and enhance its client slowdown in the Chinese and European markets. satisfaction levels. It implemented the Marine and Container Developing and operating, through its division Gama Handling (MACH) Terminal Operating System to increase its Support Services, a subsidiary of Gama Group Limited, Gulftainer’s Khorfakkan Container Terminal in the UAE productivity and improve the quality of its operations at the a US$29.9 million private jet terminal at the Sharjah topped global customer ranking for the highest number of Sharjah Container Terminal. The company plans to introduce Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 International Airport to provide quality services to 200+ BMPH (berth moves per hour) recorded during the the system, which enables a computerised control of the business jet travellers. first half of 2017. Moreover, Khorfakkan Container Terminal movement and storage of containers in and around the was recognised by the Journal of Commerce as the fastest terminal, at all its locations in the coming years. Through its Hong Kong business Gama Aviation terminal in the MENA region and the third fastest in the Hutchison, collaborating with China Aircraft Services world. Affirming its leadership in adopting fruitful technological Ltd (CASL), becoming a general sales agent for jet innovations, Gulftainer won the Best Technology maintenance services at Hong Kong International Airport Gross moves per Implementation of the Year Award for 2017 at Logistics and exclusively selling CASL’s business jet maintenance Middle East Awards. services in Asia. crane hour In early 2018, to support its expansion plans, Gama Aviation raised US$67 million in capital through an equity placing, Best Technology where Hutchison Whampoa, a Hong Kong-based investment Implementation of the holding company, became its strategic shareholder. Year Award by Logistics Middle East 21 22 CE-Ventures: Following its launch, CE-Ventures concluded a range of new investments Initiating dialogue on across multiple technology-enabled businesses, including: emerging topics To empower SMEs, our business partners, and communities For instance, to initiate discussions on an emerging trend that Investing in India’s largest e-commerce Investing in medical technologies to to leverage innovation as a positive force, we aim to facilitate has the potential of enhancing countless lives, we held our first dialogue on emerging opportunities across our sectors symposium on medical technology and healthcare innovation in platform for quality seafood and meat support healthcare innovation of operation. We also host expertise-sharing events and the region in 2017. CE-Ventures provides strategic guidance to FreshtoHome, In 2017, CE-Ventures invested in ColubrisMX and XCath, two business summits to contribute to the knowledge economy the largest e-commerce platform for fresh and chemical-free next-generation micro-robotic medical devices companies. of our countries of operation. seafood and meat in India, regarding growth and expansion ColubrisMX is developing a minimally invasive, microsurgical plans in the Middle East. robotic device that can treat life-threatening conditions such as foetal malformations and brain abnormalities while The platform empowers local fishermen and butchers by XCath is pioneering next-generation steerable robotic Case study: providing them with access to a larger customer base. microcatheters for treating endovascular conditions such as cerebral strokes. Microsurgical robotic devices facilitate Hosting a MedTech the treatment of patients living in regions where specialised surgical procedures are not readily accessible. Symposium At FreshtoHome, we work with thousands of fishermen and livestock farmers to In 2017, Crescent Enterprises hosted a MedTech Symposium titled bring fresh, chemical-free fish and meat to consumers. Every day, we deliver eight ‘Enabling Innovation. Enhancing Impact’ to encourage knowledgetonnes of quality meat and seafood. As we continue to grow within India and sharing around the theme of medical technology in the region. beyond, we value our partnership with Crescent Enterprises, which will enable usto scale up our operations and expand our footprint in the MENA region. The symposium comprised a series of panel discussions, the first of which examined the drivers of healthcare innovation and its Shan Kadavil prevalence in the MENA region, followed by a panel discussion CEO, FreshtoHome highlighting the opportunities for regional investors in medical technology. An additional panel discussion shed light on the role of entrepreneurs in building tomorrow’s healthcare solutions. CE-Creates The event featured Dr Daniel Kim, a professor of neurosurgery at the University of Texas and founder of ColubrisMX Inc. and XCath Inc., who emphasised the currently unmet clinical needs in endovascular intervention and the role of telerobotic technology Launching Kava & Chai Launching ION in delivering complex surgical procedures remotely, ensuring Over 100 industry professionals, academics, investors, and Following the launch of its first kiosk in February 2017, ION is a UAE-based sustainable transport company, earlier detection of health defects and providing super-specialised policymakers attended the symposium to gain insights and create CE-Creates launched multiple locations for its speciality formed in 2018 as a joint venture between Crescent care that can save more lives. meaningful connections. tea and coffeehouse, Kava & Chai. Kava & Chai now Enterprises and Bee’ah, a Sharjah-based environmental operates at three locations in the UAE and plans to management company. further expand in 2018. ION’s operations include the development, acquisition and management of EV fleets, deployed for commercial CE-Operates: Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 Incubating Shamal use through platforms such as ride-hailing services, as Gulftainer and Uruk share their expertise with well as corporate and government fleets. the wider business community Shamal, which refers to the hot, dry, north-westerly wind that creates sandstorms across Iraq and the Arabian The company has partnered with Careem, a ride-hailing service established in the UAE, to offer an EV option to To contribute to the local knowledge economy, Gulftainer At the Third Iraq Energy Forum in Baghdad and the Iraq Peninsula, is a venture developing protective workwear the Dubai clientele. co-hosted the Sharjah Business Summit in partnership with Britain Business Council’s quarterly conference in Dubai, adapted to the regional climate, leveraging smart design UAE government entities in 2017, where it showcased its Uruk’s CEO Dr Jafar D Jafar delivered presentations on the and heat-resistant technology. ION also plans to operate in the sustainable energy logistics solutions and shared its international experience immediate conversion of open-cycle to combined-cycle space, in projects relating to EV charging equipment and with industry peers. power plants and the recapture and processing of flared gas The workwear, once launched, is expected to contribute charging stations, and battery storage technology. to ensure improved plant availabilities, outputs, efficiencies, to enhancing the well-being and productivity of workers. For its part, Uruk participated throughout 2017 in and emissions. government-led forums, conferences, and other industry CE-Creates refined the material and design of the events to identify current and potential energy opportunities workwear prototypes, which are scheduled for their first in Iraq. market demonstration later in 2018. 23 24 Our corporate Cultivating entrepreneurship citizenship model in the MENA region To further generate shared value and measurable social impact, At Crescent Enterprises, we pledge to devote five per cent of we devise corporate citizenship programmes that aim to foster our projected annual cash flow to our corporate citizenship high-impact innovation by nurturing entrepreneurship, arts and programmes. In 2017, we exceeded the pledged budget by 35 culture, governance, and environmental conservation. per cent to benefit 31,237 community members, 25,814 of whom 25,814 were children. At Sheraa, we believe that the young aspiring entrepreneurs hold the reins to building ventures that strengthen the sustainable credentials of a country. Our partnership with Crescent Enterprises empowers us to spur our collective efforts to open up avenues for social entrepreneurship amongst the youth for a more prosperous and inclusive future. Najla Al Midfa CEO, The Sharjah Entrepreneurship Center (Sheraa) Sheraa’s mentoring pilot Mentoring American University 31,237 The distribution of Crescent programme of Sharjah students Enterprises’ corporate citizenship In 2017, we supported the launch of the social entrepreneurship As the strategic partner of American University of Sharjah’s community members track at Sheraa: Sharjah Entrepreneurship Center and its pilot Enterprising Youth, a capacity-building initiative that aims to spend programme, which consisted of ten mentoring events for young spark the creation of high-impact projects, in 2017, Crescent entrepreneurs and three social enterprise challenges. Over Enterprises shared its business insights with over 600 university 760 aspiring and established entrepreneurs benefited from the students through multiple platforms, including workshops, Entrepreneurship 15% Community, arts programme. seminars, and talks. Arts and culture and culture Environment Community Governance 6% Environment 73% Entrepreneurship 6% Governance Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 To achieve our corporate citizenship objectives, we collaborate Moreover, to combat youth unemployment and economic with local and international institutions and non-profit stagnation, we endeavour through our corporate citizenship Hosting Young Entrepreneur Business Mentoring hardware organisations, which we select based on their experience record, programmes to nurture the employability and entrepreneurship Camps at Sharjah Ladies Club innovators strategic plans, efficiency, and impact evaluation measures. skills of young people in the MENA region. Crescent Enterprises conducted two Young Entrepreneur Business Crescent Enterprises supported StartAD’s Hardware Venture In 2017, we were among the first private organisations to register We continuously strive to provide our employees with the Camps in collaboration with Sharjah Ladies Club in 2017, where Launchpad, the first programme for hardware start-ups in the on the UAE Volunteer Platform (volunteer.ae) to attract volunters opportunity to give back to the UAE communities. In 2017, our participants learned to design mobile applications using a paper UAE, which helps start-ups mature into scalable businesses over in support of our high-impact activities. employees participated along with their relatives and friends in prototyping technique. the course of ten days and culminates in a demo day, where the first 24-hour cancer fundraiser in the MENA region, Relay for finalists showcase their start-ups. Our corporate citizenship activities contribute to gender equity Life, raising awareness and funds for cancer patients in the UAE. In addition, the young attendees had the opportunity to hone in line with the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (UN WEP). their soft skills, such as critical thinking and teamwork, and Throughout the programme, our team shared their insights with In 2017, we renewed our commitment to women empowerment at In 2018, we issued an employee volunteering policy that learned to conceptualise ideas, develop a business model, and the entrepreneurs on building and scaling successful start-ups and the Women’s Economic Empowerment Global Summit. encourages employees to volunteer for two workdays per year to pitch to a panel of investors. helped select the winner at the demo day. help advance their causes of interests. 25 26 Hosting Mercy Corps’ MicroMentor Design and Discovery workshop In 2017, Crescent Enterprises hosted Mercy Corps’ MicroMentor Discussions covered the current entrepreneurship and mentorship Design and Discovery workshop for the MENA region. landscapes in the MENA region and identified the key parameters to tailor MicroMentor’s online platform to Arabic-speaking users. MicroMentor is a mentoring platform developed by the international humanitarian aid agency Mercy Corps to connect entrepreneurs, experienced professionals and corporate employee volunteers with one-to-one mentoring relationships with the aim of strengthening the global economy. Honing employability skills in the region Introducing Columbia Business School Promoting Arabic business literature Endorsing Arabic cinema students to the regional business Committed to enhancing the quality of business literature in the To present the richness of the Arab culture to global audiences, region, Crescent Enterprises endorses the management section of Crescent Enterprises extended its support to the 22nd edition For the third consecutive year, Crescent Enterprises hosted 28 the Arabic-language business news portal, Aliqtisadi. of the annual Arabian Sights Film Festival, which took place in MBA students from Columbia Business School in New York. The visit, part of the school’s Global Immersion Programme, enabled Washington D.C. in October 2017. Our support enables the portal to publish Harvard Business the students to learn about the business landscape in the MENA Review articles in Arabic, providing executives in the MENA region Held under the umbrella of the Washington D.C. International region. access to locally and regionally relevant business information in Film Festival and presented by the Embassy of the United Arab their native language. Emirates, the annual festival introduced audiences to nine quality Crescent Enterprises’ senior management introduced the students to the impact of the company’s core verticals and its global films from across the MENA region. In 2018, Crescent Enterprises reinforced its partnership with footprint, before explaining its corporate governance advocacy Aliqtisadi to offer Harvard Business Review (HBR) articles on and corporate citizenship programmes. emerging business topics and trends to selected entrepreneurs Fostering children’s creativity and businessmen from across the MENA region through HBR Arabia Renaissance Partners programme. For the fourth consecutive year, Crescent Enterprises supported Sharjah International Children’s Film Festival to enable children and teenagers to develop their artistic skills while learning about Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 diversity and tolerance. Nurturing regional The 2017 festival gathered over 25,000 attendees to view 124 art and culture films made by, about, and for young people from 59 countries across the world. Recognising film professionals In 2017, Crescent Enterprises became a Diamond Patron of the Arab Film Institute (AFI), a non-profit association that supports and celebrates film professionals throughout the Arab world. Our contribution enables the institute to help ensure a bright cinematic future for the region by educating and inspiring future Arab filmmakers while preserving and honouring their work. 27 28 ENABLING TALENT We credit he growth of our family business to a global and diversified conglomerate to the vision and determination of our employees. In our quest to generate inclusive growth, we seek to attract, retain, and engage talent across our organisation through our recruitment strategy, internal policies, career advancement schemes, and employee engagement initiatives. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 2017/18 Working at Crescent Enterprises has exposed me to manifold industries and allowed me to enhance my business acumen while significantly expanding my skillset. Our organisational culture, people policies, and advancement schemes inspire me to constantly learn, consider multiple perspectives, and think innovatively. Dalia Arja Senior Associate, CE-Creates Related Sustainable Development Goals 29 30 Nurturing our people Crescent Enterprises and our Employee breakdown by category We seek to nurture happy, healthy, and empowered employees, who We witnessed a three per cent increase in women representation operating businesses and gender enable us to generate value across cultural and geographical borders. across the board from 2016 to 2017, reflecting a higher participation of women in our middle management and junior staff levels. Senior management Every year, we revise our employee policies in light of the latest 2016 2017 regulatory requirements, best practices, and business strategy. We are committed to increasing the representation of women In 5%% In 2016 8% 8% Senior management 5.66 In 2017, we released an updated team guide that emphasises across our workforce. In November 2017, at the Women’s 2016 *3 2016 2017 Crescent Enterprises’ corporate culture and career advancement Economic Empowerment Global Summit organised by NAMA 4,591 1,445 of our In 2016 total 8% 8% Senior management 5.66 % opportunities. Women Advancement Establishment, we pledged to offer training Middle management 2016 2017 workforce of our total workforce 8% 8% were women opportunities and develop workplace policies that empower total number of locals were women In 2016 2016 2017 Our workforce size has fluctuated over 2017. While we had 1,083 new joiners throughout the year, our total workforce volume women across our operations and partnerships. employees in 2017 (31% of our total workforce) 5.66 were women % of our total workforce 4%2016 8% Middle management 2017 remained stable, mostly due to industry challenges and the expiry of some short-term employment contracts. of our total workforce were women 4% 8% Middle management Junior staff 2016 2017 In 4% 5% 2016 8% 2017 8% 8% Junior staff 2017 2016 2017 Women’s participation in the workforce is a global issue, which has gained forward momentum due to the valued contributions of organisations like of our total 5% 8% Junior staff Crescent Enterprises. Crescent Enterprises committed to supporting women’s inclusion in the economy at NAMA’s and UN Women’s Economic Empowerment Global Summit 2017 pledge, which will further NAMA’s and the UAE’s vision 1,083 455 new workforce were women 5% 2016 2017 8% new joiners, of whom jobs created to bridge the equity gap between women and men at the workplace and in society. Investing in women is key to sustainable development and such 12% were women Senior management 2016 2016 concrete steps are the foundation for achieving gender parity, and ensuring women and men contribute to the prosperity of the nation. In 2016 92% 92% Senior management 94.33% 3 We restated our 2016 figures as we have improved our 2016 2016 Reem Bin Karam measurement methods. In 2016 92% 92% Senior management 94.33% Middle management of our total workforce 2016 2016 92% 92% is male 2016 2016 Director, NAMA Women Advancement Establishment In 2016 94.33% of our total workforce is male 96% 92% Middle management 2016 2016 of our total workforce is male 96% 92% Middle management Junior staff 2016 2016 Employee turnover 12 7 96% 2016 95% 92% 2016 92% Junior staff by region (at the 2016 2016 95% 92% Junior staff end of 2017) 2016 2016 North Europe Asia 95% 92% 385 America 585 104 90 1.96% 19 0.15% 569 245 5.34% Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 MENA 3,653 17.34% South Employees at beginning 2017 America 398 796 New joiners Leavers 5 0.02% 0 1 Attrition rate 31 32 Long-service employees A culture of good faith Promoting learning and We reward our high-performers through our annual performance management cycle and offer special benefits to our long-service We expect our employees to conduct their work in line with the highest professional standards and invite them to report any development 4 employees that are commensurate with the duration of their suspected unethical behaviour. Developing the skills of our employees and nurturing their career Illustrating our commitment to continuous learning and service. advancement plans is the cornerstone of our talent acquisition development, our Human Resources Department introduced the Our whistle-blower process helps us identify and correct instances and retention strategy, in addition to being the key to our Crescent Learning Week in 2017 to develop core competencies The success of our corporate culture is reflected in the service of misconduct. Our employees share their complaints, concerns, competitiveness. for all employees. During the year, we delivered a total of 560 longevity of our employees, 28 per cent of whom have worked and suggestions in confidence with the Human Resources work hours of in-house training on project management, business with us for over ten years. Department, which addresses them on a case-by-case basis. We follow an annual performance management cycle that allows report writing, and advanced Excel skills. us to assess our employees’ training needs, we then plan our We have zero-tolerance for discrimination based on ethnicity, learning and development initiatives accordingly. In addition, we encouraged employees to learn from and connect age, gender, religion, or disability. In 2017, we did not record any with industry experts by attending meetings, conferences, incident of discrimination in our workplace. We offer training on select topics ranging from soft skills and and events on multiple topics including finance, legal practice, technical competencies to Arabic language classes. Our instruction leadership, and entrepreneurship. In 2017, our employees spent methods are tailored to our desired outcomes and include in-house over 450 work hours attending such industry events. training, e-learning classes, and professional courses. This section excludes employees of Crescent Enterprises’ operating 4 businesses. <10 years 10-20 years >20 years CE-Operates: CE-Operates: Gulftainer Gulftainer During 2017, Gulftainer made significant strides to create a To facilitate employees’ professional development, Gulftainer The catalogue lists the various training programmes that are fair and rewarding work environment. It refined its human sought to raise their awareness of in-house training available to all Gulftainer employees, covering such topics as resource policies, implemented a new job evaluation availability by publishing the catalogue Choice, Chance, and interpersonal skills, situational customer service, mindfulness at system, and emphasised women empowerment through its Change: 3C Life-long Learning School, in 2017. work, and leadership skills. recruitment efforts. In the UAE and Iraq, Gulftainer deployed SAP software to better oversee its human capital and rolled out its performance management system, EmPOWER, across its Saudi operations. In 2018, the company commits to: Completing the implementation of its diversity and inclusion strategy and joining the Women’s Economic Empowerment Global Summit (WEEGS) pledge. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 Reviewing salaries as per the new job evaluation system. Launching an employee engagement survey in the UAE. Revising its succession planning cycle. 33 34 Ensuring health and Advancing employees’ safety Gulftainer is committed to constantly enhancing its safety The company conducts safety training through a modern processes, systems, and workflows to guarantee the simulator that enables employees to experience and safety of its employees, contractors, and guests. It formed assess various scenarios in real-time. Four sport events: football, basketball, bowling, safety committees across its sites of operation, with and running. members meeting every month to evaluate and refine the To further prepare employees to respond appropriately organisational safety performance. to all possible safety scenarios, Gulftainer conducted first aid, life support, and heart defibrillator training. A Healthy U Month that received a 90 per cent To promote a culture of safety at all levels of its satisfaction rate from employees. organisation, the company offers regular safety training, management safety walks, toolbox talks, and monthly Gulftainer complies with the ISO 9001 (quality management): The month featured: safety forums. 2015, and OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety): 2007. A 360-degree wellness overview; At its monthly safety forums, Gulftainer encourages onsite employees to report any potentially unsafe practices and A stretching workshop; share their recommendations. A healthy cooking session; To ensure the health and safety of our employees, every year we A chronic disease prevention and management talk; 2017 achievements 2018 commitments host internal health and safety events tailored to the needs of our Bone densitometry and gait assessment evaluations; and, employees. A healthy weight competition. Our wellness programme aims to encourage our employees to In 2017, we ran a refresher fire safety training for our fire wardens adopt a balanced, active, and mindful lifestyle. in collaboration with the Dubai Civil Defence Training Academy to ensure an optimal response in the event of a fire, a risk commonly Reduced number of Reduced lost time Reduce number of Number of In 2017, our programme included: accidents by injuries by accidents by fatalities found in hot climates. The introduction of a body analyser machine for our In late 2018, we intend to launch a comprehensive emergency response plan to maximise our emergency preparedness. 26% 80% 15% ZERO employees to monitor their key health indicators. Number of lost Lost time injury Work-related Absenteeism rate time injuries frequency fatalities A breast cancer educational session and clinical examinations for women employees. CE-Operates: Gulftainer All figures represent data from Gulftainer and Momentum Logistics. Fostering employees’ well-being In 2017, Gulftainer regretted to report that, despite rigorously The company also started offering advanced road safety In 2017, Gulftainer launched Positive Pulse, an employee following training and safety procedures, one of their team training to its operators and is currently developing an well-being programme that promotes a balanced diet, members lost his life when his vehicle was involved in a road enhanced traffic management system. fitness, mindfulness, and positive peer relationships. traffic accident caused by a third-party violating site protocols. By the end of 2018, Gulftainer seeks to implement an Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 Employees highlighted the following programme outcomes Immediately after the accident, the company led an in-depth integrated management system at its terminals to ensure in the evaluation survey: investigation and upgraded the lighting at its facilities as a the quality and efficiency of its operations as well as the corrective measure. occupational health and safety of its employees. 30% 20% 10% of employees of previously of smokers quit the consulted a dietician inactive employees CE-Operates: habit following the launch started exercising Momentum Logistics of Positive Pulse First Safety and Quality In 2017, Momentum Logistics became the first Safety and Assessment System (SQAS) Positive Pulse earned recognition from Daman Corporate Health Awards as the Best Corporate Health and Wellness Quality Assessment System (SQAS) attested logistics attested logistics service Initiative of the Year. service provider in Sharjah. The assessment evaluated the provider in Sharjah quality, safety, security, and environmental performance of Momentum Logistics. 35 35 36 CE-Operates: Gama Aviation Plc Gama Aviation Plc is committed to the health and safety of In December 2017, Gama Aviation underwent audits for these two The company’s Safety Review Boards allow a constant In 2017, the company introduced self-assessment digital screens its employees in all countries of operation. standards and is pleased to report that no major findings were review of its safety performance. to 50 per cent of Gama Aviation’s screen users in the UK to enable identified. them to continuously evaluate their safety performance. The company implements the health and safety regulations of national aviation authorities in its locations and adheres The members of Gama Aviation’s Safety Action Group meet every to the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 standards regarding the month to review the company’s safety performance. management of health, safety, and environmental issues. Lost time in Number of lost Number of hours due to time injuries fatalities per accidents per 100,000 hours 100,000 hours 2017 achievements 2018 commitments Long-term plans Launched the new Aberdeen facility Launching a health and safety Developing a standardised process for without any incidents. e-learning programme. management safety tours. Underwent ISO 14001 and OHSAS Conducting 2018 audits as per Exploring novel solutions to reduce lost 18001 audits with no major findings schedule. time injuries amongst employees. recorded. Reviewing and updating facilities Reducing the number of recurrent Re-commissioned a workshop for management matrix. incidents. healthier work conditions. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 37 38 ENABLING STEWARDSHIP OF THE PLANET At our headquarters and across our operating businesses, we seek to leverage technology, innovation, and best practices to preserve natural resources, reduce our carbon footprint, and help limit global warming. To further ensure the sustainability of our operations, we adhere to the environmental regulations of the countries we operate in and closely monitor our environmental performance to gauge opportunities for improvement. Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 2017/18 Environmental issues require the cooperation and coordination of all members of the community. At Crescent Enterprises, we engage in meaningful partnerships with international environmental organisations to help us raise awareness among our employees on topics such as water and air pollution, deforestation, climate change, and loss of biodiversity. Ola al Haj Hussin Corporate Citizenship Manager Related Sustainable Development Goals 39 40 Managing our energy and Encouraging efficient transportation water consumption Traditional means of transportation are major contributors to Energy Water consumption CE-Ventures’ ION aims to introduce EVs to the commercial, We regularly assess the impact of our daily work practices and consumption (kWh) (litres) per global warming, with the transportation sector accounting for corporate, and government transport network of nine cities in the seek to adopt efficient measures to reduce our energy and water per employee employee nearly 28.5 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 MENA region by 2020. utilisation and minimise our carbon footprint. according to the United States’ Environment Protection Agency. The company also seeks to engage with electric utility regulators, In 2017, we reduced the energy consumption per employee by EVs are emerging as a cleaner transportation option, emitting road transport authorities, legislators, environmental agencies, 11 per cent at our headquarters. This reduction is a result of our significantly lower greenhouse gas emissions than gasoline-fuel and customer groups to shape policies that will accelerate the adoption of efficient work habits, including switching off all lights vehicles. adoption of EVs. and IT equipment after work hours. Additionally, we are pleased to report that our water consumption per employee dropped by seven per cent from 2016. We are delighted to join forces with Crescent Enterprises to enhance the Leveraging cloud technology sustainability of the transportation sector across the MENA region. As we appreciate the role of environment-friendly transportation in reducing our As cloud computing reduces our need for in-house server storage overall carbon footprint, we believe that our joint venture ION will play an and resources and thereby reduces our energy expenditure, we instrumental role in consolidating the UAE’s green credentials. transferred some of our servers to the cloud in 2017 and are considering transferring further servers later in 2018. Khaled Al Huraimel Group CEO, Bee’ah Case study: Raising our employees’ Reducing our waste awareness of climate change To help address global resource scarcity and support the UAE Crescent Enterprises is keen on minimising its paper usage by In 2017, Crescent Enterprises held its second annual sustainability Vision 2021 for local sustainable development, we aim to reduce, exploring paperless solutions and recycling used paper. In 2017, talk to raise employees’ awareness of the impact of climate reuse, and recycle our supplies at our headquarters and across our Crescent Group recycled 2,500 reams of paper. change on the environment and businesses of the UAE. operating businesses. Our partnership with e-waste recycling company EnviroServe Delivered by an expert from Emirates Wildlife Society – World Bee’ah, a local waste management company, provides us enabled us to recycle 675 kilogrammes of unwanted electric and Wide Fund (EWS-WWF), the session enabled over 50 Crescent with paper, plastic, and aluminium recycling services at our electronic devices, which often contain hazardous material and Group employees to explore opportunities to mitigate climate headquarters. In 2017, Crescent Group diverted 810 kilogrammes precious metals, across Crescent Group. change at work, at home, and in the community. from landfill. Crescent Group Crescent Group Crescent Group diverted recycled recycled Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 CE-Creates: CE-Operates: Kava & Chai Gama Aviation Plc 810 kg 2,500 675 kg from landfill reams of paper of e-waste In the coming years, the coffeehouse commits to: In 2017, Gama Aviation expanded its environmental management plans to cover spillage control, recycling, and Developing a data collection system for energy energy conservation initiatives. and water consumption; and, The company is determined to further decrease its carbon Calculating the carbon footprint of its footprint by optimising the efficiency of its fleet, increasing biodegradable packaging. the environmental volunteering activities of its staff members, and assessing the feasibility of implementing renewable energy sources in its UK sites. 41 42 CE-Creates: CE-Operates: Kava & Chai Gulftainer The coffeehouse is committed to using biodegradable Since 2015, Gulftainer has partnered with Bee’ah to recycle The company thus witnessed an increase in its generated packaging. As biodegradable materials are not commonly its non-hazardous and hazardous waste in the UAE. waste throughout the year due to greater data accuracy. found in the UAE, the start-up imports its packaging and is determined to retain this practice across all branches. In 2017, Gulftainer introduced a more thorough waste monitoring protocol, the implementation of which was In the coming years, Kava & Chai commits to: subject to internal audits and quality, health, safety, and environmental inspections. Developing a waste data collection system; and, Reducing food and beverage waste. Generated waste (kg) Recycled waste (kg) Case study: Non-hazardous Non-hazardous Hazardous waste waste Hazardous waste waste Supporting biodiversity conservation through our partnership with Emirates Wildlife Society Crescent Enterprises is a long-term supporter of EWS-WWF, an environmental organisation that aims to conserve biodiversity and tackle pressing environmental concerns in the UAE. In 2017, EWS-WWF’s key achievements were: Organising Earth Hour, where two million people across the Tagging 11 new turtles under the Gulf Green Turtle Project, UAE switched off their lights; bringing the total number of tagged turtles to 35. The project revealed relationships between nesting sites in Oman and Supporting the development of the UAE National Climate other remote areas such as the Gulf of Kutch, which may have Change Plan 2050; significant implications for regional efforts to protect this endangered species; and, Commencing a project to map the UAE’s biodiversity to Gulftainer’s paper Aspiring to achieve paperless operations, Gulftainer consumption (ream): prioritise conservation efforts, inform decision-makers, and Discovering a new owl species, Bubo africanus milesi, introduced a paperless policy that enabled it to reduce its promote the establishment of a network of marine protected in the UAE. annual paper consumption by 58 per cent from 2016. areas (MPAs) across the UAE; Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017-18 The company adopted an efficient printing management system that helped it optimise its employee device ratio and identify consumption trends to minimise printing activities. Gulftainer commits to reducing its paper consumption by a further 25 per cent in 2018. 43 44 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Omissions and GRI Standard Omissions and Disclosure Page number(s) UNGC SDGs Disclosure Page number(s) UNGC SDGs Disclosure clarifications Disclosure clarifications General disclosures General disclosures Organisational Profile Reporting practice 102-1 Name of the organisation Front cover 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 21, 22, 23 financial statements For more information please refer tohttp:// 102-46 Defining report content and topic Please refer to “About this 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3, 4 www.crescententerprises. boundaries report” section com/ 102-47 List of material topics 12 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 Improved data 102-48 Restatements of information 32 102-4 Location of operations 5, 6 collection 102-5 Ownership and legal form 15 Please refer to “About this 102-49 Changes in reporting report” section 102-6 Markets served 5, 6 GRI 102: General Please refer to “About this 102-7 Scale of the organisation 3, 4, 5, 6 102-50 Reporting period Disclosures 2016 report” section 102-8 Information on employees and other 32 Please refer to “About this workers 102-51 Date of most recent report report” section 102-9 Supply chain 17, 18 Please refer to “About this 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation 102-52 Reporting cycle 17, 18 report” section and its supply chain 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Please refer to “About this 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 5, 8, 40 7 the report report” section 102-12 External initiatives 6 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Please refer to “About this GRI 102: General the GRI Standards report” section 102-13 Membership of associations 6, 16, 44 Disclosures 2016 102-55 GRI content index 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1,2 External assurance was not 102-56 External assurance sought for this report Material topics 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 5, 33 of behaviour GRI 200 Economic Disclosures Series Governance Economic Performance 102-18 Governance structure 15 10 16, 17 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 21, 22, 23 boundaries Stakeholder Engagement GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 21, 22, 23 Approach 2016 components 8, 9, Collective 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21, 22, 23 11 bargaining 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements agreements are GRI 201: Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017/18 prohibited under Financial 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 4, 7, 8, 21 UAE labour law. performance distributed 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12, 17 45 46 GRI Standard Omissions and GRI Standard Omissions and Disclosure Page number(s) UNGC SDGs Disclosure Page number(s) UNGC SDGs Disclosure clarifications Disclosure clarifications General disclosures GRI 300 Environmental Disclosures Series Market Presence Energy and Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 32 41 boundaries boundaries GRI 103: GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its Management 103-2 The management approach and its 32 41, 42 Approach 2016 components Approach 2016 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41, 42 8 12, 13 To reflect CE’s 302-1 Energy consumption within the 1, 4, 8 GRI 302: 41, 42 global operations, organization the percentage of Energy 2016 302-4 Reduced energy consumption 41, 42 locals hired of its GRI 202: Market 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired 32 total workforce has Presence 2016 from the local community Biodiversity been reported. Senior management data has 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its proven to be more 44 boundaries challenging. GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its 44 Local Procurement Approach 2016 components 8 13, 15 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44 17, 18 boundaries GRI 304: GRI 103: 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 44 Management 103-2 The management approach and its Biodiversity 2016 17, 18 Approach 2016 components Effluent and Waste 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17, 18 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 204: 42, 43, 44 boundaries Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 4, 17, 18 GRI 103: Practices 2016 Management 103-2 The management approach and its 42, 43, 44 Approach 2016 components 12, 15, Infrastructure Development (Indirect Economic Impact) 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42, 43, 44 17 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 306: 21, 22, 23 boundaries Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 42, 43 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its Waste 2016 21, 22, 23 Approach 2016 components Environmental compliance 9 1, 8, 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21, 22, 23 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 203: 9, 40 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services boundaries Indirect Economic 7, 8, 21, 22, 23 supported GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its Impact 2016 9, 40 Management components Anti-corruption and bribery Approach 2016 Crescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017/18 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 9, 40 16 boundaries 8 16 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its CE did not receive 16 any penalties or Management components Approach 2016 GRI 307: non-compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Environmental with respect to 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16 10 16 and regulations Compliance 2016 environmental laws and regulations in 205-2 Communication and training about 2017. GRI 205: 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 16 actions taken 47 48 GRI Standard Page numOmissions and GRI Standard Omissions and Disclosure UNGC SDGs Disclosure Page number(s) UNGC SDGs Disclosure ber(s) clarifications Disclosure clarifications GRI 400 Social Disclosures Series Non-discrimination (Inclusiveness) Employee wellbeing 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 33 boundaries 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103: 30, 31, 32 Management 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: boundaries 33 Approach 2016 components Management 5, 8, 103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 31, 32 6 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 31, 32 3, 8, 10 GRI 406: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 31, 32 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Non-discrimination 33 GRI 401: actions taken 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 2016 Employment 2016 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, GRI 400 Social Disclosures Series and number of work-related fatalities Occupational Health and Safety (employee wellbeing) Human Rights 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 35, 36, 37, 38 16, 33 boundaries boundaries GRI 103: GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its Management 103-2 The management approach and its 35, 36, 37, 38 16, 33 Approach 2016 components Approach 2016 components 1, 2, 5, 8, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16, 33 4, 5 16 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35, 36, 37, 38 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 3, 8 GRI 412: New investments are 36 412-1 Operations that have been subject to management–worker health and safety committees Human Rights 16 assessed considering human rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 403: Assessment 2016 human rights risks. Occupational 100% of CE-Ventures, health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, CE-Invests, CECommunity Engagement 2016 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 36, 38 Creates received their and number of work-related fatalities annual performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 25, 26, 27, 28 review in 2017. boundaries GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its Training and Education (Employee Wellbeing) 25, 26, 27, 28 1, 4, Approach 2016 components 5, 8, 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25, 26, 27, 28 34 10 boundaries 413-1 Operations with local community GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 413: Local 34 engagement, impact assessments, and 25, 26, 27, 28 Management components Communities 2016 development programs Approach 2016 Socioeconomic compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 4,5, 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 8, 10 9, 16, 18 boundaries 404-1 Average hours of training per year per emploee 34 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 404: 100% of CE-Ventures, 9, 16, 18 Management components Training and CE-Invests, CECrescent Enterprises Sustainability Report 2017/18 404-3 Percentage of staff with regular reviews for Approach 2016 Education 2016 34 Creates received their performance and professional development annual performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 9, 16, 18 review in 2017. 16 Diversity and Equal Opportunities (Inclusiveness) CE did not receive any penalties or 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 419: non-compliance 31, 32 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations boundaries Socioeconomic with respect to GRI 103: in the social and economic area Management 103-2 The management approach and its Compliance 2016 socioeconomic 31, 32 laws and Approach 2016 components 5, 8, regulations in 2017. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31, 32 10 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Diversity and Equal 31, 32 employees Opportunities 2016 49 50 crescententerprises.com
