CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 www.voestalpine.com TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Page 1. Preface 6 6. Climate protection 34 6.1 The political framework 34 2. About this report 8 6.2 EU emissions trading 37 6.3 Decarbonization: challenges and 3. Facts, figures, dates 12 possible solutions 38 3.1 Development of the key figures 14 6.4 H2FUTURE: the vision of “green” 3.2 The four divisions 16 hydrogen in the steel industry 39 3.2.1 Steel Division 16 6.5 Sustainable steelmaking: 3.2.2 High Performance Metals Division 17 steel production without 3.2.3 Metal Engineering Division 18 intermediate steps 40 3.2.4 Metal Forming Division 18 7. Transparency in the supply chain 42 4. Stakeholder and material topics 20 7.1 General procurement 44 4.1 Stakeholder communication 22 7.2 Raw materials procurement 45 4.1.1 Employees 22 7.3 Local/regional suppliers 47 4.1.2 Customers and suppliers 22 7.4 Sustainable Supply Chain 4.1.3 Analysts and investors 23 Management project 48 4.1.4 Research institutions and universities 23 4.1.5 NGOs, advocacy and special interest 8. Ethical corporate management 52 groups, and platforms 23 8.1 Compliance 52 4.2 Stakeholder dialogue on energy and 8.1.1 Code of Conduct 54 climate policy 24 8.1.2 Compliance system 56 4.3 Material topics 25 8.1.3 Preventative measures 57 8.1.4 Reporting of compliance violations 58 5. The Corporate Responsibility 8.2 Corporate governance 58 Strategy 26 5.1 Sustainable Development Goals 28 9. Human rights 60 5.2 The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 29 5.2.1 Human resources 29 10. Research and development 64 5.2.2 health & safety 29 10.1 Research expenditures 64 5.2.3 Environment 30 10.2 Innovation guidelines 66 5.2.4 Research and development 30 5.2.5 General procurement 31 5.2.6 Raw materials procurement 31 5.2.7 Ethical corporate management– Legal & Compliance 32 4 Page Page 11. Environment 70 13. health & safety 98 11.1 Operating expenses for 13.1 Injury frequency rate environmental protection systems 73 (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate; 11.2 Environmental investments 73 LTIFR) 100 11.3 Air emissions 74 13.2 Health quota 102 11.3.1 GHG emissions 75 13.3 OHSAS 18001 102 11.3.2 SO2 emissions 76 13.4 Workplace safety and 11.3.3 NOx emissions 77 contractors/outside companies 102 11.3.4 Captured dust emissions 78 11.3.5 Organic air pollutants 79 14. Society 104 11.4 Water management 80 11.5 Waste and recycling management 81 15. Appendix 106 11.6 Energy 83 15.1 GRI content Index 106 15.2 Memberships 114 12. Employees 86 15.3 Glossary 118 12.1 Employee structure 88 15.4 Independent Assurance report 119 12.1.1 Employment according to countries and regions 89 Contact & Imprint 120 12.1.2 Job tenure and fluctuation 91 12.1.3 Age structure of the employees 91 12.2 Employer responsibility 92 12.2.1 Employee survey 92 12.2.2 Employer branding 92 12.3 Equal treatment 92 12.3.1 Persons with disabilities 93 12.3.2 Women at voestalpine 93 12.4 Training and continuing education 94 12.4.1 Management training 94 12.4.2 Professional academies 94 12.5 Apprentices 95 12.6 Stahlstiftung 96 12.7 Employee participation plan 96 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 5 1. PREFACE Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Reader The third voestalpine Corporate Responsibility chapter on CR Strategy and are repeatedly (CR) Report appears at a time of ever-growing highlighted in the form of symbols throughout concern about the climate, both in meteorological this report. This visual concept creates a graphic terms and in a political and economic sense. connection between our Group's products and Advancing power politics in particular, in more processes and the SDGs as the guiding principle and more countries of the world, are increasbehind our actions. ingly leading to armed conflicts, sanctions, and the introduction of trade barriers. In an environAt the focus of our efforts to make a sustainment already generally characterized by able contribution to climate protection lie comescalating global uncertainty, climate change prehensive measures to reduce CO2 emissions and the global warming that follows constitute and generally decarbonize our processes, i.e., a challenge of a scale hitherto unknown for to replace fossil fuels with renewable sources decision-makers in politics and business. of energy. This requires profound technological changes to our manufacturing processes over Responsible corporate management demands the next decades. In research projects and pilot that we face these challenges, and actively facilities we are working on process innovations work to shape our future. voestalpine has most which are also explained in more detail in this recently documented its commitment to this report. For example, from today's viewpoint we task by signing up to policies including the UN consider hydrogen, at least to some extent, as a Global Compact and the worldsteel Sustainable promising alternative to coal and coke, today's Development Charter. Within the company conventional sources of energy. However, it we have clearly formulated the corresponding remains to be seen whether the technological guide­lines and objectives in our CR Strategy; this process is both viable and economically document sets out voestalpine's understanding feasible. of sustainability, including the planning and implementation of projects and measures In a networked world sustainability and responthrough to the associated reporting, for all of sibility know no boundaries. Nowadays, assessthe Group's activities, from procurement and ing a product over its entire life cycle and conproduction through to customers and employsidering the supply chain as a whole is standard ees. procedure in modern CR reporting. voestalpine has actively addressed both of these issues over A key input for managing our sustainability activthe past years. Undertaking life cycle assessities comes from the Sustainable Development ments (LCA) requires permanent, close contact Goals (SDGs). Formulated in dialogue with the with our suppliers and customers as this is the stakeholders and signed by 193 UN Member only possible means of gaining a transparent States, these 17 goals address the major chaland comprehensive overview of this complex lenges facing business and society. While formusustainability measure. Incidentally, this also lating our strategy here at voestalpine, we demonstrates the special characteristics of steel have considered at great length the goals to as a material which, with a relatively managewhich we can make a coherent, and thus effecable energy input, is infinitely recyclable. tive, contribution. They are set out in detail in the 6 In order to model the many aspects of sustaintainability Champions' worldwide. Awarded for ability in purchasing and in the logistics chains the first time, this accolade honors companies in our production we have launched a comprewhose sustainability activities make them a mohensive Sustainable Supply Chain Management del for the industry. Their key selection criteria (SSCM) project. In a first phase the supply chain are commitment, performance, and activities. for sophisticated steel products has been examined. Risks have been defined, and proceAustrian legislators have highlighted the signifdures related to supplier management have icance of sustainable business by introducing been analyzed and optimized, for all materials the Sustainability and Diversity Improvement and all regions. You will find more information Act (NaDiVeG) which came into force in 2016. on this topic in the chapter on “Transparency in In it companies which meet defined criteria are the supply chain”. obliged to provide regular communications on their activities and performance in these fields. Behind all these projects, and the joint efforts to The CR Report meets this obligation for all of the make an active contribution towards a livable Group's companies, and will therefore be pubfuture for our planet, stands the know-how and lished on an annual basis in future. A condensed daily commitment of more than 50,000 dediFact Sheet will be published in parallel, offering cated voestalpine employees all around the a summarized overview in 14 languages in order world. As an employer, voestalpine's primary to cover all of our company's most important responsibility is to its employees and their markets, and supplemented by communicafamilies. For that reason, we have established tions via social media. We hope that in doing so extremely strict standards within the Group in we can provide our stakeholders, in particular the fields of health & safety, training and consuppliers, customers, employees, shareholders, tinuing education, as well as equal treatment and political decision-makers, with a compreand diversity, and encourage the sharing of best hensive overview of what we have achieved so practice models between our 500 sites around far, and our future plans relating to corporate the world. responsibility and sustainability. This is the third voestalpine Group CR Report. Although the formal nature of our reporting remains a recent development, the concept of sustainability has a long history as an integral part of our daily business life. Both in developing Dr. Wolfgang Eder new and more environmentally-friendly proChairman of the Management Board cesses, and conserving resources during proCEO of voestalpine AG duction, our company has traditionally adopted a leading role within its industry—and this applies to all its areas of business. For example, in 2017 the World Steel Association (worldsteel) named voestalpine as one of six 'Steel SusCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 7 2. ABOUT THIS REPORT This report is the third Group-wide Corporate Responsibility Report (CR Report) of voestalpine AG. It contains information and data about the activities and performance concerning the sustainable development of the company. The United Nations Agenda 2030 with its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provides a recognized global framework for viable and sustainable development. For this reason, for the first time this issue of the report will refer to the SDGs, outlining the global sustainability goals which voestalpine strives to attain through its CR Strategy and sustainable business development. STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS The present CR Report was prepared in accorThe Sustainability and Diversity Improvement dance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Act (NaDiVeG)–the national implementation sustainability reporting guidelines (“core” option), of EU Directive 2014/95/EU (NFI Directive) globally the most widespread and recogon the obligatory disclosure of non-financial nized framework for drawing up sustainability indicators–came into force in Austria in reports. December 2016. In publishing this report voestalpine is fulfilling the requirements of the voestalpine has participated in the United NaDiVeG. Nations (UN) Global Compact since 2013. The initiative calls on companies around the world to implement ten principles covering the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. This CR Report documents the results of voestalpine's efforts to implement these principles in its corporate practice, and it is therefore a progress report on the implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact (Communication On Progress; COP). 8 2. About this report REPORT PARAMETERS Unless otherwise stated, the information, facts, Sustainability impacts along the value chain and figures published in this report refer to the that occur outside of voestalpine premises and entire voestalpine Group. The economic key beyond the Group's direct sphere of influence figures and employee data encompass all of are only partially addressed in this report. the Group's consolidated companies. When compiling the environmental performance indicators, all of the 130 voestalpine production companies, i.e., companies that process, convert, or treat a product, in which voestalpine has a stake greater than 50%, were included. REPORT CONTENT voestalpine addresses those issues relevant content and material topics covered in this to the sustainable development of the comCR Report (see Chapter 4, “Stakeholders and pany systematically and on an ongoing basis. material topics”). Both external and internal stakeholders were included in the process of determining the REPORTING PERIOD The voestalpine business year is from April 1 In order to improve comparability and to make to March 31. The reporting period for the ecothe development of the key figures clear over a nomic key figures and employee data comlonger period, the tables depict the key figures prises the business years 2016/17 and 2017/18; of the last five business and/or calendar years. the environmental data refers to the 2016 and 2017 calendar years within the reporting period. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 9 2. About this report REPRESENTATION OF INFORMATION Over the past years voestalpine has developed Christi (Texas), and also produces components to become a global leading technology and at several sites from steel which is partially excapital goods Group, with around 500 Group ternally sourced. For that reason, in Chapter 11, companies and locations worldwide. In addition “Environment”, it has been necessary to redefine to crude steel production at the primary prothe previously applied “Crude steel production” duction sites Linz and Donawitz, since fall 2016 reference values in order to calculate the spevoestalpine has operated a HBI plant in Corpus cific environmental key figures. REPORTING CYCLE To date voestalpine has published a CR report in the report, will also be published annually, every second year, and a CR Fact Sheet in the concurrently with the CR Report. intervening years. In future the Group will publish its CR Report annually. The CR Fact Sheet, which summarizes the key facts and figures contained LANGUAGES The CR Report is published in German and English. The CR Fact Sheet is available in 14 languages. 10 2. About this report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 11 3. FACTS, FIGURES, DATES voestalpine is a global leading technology and capital goods Group, headquartered in Linz, Austria. The Group has 500 companies and locations in more than 50 countries and on all five continents. 3. Facts, figures, dates 3.1 DEVELOPMENT OF THE KEY FIGURES In millions of euros 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Revenue 11,077.2 11,189.5 11,068.7 11,294.5 12,897.8 EBITDA 1,374.0 1,530.1 1,583.4 1,540.7 1,954.1 EBITDA margin 12.4% 13.7% 14.3% 13.6% 15.2% EBIT 788.4 886.2 888.8 823.3 1,180.0 EBIT margin 7.1% 7.9% 8.0% 7.3% 9.1% Employees (FTE) 47,485 47,418 48,367 49,703 51,621 Research expenses 128.4 126.7 131.8 140.3 152.0 Operating expenses/ Environmental expenditures in Austria 218.0 222.0 237.0 231.0 258.0 Environmental investments (Austrian production sites) 23.0 43.0 55.0 46.0 40.0 Crude steel production (in millions of tons) 8.118 7.929 7.733 7.596 8.140 REVENUE BY REGIONS As percentage of Group revenue, business year 2017/18 66% European Union (of which Austria: 7%) 8% Asia 4% South America 8% 14% Rest of world NAFTA 14 3. Facts, figures, dates REVENUE BY DIVISIONS As percentage of total divisional revenue, business year 2017/18 36% Steel 22% Metal Engineering 22% 20% High Performance Metals Metal Forming REVENUE BY INDUSTRIES As percentage of Group revenue, business year 2017/18 34% Automotive 14% 5% Other White goods/Consumer goods 11% 15% Railway systems Energy 3% Aerospace 9% 9% Building/Construction Mechanical engineering SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE As percentage, as of March 31, 2018 2% 2% France Asia 6% 14% Scandinavia Employee shareholding scheme 44% 15% Austria (excluding employee North America shareholding scheme) 6% UK, Ireland 5% 6% Rest of Europe Germany CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 15 3. Facts, figures, dates 3.2 THE FOUR DIVISIONS voestalpine is a leading global provider of product and system solutions in steel and other metals. Its significant level of material and processing expertise is applied in technology-intensive industries and niche sectors which demand the highest quality standards. The voestalpine Group consists of four divisions. voestalpine AG High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Steel Division Division Metals Division Division Steel strip Tool steel Rails Downstream metal Heavy plate High-speed steel Turnout technology processing solutions Foundry products Special forgings Complete railway Special sections Powder-metallurgy systems Precision steel strip steels Specially treated wire Special components Welding consumables for the automotive industry Seamless tubes 3.2.1 STEEL DIVISION The Steel Division generates the most revenue in its largest operative enterprise is voestalpine the Group. It is the leader in highest quality strip Stahl GmbH in Linz. steel, as well as the global market leader in heavy plate for the most sophisticated applicaThe division is the first port of call for major autotions, and complex casings for large turbines. motive manufacturers and suppliers requiring strategic product development, and supports its The Steel Division produces advanced hot and customers around the world. It is also a key partcold-rolled steel, as well as electrogalvanized, ner to the European white goods and mechanhot-dip galvanized and organically coated ical engineering industries. The Steel Division steel strip. Its other activities include electrical produces heavy plate for the oil & natural gas steel, heavy plate, a foundry, and a number of industries, and for renewable energy, used downstream sectors–the Steel & Service Center under extreme conditions including for deepand the logistics service are managed as indesea pipelines and in permafrost regions. pendent companies. In Corpus Christi, Texas, the division operates the world's most advanced To learn more about the Steel Division direct reduction plant which produces highplease visit: quality prematerials (HBI) used in steel http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ production both by voestalpine and external divisions/steel/ customers. The main divisional company and 16 3. Facts, figures, dates 3.2.2 HIGH PERFORMANCE METALS DIVISION The High Performance Metals Division was estabThe primary customer group is the tooling induslished through the acquisition of Böhlertry which mainly supplies the automotive and Uddeholm AG; it is a group of affiliated comconsumer goods industries. The second pillar panies specialized in producing and processing of the division lies in components for extremely technologically-sophisticated high perfordemanding applications in the oil & natural gas mance materials, as well as customer-specific industry and in aerospace. The High Performance services including heat treatment, high-tech surMetals Division is the leading global supplier to face treatments, and additive manufacturing the aerospace industry. Companies in the diviprocesses. Its production companies are locatsion supply materials and components for ed in Austria, Germany, Sweden, Brazil, and engines and engine mountings, for fuselages, the USA. The High Performance Metals Division wings, and tail units, as well as components for offers its customers material availability and landing gear, doors, and hatches, as well as processing, together with local contacts via its forged parts. global network of sales and service centers. To learn more about the High Performance The High Performance Metals Division manuMetals Division please visit: factures long products, narrow strip, open die http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ and closed die forgings in special steel. It is the divisions/high-performance-metals/ global market leader for tool steel and a leading provider of high-speed steel, valve steels and other products made from special steels, as well as powder materials, nickel-based alloys and titanium. The most important customer segments are automotive, oil and natural gas exploration, mechanical engineering, as well as the consumer goods and aerospace industries. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 17 3. Facts, figures, dates 3.2.3 METAL ENGINEERING DIVISION The Metal Engineering Division integrates the The division also offers complete logistics and voestalpine Group's activities for long products service packages for the rail and turnout techin the steel, rail, wire and seamless tube business nology business segments, including planning, segments. It is the global market leader in turnout transport, logistics, installation, and recycling. technology and associated signaling technoThe Metal Engineering Division also has access logy, as well as the European market leader in to its own high-quality steelmaking facilities. high-quality rails and quality wire. The division is also a leading provider of high-quality welding Products manufactured by the Metal Engineering consumables. Division are delivered worldwide to customers in the railway infrastructure, oil & natural gas, The Metal Engineering Division produces the automotive, mechanical engineering, and world's broadest assortment of high-quality rails construction industries. and switch products, high-quality rod wire and drawn wire, pre-finished seamless tubes, medium To learn more about the Metal Engineering and high-alloyed welding consumables, as well Division please visit: as semi-finished steel products. http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ divisions/metal-engineering/ 3.2.4 METAL FORMING DIVISION The Metal Forming Division is the competence The division's flexible, mid-sized units have the center at voestalpine for highly developed expertise to provide their customers with fast special sections, tube and precision strip steel solutions to problems in all phases of the productions, as well as pre-finished system comdevelopment and production process. Among ponents made from pressed, stamped, and its customers are practically all of the leading roll-formed parts. Around the world the division manufacturers in the automotive and autoproduces special tubes and sections to cusmotive supply industries, with a definite focus tomer specifications, as well as highest quality on the premium segment, as well as numerous precision steel tubes. The division also offers companies in the commercial vehicle, conpioneering automotive body parts used in lightstruction, storage, energy and (agricultural) weight construction to the automotive indusmachinery industries. Thanks to a combination try and renowned suppliers. It also produces of material expertise and processing comcold-rolled special strip steel for use in the most petence which is unique in the industry, paired advanced applications. The division is also with its global presence, this division is the known as a provider of intelligent rack system preferred partner to customers looking for solutions for complex logistics challenges. innovation and quality. To learn more about the Metal Forming Division please visit: http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ divisions/metal-forming/ 18 3. Facts, figures, dates CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 19 4. STAKEHOLDER AND MATERIAL TOPICS voestalpine has numerous stakeholder groups, whose concerns and interests vary significantly according to their field of activity. When preparing the first Corporate Responsibility Report in 2013 the relevant stakeholder groups were defined and arranged in four groups. The Customers Employees and Suppliers applicants voestalpine Corporate Responsibility Steering Competitors Management Committee regularly examines this list to ensure Supervisory Board Research institutions it remains complete and up to date. This comUniversities Works Council mittee is chaired by the CEO and includes the heads of the Group units Compliance, Legal, Environment, Research, Communication, Human Resources, health & safety, Investor Relations, Advocacy and Procurement, Raw Materials Procurement, and special interest groups International Business Relations. It meets as NGOs Investors required to discuss current issues. The CR execuAssociations Analysts Lawmakers Banks tives and the management are also engaged Neighbors, neighboring Shareholders in intensive bilateral communication on the municipalities subject of topics relevant to corporate responLocal public agencies sibility. 20 4. Stakeholder and material topics 4.1 STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION voestalpine is in regular contact with the stakerepresented on a wide variety of committees holder groups outlined above by way of its serving advocacy groups, trade associations Management Board, its executives, and employand initiatives, as well as platforms. ees. It makes use of numerous opportunities including discussions and panels with experts, During the reporting period there was contconferences and trade fairs, analyst and act with individual stakeholder groups across investor meetings. Important formats for struca whole range of different formats, and with tured communication with internal stakeholders respect to different topics, as described below. are the regular employee survey and annual performance dialogues. voestalpine is also 4.1.1 EMPLOYEES The voestalpine Group currently has a global Following the last employee survey in 2016, a workforce of over 50,000 employees. In addivariety of measures were implemented, on topics tion to the annual performance dialogues for such as information & communication, career around 65% of its employees, the employee development opportunities, and identification/ survey which is run every three years (with the employer. next in 2019) plays a key role. 4.1.2 CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS voestalpine maintains open dialogue and close The voestalpine Code of Conduct is binding for cooperation with all its business partners. suppliers and business partners, and forms part These relationships, many of which are long of its terms and conditions. Furthermore, there standing, form the basis for trusted and transare also regular technical visits and viewings of parent cooperation. They enable the developthe production sites. There is more information ment of new processes and products which on this topic in Chapter 7, “Transparency in the meet the requirements of all those involved, as supply chain”. well as ensuring the responsible use of resources. 22 4. Stakeholder and material topics 4.1.3 ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS voestalpine AG has been listed on the Vienna roadshows, and individual visits, in order to Stock Exchange since 1995. Institutional investors discuss current issues and the market situation. and analysts are one of the company's key At regular intervals voestalpine holds so-called stakeholder groups. The members of the ”Capital Markets Days” which are special inManagement Board and the managers of the vestor events at which trends and developments Investor Relations Department maintain close related to a principle Group focus are presented. contact with shareholder representatives and investors, meeting at investor conferences, 4.1.4 RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS AND UNIVERSITIES Working closely with universities and research Management Board regularly attends special institutions is essential, particularly in the field student events at institutions such as the of research and development. voestalpine supMontanuniversität Leoben in order to answer ports outstanding dissertations, Master's theses, questions from students. (For more details see and research projects, as well as funding Chapter 10, “Research and development”.) endowed professorships. The voestalpine 4.1.5 NGOS, ADVOCACY AND SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS, AND PLATFORMS voestalpine experts collaborate in various workemployee topics such as health & safety, and ing groups and in committees of advocacy and specific ecological issues including life cycle special interest groups, and platforms such analysis (LCA). as EUROFER, worldsteel, ASMET, and Estep. voestalpine is also invited to contribute its In terms of environmental issues, voestalpine knowledge and opinions on a variety of standengages in intensive, facts-based exchanges points during EU consultations. Within the conwith NGOs on the subject of energy and text of corporate responsibility, the focus lies on climate policy. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 23 4. Stakeholder and material topics 4.2 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE ON ENERGY AND CLIMATE POLICY The consensus paper drawn up by the dialogue voestalpine engages in intensive dialogue with forum is available at: political decision-makers, advocacy groups, science https://www.voestalpine.com/group/static/sites/ and the interested public, at global as well as European group/.downloads/en/group/Consensus-paper_ and national level. dialogue_june2017.pdf Since early 2016 an institutionalized dialogue forum voestalpine is also actively engaged in discussion has been actively considering the long-term direcevents with pupils (e.g., as part of the pupils against tion of Austrian energy and climate policy. Represenair pollution initiative), students, and in many industatives include the local branches of the WWF, trial, scientific and public opinion forums on the subGLOBAL 2000, and Greenpeace, the Austrian renewject of energy and climate policy. able energy umbrella association EEÖ, and voestalpine. The dialogue is moderated by the Federal Environment Agency (UBA). The forum arose from the conviction that solving the conflicting aims of decarbonizing the economic system on one hand, and industrial interests on the other, is vital. It considers framework conditions which allow decarbonization to become a reality, while simultaneously ensuring that energy-intensive industries remain competitive during this transformation process. At the turn of the year 2016/17 a joint consensus paper was drawn up which was then supported by all the dialogue partners in, for example, talks with the federal government and at various levels within the specialist departments, and contributed to shaping an integrated energy and climate strategy. The dialogue forum is expanded as required to include additional partners such as experts from business, ministries, and the energy sector, in order to discuss solutions and support their subsequent implementation. 24 4. Stakeholder and material topics 4.3 MATERIAL TOPICS voestalpine uses its ongoing communication The resulting list of topics regarded by the stakewith internal and external stakeholder groups in holder groups as important are supplemented order to identify those topics which are importby those which have been identified as the result ant to Corporate Responsibility management of collaboration in relevant committees, analyand reporting. Prior to compiling the CR Report sis of the industry media, and by a benchmark the Corporate Responsibility manager is tasked analysis of selected competitors, suppliers and with gathering feedback from internal contact customers. The collected information forms the persons for sustainability, as well as the heads of basis upon which the Corporate Responsibility the relevant specialist units. They report on the Steering Committee prioritizes the relevant topics topics that have been raised and discussed with according to their materiality. Infor­­ mation external contacts. about voest­alpine's approach and performa­­nce with respect to all the key topics is published in the CR Report. The following topics have been identified as central to this report. Material aspects Transparency Ethical Research and CR Strategy in the supply corporate Human rights Environment Employees development chain management Climate and health & safety SDGs Compliance Processes energy policy Training and Corporate Product Emissions continuing governance developments education Energy Equal If you wish to receive further information about Water treatment individual topics or have general questions or suggestions with regard to the report, please contact: Employment voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility: Waste and and employer ­cr@voestalpine.com recycling quality management LCA For the first time a short online survey is planned mine stakeholder opinions on specific issues for the current business year in order to deterand the perceived relevance of various topics. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 25 5. THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY Sustainability is a key consideration in our daily activities at voestalpine. This is also reflected in the Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy which was updated during the past business year. It is an integral part of the Corporate Strategy and directly derived from the functional strategies. For that reason, the Management Board of voestalpine AG as well as the heads of the specialist departments were included in the process of updating the CR Strategy. After extensive coordination the updated strategy was adopted during a workshop in early 2018. voestalpine Corporate Strategy Functional Functional Functional Functional Functional Functional Functional strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy raw materials legal/ HR h&s environment R&D procurement procurement compliance Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy In addition to the functional strategies, various CR Strategy and Sustainable key internal and external factors were consid­ Development Goals ered in drawing up the CR Strategy including In order to address the contribution played employee and customer concerns, environby voestalpine to achieving the Sustainable mental issues, products and innovations, and Development Goals (SDGs), these external the demands of maintaining a transparent supsustainability goals were also considered ply chain. during the process of preparing the Corporate Responsibility Strategy. 26 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 5.1 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In its daily business activities voestalpine con­ were drawn up by a United Nations working tributes significantly to achieving the following group, together with thousands of stakeholders, 12 SDGs: and adopted by a UN General Assembly resolution during the United Nations Sustainable Goal 3: Good health and well-being Development Summit in New York on SeptemGoal 4: Quality education ber 25, 2015. 193 UN member states have Goal 5: Gender equality signed up to the 17 goals and 169 targets for Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation global sustainable development with its specific Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy objectives. Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure The SDGs were implemented as of January 1, Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities 2016, and are designed to cover a period of 15 Goal 12: Responsible consumption and years (to 2030). The role of the private sector in production reaching these goals was explicitly highlighted. Goal 13: Climate action Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals 28 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 5.2 THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY 5.2.1 HUMAN RESOURCES Corporate culture Training and continuing education We create a respectful corporate culture in Targeted measures are implemented to supwhich we support and encourage trust, diverport voestalpine employees in gaining qualifisity, self-determination, and personal responsications which will widen their career opportun­ bility. To this effect the voestalpine culture, as a ities. Furthermore, we regard both the training symbol of our Group-wide identity, is constantly of young people and lifelong learning as longdeveloping. term determinants of the company's success. Diversity We value the individual character of all our employees and their abilities, irrespective of gender, age, background, religion, sexual orientation, or any impairment, and create the preconditions for equal treatment, health promotion, and work which reflects the various phases of life. 5.2.2 health & safety Human safety and health are key fundamental We regard Group-wide minimum safety stanvalues at voestalpine and enjoy the highest dards as the basis for a successful health & priority. safety corporate culture. We work to further reduce injury frequency, and to raise the health rate of all voestalpine Group employees, wherever they work and whatever their function. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 29 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 5.2.3 ENVIRONMENT Emissions in the air, soil and water: Energy and climate policy: minimizing with the best available commitment to low-carbon technologies production Process-related emissions cannot be entirely We are meeting the long-term challenge of avoided. We operate our production sites by de­carbonizing business and society both through economically applying the best available techcomprehensive research and development nologies, as well as developing new ones, in (much of it on a cooperative basis) to create order to minimize the environmental impact on new technologies, and by being involved in an the air, soil and water as far as possible. open and constructive stakeholder dialogue with environmental organizations, political Circular economy & decision-makers, and science. Life Cycle Assessment: an integrated approach to materials We support the comprehensive and integrated consideration and evaluation of materials (Life Cycle Assessment), as well as all processes and value chains within the context of the circular economy. 5.2.4 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT We are continually researching innovative prod­ In the field of research we place great value in ucts and processes, and developing novel techlong-term, trusted relationships with our cus­ nologies, in order to remain the benchmark for tomers and suppliers, and work closely together resource efficiency and environmental stanwith universities and scientific institutions. dards. We pursue active know-how management both internally and externally, and regard this as the key to success. We take on the responsibility of training and continuing to educate our re­searchers in-house, sharing our knowledge within the Group, and using the synergies which arise from pooling our expertise. 30 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 5.2.5 GENERAL PROCUREMENT Supplier management Procurement processes When selecting its suppliers, voestalpine ensures The procurement process is continuously opti­ their adherence to ecological and social prinmized in order to ensure its compliance. The ciples. We have integrated sustainable supplier Code of Conduct forms the basis for social management into our procurement processes in actions and decisions. order to create long-term partnerships. Training and continuing education With information events such as the Purchasing Power Day, and the three-stage Purchasing Power Academy established by the Group, voestalpine ensures continuing professional development is available for employees working in purchasing. 5.2.6 RAW MATERIALS PROCUREMENT An integrated approach to Conflict Minerals lifecycle concepts We oblige all suppliers from whom we source Applying a lifecycle approach (Closed Loop) materials and who are subject to the Doddtogether with our customers guarantees the Frank Act to operate in accordance with its prohigh­est levels of efficiency in the process of visions. A cfsi report ensures that all materials recycling our raw and reusable materials. procured on behalf of the Group are conflict free . Suppliers Together with our suppliers we have set our­ Securing supplies selves the challenge of permanently optimizing A key task of raw materials procurement our supply chains. Regular visits to the sources man­agement is to secure the long-term, com­ of raw materials and prematerials, especially peti­tive supply of raw materials and energy. A mines and deposits, are a fixed element in this high degree of integration into upstream and process. Together we develop methods for downstream processes, scenario planning, and designing an efficient supply chain which meets adaptive supply concepts serve to minimize the CR guidelines. New suppliers are assessed potential risks. in terms of CR, quality, performance, and– depending on the outcome–included in the portfolio. The project SSCM (Sustainable Supply Chain Management) screens our raw material supply chains, examining the key factors which determine compliance with corporate responsibility. voestalpine ensures that all raw materials are subject to this process, thereby minimizing risk over the long term. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 31 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 5.2.7 ETHICAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT–LEGAL & COMPLIANCE Ethical corporate management Human rights In order to ensure that the management and We commit to upholding human rights in accorcontrol of the Group follows the goal of creating dance with the UN Charter and the European responsible, sustainable and long-term value, Convention of Human Rights, and we support the Management Board and Supervisory Board the UN Global Compact. announced that the Group would abide by the Austrian Corporate Governance Code as early as 2003. Compliance We commit to complying with all the laws in all of the countries in which voestalpine is active. Furthermore, compliance is the expression of a culture built on ethical and moral principles. 32 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 33 6. CLIMATE PROTECTION Global, European, and national climate protection requirements challenge energy-intensive sectors such as the steel industry to develop novel production technologies based on a stable, renewable energy system and to implement these technologies across the board on a large scale in the long term. 6.1 THE POLITICAL FRAMEWORK The United Nations global climate accord (Paris However, the voluntary commitments (“nationAgreement), which took effect on November 4, ally determined contributions”) so far of the 2016, is to replace the Kyoto Protocol as the roughly 180 states and regions that are party to global climate protection framework from 2020. the global climate accord will not be sufficient The process established at the 2015 World to this end. Climate Conference in Paris with respect to the evaluation and monitoring of climate protection measures as well as the development and design of incentive and funding mechanisms is now being fleshed out and implemented step by step. The Paris Agreement aims to limit the rise in the global temperature to 2 degrees Celsius, if possible even 1.5 degrees Celsius, above preindustrial levels and provides for the virtually complete abandonment of fossil fuels by approx. the year 2050 to this end (“decarbonization”). 34 6. Climate protection Both the European Union and its member once the current Horizon 2020 Program states contributed the “2030 Goals” they ends, are taking place at this time. The devel­ adopted in 2014 to the global climate accord. opment and implementation of new, largeThese goals have constituted the parameters scale production technologies is key to the steel of the European strategy for energy, climate, industry. Cross-sector collaboration also recompetition, and innovation policies since then. quires promoting decarbonization in the long Accordingly, by 2030 CO2 emissions must be term through innovative approaches to energy lowered at minimum by 40% compared with management based on renewable sources of 1990. This results in a mandatory reduction by energy that encompasses generation, provision, 43% relative to 2005 (the date on which the infrastructure, and consumption. The European emissions trading system, ETS, was established) steel industry is currently preparing an updated for sectors such as the steel industry that are road map of the challenges, potential solutions, subject to the ETS. At this time, however, a tightand requirements for the period up to 2050. ening of the already very ambitious targets for 2030 and the subsequent requirements for 2050 At the national level, the Austrian Energy and are being discussed at the level of the EU. Any Climate Strategy was adopted in May 2018. It failure to do so within a framework that is not sketches out the framework for decarbonization as global as possible will trigger an even greater up to 2030 and the transformation pathway up risk of competitive distortions for energyto 2050. The specifics of implementing projects, intensive industries than is already the case to measures, and showcase projects (regarding date. hydrogen, for example) are set forth in special administrative laws as, for example, the new In the company’s view, this puts the spotlight Austrian Energy Act, which is designed to comparticularly on two areas in connection with bine individual statutory requirements into an the European Energy Union. For one, the Clean integrated framework. Energy Package known as “Clean Energy for all Europeans” was adopted by the trilogue (i.e. the final deliberations between the Commission, the Council, and the Parliament of the European Union) at the time this report was published. This package regulates key elements such as the expansion of renewable energies, the design of the energy market, energy efficiency, and the overarching governance required for preparing periodic national energy and climate plans. For another, negotiations on the EU’s 9th Framework Program (FP9), including the future funding and focus of the research and technology initiatives 36 6. Climate protection 6.2 EU EMISSIONS TRADING The amendment of the EU Emissions Trading sions rights under the revision of the ETS. The System (EU ETS) was adopted for the 2021 to “CO2 price” soared by around 180% in the 2030 trading period at the end of 2017. This sysbusiness year 2017/18; most of this increase tem obliges companies to buy rights for every occurred after the adoption of the ETS revision. ton of carbon dioxide emitted, and certain industries are allocated a specific number of Based on current estimates, during the 2021certificates at no cost. 2030 trading period the voestalpine Group will need to buy additional allowances annually While a formal, so-called “Carbon Leakage Profor up to approx. 4.5 million tons. Assuming a tection” program has already been in place, per-ton price range of EUR 20 to EUR 30, this the focus on benchmarks (i.e. the state-of-thewould translate into costs per annum of beart in each case) is designed to offer incentives tween EUR 90 million and EUR 135 million, and for achieving them as well as for preventing incosts for the entire trading period of between dustries currently still saddled with “inevitable” EUR 900 million and more than EUR 1.3 billion. CO2 emissions from being relocated to regions outside of Europe. In actual fact, however, the Aside from the no-cost allocation (which is suffitarget of allocating no-cost emissions trading cient only in theory) and the practically unattaincertificates to the top 10% of the best perable benchmarks, voestalpine’s main criticism is formers in each case is clearly being missed due, that the ETS siphons funds from companies that in particular, to deductions required for methodthey need for their own energy and climate proological reasons which, in turn, leads to signifitection investments. voestalpine thus proposes cant under-allocations (shortfalls in emissions that ETS expenditures be redirected back to rights). The voestalpine Group’s resulting need the companies for specific purposes in order to for additional allowances in the ETS trading push the development of low-carbon technoloperiod that runs until 2020 will correspond to gies and the restructuring of the energy system about one third of its total CO2 emissions. It is this requires. estimated from today’s vantage point that the need for additional allowances will be more or less the same during the 2021-2030 period. The EU Commission will establish the benchmark for no-cost allowances only after the respective legal framework has been put in place. However, the most recent price developments with respect to emissions trading certificates lead us to believe that the voestalpine Group will face a significantly higher financial burden after 2021 due to the significant tightening of emisCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 37 6. Climate protection 6.3 DECARBONIZATION: CHALLENGE AND POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS The emission intensity of steel production stems, voestalpine would need the equivalent of about chemically speaking, from the coal-/coke33 TWh of additional renewable electricity from based production technology pursuant to the the external grid just at these two facilities in “Linz-Donawitz” (LD) process (production of pig order to replace this fossil fuel-based cycle. This iron in the blast furnace, production of crude corresponds roughly to 30 hydroelectric plants. steel in the oxygen converter), which still is the state-of-the-art for steel production worldwide. Hence, the production of steel is faced with two The production of pig iron in a blast furnace major challenges: relies on coke as a reducing agent: it delivers >> The industry is pursuing different the carbon necessary for removing oxygen from approaches to develop and bring to the iron ore. The carbon still contained in the industrial maturity novel, breakthrough iron ore is oxidized in the LD converter by blowtechnologies. voestalpine is focusing on the ing oxygen into it. The CO2 emissions resultdirect avoidance of emissions (carbon ing from this process can only be reduced by direct avoidance) by way of hydrogen. partially replacing the carbon (fully, in the long The development and use on a major run), i.e., by means of entirely new metallurgical industrial scale of hydrogen metallurgy processes. is a long-term project which, from today’s standpoint, will take until about 2035 to mature. “Less CO2” means “more energy” >> However, switching to processes available The fossil raw materials are at one and the same at that time will have to be not only techtime the most important conveyors of energy nologically feasible but also financially in the process. As far as their power needs are viable. Renewable energy will have to be concerned, voestalpine’s steel facilities in Linz available in sufficient quantities that proand Donawitz, Austria, are largely autonomous, vide the highest possible energy security because they get most of their electricity from and stability and, not least, at interthe integrated, coal-/coke-based energy cycle. nationally competitive prices. Process gases arising from the production of steel (e.g., at the blast furnace) are converted into electricity in our own power plants which, in turn, is used in downstream facilities (e.g., rolling mills). 38 6. Climate protection Incremental decarbonization: >> Hydrogen, the cutting-edge technology: The Sustainable Steelmaking (SuSteel) the voestalpine way pilot plant in Donawitz is conducting voestalpine’s scenario for achieving the climate research on using hydrogen plasma targets provides for step-by-step decarbonizasmelting instead of the current blast tion by way of the long-term vision of using hydrofurnace/LD steel plant technology to gen. Here is an overview of the three pillars of reduce iron ore. this approach: >> “Green hydrogen,” the renewable generation >> Direct reduction, a transitional technology: of energy: The direct reduction plant in Texas, USA, A pilot plant is being built as part of the EU’s which was put into operation in the fall of H2FUTURE project at the Linz facility in 2016, produces hot briquetted iron (HBI) cooperation with partners for large-scale and/or direct reduced iron (DRI) using testing of the proton exchange membrane natural gas instead of coal/coke. Using HBI (PEM) electrolyte technology. in the existing blast furnaces in Linz and Donawitz will make it possible to lower CO2 in the Group by up to 5%. Subsequently, natural gas as a reducing agent can be replaced incrementally by “green” hydrogen. 6.4 H2FUTURE: THE VISION OF “GREEN” HYDROGEN IN THE STEEL INDUSTRY The H2FUTURE project consortium—which inThe project’s goals and milestones cludes voestalpine, VERBUND, Siemens, the Electricity is required to generate hydrogen. At Austrian Power Grid (APG), as well as the scienthis time, hydrogen is produced almost exclutific partners K1-MET and the Energy Research sively by fossil means, specifically, by the forCentre of the Netherlands (ECN-TNO)—is buildmation of natural gas. H2FUTURE aims to proing the currently largest electrolyzer facility for duce “green” hydrogen, i.e., hydrogen that has generating green hydrogen at voestalpine’s Linz been generated by renewable means from water facility, for the management of energy in the using the so-called proton exchange memfuture using hydrogen. This showcase project is brane (PEM) electrolyte technology. The hydrosupported by the EU Commission as part of the gen generated is to be tested for use as an Horizon 2020 Program (Fuel Cells and Hydrogen industrial gas, and the facility on the whole witJoint Undertaking). hin the electricity balancing market. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 39 6. Climate protection H2FUTURE examines key issues of linking secThe project was launched in 2017 and the contors such as energy and industry, as well as the struction work started in early 2018. Now applicability of the technology to other indusalready nearing completion, the installation of trial sectors that can utilize hydrogen in their the electrical core components will begin in the production processes. Another key issue consummer of 2018; the initial commissioning is cerns the integration of the rapid-response PEM slated for the end of 2018. The start-up of the electrolyzer facility into the electricity balancing extensive pilot program, which will run until markets by developing demand-side manageabout the middle of 2021, is planned for the ment solutions. Such solutions use load managespring of 2019. ment at major consumers to offset fluctuations in the increasingly volatile electricity grid. 6.5 SUSTAINABLE STEELMAKING: STEEL PRODUCTION WITHOUT INTERMEDIATE STEPS The most visionary approach to research in The use of hydrogen as a reducing agent merely this field concerns the ability to produce steel produces climate-neutral water. In order to push directly from iron oxides without any intermethe development of this approach all the way diate steps. The Sustainable Steelmaking to its actual technological implementation, a (SuSteel) project aims to develop novel hydropilot plant for the incremental adoption of comgen plasma technology for the CO2-free and ponents and component groups is being operthus more sustainable production of steel. It ated in collaboration with our consortium partentails using hydrogen plasma to both reduce ners (Montanuniversität Leoben and K1-MET) at oxides and serve as a source of energy for smeltvoestalpine’s Donawitz facility in cooperation ing. with voestalpine Stahl GmbH, Linz. This facility is designed to demonstrate on a small scale by 2019 that the smelting reduction of iron oxides in the hydrogen plasma, and thus the ability to produce CO2-free steel, are fundamentally feasible. 40 6. Climate protection CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 41 7. TRANSPARENCY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN As a Group that operates worldwide, voestalpine also bears responsibility in its purchasing activities. Therefore, it is a matter of course for the Group to apply high standards throughout the supply chain in order to ensure a high level of transparency. The purchasing terms and conditions and Code The Purchasing Committee meets monthly, of Conduct apply to all suppliers and include carrying out the Purchasing Board's instructions numerous points creating standards for responto implement strategy and control purchasing sible procurement. voestalpine is applying its within the Group: Sustainable Supply Chain Management (SSCM) >> Monitoring and developing the purchasing project in order to analyze raw materials prostructure, in particular the Lead Buyer curement–the most important area of purchasstructure ing–for its compliance with corporate responsi>> Making decisions with respect to escalations bility, and to establish the appropriate operaarising from the purchasing and Lead Buyer tional criteria. The first phase was completed at structure the end of 2017. >> Strategic prioritization of projects, requests, and topics The voestalpine Purchasing Board is the steer>> Group-wide harmonization of the ing body for corporate procurement, and is supcommodity group structure ported by the Purchasing Committee as the im>> Coordination on procedures with crossplementation body. It bears responsibility for divisional suppliers the corporate procurement strategy and has >> Regular status reports to the Purchasing overall control of purchasing within the Group. Board The Purchasing Board meets once each quarter and develops the framework conditions for the The Group Catalogue Purchasers are responsipurchasing structure, passes resolutions on stratble for particular catalogues and suppliers egy content, decides in the case of escalation across the Group, i.e., they establish uniform procedures, and actively communicates its deprices and conditions in the catalogues within cisions and resolutions. the Group. This offers the benefits of pooling, reducing the pressure on resources in the individual companies. 42 7. Transparency in the supply chain • Chair: Member of the voestalpine AG Management PURCHASING BOARD Board responsible for purchasing • Heads of the divisions responsible for purchasing • CPO • Chair: CPO • Purchasing managers in the divisions PURCHASING COMMITTEE • One Managing Director of voestalpine Rohstoffbeschaffungs GmbH • CIO DIVISIONAL STEERING BODIES Steel High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Division Metals Division Division Division Steering function Local purchasing manager Local purchasing manager Local purchasing manager LEAD BUYERS & TEAMS GROUP CATALOGUE PURCHASERS voestalpine's purchasing responsibilities and relevant purchasing principles are described in the Corporate Responsibility Strategy as follows: 7.1 GENERAL PROCUREMENT Supplier management Procurement processes When selecting its suppliers, voestalpine ensures The procurement process is continuously opti­ their adherence to ecological and social prinmized in order to ensure its compliance. The ciples. We have integrated sustainable supplier Code of Conduct forms the basis for social management into our procurement processes in actions and decisions. order to create long-term partnerships. Training and continuing education With information events such as the Purchasing Power Day, and the three-stage Purchasing Power Academy established by the Group, voestalpine ensures continuing professional development is available for employees working in purchasing. 44 7. Transparency in the supply chain 7.2 RAW MATERIALS PROCUREMENT An integrated approach to Conflict Minerals lifecycle concepts We oblige all suppliers from whom we source Applying a lifecycle approach (Closed Loop) materials and who are subject to the Doddtogether with our customers guarantees the Frank Act to operate in accordance with its prohigh­est levels of efficiency in the process of visions. A cfsi report ensures that all materials recycling our raw and reusable materials. procured on behalf of the Group are conflict free . Suppliers Together with our suppliers we have set our­ Securing supplies selves the challenge of permanently optimizing A key task of raw materials procurement our supply chains. Regular visits to the sources man­agement is to secure the long-term, com­ of raw materials and prematerials, especially peti­tive supply of raw materials and energy. A mines and deposits, are a fixed element in this high degree of integration into upstream and process. Together we develop methods for dedownstream processes, scenario planning, and signing an efficient supply chain which meets adaptive supply concepts serve to minimize the CR guidelines. New suppliers are assessed potential risks. in terms of CR, quality, performance, and– depending on the outcome–included in the portfolio. The project SSCM (Sustainable Supply Chain Management) screens our raw material supply chains, examining the key factors which determine compliance with corporate responsibility. voestalpine ensures that all raw materials are subject to this process, thereby minimizing risk over the long term. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 45 7. Transparency in the supply chain The three most important cornerstones of the purchasing structure are lead buying, purchasing processes and systems, as well as training and continuing education: PURCHASING PURCHASING LEAD BUYING PROCESSES AND POWER ACADEMY SYSTEMS EXTERNAL VALUE APPLY EFFECTIVE DEVELOP CREATION AND EFFICIENT PURCHASING PROCESSES EXCELLENCE Lead buying is the process of pooling similar power in negotiations with suppliers when determaterials and raw materials from different commining quality and price. Lead buying is an impanies into material groups which are then portant part of the corporate purchasing strucpurchased by the Lead Buyer. The advantages ture, and has established itself as a significant of lead buying can be combined with those of value creation factor within the company over a decentralized purchasing organization (rethe past years. gional purchasing competence remains at the production sites) in order to optimize purchasing 46 7. Transparency in the supply chain 7.3 LOCAL SUPPLIERS Where reasonable and feasible, voestalpine or regional supplies are not always possible. purchases from suppliers located close to the For example, the majority of raw materials are sites. As a result, around 68.55% of all suppliers mined in distant locations. to voestalpine companies in Austria also have their headquarters in Austria. However, local LOCAL SUPPLIERS Share of domestic suppliers in each country (in %) 90.35% Germany 90.32% USA 90.04% China 86.07% Sweden 84.09% Brazil 76.57% France 73.36% UK 68.55% Austria CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 47 7. Transparency in the supply chain 7.4 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PROJECT The first phase of the Sustainable Supply Chain chains in the steel production sector were examManagement (SSCM) project introduced in the ined for risks associated with materials, counlast voestalpine CR Report has been successtries of origin, and suppliers. fully concluded. During this phase typical supply EXAMPLE SUPPLY CHAIN: THE STEEL PRODUCTION SECTOR Ore Coal Scrap Alloys Aggregates Processing Key materials considered during the project: Main materials Alloys Aggregates Iron ore Aluminium Burnt lime Coking coal Boron Calcium carbide Scrap Chromium Magnesite Cobalt Manganese Molybdenum Nickel Niobium Phosphorus Silicon Titanium Tungsten Zinc The following countries of origin for these mateAlbania • Australia • Austria • Brazil • Canada • rials were included when examining the supply China • Czech Republic • Finland • Germany • chain (in alphabetical order): Norway • Poland • Russia • South Africa • Sweden • Turkey • Ukraine • USA 48 7. Transparency in the supply chain The raw materials, country of origin, and suppliers were examined with respect to: Environment Human rights Waste & recycling Discrimination Wastewater Child labor Biodiversity Forced labor Soil emissions Collective bargaining & Air emissions freedom of association Energy consumption Health and protection of Water consumption the local population Working conditions Governance Working times Workplace safety and Compliance health protection Anti-corruption Fair payment In addition, intensive discussions were held with included in the evaluation. After working in partexperts both within (from Corporate Responsinership with suppliers over many years, and with bility, Purchasing and Raw Materials Purchasthe close contacts that result, many issues could ing, Risk Management, Quality Assurance, be considered and dealt with in personal discusand health & safety) and outside voestalpine sions. (from associations, research institutions, NGOs, and selected customers), with their results also CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 49 7. Transparency in the supply chain RESULTS OF THE SSCM PROJECT The project findings were entered into a matrix The evaluation scheme groups suppliers into indicating potential risks, or “hotspots”. categories A, B, and C, with A denoting the best possible evaluation. Where a supplier fails to This allowed human rights hotspots, particularly achieve, or no longer achieves, grade A, then child labor and forced labor, to be ruled out for voestalpine works together with the supplier to all suppliers. determine the reasons and to develop measures to restore their previous status. Where the In terms of environmental challenges faced by supplier development measures fail to have suppliers, the suppliers are requested to present the desired effect, or suppliers are not willing to and offer solutions which will then be examined implement the measures, then the business during on-site visits. relationship is brought to a structured end, and a new supplier chosen. All suppliers in the steel supply chain are certified according to ISO 9001. The majority of The results of this project are regularly examsuppliers–where they are producers–are already ined, with new suppliers or countries of origin ISO 14001 or OHSAS 18001 certified, or are also considered. It is intended that SSCM be excurrently in the process of acquiring this certipanded to cover other supply chains within the fication. Group over the medium term. The results of the on-site visits, which take place at least once a year and are the basis for supplier evaluations, are also included in the SSCM project and can help to clarify any potential uncertainties with respect to risks. 50 7. Transparency in the supply chain CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 51 8. ETHICAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT Ethical corporate management is responsible corporate governance that is geared to creating sustainable, long-term value, and to ensuring that the conduct of all Group employees is in compliance with statutory provisions and internal guidelines as well as fundamental moral and ethical values. Ethical corporate management Human rights In order to ensure that the management and We commit to upholding human rights in accorcontrol of the Group follows the goal of creating dance with the UN Charter and the European responsible, sustainable and long-term value, Convention of Human Rights, and we support the Management Board and Supervisory Board the UN Global Compact. announced that the Group would abide by the Austrian Corporate Governance Code as early as 2003. Compliance We commit to complying with all the laws in all of the countries in which voestalpine is active. Furthermore, compliance is the expression of a culture built on ethical and moral principles. 8.1 COMPLIANCE voestalpine requires its companies and all its voestalpine likewise requires that its suppliers employees to comply with all laws in all the fully comply with all applicable laws in their countries in which it operates. However, for respective countries, and they are particularly voestalpine compliance is more than merely requested to respect and uphold the fundamenacting legally and in accordance with other tal values of human rights. external regulations. It is the expression of a culture built on ethical and moral principles. The principles of this corporate culture as it relates to the treatment of customers, suppliers, employees and other business partners are explicitly stated in the voestalpine Code of Conduct. 52 8. Ethical corporate management 8.1.1 CODE OF CONDUCT The Code of Conduct applies to all members The voestalpine Code of Conduct was set forth in of the Management Board, CEOs, and emwritten form in 2009. It is the result of numerous converployees of all companies in which voestalpine sations and discussions among the Management AG has a direct or indirect stake of at least 50% Board, company CEOs and department heads of the or which it controls in any other way. With regard voestalpine Group. It is based on the Group's corpoto all other companies in which voestalpine AG rate values and provides the foundations for ethically has a direct or indirect stake of at least 25%, but and legally sound conduct by all of the Group's emwhich it does not control, the Code of Conduct ployees. The Code of Conduct was published in German and is brought to their attention and they are rethirteen additional languages, and can be downquested to enforce it by way of independent loaded from the Internet: recognition thereof by their decision-making http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/group/ bodies that are governed by corporate law. compliance/ In the event of a violation against statutory provisions, internal guidelines, regulations The Code of Conduct covers the and directives, or against provisions of the following areas: voestalpine Code of Conduct, employees will be >> Compliance with laws and other external subject to disciplinary measures. Furthermore, and internal regulations violations can have consequences under >> Fair competition criminal and/or civil law, e.g., recourse claims >> Corruption/bribery/acceptance of gifts and claims for compensatory damages. >> Money laundering >> Respect and integrity voestalpine is pursuing the goal of having the >> Conflicts of interest Code of Conduct apply throughout its sphere >> Handling of corporate information/ of influence. Suppliers and consultants are confidentiality required to comply with the Code of Conduct for >> Corporate communications Business Partners. Additionally, Group companies >> Use of the Internet and IT are urged to bring the Code of Conduct to the >> Insider information attention of their customers and to strongly en>> Reporting of misconduct courage them to commit to compliance therewith. All of voestalpine's business partners are also requested to promote compliance with the Code of Conduct among their own business partners along the entire supply chain. 54 8. Ethical corporate management voestalpine AG has adopted several Group Antitrust law guidelines to serve as a helpful tool for emThis guideline describes the prohibition of ployees in applying the Code of Conduct. The agreements restricting competition, provides compliance rules and regulations associated rules for dealings and interaction with, and in, with the voestalpine Code of Conduct are curassociations, professional associations, or other rently comprised of the following sections: industry organizations, and defines concrete rules of conduct for employees of the voestalpine Business Conduct Group. Additionally, handbooks have been These guidelines are an expansion and concretdeveloped on the topics of information sharing ization of the Code of Conduct with regard to and benchmarking, buying collaborations, and the subjects of corruption/bribery/acceptance supply relationships with competitors, which of gifts and conflicts of interest and regulate, for provide employees with information on these example, permissibility of gifts, invitations and topics from an antitrust perspective. other benefits, donations, sponsoring, ancillary activities, and the private purchase of goods Compliance Manual/Compliance and services from customers and suppliers by Prevention Program voestalpine employees. Furthermore, the prohiThese rules and regulations provide information bition of political contributions is set forth under about compliance strategy, compliance struc“Business conduct”. Donations to politicians, ture, prevention measures, detection of and political parties, organizations affiliated or reaction to violations, sanctions, and the webassociated with political parties, or political front based whistleblower system. organizations are not tolerated in the voestalpine Group. Donations to political front organizaCode of Conduct for voestalpine tions that are devoted solely to social issues are Business Partners excepted; however, they must be approved by These rules and regulations that are directed the Management Board of voestalpine AG in towards suppliers of goods and services, as each individual case. well as business intermediaries, consultants, and other business partners, and define the Dealings with business interprinciples and requirements for doing business mediaries/brokers and consultants with voestalpine. This guideline provides additional information on the topics of corruption, bribery, and accepvoestalpine requires from its business partners tance of gifts. It defines the procedure to that they respect and comply with human rights be complied with prior to contracting or enas fundamental values in accordance with the gaging sales representatives, representatives, European Convention on Human Rights and the or other sales consultants. An objective analyUN Charter on Human Rights. In particular, this sis of the prospective business partner's business applies to the prohibition on child and forced environment and scope of activities prior to labor, equal treatment of employees, and the establishing business relations is required, in right of employee representation and collective order to ensure that the business partner bargaining. can comply with all applicable laws and the voestalpine Code of Conduct. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 55 8. Ethical corporate management 8.1.2 COMPLIANCE SYSTEM The management of the respective Group comIn addition to a Group compliance officer, a pany is responsible for adherence to the comcompliance officer was appointed in each divipliance regulations. A compliance system was sion; furthermore, additional compliance offiset up in the voestalpine Group in the business cers were appointed in certain divisional year 2011/12 to support management in meetsub-units. The Group compliance officer reports ing this responsibility and to set up the necesdirectly to the Chairman of the Management sary processes. Board and is not bound by directives. The divisional compliance officers report to the Group compliance officer and to the respective heads of the divisions. voestalpine AG Group Compliance Officer Steel High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Division Metals Division Division Division Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer in sub-Groups/ in sub-Groups/ in sub-Groups/ in sub-Groups/ major equity major equity major equity major equity holdings holdings holdings holdings The compliance officers are responsible for the All other compliance issues, e.g., environmental following areas: law, taxes, accounting, labor law, protection of >> Antitrust law employees, or data protection are not part of >> Corruption the compliance officer's area of responsibility. >> Capital market compliance These compliance issues are handled by the re>> Fraud (internal incidences of theft, fraud, spective specialist departments. embezzlement, breach of trust) >> Conflicts of interest >> Special issues that are assigned to the compliance officers by the Management Board of voestalpine AG (e.g., UN or EU sanctions) 56 8. Ethical corporate management 8.1.3 PREVENTATIVE MEASURES Within the scope of its compliance efforts, Compliance training is mandatory for young voestalpine places particular importance on executives: there are six to seven training sespreventative measures, including training, dissions each year for up to 40 employees. Addicussions with management, and communicationally, face-to-face training on the topic of tion. Since 2002, CEOs, sales personnel, and capital market compliance is also provided for other employees have attended courses sensiemployees of voestalpine AG. tizing them to antitrust law. Furthermore, compliance is a regular topic in Since the introduction of e-learning courses at Group communications and often mentioned– the voestalpine Group (antitrust law from 2009; including by top management–at major Code of Conduct from 2012) more than 53,000 employee events at both the Group and the employees of the voestalpine Group have divisional level. completed e-learning courses on the Code of Conduct and antitrust law (including refresher and advanced courses). Additionally, an e-learning refresher course on the Code of Conduct with a focus on corruption was rolled out in the business year 2017/18, and is designed for those employees who have already completed the basic compliance training on the Code of Conduct. The course was issued to around 14,500 employees, and by the end of March 2018 it had already been completed by roughly 12,000 employees. In addition to the e-learning courses, targetgroup oriented, face-to-face training has been carried out Group-wide, especially for sales employees. This training was focused on compliance with the law and internal guidelines as well as corruption and antitrust law in the respective sphere of activity of the participants. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 57 8. Ethical corporate management 8.1.4 REPORTING OF COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS Reports of compliance violations should priSince 2012 it has also been possible to anomarily be made openly, that is, providing the nymously report violations via a web-based whistleblower’s name. According to the Code whistleblower system. Reports using this sysof Conduct, such reports can be made to the tem can be made only in the areas of antitrust direct supervisor, the appropriate legal or HR law, corruption, fraud, and conflicts of interest, department, management of the respective in other words, only reports on these issues are Group company, the audit department of processed through the system. The system envoestalpine AG, or one of the Group's ables compliance officers to communicate with compliance officers. Upon request, whistlewhistleblowers while maintaining absolute anoblowers are ensured of absolute confidentiality. nymity. 8.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Management Board and the Supervisory ity when companies voluntarily undertake to adBoard of voestalpine AG recognized the Austrian here to it. The Code aims to establish a system Corporate Governance Code in 2003 and have of management and control of companies and also implemented all the amendments introGroups that is accountable and geared to creatduced since that date without exception. ing sustainable, long-term value. By voluntarily undertaking to adhere to the Code, voestalpine In addition to the mandatory “L rules” (legal rebacks these objectives and commits to providquirements), voestalpine AG voluntarily coming a high degree of transparency for all the plies with all of the “C rules” (comply or explain) company's stakeholders. and the “R rules” (recommendation) of the Code. The Corporate Governance Code provides Business transactions with associated compaAustrian stock corporations with a framework nies or parties or pending proceedings (e.g., for managing and monitoring their company. antitrust proceedings) are reported on in the The Code is based on the provisions of Austrian quarterly reports and in the annual reports of stock corporation, stock exchange, and capivoestalpine AG. tal market law, as well as the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. It was most recently updated in January 2018. The Code achieves valid58 8. Ethical corporate management CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 59 9. HUMAN RIGHTS voestalpine is committed to respecting and upholding human rights in accordance with the UN Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights. Since 2013 voestalpine has supported the UN Global Compact whose ten principles include labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption, in addition to human rights. This report is simultaneously the annual Communication on Progress (COP). The commitment to respecting and upholdvoestalpine Code of Conduct. Human rights are ing human rights is outlined in detail in the also a crucial point in the mandatory Code of chapter entitled “Respect and integrity” of the Conduct for Business Partners. UN GLOBAL COMPACT– THE 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of interprecautionary approach to nationally proclaimed human environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Principle 2: make sure that they are not greater environmental complicit in human rights abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development LABOR STANDARDS and diffusion of environmentally Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the friendly technologies. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right ANTI-CORRUPTION to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of corruption in all its forms, including forced and compulsory labor; extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 60 9. Human Rights COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND THE RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF MODERN SLAVERY ASSOCIATION Companies within the voestalpine Group who Around 80% of the voestalpine workforce is in are subject to the UK Modern Slavery Act fulfil an employment relationship that is regulated by its conditions by publishing a statement to that a collective agreement. effect. The Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct for Business Partners explicitly menEvery employee has the fundamental right and tion and expressly prohibit human trafficking freedom to become a member of a union. In and modern slavery. all voestalpine companies, employee representatives can be elected by the workforce. The HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING voestalpine Group has a Group Works Council FOR SECURITY PERSONNEL and a European Works Council, both of which voestalpine plant security personnel consists have a good basis for communication with the largely of company employees. The Code of management. Conduct also applies to employees of thirdparty companies, and the Code of Conduct for CHILD LABOR AND Business Partners applies to their employers. FORCED LABOR Both documents stipulate compliance with voestalpine is strictly against child and forced human rights. labor. Thus far, there is not a single known case of child labor, forced labor, or compulsory labor voestalpine carries out human rights training of in the entire Group. Nor does voestalpine tolerits own employees; external security personnel ate any form of child labor, forced labor, or are trained by their employer. compulsory labor amongst its suppliers or business partners. RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES The Code of Conduct for voestalpine business As voestalpine operates solely in developed inpartners states: dustrial regions, the rights of aboriginal peoples are not restricted in any way by voestalpine's The Business Partner undertakes to respect and combusiness operations. ply with human rights as fundamental values on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Charter on Human Rights. In particular, this applies to the prohibition on child and forced labor, equal treatment of employees, and the right of employee representation and collective bargaining. 62 9. Human Rights CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 63 10. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development (R&D) plays a crucial contribution to voestalpine's economic success and sustainable growth. For a technology-driven company such as voestalpine, the continuous development of new products and production processes is vital in order to stand out from the competition and remain successful in the market. Innovations ensure the long-term future of the company. 10.1 RESEARCH EXPENDITURES Research expenditure has risen continuously in BY 2018/19 reflects the high standing of R&D recent years. The budget of EUR 172 million in within the Group. GROSS R&D EXPENSES (excl. R&D capital investments) per business year, in millions of euros 200 172 152 132 140 128 127 100 Budget 0 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 64 10. Research and development 10.2 INNOVATION GUIDELINES voestalpine–THE NEXT STEP AHEAD From the idea to implementation, working together for success We encourage the best ideas and create USPs along the entire value chain Decentralized R&D creates a global voestalpine network The brightest minds are researching for voestalpine Active know-how-management both internally and externally is the key to success The innovation guidelines support the vision of In the field of research we place great value in being the next step ahead , and are anchored long-term, trusted relationships with our cus­ in the CR strategy: tomers and suppliers, and work closely together with universities and scientific institutions. We are continually researching innovative prod­ucts and processes, and developing novel technologies, in order to remain the benchmark for resource efficiency and environmental standards. We pursue active know-how management both internally and externally, and regard this as the key to success. We take on the responsibility of training and continuing to educate our re­searchers in-house, sharing our knowledge within the Group, and using the synergies which arise from pooling our expertise. 66 10. Research and development Innovative products and processes Steel makes an indispensable contribution to a works to achieve this goal by developing ultrasustainable future. The use of steel in lightweight high-strength steels and high-quality forged automotive construction or in the energy seccomponents from light alloys. tor, for example, can bring significant energy savings and help reduce CO2. Without steel The high-strength and ultra-high-strength steels there would be no wind turbines, no hydroof up to 2,000 MPa also contribute to passenpower plants, no electric motors and conger safety, by ensuring a high level of crash persequently no electric vehicles, no electricity formance for safety-relevant automotive compylons, no environmentally-friendly railways, ponents. metro systems or tramways, etc. In the railway infrastructure sector, the highEven in the future, steel production will remain est priority is given to passenger safety and an energy intensive process. However, the high track system availability. For that reason voestalpine Group is consistently working tovoestalpine develops rail materials which wards the gradual decarbonization of steel prodouble rail service life, together with intelligent duction. voestalpine is applying bridging techturnout systems whose assistance and diagnosnologies which are primarily based on natural tics systems not only enable remote control gas, as in the new direct reduction plant in Texas, and monitoring, but also intelligent, proactive in an effort to replace coal with alternative self-diagnosis. This will allow turnout failures to energy sources in steel production. The next step be reduced by up to 50% in future, significantly is to develop the direct reduction process using raising availability and safety. hydrogen in place of natural gas. A hydrogen electrolyzer plant is currently being built at the For the energy industry materials are developed site in Linz in order to research the technology which can withstand extreme conditions such as and its potential use in steel production. particularly tough or sour-gas-resistant tubes, and materials for use at high temperatures Both new and existing processes are being which in turn raises the output efficiency of turcontinually developed in order to conserve rebines. sources and improve environmental sustainability. The projects are aimed at reducing the The development of high efficiency electrical quantities of primary materials used, lowering steel and compacore® inline-bonded laminawater consumption, and reusing residual matetion stacks significantly increases electric rials such as slag and dust in an environmentally motor efficiency, which in turn substantially sustainable manner. Rapid advances in digitareduces energy consumption. For this developlization also contribute to raising process effiment voestalpine, together with its cooperation ciency and quality further. partner the Johannes Kepler University Linz, was awarded the 2018 special state prize VERENA. Product development is focused on industries with the most sophisticated technological requirements such as mobility and energy. In the automotive and aerospace industries the focus lies on lightweight construction as a means of saving fuel and reducing emissions. voestalpine CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 67 10. Research and development Knowledge transfer within the Group Research and development at voestalpine is jects link existing knowledge available across decentralized, located close to the production divisional boundaries, R&D expert clusters offacilities and the market. This global network of fer platforms for researchers to discuss particuover 70 sites is controlled by the Research Board lar topics, and the synergy platform–the Group's and Research Coordination. A variety of formats own annual internal conference–offers the opare used for the purposes of knowledge transfer: portunity to share knowledge whilst meeting in information is shared between R&D managers person and networking. within the Research Committee, corporate provoestalpine AG High Metal Metal Steel Performance Engineering Forming Research Board Division Metals Division Division Division Research Committee Research Coordination 68 10. Research and development Continuing professional development for researchers On average around 120 Master's theses and Nearly a third of these academic works already 90 dissertations are being written about curexamine issues related to digitalization. rent voestalpine research topics. Consequently, there is a constant pool of young researchers who become very familiar with the Group and its areas of activity whilst still studying. Long-term and trusted relationships Collaboration is becoming increasingly imporWith their application-oriented fundamental retant, also in the field of research. “Partnership” search, scientific partners, whether national or is not only a sustainable development goal, it international, such as university institutes, uniis also anchored in voestalpine's strategic R&D versities of applied science, research institutes, guidelines. Global networking, and cooperation competence centers, and Christian Doppler with external partners including customers, supLaboratories, all make an important contribupliers and scientific institutions, is undoubtedly a tion to academic research. Cooperative partkey to successful R&D. nerships benefit from geographical and cultural proximity, and for that reason local scientific exvoestalpine aspires to create strategic, longpertise is used. term partnerships based on trust and technological equality which create value for both partR&D cooperation with customers is equally imners. portant, allowing their particular needs to be directly met. Here, too, long-term development partnerships are encouraged, with R&D employees–“Resident Engineers”–in permanent contact with selected customers. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 69 11. ENVIRONMENT Active environmental protection is a core element of voestalpine's corporate philosophy. It is part of all segments of the production chain and is directed toward very economical use of resources (especially raw materials and energy) and minimization of the environmental impact of our processes and products. In the voestalpine Group, environmental proAt all of our production locations, we are tection begins with the production facilities, committed to the following principles: where we strive to make use of the best available technologies, undertake intensive research >> Holistic responsibility for our products in order to develop environmentally-friendly >> Optimization of production processes steel production processes and products, im>> Establishment of environmental plement measures to increase efficiency, reduce management systems emissions, achieve energy savings, and–last but >> Integration of employees into the not least–facilitate transparent and efficient enprocess by ensuring that each individual vironmental management. behaves in an environmentallyresponsible way >> Open and objective dialogue As the result of these consistent efforts, voestalpine has a leading position within the European steel industry, for example, with regard to emissions intensity and resource efficiency. Many innovative processes were developed within the company or jointly with industrial partners and used for the first time worldwide at voestalpine. As of December 31, 2017, 73 of 130 locations (56%) operated an environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001, and 16 locations were certified according to EMAS. 70 11. Environment Environmental protection is a core element of voestalpine’s CR Strategy. It includes the company's guiding principles as follows: Emissions in the air, soil and water: Energy and climate policy: minimizing with the best available commitment to low-carbon technologies production Process-related emissions cannot be entirely We are meeting the long-term challenge of avoided. We operate our production sites by de­ carbonizing business and society both economically applying the best available techthrough comprehensive research and developnologies, as well as developing new ones, in ment (much of it on a cooperative basis) to order to minimize the environmental impact on create new technologies, and by being involthe air, soil and water as far as possible. ved in an open and constructive stakeholder dialogue with environmental organizations, Circular economy & political decision-makers, and science. Life Cycle Assessment: an integrated approach to materials We support the comprehensive and integrated consideration and evaluation of materials (Life Cycle Assessment), as well as all processes and value chains within the context of the circular economy. Note on this chapter: Over the past years voestalpine has developed to become a global leading technology and capital goods Group, with around 500 Group companies and locations worldwide. In addition to crude steel production at the primary production sites Linz and Donawitz, since fall 2016 voestalpine has operated a HBI plant in Corpus Christi (Texas, USA), and at several sites also produces components from steel which is partly externally sourced. For that reason, in the chapter on “Environment” it has been necessary to redefine the previously applied “crude steel production” reference values in order to calculate the specific environmental key figures. 72 11. Environment 11.1 OPERATING EXPENSES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SYSTEMS For many years, voestalpine has been consisIn the business year 2017/18, environmental intently advancing the application of high envestment amounted to EUR 40 million and the vironmental and environmental technology ongoing costs of operations for environmental standards. This is also reflected in the environsystems came to EUR 258 million. mental expenditure and investment indicators. ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES voestalpine AG In millions of euros 300 258 237 231 218 222 200 100 0 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 At around 50%, the greatest percentage of ena quarter of the expenses went towards waste vironmental expenditures in the business year recycling, reuse and disposal, and 20% for 2017/18 was spent on air purification meawater protection measures. sures and the purchase of CO2 certificates as part of the EU emissions trading system. Around 11.2 ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS voestalpine AG (cumulative) in millions of euros 40 200 46 55 100 43 23 0 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 73 11. Environment 11.3 AIR EMISSIONS The major air pollutants that occur during the that were begun in the mid-1980s, and have production of steel besides greenhouse gases continued since then with significant technical (in particular CO2) are sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrous effort and financial expense, emission levels oxide (NOX), and dust. Emissions of all of these have reached the minimum currently technically pollutants comply with the statutory threshachievable. old limits. These parameters are measured and their annual loads recorded by means of conTherefore, no additional significant reduction is tinuous measurements, intermittent laboratory possible using currently available technologies, analyses, and material flow analysis. as illustrated below. For example, the specific emissions for CO2, SO2, and NOX in the last five voestalpine makes every effort to minimize to years are within the production-based fluctuathe greatest extent possible the air pollutants tion range. During the last three decades, the that occur during production for purely technispecific emissions produced by the voestalpine cal reasons related to the process. On one Group (i.e., based on one ton of crude steel) hand, this is done by optimizing of the technihave been reduced as follows: CO2 by 20%, SO2 cal process (process integrated measures) and by 75%, NOX by 27%, and dust by 95%. on the other, through end-of-pipe measures utilizing state-of-the-art technology. Fundamentally, technical limitations prevent the processrelated emissions, which result primarily from the raw materials required and from existing production processes, from being avoided entirely. Due to the environmental measures 74 11. Environment 11.3.1 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Crude steel production using the blast furnace/ specific Greenhouse Gas emissions for the LD process depends on the use of carbon as a reduction process can be lowered compared to reducing agent; the resulting process-related the coal-based smelting reduction process. CO2 emissions are technically unavoidable. Operations at around 130 voestalpine producSince fall 2016 voestalpine has operated a dition sites generated greenhouse gas emissions rect reduction plant for the production of high of around 14.3 million tons in 2017, with the maquality sponge iron (HBI–hot briquetted iron) in jority consisting of process-related and currently Corpus Christi, Texas. During this process natural unavoidable CO2 emissions. gas is used to reduce ore pellets. As a result, the DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS In millions of tons of CO2e 20 14.3 10 6.9 0.9 0.8 1.0 0.7 <0.1 <0.1 0 Upstream chain Manufacturer Transport Transport Business travels Waste treatment (upstream) Energy source (Downstream) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct Indirect CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 75 11. Environment 11.3.2 SO2 EMISSIONS Many raw materials contain sulfur which is The specific SO2 emissions in the calendar year consequently introduced into the production 2017 were 0.45 kg per ton of crude steel. The reprocess. During certain processing steps and duction over previous years is due to optimizawhen by-products (coke oven gas and blast furtion of the separation performance in the sinternace gas) are used for thermal recycling, sulfur ing plant at the site in Linz, as well as the is emitted in the form of sulfur dioxide (SO2). altered product reference values (including HBI in Texas). SO2 EMISSIONS kt 10 5.3 5.3 5.4 5.2 4.9 5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SPECIFIC SO2 EMISSIONS kg/t of product 1.0 0.67 0.70 0.69 0.65 0.45 0.5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 76 11. Environment 11.3.3 NOX EMISSIONS Nitrous oxides (NOX) are gaseous nitrogen comficantly reduced these emissions to a low level pounds which are created during combustion in a long-term comparison, and held them at processes. In steel production they result from this level over the past years. In calendar year operating the industrial facilities and from ther2017, the specific NOX emissions from operamal recycling of the blast furnace gases. By detions were around 0.51 kg per ton of crude steel. ploying denitrification systems and improved combustion technologies, voestalpine has signiNOX EMISSIONS kt 10 4.6 5.1 4.3 4.2 4.5 5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SPECIFIC NOX EMISSIONS kg NOX /t of product 1.0 0.58 0.62 0.53 0.51 0.48 0.5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 77 11. Environment 11.3.4 CAPTURED DUST EMISSIONS Dust-laden exhaust gases and emissions occurCorpus Christi (Texas, USA). This is the main rearing during production are captured and routed son for the increase in absolute dust emissions. to a de-dusting system using state-of-the-art The specific dust emissions at voestalpine conmeasures and precautions. In calendar year tinue to remain at a very low level. 2017, a direct reduction plant for the production of sponge iron became fully operational in CAPTURED DUST EMISSIONS kt 0.50 0.41 0.39 0.37 0.32 0.25 0.25 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SPECIFIC CAPTURED DUST EMISSIONS g/t of product 100 48 45 42 50 37 33 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 78 11. Environment 11.3.5 ORGANIC AIR POLLUTANTS Organic air pollutants (VOC) are primarily proconnection with the drying of coal was introcess-related, the result of the thermal process duced at the site in Linz in 2017. In terms of prostages in crude steel production and in the duction quantities, VOC emissions amounted to combustion processes. In order to reduce VOC around 34 grams per ton of crude steel. emissions further, regenerative afterburning in VOC EMISSIONS kt 0.50 0.36 0.37 0.33 0.33 0.30 0.25 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SPECIFIC VOC EMISSIONS g/t of product 100 42 45 40 39 34 50 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 79 11. Environment 11.4 WATER MANAGEMENT Water is used in the production of pig iron and The amount of water used by voestalpine in crude steel for cooling and for the generation calendar year 2017 was around 760 million m³, of steam, and is one of the most important conwith more than 93% used solely for cooling sumables and auxiliary materials. Conserving purposes. This water was sourced from surface water resources, and with particular considerawater and returned to this source in the same tion of the local circumstances, is achieved quality. using methods including closed-circuit systems and the multiple use of process water. Accordingly, the voestalpine AG net blue water consumption in 2017 amounted to 14.1 milIn accordance with ISO 14046, voestalpine takes lion m³, or 1.32 m³/ton of crude steel. At an integrated life cycle assessment approach 53.89 million m³, or 5.03 m³/ton of crude steel, to the water circulation system at all production the significantly larger share of overall net blue locations. water consumption derived mainly from raw materials procurement and the use of special By calculating the net blue water consumption alloying elements. and the water scarcity footprint, a detailed examination which includes the local hydrogeoloCalculating the water scarcity footprint also ingical conditions determines the contribution of dicates that, where the value chain as a whole each production location to water scarcity in its (cradle-to-gate) is considered, voestalpine region. operations make a relatively negligible contribution to water scarcity in individual regions and ecosystems. WATER CONSUMPTION 2017 WATER FOOTPRINT AT THE LINZ SITE In % 93.2% 100% Surface sources 0.1% Municipal water 6.2% 50% Groundwater 0.5% Other sources 0% Blue water Water scarcity consumption footprint Direct Indirect 80 11. Environment 11.5 WASTE AND RECYCLING MANAGEMENT In addition to conserving resources in producresidual materials, and waste that accrue in extion and processing, voestalpine undertakes ternal production facilities are also utilized in numerous activities designed to optimize voestalpine production facilities, for example, the durability of its products, as well as their scrap, plastic pellets, and used oil and grease. reusability, recyclability and recoverability. At the crude steel production sites in Austria, Due to their composition, many of the byGermany, Sweden, and Brazil, the percentage products generated by the production and of recycled materials of the total material used downstream processing of pig iron and steel was 22.2% in the calendar year 2017, roughly can be utilized in-house as recycled materials, the same level as in previous years. or in other industrial branches (e.g. steel mill dust in the zinc industry, slag in the cement industry) The specific volume of non-hazardous waste in as secondary raw materials. 2017 amounted to 116 kg per ton of crude steel. The specific volume of hazardous waste was Process management in integrated metallur22 kg per ton of crude steel. Fluctuations betgical facilities is optimized on an ongoing ween the reporting periods are largely the result basis in order to ensure a high degree of internal of construction activities and the resultant conrecycling and external utilization of waste and struction waste, for both hazardous and nonresidual products that accrue from production hazardous waste. facilities and downstream machinery, including filter dust and mill scale. Additionally, products, RECYCLING RATE In % 50% 23.1 24.5 23.7 22.1 22.2 25% 0% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 81 11. Environment VOLUME OF WASTE kt 2000 1,372 1,267 1,272 1,248 1000 595 184 184 187 197 236 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Hazardous Non-hazardous SPECIFIC VOLUME OF WASTE kg/t of product 187 200 172 137 116 100 56 23 23 24 26 22 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Hazardous Non-hazardous 82 11. Environment 11.6 ENERGY Energy consumption is an important considenewly constructed direct reduction plant in ration in the steel industry, not only in terms of Texas, by far the largest consumers. environmental impacts, but also as a key cost factor. For that reason, voestalpine is deterThe start of full scale operations at the site in mined to use energy as efficiently as possible. Texas and production increases at the crude In conventional, integrated metallurgical facilisteel production sites led to an overall increase ties, efficiency increases are achieved through in energy consumption. continual optimization of process gas recycling, utilizing waste heat potential, and an energy The most important energy sources are coal management system. and coke (46% resp.19.42%), followed by natural gas (26.1%). At around 5.8% of overall Total energy consumption of the voestalpine energy consumption, the share of electricity Group in 2017 was 45 TWh (4.2 MWh/ton of procured externally was comparatively small. crude steel), with the crude steel producing locations Linz and Donawitz, as well as the TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION TWh 45.0 50 39.3 38.7 37.9 37.1 25 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 83 11. Environment SPECIFIC TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION MWh/t of product 10.0 4.9 4.9 4.9 4.9 4.2 5.0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SHARE OF ENERGY SOURCES 2017 26.1% Natural gas 46.0% 19.4% Coal Coke 5.8% 2.7% Electricity (procured externally) Other 84 11. Environment voestalpine LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT Evaluating the environment impacts of products voestalpine applies a holistic method also to deteralways requires an integrated approach over their mine the specific net blue water consumption; this life cycle. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) considers all method extends beyond the exclusive view of specithe process and value chains of the materials used, fic water consumption to include both direct and indibeyond company boundaries, and includes this inforrect aspects from the upstream stages of the process mation in the product's ecological assessment. and value chain. Meanwhile, voestalpine's business partners demand So that the potential offered by the LCA can be used LCA data and specific ecological assessments in in full, standardized methods for determining enviorder to undertake transparent and robust evaluaronmental impacts and reliable data must be used, tions of their products in which steel plays an imwith the data collected according to largely harmoportant role, and to communicate this information. nized factors. Numerous experts in the voestalpine Already much legislation and various regulations divisions and at corporate level are involved in coordemand transparent and verifiable information on dinating data collection and evaluation, as well as inthe environmental impacts in the individual life cycle troducing and applying shared standards. phases, or are starting to require this information. In a circular economy the integrated approach is a key By participating in international research projects aspect of sustainable products. and international expert committees, for example, standardization, and expert groups, etc., voestalpine As a means of meeting these requirements, can take part in and help shape the development of voestalpine works directly with customers, for examexisting methods and new approaches to ecological ple, in the automotive industry, construction industry, product evaluations. and the infrastructure sector, to make available meaningful and reliable LCA information and ecoA major challenge faced by voestalpine as a globlogical assessments. ally active company is the multitude of laws, standards and regulations. Here significant harmoniFurthermore, voestalpine has published environmenzation efforts are required in terms of applications, tal product declarations (EPD) for selected products, industries, as well as countries. voestalpine actively prepared in accordance with uniform rules and indeparticipates in various working groups, for example, pendently checked, which objectively present their at EUROFER and worldsteel, in drawing up meaningenvironmental characteristics. ful and objectifiable measured values and uniform guidelines. By taking this comprehensive and holistic approach it is possible to demonstrate the advantages of steel as a material with respect to its almost limitless service life, to define options for optimizing production processes, and to develop product innovations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 85 12. EMPLOYEES Highest quality and innovation can only be achieved with excellently educated and highly motivated employees. For that reason voestalpine places great value in a respectful corporate culture, which reflects the diversity and individuality of our employees and their qualifications, and which is mirrored in the guiding principles of the CR strategy. Corporate culture Training and continuing education We create a respectful corporate culture in Targeted measures are implemented to supwhich we support and encourage trust, diverport voestalpine employees in gaining qualifisity, self-determination, and personal responsications which will widen their career opportun­ bility. To this effect the voestalpine culture, as a ities. Furthermore, we regard both the training symbol of our Group-wide identity, is constantly of young people and lifelong learning as longdeveloping. term determinants of the company's success. Diversity We value the individual character of all our employees and their abilities, irrespective of gender, age, background, religion, sexual orientation, or any impairment, and create the preconditions for equal treatment, health promotion, and work which reflects the various phases of life. 86 12. Employees 12.1 EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE As of the reporting date of March 31, 2018, the and 3,868 temporary employees, this number voestalpine Group had a global workforce of rises to 51,621 FTEs (full time equivalents). 47,603 employees. Including 1,301 apprentices DEVELOPMENT OF THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Persons (excl. apprentices, headcount) per business year 43,270 43,164 45,046 45,866 47,603 50,000 25,000 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 STRUCTURE OF THE WORKFORCE ACCORDING TO TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT (without full time employees) per business year 5,000 4,172 3,868 4,405 3,728 3,879 3,613 3,825 3,680 3,213 3,389 2,500 1,401 1,407 1,377 1,320 1,301 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Temporary personnel (FTEs) Apprentices (headcount) Part-time employees (headcount) 88 12. Employees 12.1.1 EMPLOYMENT ACCORDING TO COUNTRIES AND REGIONS voestalpine is active with around 500 Group Austria. More than half of all employees (54.1%) companies and locations on 5 continents in 50 work at locations outside Austria. countries. 45.9% of employees are based in 5.5% USA 4.1% Brazil 10.0% Other Countries 45.9% Austria 16.7% Germany 3.0% Netherlands 2.6% Sweden 1.8% France 1.3% Great Britain 1.3% Belgium 3.9% China 1.1% Poland 1.7% Romania 1.1% Mexico CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 89 12. Employees voestalpine sees it as a duty to live up to its terms of recruitment, voestalpine enjoys the social responsibilities at each of its sites. particular advantage of being regarded as an Because of the number of jobs and employment attractive employer in its local job markets. structure, it is natural that employees at each site are also predominantly local residents. In 0.8% 0.8% Africa Rest of Europe 11.9% America 7.2% Asia 0.5% 78.8% Australia and Oceania European Union voestalpine employees speak a multitude of other languages. For example, the Code of languages, and for that reason the most imConduct, the Corporate Responsibility Factportant publications are issued in German and sheet, and the employee magazine are all availEnglish, and also translated into a number of able in a total of 14 languages. 90 12. Employees 12.1.2 JOB TENURE AND FLUCTUATION As in past years, in the business year 2017/18 of five years or fewer, due to the constantly inthe largest group of employees within the creasing number of employees. voestalpine Group is those with a job tenure JOB TENURE As of the reporting date March 31, 2018 10.5% 6.0% 26 – 35 years 36 years or more 14.6% 36.1% 16 – 25 years 5 years or less 32.8% 6 – 15 years During the past business year the fluctuation job vacancy was 29. Over the past years this rate for employment terminated by the emfigure has continuously risen, and demonstrates ployee or by mutual agreement was 6.8%. In voestalpine's attractiveness as an employer. 2017/18 the number of applications for every 12.1.3 AGE STRUCTURE OF THE EMPLOYEES As of March 31, 2018, the average age of table shows the average age by employment employees in the Group was 41.1. The following relationship and gender: AVERAGE AGE OF THE EMPLOYEES per business year 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Workers 40.4 40.4 40.5 40.5 40.4 Salaried employees 42.0 42.1 42.3 42.2 42.4 Women 39.9 39.7 39.8 39.5 39.7 Men 41.1 41.3 41.4 41.4 41.3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 91 12. Employees 12.2 ATTRACTIVENESS AS AN EMPLOYER 12.2.1 EMPLOYEE SURVEY voestalpine conducts employee surveys every communication, career development, and identhree years. The last survey took place in 2016. tification/employer. The next employee survey is Concrete measures were implemented based set to take place in 2019. on the results, in the areas of information & 12.2.2 EMPLOYER BRANDING For voestalpine, employer branding means posiactivities in order to enhance voestalpine’s emtioning itself proactively as an attractive employer brand, for example, collaborations with ployer. This enables it to acquire new emplo(primarily technical) universities, participation in yees who are the best and the brightest in varicareer fairs, and sponsoring. ous specialist areas, and to retain existing staff. We can drive innovation and compete successA strong presence on all of the relevant fully in our markets only if we have committed online and social media channels as well as employees who are experts in their fields. In addiactive reporting about the company increase tion to internal measures, we are also undervoestalpine’s visibility among target groups. taking numerous external personnel marketing 12.3 EQUAL TREATMENT Over 51,000 employees (FTE) work around ethnic background, religion or belief, disabilities, the world within the voestalpine Group. Each age, sexual orientation, and identity. This declaand every employee is valuable and must be ration and corresponding measures create a respected for their individual abilities. climate of acceptance and mutual trust. As laid out in the chapter on “Respect and integrity” With the signing of the Diversity Charter by in the voestalpine Code of Conduct, the Group voestalpine CEO Dr. Wolfgang Eder in February does not tolerate any form of discrimination. 2018, the Group demonstrated its approach toward diversity and equal treatment. voestalpine respects everyone with whom it has a relationship (employees, customers, business partners), irrespective of gender, skin color, nationality, 92 12. Employees 12.3.1 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES In Austria, companies with more than 25 employlected outside Austria. voestalpine fulfills all ees are required to make jobs available for statutory obligations at all of its locations in this persons with disabilities. For reasons relating to respect. data protection and privacy, information about the possible disability of employees is not col12.3.2 WOMEN AT voestalpine As of the reporting date of March 31, 2018, the bility, including forepersons but excluding mempercentage of women in the workforce in the bers of the Management Board) was 12.3%. Group as a whole was 13.8%. The percentage There was a slight rise in the share of women of female workers is 4.9%, and female salaried in all these areas and, at 47.4%, the share of employees 28.8%. As of March 31, 2018, the female apprentices completing non-technical percentage of female executives (salaried emtraining (Female apprentices “other”) is particuployees who hold positions with staff responsilarly high. PERCENTAGE OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES per business year 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Total of all female 13.4% 13.3% 13.1% 13.5% 13.8% employees Female 10.6% 11.0% 12.0% 11.5% 12.3% executives Salaried female 28.4% 28.4% 28.4% 28.5% 28.8% employees Female workers 4.3% 4.1% 3.9% 4.5% 4.9% Female apprentices 8.6% 12.1% 11.8% 12.4% 13.5% (technical training) Female apprentices 49.5% 55.9% 55.2% 50.8% 47.4% (other) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 93 12. Employees 12.4 TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION Highly qualified staff are a prerequisite for innoThe total cost for personnel development in the vation and quality, and consequently for the business year 2017/18 was over EUR 54 million. success of voestalpine. Targeted measures are 75.6% of employees took part in training and implemented to support voestalpine employees continuing education measures. In the business in gaining qualifications which will widen their year 2017/18, Group-wide voestalpine employcareer opportunities. ees underwent a total of 791,589 hours of training, an average of 22 hours per trained employee. 12.4.1 MANAGEMENT TRAINING In the business year 2017/18, a total of 254 are specialist topics, strategy, change manageexecutives from 24 countries began the multiment, leadership, compliance, and organizatiphase “value:program”; the share of female on. participants was 15.7%. The principle focuses 12.4.2 PROFESSIONAL ACADEMIES In addition to proven programs for executives onal qualification of salaried and wage-earning and future executives, there are numerous interstaff that teach specialist skills based on specific nal training programs for the ongoing professirequirements. EARLY CAREER PROGRAM IN NORTH AMERICA Based on the successful Young Professionals Training have the potential to take on more senior positions program developed for China, in 2017 voestalpine and/or management roles. The program consists started a similar program in North America. After of three modules, each lasting three days, held at China, the NAFTA region (USA, Canada, Mexico) is different locations in the USA. the largest growth market for voestalpine. However, it is not intended to grow only market share, but They include the transfer of know-how about also identification and a feeling of belonging for the voestalpine, such as the Group's organizational colleagues in North American Group companies. structure, products, markets and customers. Furthermore, the voestalpine strategy with a focus on North In the business year 2017/18 voestalpine was repreAmerica is addressed, and internal rules and regulasented in North America by all four divisions at tions such as complying with the Code of Conduct around 70 locations, and with a workforce of almost discussed. The participants also receive training 4,000 employees. They generated revenue of almost in business skills (communication, presentation, EUR 1.8 billion in this region, a total which is forecast negotiation techniques and project management) to grow to EUR 3 billion by 2020. and have the opportunity to network with colleagues. Participants are taught by (inter)national trainers and The Early Career Program is aimed at sales and internal experts. technical employees in voestalpine companies who 94 12. Employees 12.5 APPRENTICES As of the reporting date of March 31, 2018, voestalpine regards it as a clear duty to invest in 1,301 apprentices were being trained in around training highly-qualified young workers. In addi50 skilled trades, the majority (59.5%) at location to excellent specialist training, stress is also tions in Austria. 21.6% were being trained in laid on developing personal and social comGermany under the dual system. As a result of petences. The Group currently invests over EUR their demand-oriented training, almost 100% 70,000 in training each apprentice. of the young workers who have successfully completed their apprenticeship are hired as permanent employees. TOP PLACES IN COMPETITIONS The 40 voestalpine companies which currently train ring company in Linz, impressed the judges to win first apprentices are extremely proud of their trainees who place in a 2017 state apprenticeship competition in regularly win local, national, and even international Upper Austria. prizes. voestalpine apprentices are also successful internaFor example, two apprentices from voestalpine Krems tionally. The WorldSkills professional championships GmbH won the first and third place in the industrial in Abu Dhabi may not have brought places on the category in the apprentice competition run by Lower podium, but it did result in a medallion for excellence. Austria's Economic Chamber. Over 1,200 participants from all over the world fought to win the title in 51 different career categories. The Gold and silver went to two voestalpine apprentices voestalpine team was chosen after preselections at in the Metal Engineering Division who demonstrated national level, and consisted of three young skilled outstanding performances in the Styrian state workers from voestalpine Stahl GmbH in Linz, and apprenticeship competition for metals technology. a trainee at voestalpine Automotive Components The two prize winners are apprentices with voestalpine Bunschoten B.V. in the Netherlands. Weichensysteme GmbH in Zeltweg, and voestalpine Böhler Welding Austria GmbH in Kapfenberg. The voestalpine training centers also won prizes: in October 2017 Böhler Edelstahl in Kapfenberg, Five youngsters from voestalpine Automotive Austria, was awarded the national prize for the Components Schwäbisch Gmünd GmbH & Co. KG best apprentice training organization, and was acwere selected as the best apprentices in Ostwürttemclaimed for its pioneering training concept. The jury berg, collecting prizes for their efforts in November were impressed by projects such as the digital training 2017. The 50 skilled trades taught at voestalpine factory which is already preparing voestalpine cover everything from chemical laboratory technician apprentices for future workplace digitalization. and metal technician to careers in gastronomy. Here again, an apprentice at Caseli, the voestalpine cateCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 95 12. Employees 12.6 STAHLSTIFTUNG The Stahlstiftung (Steel Foundation) was In the business year 2017/18, more than 88% founded in Linz, Austria in 1987, as an employee of the participants looking for work were able foundation. It's task was and remains to provide to find new professional perspectives with the former employees of the previous VOEST-ALPINE help of the Stahlstiftung. As of the reporting Group, as well as employees from a number of date March 31, 2018, a total of 374 individuals companies outside of the Group, who had to were receiving assistance from the Stahlstiftung, leave due to a crisis, with the opportunity of proof whom 56.7% were former employees of the fessional reorientation through up to four years voestalpine Group. The total number of Stahlof training and continuing education courses in stiftung active members in the business year order to compensate for, or at least alleviate, 2017/18 was 676, 12.2% fewer than the prethe impact of the job loss. vious year’s figure (770 persons). 12.7 EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION PLAN voestalpine has had an employee particiabout 22.8 million shares which, due to the genpation plan since 2001, and it has been coneral bundling of voting rights, represent 12.9% tinually expanded since that date. Today the of the company’s share capital. In addition, employee foundation is the second largest the foundation also manages around 2 million voestalpine shareholder. In addition to all private shares owned by current and former the employees in Austria, personnel in Great employees; this corresponds to about 1.1% of Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, the voting shares. Belgium, the Czech Republic, Italy, Switzerland, and Romania hold company shares. As of March In total, as of March 31, 2018, 14% of 31, 2018, roughly 25,100 employees have a voestalpine AG's share capital is owned by emstake in voestalpine AG through the voestalpine ployees. Mitarbeiterbeteiligung Privatstiftung; they hold 96 12. Employees CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 97 13. health & safety The independent corporate Health & Safety Management department was established in 2015 and reports directly to a voestalpine AG Management Board member. It is run by the Chief health & safety Officer and encourages cooperation across the Group. The department works intensively on introducing uniform standards and procedures for reducing injury frequency. Our health & safety guidelines: The following minimum safety standards have been defined for the voestalpine Group: Human safety and health are key fundamental values at voestalpine and enjoy the highest pri>> Each company has its own safety ority. organization. >> Executives undertake safety audits. We work to further reduce injury frequency, and >> Near misses are reported, documented to raise the health rate of all voestalpine Group and the appropriate measures taken. employees, wherever they work and whatever their function. A web tool is used to examine the effectiveness of the corporate minimum safety standards. We regard Group-wide minimum safety standards as the basis for a successful health & The voestalpine health & safety organization is safety corporate culture. developing a health & safety culture intended to be practiced by employees throughout the Group. As well as the Chief health & safety Officer, the Board, and the Committee, managers have been appointed for this role in each division. Safety projects designed to avoid accidents and strengthen safety awareness have been started in all the divisions. 98 13. health & safety 13.1 LOST INJURY FREQUENCY RATE The two most important key performance indioperates, a uniform definition has been estabcators which are being uniformly tracked by the lished at the Group level. The figures captured companies throughout the Group are the Lost from the business year 2015/16 onwards are Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and the health governed by this definition. These therefore deviquota. ate from the earlier figures. The graphic shows that due to consistently applying divisional h&s The LTIFR captures the number of work-related measures the number of work-related accidents accidents per million working hours which result has gone down continuously in the past years. in more than three lost days. There were no fatal work-related accidents As the definitions of reportable work-related acciinvolving voestalpine employees across the dents, lost days, and lost working hours differ entire Group in business year 2017/18. widely in the countries in which voestalpine DEVELOPMENT OF THE LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIRF) As of March 31 Implementation of 30 the h&s structure -22.4 % 25 22.5 at the Group 20.7 20.4 level* 20 16.1 14.8 15 12.5 10 5 0 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 *Change in definition of the key figures 100 13. health & safety POSITIVE EXAMPLES OF LOWERING THE LOST INJURY FREQUENCY RATE At the voestalpine Safety Days in Linz in March 2018 5. Metal Engineering Division: Safety course: ten the safety specialists were invited to share their expestations covering topics related to workplace riences in implementing minimum safety standards. safety, first aid, and health promotion. Matching The event focused on learning from one another. exercises for personal safety equipment, Seven positive examples from across the divisions perception exercises, raising awareness of the were highlighted by the Group's health & safety importance of our health. Committee. 6. Metal Forming Division: Ideas management: all ideas incorporated into online software, info 1. Steel Division: The “selbst.verständlich” event with screens provide employees with workplace safety five focuses (injuries to hands and fingers, slings, information. think about joints, talk on workplace safety, short 7. Metal Forming Division: Practicing safety play entitled “2 minutes before work”) begins at the top: workplace safety as the first 2. High Performance Metals Division: EH&S item in technical discussions. Site management toolbox: harmonizing EH&S documentation, holds return to work discussion after a reportable central document storage, real-time evaluation accident. Inspections always together with the 3. High Performance Metals Division: The use of department head. robots: automation with grinding and welding robots 4. Metal Engineering Division: “Bewusst sicher” campaign: program to introduce a zero-accident culture involving all hierarchical levels CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 101 13. health & safety 13.2 HEALTH QUOTA The health quota indicates the percentage DEVELOPMENT OF THE of the target working hours during which the HEALTH QUOTA employees were actually present during a preAs of March 31 defined period. The company focuses on the presence of all workers and salaried employees. 96.0 95.9 96.0 100% A high health quota is not only positive for the employees, but also for the company. It is an expression of an effective health policy, and the 50% company's responsible and respectful attitude towards its employees. Whilst making every effort to achieve a high quota, care should be taken that employees don't come to work while ill. 0% 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 13.3 OHSAS 18001 A large number of voestalpine Group companies example. As OHSAS 18001 certifications are already have certified occupational safety and being rolled out throughout the entire Group, health management systems. All of the commore and more companies will be certified panies of the Steel Division and the Metal according to this occupational safety and Engineering Division have already been certihealth management. fied in accordance with OHSAS 18001, for 13.4 WORKPLACE SAFETY AND CONTRACTORS/OUTSIDE COMPANIES voestalpine also endeavors to ensure that the have been issued in this regard which must be life and health of employees of third-party comcomplied with by employees of contractors and panies are also protected. Binding guidelines third-party companies. 102 13. health & safety CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 103 14. SOCIETY The companies of voestalpine AG engage with the needs of local communities at each of their locations by supporting diverse projects and organizations. The broad spectrum of activities ranges from social issues to culture, and sport. voestalpine often steps in as a major donor when Another priority is supporting e-mobility, in parnatural disasters cause significant damage to ticular by cooperating with Formula E. Starting communities close to its locations. Most recently with the 2018/2019 season, voestalpine will be a the Group assisted employees and local resipartner to the ABB FIA Formula E Championship dents at the plant in Corpus Christi, Texas, after in its European races for an initial period of two the devastating impact of Hurricane Harvey. years. The world's first fully-electric street racing series will be run in European cities including In the cultural sector, in addition to a series of Paris, Berlin, Rome, and Monte Carlo as the regional activities the focus currently lies in “voestalpine European Races”. supporting the Cleveland Orchestra, Vienna's Burgtheater, and the “Klassik am Dom” concert series in Linz. 104 15. APPENDIX 15.1 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization p. 8 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services pp. 16-18 Location of the organization's 102-3 p. 12 headquarters Countries where the organization 102-4 pp. 12-13; AR pp. 6-7, 196-208 operates 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form pp. 15-16 102-6 Markets served pp. 14-15 102-7 Scale of the reporting operation p. 14; AR pp. 2, 8-9 102-8 Employee structure pp. 88-91 6 102-9 Organization's supply chain pp. 47-50 AR pp. 107-108 Significant changes regarding the Ownership and structure of 102-10 organization's size, structure, ownership, voestalpine are largely unchanged. or its supply chain Changes in the scope of consolidation are depicted in the AR. How the precautionary approach or 102-11 pp. 67, 70; AR pp. 55-59 principle is addressed voestalpine is a participant of the UN Global Compact and a Externally developed charters, principles, 102-12 signatory of the worldsteel sustainor initiatives able development charter and diversity charter. Memberships in associations and 102-13 pp. 114-117 advocacy organizations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker pp. 6-7 106 15. Appendix GRI code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, standards, 102-16 pp. 26-32, 52-55 10 and norms of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure AR pp. 10-13 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 20 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 62 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 20 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pp. 22-25 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pp. 22-25 Reporting Practice Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 p. 9; AR pp. 196-208 financial statements Defining report content and topic 102-46 pp. 9, 25 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics p. 25 102-48 Restatements of information p. 10 There was no significant change in 102-49 Changes in reporting the list of material topics. 102-50 Reporting period p. 9 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 10 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 10 Contact point for questions regarding 102-53 p. 120 the report Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 p. 8 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index pp. 106-112 There was no external assurance 102-56 External assurance of the indicators and information disclosed in the report. 108 15. Appendix GRI code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 200 series ECONOMIC 201 Economic Performance 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 34-40 7 Direct economic value generated and 201-1 AR pp. 30-40, 84-85 distributed Financial implications and other risks 201-2 pp. 34-40 7 and opportunities due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and 201-3 AR pp. 147-152 other retirement plans 204 Procurement Practices 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 42-47 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 47 205 Anti-corruption 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 52-58 10 Communication and training about 205-2 p. 57 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures 206 Anti-competitive Behavior 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 52-58 Legal actions for anti-competitive behav206-1 AR pp. 153-154 ior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 109 15. Appendix GRI code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 300 series ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS 301 Materials 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 70-72, 81 8 301-2 Recycled input materials used p. 81 8 302 Energy 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 70-72, 83 7, 8 Energy consumption within the 302-1 pp. 83-84 7, 8 organization 302-3 Energy intensity p. 84 8 303 Water 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 70-72, 80 7, 8 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source p. 80 7, 8 Water sources significantly affected by 303-2 p. 80 8 water withdrawal 305 Emissions 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 34-40, 70-72, 74 7, 8, 9 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions pp. 74-75 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions pp. 74-75 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions pp. 74-75 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 14 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions pp. 38-40 8, 9 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 305-7 pp. 74, 76-79 7, 8 and other significant air emissions 110 15. Appendix GRI code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 306 Effluents and Waste 103 Management approach disclosures p. 70-72, 80-81 8 Water discharge by quality and 306-1 p. 80 8 destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method pp. 81-82 8 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 42-50 8 pp. 48-50 All new and existing raw materials New suppliers that were screened using 308-1 suppliers for steel production were 8 environmental criteria screened according to environmental criteria. 400 series SOCIAL STANDARDS 401 Employment pp. 86, 92 103 Management approach disclosures http://www.voestalpine.com/group/ 6 en/jobs/working-at-voestalpine/ New employee hires and employee 401-1 p. 91 6 turnover 403 Occupational Health and Safety 103 Management approach disclosures p. 98 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 403-2 pp. 100-102 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 404 Training and Education 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 86, 94-95 6 Average hours of training per year per 404-1 p. 94 6 employee Programs for upgrading employee skills 404-2 pp. 94-96 6 and transition assistance programs CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 111 15. Appendix GRI code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 86, 92 6 Diversity of governance bodies and 405-1 p. 93; AR. pp. 10-13 6 employees Freedom of Association and 407 Collective Bargaining 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 60-62 3 Operations and suppliers in which 407-1 the right to freedom of association and p. 62 3 collective bargaining may be at risk 414 Supplier Social Assessment 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 42-50 2 pp. 48-50 New suppliers that were screened using All new and existing raw materials 414-1 2 social criteria suppliers were screened according to social criteria 415 Public Policy 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 52-58 10 In the period under review, voestalpine did not make any 415-1 Political contributions 10 donations or other contributions to politicians or political parties. LEGEND AR Annual Report 2017/18 Fully reported UNGC As a participant of the UN Global Compact, voestalpine is obligated to publish an annual Partially reported progress report. The column with the designation UNGC indicates about which of the ten 112 principles the respective description provides information 15. Appendix UN GLOBAL COMPACT– THE 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of interprecautionary approach to nationally proclaimed human environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Principle 2: make sure that they are not greater environmental complicit in human rights abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development LABOR STANDARDS and diffusion of environmentally Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the friendly technologies. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right ANTI-CORRUPTION to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of corruption in all its forms, including forced and compulsory labor; extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 113 15. Appendix 15.2 MEMBERSHIPS voestalpine AG and its Group companies are members of numerous associations, clubs, and interest groups, and participate in working groups or work on projects through their employees. The following provides a selection of memberships that are relevant from the perspective of Corporate Responsibility. American Society of Safety Engineers (ASSE) USA ARA Association (Altstoff Recycling Austria Verein) Austria Associacao Serrana de Recursos Humanos (ARH Serrana) Brazil Association for the Promotion of the Institute for Environmental Law, Austria Austria (Verein zur Förderung des Instituts für Umweltrecht, Österreich) Association of Austrian Safety Engineers Austria (Verband Österreichische Sicherheits-Ingenieure, VÖSI) Association of Friends and Alumni of the University of Technology, Vienna, Austria Austria (Verband der Freunde und Absolventen der TU Wien, Österreich) Association of Integrated Communication Austria (Verband für integrierte Kommunikation, VIKOM) Association of Women in the Metal Industries (AWMI) USA Association to Promote Research and Innovation Austria (Verein zur Förderung von Forschung und Innovation, VFFI) Austrian Advertising Research Association Austria (Österreichische Werbewissenschaftliche Gesellschaft, WWG) Austrian Association for Quality Assurance Austria (Österreichische Vereinigung für Qualitätssicherung) Austrian Energy Consumers Association Austria (Österreichischer Energiekonsumenten-Verband, ÖEKV) Austrian Mining Association (Bergmännischer Verband Österreichs) Austria Austrian Research Promotion Agency Austria (Österreichische Forschungsförderungsgesellschaft, FFG) Austrian Society for Environment and Technology Austria (Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik, ÖGUT) Austrian Society for the History of Mining and Metallurgy Austria (Montanhistorischer Verein Österreich) Austrian Society of Occupational Medicine Austria (Österreichische Gesellschaft für Arbeitsmedizin, ÖGA) 114 15. Appendix Austrian Standards Institute Austria AUSTROLAB – Association Representing the Interests of Accredited Conformity Austria Assessment Bodies (Verein zur Wahrung der Interessen von akkreditierten Konformitätsbewertungsstellen) B.C. Human Resources Management Association Canada Belgian Research Center of the Technological Industry (WTCM) Belgium (Forschungsgesellschaft für die technologische Industrie) British Standards Institution (BSI) Great Britain Business Club for Railways Hungary Certified Human Resources Professionals Canada Christian Doppler Society (CDG – Christian Doppler Gesellschaft) Austria Cologne consulting company for employer-funded retirement plans Germany (Kölner Spezial-Beratungs-GmbH für betriebliche Altersversorgung) COMET / K1-MET Competence Center for Metallurgical and Environmental Austria Process Development (COMET / K1-MET Kompetenzzentrum für metallurgische und umwelttechnische Verfahrensentwicklung) Compliance Link Great Britain Compliance Practice – Austrian Compliance Network Austria (Compliance Praxis – Compliance Netzwerk Österreich) Council for Research and Technology for Upper Austria Austria (Rat für Forschung und Technologie für Oberösterreich, RFT OÖ) Donors' Association for the Promotion of the Sciences and Humanities in Germany Germany (Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft e.V.) EMAS Austria Employers Association of the Matraalia Area Hungary EUROFER – European Confederation of Iron and Steel Industries Belgium (Europäische Wirtschaftsvereinigung der Eisenund Stahlindustrie) European Committee for Standardization (CEN) Belgium CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 115 15. Appendix European Steel Technology Platform (ESTEP) Belgium EXBA – Exchange for Business Angels Germany Federal Association of Energy Consumers Germany (Bundesverband der Energieabnehmer) Federal Association of Human Resources Managers Germany (Bundesverband der Personalmanager e.V.) German Association for Occupational Pensions Germany (Arbeitsgemeinschaft für betriebliche Altersversorgung e.V., ABA) German Association for People Management Germany (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung e.V., DGFP) German Iron and Steel Institute (Verein Deutscher Eisenhüttenleute) Germany Hong Kong People Management Association Hong Kong HSS Forum – International High Speed Steel Research Forum Germany Industry Pension Association (Industrie-Pensions-Verein e.V.) Germany Informal Platform of Austrian Labor Foundations Austria (Informelle Plattform österreichischer Arbeitsstiftungen) Institute of Safety Management USA Institution for Personnel and Organizational Development Austria (Institut für Personalund Organisationsentwicklung, IPO) International Metallographic Society (IMS) Austria Kepler Society JKU Austria LIMAK – Austrian Business School GmbH Austria MUFG Research and Consulting Association Japan National Association of Railway Business Women USA National Employers Organisation of South Africa (NEASA) South Africa Photovoltaic Austria Federal Association (Bundesverband Photovoltaic Austria) Austria Physio Austria – Federal Confederation for Physical Therapy Austria (Bundesverband der PhysiotherapeutInnen Österreichs) Platform for Innovation Management (Plattform für Innovationsmanagement) Public Relations Association Austria (Public Relations Verband Austria, PRVA) Rail Forum Europe, RFE Belgium Railway Business Forum Poland Railway Engineering-Maintenance Suppliers Association, REMSA USA Railway Industry Association, RIA Great Britain Regional Club Upper Austria of the Austrian Automobile, Austria Motorcycle and Touring Club (Landesclubzentrale OÖ) Research Association for Steel Application Germany (Forschungsvereinigung Stahlanwendung e.V., FOSTA) 116 15. Appendix Research Fund for Coal and Steel, RFCS Belgium respACT – Austrian Business Council for Sustainable Development Austria Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, RoSPA Great Britain Shanghai Institute of Labor and Social Security China Singapore National Employers Federation Singapore Society for Human Resources Management, SHRM USA Society of Friends of the Academy of Sciences Austria (Förderverein der Akademie der Wissenschaften) Solar Electric Power Association, SEPA USA Steel Institute VDEh (Stahlinstitut VDEh) Germany Sustainable Process Industry through Resources and Energy Efficiency, SPIRE Belgium The Austrian Society for Metallurgy and Materials (ASMET) Austria The Women Secretaries & Administrative Professionals Association of Thailand Thailand Umbrella Association of the Occupational Medicine Centers of Austria Austria (Dachverband der arbeitsmedizinischen Zentren Österreichs) United Nations Global Compact, UNGC USA University Management Club Linz (Uni Management Club Linz, UNIMC) Austria Upper Austrian Institute for Economic Promotion, Austria Forum for Work & Human Resources (WIFI OÖ GmbH, Forum Arbeit & Personal) Vocational Education and Rehabilitation Center Austria (Berufliches Bildungsund Rehabilitationszentrum, BBRZ) WingNet Vienna University of Technology (WingNet TU Wien) Austria Working Group of the Upper Austrian Labor Foundations Austria (ARGE OÖ Arbeitsstiftungen) worldsteel – World Steel Association Belgium CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 117 15. Appendix 15.3 GLOSSARY CFSI Reporting guidelines for conflict resources (Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative) CO2-e CO2 equivalent, unit for standardizing climate impact of various greenhouse gases Conflict-free “Conflict-free” raw materials as defined by the Dodd-Frank Act Conflict minerals Raw materials mined or extracted in conflict or high-risk regions Corporate Governance: Rule categories pursuant to the Austrian Corporate Governance Code: L rules C rules L rule: (legal requirement): The rule is based on mandatory statutory R rules provisions C rule (comply or explain): Rule should be complied with; any deviation must be explained and a reason provided in order to be in compliance with the Code R rule (recommendation): Rule that is in the nature of a recommendation; non-compliance need not be disclosed or explained (Source: Austrian Corporate Governance Code, version July 2015, Austrian Working Group for Corporate Governance, www.corporate-governance.at) Dodd-Frank Act US Federal Act obliging companies to avoid using raw materials sourced from conflict regions EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes Earnings before taxes, equity interests of non-controlling shareholders, and financial result EBITDA Earnings Before Interest and Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization Earnings before taxes, equity interests of non-controlling shareholders, financial result, and amortization EMAS ECO Management and Audit Scheme Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe on the voluntary participation of organizations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme FTE Full-time equivalents; figure indicating number of full-time positions in the Group, calculated to take into account part-time employees on a pro-rata basis corresponding to their working hours HBI (Hot Briquetted Iron) / Direct reduction of iron ore by means of reduction gas; the product is solid DRI (Direct Reduced Iron) sponge iron (DRI) or sponge iron pellets (HBI) technology Headcount Actual number of individual employees Load per annum The amount of certain substances that are introduced into wastewater or air, aggregated over the course of the year Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Systematic analysis of the environmental impact of products during their entire life cycle, taking economic, social, and technical aspects into account, in order to achieve an objective assessment MPa Megapascal, unit of tensile strength Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions categories in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol USP Unique selling proposition, distinguishes a product from its competitors 118 15. Appendix 15.4 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT Translation of the independent assurance report – for the original see the German version Independent Assurance Report on the Combined Consolidated Non-financial Report 2017/18 We have performed an independent assurance engagement in connection with the combined consolidated nonfinancial report 2017/18 (the „CR Report“) of voestalpine AG, („the Company“). Management’s Responsibility The Company’s management is responsible for the proper preparation of the CR report in accordance with the reporting criteria. The Company applies the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) as reporting criteria. The responsibility of the legal representatives of the company includes the selection and application of reasonable methods for sustainability reporting as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability reporting as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures that are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the sustainability reporting in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to state whether, based on our procedures performed, anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CR report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option „Core“) in all material respects. Our engagement was conducted in conformity with Austrian Standards for independent assurance engagements (KFS/PG 13) and in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) applicable to such engagements. These standards require us to comply with our professional requirements including independence requirements, and to plan and perform the engagement to enable us to express a conclusion with limited assurance, taking into account materiality. An independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with limited assurance is substantially less in scope than an independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with reasonable assurance, thus providing reduced assurance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment and included the following procedures in particular: • Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, which are responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries of the Company; • Risk assessment, including a media analysis on relevant information concerning the sustainability performance of the Company in the reporting period; • Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the disclosures on environmental, social and employees matters, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery, including the consolidation of data; • Inquiries of personnel on corporate level resopnsible for providing and consolidating and for carrying out internal control procedures concerning the disclosures on concepts, risks, due diligence processes, results and performance indicators; • Inspection of selected internal and external documents in order to determine whether qualitative and quantitative information is supported by sufficient evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced manner; • Analytical evaluation of the data and trend explanations of quantitative disclosures, submitted by all sites for consolidation at corporate level; • Evaluation of the consistency of the requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) applicable for the Company and the GRI Standards (Option “Core”) with disclosures and indicators in the report; • Evaluation of the overall presentation of the disclosures. 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 119 15. Appendix The procedures that we performed do not constitute an audit or a review. Our engagement did not focus on revailing and clarifying of illegal acts such as fraud, nor did it focus on assessing the efficiency of management. Furthermore, it is not part of our engagement to review future-related disclosures and statements from external information sources and expert opinions. This assurance report is issued based on the assurance agreement concluded with the Company. Our responsibility and liability towards the Company and any third party is subject to paragraph 7 of the General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CR Report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) in all material respects. Vienna, 31 August 2018 Grant Thornton Unitreu GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Univ. Doz. Dr. Walter Platzer m.p. Austrian Chartered Accountant 2 120 15. Appendix CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 121 Contact & Imprint CONTACT & IMPRINT Contact voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility T. +43/50304/15-6599 cr@voestalpine.com voestalpine AG, Investor Relations T. +43/50304/15-3152 ir@voestalpine.com voestalpine AG, Corporate Communications T. +43/50304/15-2090 mediarelations@voestalpine.com www.voestalpine.com www.voestalpine.com/group/en/group/corporate-responsibility/ Imprint Owner and media proprietor: voestalpine AG, voestalpine-Strasse 1, 4020 Linz Publisher and editorial staff: voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility, T. +43/50304/15-6599 cr@voestalpine.com, www.voestalpine.com Design and implementation: 7 Punkt Communication Group GmbH, www.7punkt.at Printed by: Kontext Druckerei GmbH, www.kontextdruck.at 2018 122 Contact & Imprint CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 123 EN voestalpine AG voestalpine-Strasse 1 4020 Linz, Austria T. +43/50304/15-0 F. +43/50304/55-Ext www.voestalpine.com
