OUR RESPONSIBILITY – OUR COMMITMENT Sustainability Report of the tesa Group 2017 About this report This sustainability report offers our stakeholders and the general public insight into our worldwide commitment and involvement and the economic, ecological, and social impacts of our corporate activities in 2017. The report presents an overview of key measures, results, and indicators across five fields: • Responsible corporate management • Multifaceted approach to supporting employees • Consistent environmental protection • Product responsibility • Social commitment and involvement We implement a large number of projects at our 52 affiliates worldwide, year after year. This report is limited to a representative selection of current initiatives. It focuses both on the topics and areas that are of material importance to our business and those that have a major impact on our business activities. To identify these topics, we performed what is known as a materiality analysis. The subjects identified as being of material importance were climate protection and CO2 emissions, internal succession and leadership, occupational safety, prevention of anticompetitive practices, human rights in the supply chain, and product safety. UN Global Compact and German CSR Directive Implementation Act This report also meets our obligation under the United Nations Global Compact to provide information on our advances every year. As a member of the Global Compact, tesa is committed to upholding ten universal principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. The 2017 fiscal year marks the first time that our parent company, Beiersdorf AG, is obligated, under the German CSR Directive Implementation Act, to supplement the existing financial reporting with information on key non-financial aspects of business activities. We have integrated the non-financial information on tesa, which is part of the non-financial group declaration of Beiersdorf, into this sustainability report. Editorial notes and further information This report is available in German and English. Like all of the versions published in previous years, it is available online at www.tesa.de and www.tesa.com For further information on the subjects of products, the environment, employees, and society, please also visit the “Responsibility” section of our website at www.tesa.com/company/responsibility 2 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 CONTENTS p 2 About this report p 4 Foreword p 5 The tesa business model p 7 Responsible corporate management p 8 Sustainability along the value chain p 9 Strategic action fields p 9 Risk management p 9 Organizational structure p 9 UN Global Compact p 10 Good governance p 13 Responsibility in the supply chain p 14 Multifaceted approach to supporting employees p 14 Personnel policy and personnel strategy p 17 Occupational health and safety p 20 Consistent environmental protection p 21 Energy efficiency and CO2 reduction p 22 Measures for 2017 p 23 Efficient use of resources p 25 Product responsibility p 26 Social commitment and involvement p 26 Corporate citizenship strategy p 27 Our “tesa connects” program 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 3 FOREWORD “Sustainable thinking is an integral element of our corporate strategy: It guides our actions and drives us to continuously improve.” Dear Reader, Dr. Robert Gereke, CEO of tesa SE As one of the world’s leading adhesive technology compaproducts. In 2010, we launched the tesa ecoLogo® brand, nies, we know how sustainable bonds are created. In an exwhich includes products such as adhesive tape dispensers, tended sense, too, our goal at tesa is to connect things that transparent adhesive tape, and packing tapes, all made pribelong together: social and ecological responsibility on the marily from recycled or natural materials. one hand and economic activity on the other. That is the To continue to grow and evolve as a company, we need foundation on which we offer innovative, high-quality prodcommitted, dedicated, and highly qualified employees. We ucts for our customers. place great emphasis on good management and internal Sustainable thinking is a longstanding tradition at tesa, a succession. To this end, we have developed a standardized fact that is also expressed in our membership in the United global leadership training program for management in reNations Global Compact. We undertook this voluntary comcent years. We were able to further expend on these offermitment in 2006, and ever since then we have pledged to ings in 2017. achieve continuous improvement on key subjects relating to Our goal is to have a positive impact on the world around sustainability. us. Through our “tesa connects” program, we assume reOur corporate responsibility activities focus on four strasponsibility for diverse social matters and the environment tegic action fields: employees, the environment, products, with this aim in mind. Alongside donations, the program foand society. Against the background of the German CSR cuses in particular on volunteer activities by our committed Directive Implementation Act, we reassessed which topics and dedicated employees. This year employees worldwide are of key importance to us in these fields in 2017 (see p. 9). once again engaged voluntarily in more than 50 initiatives On this basis, we can manage and guide our activities even for a good cause. better in the future. We firmly believe that the economy, ecology and social We know that our responsibilities don’t start and end at matters form an inseparable whole. That’s why at tesa, we the plant door. That’s why as early as during the process of plan to continue to work toward stable bonds in the future sourcing our raw materials, we take care to ensure that nat– in our core business and beyond. ural resources are used sparingly and that social standards are observed. We also aim to make our own processes even more ecofriendly. We take various approaches to meet this goal, including focusing on energy conservation and efficient in-house power generation to lower our CO2 emisDr. Robert Gereke sions. We also make targeted investments in sustainable CEO of tesa SE 4 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 THE tesa BUSINESS MODEL in over 100 countries over 2500 employees in Germany operating with 52 affiliates R&D centers in Germany, the U.S., and Asia • 4450 • employees worldwide tesa SE, with its 52 affiliates, is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of self-adhesive products and system solutions for industrial customers and consumers. The Group is a wholly owned affiliate of the Beiersdorf Group. It employs approximately 4,450* people and operates in more than 100 countries. The Group and its affiliates worldwide Solutions and products for industry, craftsmen, and consumers The geographic focus of our business activities is Europe, followed by the regions of Africa, Asia and Australia, and the The tesa business is divided into two segments: In the Americas. In addition to tesa SE, the affiliates in China, the Direct Industries division, which accounts for somewhat United States, Italy, and Singapore are among the largest more than half of sales, tesa supplies specialized system single companies in the tesa Group. We have production solutions directly to industrial customers. The Trade Marfacilities in Germany, Italy, the United States, and China. tesa kets division deals with those markets where customers ob*31.12.2017 has been headquartered in Norderstedt, near Hamburg, tain their market-driven tesa products through retail partners since 2015. or similar channels rather than directly. This includes not 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 5 only the product ranges for private consumers and craftsa competitive edge and ensure its lasting success. Our great men, but also adhesive tapes that are intended for industrial willingness to assume corporate responsibility toward sociand commercial customers and are marketed primarily via ety and the environment also contributes to this. Sustainatechnical retailers. ble thinking and actions are integral parts of our corporate Our brand philosophy and strategy center on dependaculture and are firmly anchored in all of our business probly high quality, high capacity for innovation, and the use of cesses. With an eye to ensuring good, sustainable corpostate-of-the-art technology. We offer our customers effecrate management, we have developed internal standards tive solutions and high-quality products, especially for the such as the tesa Code of Conduct for this, and we emphafollowing areas of application: size compliance with these rules across the entire Group. • tesa supports customers from the automotive, electrical We have also established the tesa Code of Conduct for Supand electronics, print and paper, and construction induspliers, which obligates our business partners to conform to tries with system solutions first and foremost. For the our sustainability standards. electronics industry, for example, we supply adhesive systems for mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets, Procurement markets and overall external and wearables (including smart watches, fitness trackers, conditions and smart glasses). • Our affiliate tesa Labtec GmbH focuses on the developThe range of goods we need to make our products is a ment and production of medicated patches, termed diverse one. Sixty percent of them are what are known as “transdermal therapeutic systems,” for the pharmaceutidirect goods, which go directly into our products. This catecals industry. Its other areas of emphasis include films gory includes items like rubber, chemicals, and backing macontaining an active ingredient that dissolve in the mouth terials such as films and fabrics. The other forty percent are without needing added liquid. indirect goods, which are used indirectly to manufacture our • tesa carries a broad assortment of products for the techproducts. These include machines, buildings, and services. nical trade and continually adds new products and adThe tesa value chain is aligned globally, with Europe and justs its range to the changing needs of professional cusAsia as the largest procurement markets and China as the tomers in fields such as the construction industry. main country of origin. • Under the tesa umbrella brand, we offer consumers in One factor that is hugely important to the quality of our Europe and Latin America an extensive range of innovaproducts – and thus to our ongoing success – is an efficient tive products for use in the home, office, and garden. value chain geared toward not only fulfilling current needs, They include classic tesafilm® along with tesamoll® solubut also anticipating future developments. To meet this retions for heat insulation, Easy Cover® products for paintquirement, we qualify our suppliers on a systematic basis ing and masking applications, mounting tapes for repairs and work to streamline our supply chains through regional and mounting, packing tapes, and household insect conprocurement in the vicinity of our production sites. We entrol products. sure this in various ways, including by relying on local pur• In the craftsmen business segment, tesa focuses on cuschasing teams. They know and observe the local market in tomized product ranges and target group-specific mardetail and are able to make a realistic assessment of the keting concepts for professional craftsmen, such as paintrisks arising from issues like political instability and changes ers and finishers. in local legislation. We also minimize regional risks by developing alternative suppliers. Strategic alignment In addition to regional changes, broader trends also affect procurement. These include rising raw material prices, Our core mission is to enhance the value of the tesa Group changes in sales and distribution channels, and shifts in the on a sustained basis with the interests of our employees, competition situation. To account for these influences, tesa customers, and shareholders in mind by offering useful has created a central function called the tesa Purchasing products and selling them at a profit all over the world. Our Network (tPN), which brings together cross-sector activities highly qualified employees and continuously optimized and resources and manages all processes across the Group, business processes allow us to respond quickly and flexibly supported by IT systems. to changes in the market and develop demand-driven products. Knowledge of production processes and analyses of current industry trends combine with our broad spectrum of high-quality, market-driven products to give our company 6 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE MANAGEMENT tesa views responsibility as the key to sustainable value creation. Across the entire Group, we have established the following principles for this, based on our corporate values: The basis for our lasting success is our customers’ trust healthy, fair working conditions that offer a wealth of in tesa as a company and in the tesa brand. Our goal is opportunities, we aim to earn their long-term loyalty and to affirm that trust time and again through dependable be an attractive, responsible employer. quality, superior service, robust innovation perforOur responsibility extends along the entire value mance, state-of-the-art technologies, and sustainable chain. We strive to ensure fair working conditions withproducts. in our suppliers’ organizations, respect the environment, In the process, we trust in our employees, who put work on behalf of society as a whole, and create lasting their passion and experience to work for tesa. Through added value through our products. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 7 Sustainability along the value chain At tesa, we have viewed corporate responsibility as an important feature of our core business and our business processes for many years. From raw materials procurement to recycling, we assume responsibility at every stage of our value chain: FOUR ACTION FIELDS Employees Talent 4450 employees worldwide management 100 in over countries Occupational safety and health Environment environmental management Solvent-free Generating our own energy system ISO 14001 production through combined heat technologies and power CHP VALUE CHAIN Raw materials Production Distribution Use Disposal Products Resource-efficient Ecofriendly tesa® industrial solutions ecoLogo product range Commitment to social causes, Society education, and the environment tesa connects 8 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 We prioritize regional sources and renewable raw materials These risks will be integrated into our Group-wide risk manas early as during the procurement stage. At the same time, agement policies and procedures in 2018, if this step has we also require our suppliers to do business responsibly by not already been taken. complying with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers. At our sites, we work to reduce our environmental impact on a conOrganizational structure tinuous basis. We also ensure consistent occupational safety and health for our employees. We are socially involved Corporate responsibility is a firmly established principle at and committed in a variety of ways around our sites, and we the tesa Group, and the Executive Board has articulated an offer our customers an ever-growing range of ecofriendly express commitment to it. At its instigation, responsibility products. was established as a task that cuts across all areas within the Group. All of the relevant units are involved, which enStrategic action fields sures that there is a link between these efforts and our business activities and key business processes. The following Our approach to corporate responsibility focuses on four units are involved in steering these activities and are restrategic action fields: employees, products, the environsponsible for operational implementation: ment, and society. We regularly review our areas of focus within these action fields. With an eye to the German CSR • Legal & Compliance Directive Implementation Act, we reevaluated our main • Purchasing Network topics in 2017 with representatives of the units at tesa, the • Human Resources Group parent company Beiersdorf, and other relevant stake• Environmental, Quality, Health & Safety Management holders. During the materiality analysis, the subjects of • Corporate Citizenship climate protection and CO2 emissions, internal succession • Corporate Communication and leadership, occupational safety, prevention of anticompetitive practices, human rights in our supply chain, and A central corporate responsibility steering group that inproduct safety were identified as being material. cludes representatives of these units meets quarterly, under the leadership of the member of the tesa Management Risk management Board responsible for human resources, to discuss issues of content. The group also coordinates the dialogue between We believe success-oriented and responsible activities the units and reporting on non-financial topics. include Group-wide, integrated management of risks and In addition, we engage in regular dialogue with our paropportunities that follows a structured process to identify ent company Beiersdorf and coordinate our activities with and manage risks. In the course of these activities, we aseach other. Our cooperation takes place both at a subsess operational, functional, and strategic risks with an eye ject-specific level and within the framework of our joint reto their possible financial impact and effects on our porting. reputation as well as their probability of occurrence. Our compliance management team uses the same criteria in a UN Global Compact separate process (compliance risk assessment) to identify and assess the relevant risks we may face as a result of tesa joined the UN Global Compact in 2006. Our membernon-compliance with external regulations and internal ship underscores our commitment to upholding interna­ standards. tionally recognized social and environmental standards. At the end of 2017 and start of 2018, we held an interdeCompanies from 163 countries, international employees’ partmental workshop to review how well our existing proassociations, civil society groups, governments, and UN cesses cover the non-financial aspects. The workshop also organizations have now joined the Global Compact. Its ten identified additional potential risks associated with aspects principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, not previously covered. environmental protection, and anti-corruption form the overWe subsequently assessed all of the risks that were idenarching guidelines for the company’s actions at tesa, as tified as part of this process with regard to their impact on elsewhere. the non-financial aspects. The only risks identified as having a high likelihood of occurrence and potentially serious negative effects were those associated with competition law; these are explained in the section on good governance. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 9 Principle 1: Businesses should support and Governance & compliance respect the protection of internationally Legal violations not only lead to penalties and fines, but also proclaimed human rights; and damage our reputation and run counter to our understandPrinciple 2: make sure that they are not complicit ing of good governance. To secure the longstanding trust in human rights abuses. and confidence that consumers, customers, investors, and employees place in the tesa Group, we set high standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom with regard to good governance and corporate responsibilof association and the effective recogniity, both for the company as a whole and for each and every tion of the right to collective bargaining; one of us as individuals. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Code of Conduct Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and The tesa Code of Conduct (CoC) sets out our high standards regarding good governance on a binding basis for the entire Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in organization. With its fundamental rules and criteria derived respect of employment and occupation. from the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the tesa Principle 7: Businesses should support a pre­ CoC offers clear guidance for the entire staff and is applicacautionary approach to environmental ble worldwide. It helps employees and managers to observe challenges; and uphold our company’s key principles and values in their day-to-day work, to share these with others, and to gear all Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater of their business conduct toward them. environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion Compliance management system of environmentally friendly technologies. Based on the same key principles and values enshrined in Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrupthe tesa CoC, tesa has long been committed to free markets tion in all its forms, including extortion and fair competition. We reject any and all forms of corrupand bribery. tion, bribery, and other unlawful conduct. Our internal guidelines are aligned with the applicable laws and the tesa CoC. They are an essential basis of our activities and a key factor At tesa, the ten principles of the Global Compact are the contributing to our long-term, sustainable business success. starting point for the internal Code of Conduct and guideA new conceptual and organizational approach was chosen lines. Chief among them are the Code of Conduct for Supplifor the tesa Compliance Management System (CMS) in 2017, ers and the environmental guidelines, which are described representing a logical next step for the existing system. The in further detail in this report. Each year, we present the adExecutive Board’s goal in doing this was to align tesa toward vances we have made in these areas to the UN Global Comthe growing challenges in new and highly competitive marpact in the form of this report. kets in the medium to long term while also taking the context of rapidly changing overall legal and economic conditions into account. Good governance Our goal in adjusting and strengthening our CMS is to ensure that all relevant applicable legal provisions are obtesa assumes responsibility for economic actions that are served. At the same time, we believe it is especially imporlegally compliant and aligned with ethical principles, both tant to make sure that compliance is viewed as being assowithin its own organization and in its supply chain. Employciated with good governance and thus as an integral part of ees and suppliers of the Group are required to abide by our business activities, and it should be embraced as a matclear specifications that have been set down in writing. ter of course. To achieve this, we follow a specified process Compliance with these specifications is monitored and veriwith four steps: prevent, identify, respond, improve. fied regularly through internal and external audits and supOur compliance program currently focuses on conduct ported through activities such as advising, training sessions, that is compliant with antitrust law, preventing corruption, and action programs. and data protection and privacy. Other risk areas have also 10 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 been identified as compliance fields, and organizational measures and processes have been established to accommodate these areas. Clear assignment of duties ensures that all compliance officers are aware when organizing their tasks and conscious of their responsibilities and work on and further develop the respective thematic areas on an ongoing basis. Systematic approach Our parent company, Beiersdorf AG, performs regular audits of its own and, on behalf of the Executive Board of tesa SE, also conducts further audits in specific risk fields. We also perform spot checks in the individual compliance fields that are not prompted by specific events or occasions. The results of the various audits and spot checks allow us to identify possible undesirable developments and needed improvements in the overall system early on and take appropriate corrective measures. Compliance initiatives and measures Based on standardized risk analyses, we have identified and defined relevant compliance fields for the tesa Group. Our designated experts review these fields regularly, ensuring that they are up to date and adding new areas and making adjustments as necessary. We continued to spread and solidify the principles of the CoC through regular communication and training activities and intensive advising within the company. To provide our employees with information, we also operate a compliance theme platform on our intranet. Employport by creating a new network of regional CoC managers in ees all over the world can use the platform to learn about HR. In addition, tesa adopted a Group-wide whistleblowing legally compliant behavior in their day-to-day business dealpolicy in 2017 and appointed an external ombudsman as ings and to find guidelines and processes and capable part of a pilot project in the Greater China and Asia Pacific points of contact to obtain further advice. Our staff also reregions. ceives regular multilingual intranet news items on relevant developments and decisions by courts and other governPrevention of anticompetitive practices ment agencies and tips on how to behave in the context of governance and compliance. Attention and sensitivity to the subject of antitrust law have increased worldwide, a fact that has also been affirmed by Reporting system an internal risk assessment performed with an eye to gauging materiality with regard to the topics covered by the CSR One important element of the compliance management sysDirective Implementation Act. Prevention of anticompetitive tem is our internal reporting structure, which we use to take practices (antitrust) lies at the heart of our CMS and has reports of potential compliance violations, evaluate their been identified as a key subject for the purposes of the CSR importance, and then determine what sanctions to impose Directive Implementation Act. This development has been in strict compliance with the principle of proportionality. driven by the increasingly complex overall legal conditions tesa has expanded this reporting system over several stagthat apply, changes in the prosecution practices of antitrust es. In recent years, for example, tesa has given its central authorities, and the various business models in place within CoC Manager from the field of HR further backing and supthe tesa Group. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 11 Alongside our own sales activities and sales and distributhese activities are supplemented by specialized attorneys tion through wholesalers, retailers, and online retailers, tesa at many of our affiliates’ sites, so there is a wealth of advice is also active in research and development. Elevated risks available from highly qualified sources worldwide. apply in all of these areas. These days, prosecutors are cracking down on – and imposing hefty fines for – not just Anti-corruption traditional cartel agreements, like price fixing between competitors, but increasingly also anticompetitive restraints beThe tesa anti-corruption guidelines offer guidance on what tween suppliers and their customers and sharing of sensito do in case of conflicts of interest, invitations, and personal tive information. The vast potential for sanctions is further gifts or perquisites. Through supplementary advice and exacerbated by the fact that following the antitrust proceedtraining, we explain in detail how these rules are to be apings pursued by the competition authorities, legal actions plied in order to give employees guidance and a sense of are generally to be expected from customers seeking damcertainty. ages as a result of financial harm sustained through the antitrust breach. Independently of this development, we sucData protection cessfully introduced the tesa Antitrust Compliance Program across the board several years ago and have been further Based on the heightened requirements set down in the EU developing it since then. The program’s primary objective is General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), we identified to raise awareness of topics in antitrust law throughout the data protection as a key compliance field this reporting year, Group. It provides information on relevant content in antifollowing a revision of our former risk analysis. We have trust law and clarifies potential risks. Internal communication been working with an external advisor and service provider structures and a global network of expert attorneys were since then to implement the organizational and technical realso put in place. quirements of the GDPR on time by May 25, 2018. The key elements of our antitrust compliance program include various guidelines, a training concept that is geared Key figures toward real-world practice, encompassing Web-based training modules and on-site training sessions as well as workParticipation in all training activities worldwide is tracked, shops, and extensive advising options. Our guidelines set analyzed, and reported on centrally through our Learning out clear specifications on topics relevant to competition. Management Platform. In 2017, we invited 1621 employees in This includes proper interaction with competitors, participa41 countries and at 48 affiliates to an online training in the tion in meetings of industry associations, and information on key compliance field of antitrust. Training in this field is retail prices. The guidelines also provide information on scheduled to take place at least every two years, so we will general and simple requirements and prohibitions. They are be using 2018 for follow-up training and to revise all of the accessible to all employees 24 hours a day on the complitraining materials for online and on-site training activities. ance intranet platform, and we also provide versions in the The goal in doing this is to provide information on governlocal language to employees of our international affiliates ance and compliance with as much of a focus on real-world after review and adaptation to accommodate local laws. practice as possible. At the same time, we need to ensure Training options also offer support. that the entire staff takes these topics very seriously and All employees and managers worldwide who come into understands that they are an integral element of business contact with topics related to antitrust law receive training at activities. regular intervals. Our training concept encompasses online training that communicates key concepts in antitrust law in six languages. We also hold on-site training sessions in the local language in regions where there is particular risk, paying special attention to country-specific regulations and circumstances. Selected business units also receive intensive Antitrust in-house training on specific topics that are particularly releRate of successful participation (global1*) 96.42 % vant to our business. Individualized advice on issues of antitrust law during ongoing business operations is provided by the legal and com1* The participation rate refers to the target and risk group that was defined in advance for this key compliance field. This group includes all pliance department of tesa SE as another key element of the employees and managers throughout the tesa Group who may come antitrust compliance program. At the international level, into contact with antitrust-related topics and requirements. 12 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 Responsibility in the supply chain Our production activities require raw materials and chemicals that we purchase from numerous suppliers all over the world and transport to our sites. Our cooperation with these suppliers also calls our attention to ecological and social challenges within the supply chain. On the process side, all matters concerning the supply chain fall within the area of responsibility of the member of the executive management responsible for the Supply Network. Procurement strategy Our employees, customers, and suppliers are at the heart of what we do. But we are also responsible for people who have an indirect connection with our processes. Complying with human rights worldwide is among our principles. Because of the international nature of our value chain, we are exposed to a certain level of risk with regard to human rights violations. We aim to make the origin of the raw and intermediate products we purchase traceable. With this in mind, our procurement strategy focuses on physical proximity: We are ramping up our efforts to procure the raw materials needed at the plants – including in Asia, for example – in close geographic proximity to the sites. Code of Conduct for Suppliers The Code of Conduct for Suppliers (CoCfS) forms the basis for the responsible design of our global procurement processes. It describes fundamental rules and obligations for all key suppliers that supply tesa directly in the areas of human ships alike, tesa conducts these kinds of audits of key suprights, labor standards, environmental protection, and prepliers. The suppliers who are subject to audits are selected vention of corruption, all based on the ten principles outaccording to various criteria, which can include the supplilined in the UN Global Compact. We only embark on busier’s strategic importance, a search for new suppliers, or ness relationships with these relevant suppliers if they quality issues. The objective of these audits is to assess a expressly agree to follow the CoCfS. specific supplier’s performance capacity. Irregularities are The CoCfS replaced the tesa Purchasing Charter, which noted in visit or audit reports. In the course of these activihad the same content, on March 31, 2017. The renaming ties, we regularly check and document whether environtook place at the same time as the international launch of a mental standards and occupational health and safety measnew purchasing standard. Worldwide, we began training all ures are being complied with; these are also elements of the process owners in the application of the standard during CoCfS. Within the tesa Group, the Group internal audit dethis reporting period. The online training developed specifipartment monitors the purchasing standards that apply cally for this purpose also highlights and goes into further worldwide and the associated processes at the affiliates by detail on the key role played by the CoCfS as an element of conducting regular “Purchase to Pay” audits, which review all procurement processes at tesa. all processes from procurement through to invoicing. To help make the subject of human rights a generally observed Supplier audits standard through regular supplier visits and supplier audits, plans call for including the aspects of the CoCfS in the standIn addition to supplier visits, tesa performs regular supplier ard list of questions for supplier audits as well starting in audits. In new business relationships and existing relation2018. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 13 MULTIFACETED APPROACH TO SUPPORTING EMPLOYEES Our goal is to boost our employees’ engagement and motivation and enhance their loyalty to the company. That’s why we make ongoing investments in measures to ensure that working at tesa remains highly attractive. Important components of our personnel policy include primarily internal staffing of management positions and leadership, training and continuing education, a thriving culture of feedback and dialogue, and occupational safety and health. Personnel policy and personnel strategy and market expertise and harness these factors to ensure our long-term success as a company. One crucial factor is As a leading technology company in our industry, we for tesa to be perceived as an attractive employer by need to recruit highly qualified, committed and dedicated employees and applicants alike. Employee health and safeemployees, further develop them on an individualized ty is the basis for a motivated, satisfied, high-performing basis and earn their loyalty. With an eye to our managers, workforce, which is why these aspects are top priorities at our goal is to safeguard and expand valuable experience tesa. 14 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 Two factors are especially crucial when it comes to our headquarters. During these events, managers come toappeal as an employer: recruiting talented next-generation gether worldwide to discuss ways to support junior talent workers and securing their lasting loyalty to the company, on an individualized basis. and promoting and cultivating outstanding leadership quali• We held a major HR marketplace event at our headquarties among our managerial staff. We have developed extenters in Norderstedt in 2017, which focused on employee sive measures in both areas to help strengthen our staff in development, along with other topics. During the event, their individual development. We are also committed to a we met with managers and employees and talked about diverse corporate culture where all employees can live up to who bears which responsibilities when it comes to ensurtheir full potential. ing that our staff’s personal and professional development is a success. Many participants attended, affirming Internal succession that there is great demand for information and opportunities for dialogue on these subjects. One core element of our personnel strategy is to fill key management positions from within wherever possible in orTraining and measures aimed at good der to retain their valuable experience and market knowlmanagement edge and be able to optimally leverage these capabilities for our long-term success as a company. Several times a Good leadership is crucial to employees’ engagement and year, the Executive Board holds meetings where the memto the focus on performance and achieving goals that apbers discuss succession planning and talent management. plies throughout the company. We firmly believe that leaderThe Human Resources (HR) unit is instrumental in making it ship is absolutely essential in earning employees’ long-term easier for future managers to rise within the organization loyalty to tesa. With this in mind, we regularly invest in furand earning their lasting loyalty. Among other things, the ther developing our managers, and have developed a unit conducts development meetings and advisory sessions standardized worldwide leadership training program in rewith employees, organizes talent management workshops, cent years. This includes the new Essential Leadership and ensures that employees receive regular feedback from Training program. We introduced this program in the Latin their supervisors. HR’s tasks also include ensuring that inforAmerica region in 2017, following the launches in Asia and mation is shared between the regions and the corporate Europe. We plan to shift the regions of North America and headquarters and making suggestions for filling open posiGermany to the new concept in 2018 as well. The goal is to tions across different units and regions. In the period under have a standardized concept of leadership throughout the review, we filled most top management positions with interentire group of companies in the future. This same concept nal candidates in this way. The following specific measures is also reflected in the tesa Key Competencies – four of the contributed to this in 2017: nine key competencies relate to the topics of management and leadership. Measures: Measures: • In the Europe and Asia regions, talented workers were given the opportunity to undergo a “Competencies Re• tesa managers in the Europe, Asia, and Latin America review.” The review provided feedback on participants’ gions underwent a six-day modular training program on strengths and development areas with regard to the tesa managing employees as part of the standardized worldKey Competencies. Intensive discussions with experiwide leadership training program. The Essential Leaderenced managers and HR employees gave these up-andship Program will be offered in Germany as well starting coming employees further impetus for their future careers in 2018. The “Intensive Leadership at tesa” training sesat tesa. sion was held for the last time in Germany in 2017. • During the several-week tesa Management Develop• We aim to give experienced managers the opportunity to ment Program, international managers took an in-depth tackle tough leadership situations with professional guidlook at the subject of strategy development. Professors ance. Toward that end, we developed a program called from several business schools assisted participants by Advanced Leadership Training and tested it in a pilot supplying recent academic and scientific insights and project in Germany in 2017. The program is slated to competitive analyses on the specific topics covered. launch internationally in the spring of 2018. • In 2017, as in years past, talent workshops were held at • In addition to their subject-specific duties, managers also the management level both within the regions and at have to be able to answer questions from their employ2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 15 ees on a wide range of topics and about rules at the comlearn new things. With that in mind, we give our employees pany and to provide explanations on these subjects. opportunities to participate in continuing education proThese include issues like recruiting new employees, sugrams and gain new experience in other units or regions. pervision of interns and student employees, compensaWe are also constantly enlarging the range of formal votion management, matters of labor and employment law, cational training programs offered at the tesa plants in Gerand talks regarding parental leave. On top of that, laws many. This reporting year, for example, the first apprentices and collective agreements impose an ever-increasing joined the company in the electronics technician for operatnumber of requirements, which managers are required to ing technology program. Prior years had already seen the know and apply. To assist them in this, the HR unit has creation of new programs for apprentice machine and syscreated a shared digital information room on the intem operators, industrial mechanics, chemical technicians, tranet where managers can find all of the information they and mechatronics technicians. need quickly and in a clearly structured, easy-to-use format. Measures and programs: • How do employees view their supervisors, and what are their perceptions of the supervisors’ leadership? To an• Formal vocational training programs: machine and sysswer these questions, we developed a digital feedback tem operator, industrial mechanic, chemical technician, tool based on the tesa Key Competencies in 2017. Emelectronics technician and mechatronics technician apployees are surveyed on various aspects relating to leadprenticeship tracks. There were 81 apprentices and trainership, and afterward, supervisors receive an anonymized ees in 2017. Two of them decided to complete a cooperaanalysis they can use as a basis to discuss the next steps tive university education and vocational training program. with their employees. • Qualification programs: basic training for new employees and special formats tailored to the requirements of Development, support, training individual business units. The Sales and Marketing Qualification Program, for example, encompasses a combinaTo be successful in the long term, we need to offer our emtion of technical training and sales skills for sales employployees attractive development opportunities – at all levels, ees. This reporting year, it was adjusted to account for the in all areas. We noticed years ago that development opporlatest developments on the market and the changing tunities are increasingly crucial in determining how close needs of the sales team. The training and qualification employees feel to their company. We firmly believe that all program for tesa R&D employees includes topics such as people enjoy growing and developing and are willing to patents and quality management. During the year under 16 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 review, 664 employees participated in a total of 220 days of training as part of our training and qualification programs. • tesa Supply Network e-learning program: This initiative helps employees develop an understanding of processes and contexts within the areas of logistics, production, and materials management. • Open course program: These classes are open to all employees by arrangement with their managers and include subjects such as language classes and IT training sessions. These sessions comprised 51 days of training, with two hundred employees participating. • “Treffpunkt Weiterbildung” (Training Venue): All tesa employees have the option to participate in the continuing education program run by parent company Beiersdorf. Feedback and dialogue Occupational health and safety Formats geared toward feedback and dialogue also play a The safety and health of employees are the prerequisites for key role in our employees’ personal development. Sharing a motivated, satisfied, high-performing staff. We take various with colleagues and supervisors gives employees a chance measures to help prevent or minimize accidents and illnesses. to learn more about their personal strengths and areas where they have potential for development and to give each Foundations for safe, healthy work other valuable feedback. We have continued to cultivate and improve our corpoProtecting the health and safety of our employees is one of rate culture of feedback in recent years, using tools such as our responsibilities as a company. We take a proactive apemployee surveys, which we conduct on a rotating basis in proach in order to prevent workplace accidents and elimiseveral regions or the Hamburg headquarters every year. nate work-related health risks and the occupational illnessThe first step is to measure our employees’ engagement, es they cause before they can arise. Our approach includes motivation, and loyalty to the company. To foster dialogue measures in the areas of safety and occupational medicine between employees and supervisors, joint workshops are along with actions geared toward protecting employees’ held following the anonymized surveys, with participants health. discussing the results and mapping out specific actions to With regard to occupational safety, we follow the tesa take. We then conduct subsequent employee surveys to reOccupational Safety Guidelines, which apply throughout view how effective and how widely accepted these measthe group of companies. They form the basis of our internal ures have been. In general, the results of these surveys management system in this area. As part of an annual manhave affirmed that our employees are highly motivated and agement review, the company management works together committed and have strong ties to tesa. with the occupational safety unit to evaluate the accidents After conducting employee surveys at the Norderstedt that have occurred that year and takes new steps to further headquarters and other locations in Europe in 2016, Latin improve our employees’ safety and reduce work-related America was the focus for 2017. Employees of five affiliates health risks. in all were surveyed, with a response rate of 98 percent. The We employ internal safety specialists who are familiar individual companies will begin implementing the measures with tesa’s global health and occupational safety guidelines derived from the survey results in 2018. and with the local circumstances at all our production sites. We also conducted competency-based employee perWe also take deliberate steps to promote international diaformance appraisals in the tesa regions in 2017. This standlogue among these experts. The safety specialists meet anardized international format is modeled on the tesa Key nually to discuss key occupational health and safety risks. Competencies, which determine the actions of people at They also initiate joint projects, define standards, and share tesa. This is another way we ensure dialogue between eminformation on successes and experiences as part of these ployees and managers. events. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 17 Changes in machinery, systems, or working premises, club, the social advising service, the body representing disnew purchases, and process adjustments can all affect our abled employees, the occupational health service, and the employees’ safety and health. When we identify a risk in this occupational safety team works to develop a wide range of area, we perform a risk assessment, focusing on two key measures (see measures and areas of focus in occupational aspects: systematic identification and assessment of risks, health management). and personal responsibility on the part of employees. We also strive to implement a continuous improvement process Reducing absences, preventing accidents that integrates all of the parties involved. The person responsible for the risk assessments is the supervisor in Our strategic goal “Zero Accidents” is derived from the precharge of the specific area in question. vention strategy adopted by Berufsgenossenschaft RohstofWe aim to ensure that our stringent requirements for ocfe und Chemische Industrie (BG RCI), the statutory accident cupational health and safety are implemented consistently. insurance and prevention institution for the raw materials With that in mind, we are careful to factor in this aspect right and chemicals industries. In this way, we put the safety and from the start when planning new plant and equipment prohealth of our employees front and center in everything we jects. This allows us to identify and eliminate risks to emdo. At all of our sites, we are constantly on the lookout for ployee safety early on. Before equipment and systems are risks and possible ways to improve and take appropriate accommissioned, they are required to undergo multistage tion to ensure greater safety in the workplace. safety tests. Our occupational safety management activities focus on production sites, where the risks of accidents and adverse health effects are greater than at our office headquarters. Group-wide, all of our sites with attached coating and/or adhesive production operations are certified under ISO 14001, a standard that covers both environmental aspects and occupational safety. Our goal is to continuously reduce the number of accidents with ≥ 1 day of absence and, in particular, the number of reportable accidents with > 3 days of absence. tesa also monitors the lost day rate for specific locations. To proactively promote employees’ health, tesa also has a The frequency of reportable accidents (> 3 days) at tesa broad-based occupational health management program at stood at 1.3 per million hours worked in 2017 (2016: 3.1), sigheadquarters. Under the “It’s for you” umbrella brand, an nificantly below the German industry average (BG RCI), of interdisciplinary team consisting of representatives from HR, 11.7. We view this as proof of the quality of our management the works council, the health promotion team, the tesa sport system in the area of occupational safety. Occupational Safety* unit Full Year 2015 Full Year 2016 Full Year 2017 Work Accidents ≥ 1 day number 16 22 14 Accidents Frequency Rate number / million hours worked 3.6 4.9 2.9 Lost Days ≥ 1 day number 148 539 191 Lost Day Rate number / million hours worked 33.2 118.9 39.9 (Reportable) Work Accidents > 3 days number 6 14 6 (Reportabel) Accidents Frequency Rate number / million hours worked 1.3 3.1 1.3 *Scope: tesa SE and affiliates which are ISO 14001 certified 18 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 We are currently reviewing whether further key sales offices will be included in the Group reporting alongside tesa SE in the future. Occupational safety measures and areas of focus in 2017: • At the tesa SE site, we developed training videos in 2017 covering a wide range of topics in occupational safety and emergency prevention and made them accessible to all employees. Each film shows in compact form, in just a few minutes, how employees at the company headquarters or the research or technology center behave in order to best prevent risks to their own safety. These videos are especially well suited to training new employees. • As in years past, employee awareness campaigns were held in 2017. Major areas of focus included preventing accidents in traffic within the plant and training on how Measures and areas of focus in occupational to use respiratory protection equipment. The tesa plant health management: in Hamburg put a device to test the seal on respirators into use for the first time as part of these activities. In this • The tesa sport club offers tesa employees in Norderstedt “fit test,” the respirator’s fit and seal are tested on the a wide range of fitness and relaxation options, including wearer under realistic conditions. After all, optimum proendurance and strength training equipment and a variety tection can only be achieved if the mask and user truly fit of courses like spinning, yoga and back strength building, each other. As part of our fire prevention concept for along with individual fitness checks. This reporting year, 2020, we implemented measures in the area of technical we extended the club’s hours in order to meet the high fire prevention and protection at the tesa plant in Offendemand for its services. We also began offering our emburg this reporting year. The focus was on prevention. ployees physical therapy in 2017. We held a daylong event for all employees that high­ • Employees of the sites in Hamburg can use the options lighted the subject of fire prevention, for example. At the offered by our in-house occupational health managetesa plant in Suzhou, China, this reporting year marked ment service and those offered by our parent company, the sixth time that a “Safety Week” event was held. It enBeiersdorf, which include autogenic training, progressive compassed a range of educational and training courses muscle relaxation, and workshops on back health and reon topics such as proper conduct for safety and health, laxation techniques. explosion and fire prevention, and fire extinguisher • Another key aspect of the company’s efforts to promote usage. health is its extensive array of preventive health checks. • At tesa Plant Concagno, in Italy – one of tesa’s major proThese include vein screenings, skin cancer prevention, duction sites – a new monitoring audit in 2017 confirmed and smoking cessation programs. the validity of the existing OHSAS 18001 certification. • We conducted psychological risk assessments in six othThis is one of the best-known and most important stander areas in 2017, prompted by the German Occupational ards for management systems in the area of occupational Safety and Health Act. One aspect of this program is that safety. Alongside improved training concepts for employemployees are asked individually what stressful situaees and external companies, risk assessment for mations or stress factors they personally experience on the chines was also optimized in this reporting year. job and what the effects are. On this basis, we strive to • As part of the project planning for a new production line reduce stressful aspects wherever possible. for water-based adhesive tapes for the tesa plant in Spar• Further measures include equipping all office workstata, Michigan (USA), two extensive safety tests were contions with height-adjustable desks to minimize back ducted in 2017, one on site at the manufacturer’s location strain, in-house advising on ergonomics, and promotion and one at tesa before commissioning. The defined safeof healthy eating by offering healthy choices at the comty concept was reviewed in the process. pany’s restaurant and in cooking classes. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 19 CONSISTENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Careful use of natural resources and raw materials is our stated goal as a company. Our aim in making these efforts is to leave an intact environment for subsequent generations while at the same time safeguarding the basis of our business success. Focus on major environmental impacts gage in dialogue with external experts as well. We also provide our stakeholders with candid, transparent informaEnvironmental impacts predominantly arise at our production on our goals and successes in this area. The full tion sites. We consider our energy use, and the associated guidelines are available on our website at www.tesa.com/ CO2 emissions, to represent major impacts. The subject of about-tesa/responsibility/environment. resource efficiency is also relevant, but it is not a major topic. We have already significantly reduced our environmental A proven concept in environmental impact in this area. protection Our binding environmental guidelines offer guidance in this area. They state that we produce, use, and dispose of Environmental protection has been a key element of our products in such a way as to minimize harmful impact on the corporate responsibility activities for years, and our environenvironment. In addition to our consistent compliance with mental guidelines firmly establish it throughout the Group. legal requirements, we also proactively assume responsibilEnvironmental management systems are the key point of ity in this area. We further develop our environmental mandeparture. We use these systems at all sites that have signifagement systems on an ongoing basis, and to this end, enicant impacts on the environment. Seven production sites 20 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 and the Group headquarters now have environmental manthe company to prepare for future developments in overall agement systems certified under ISO 14001. regulatory conditions: policy measures enacted to protect The tesa environmental program was put in place in the climate, efficiency targets, and the further expansion of 2001. It sets Group-wide targets for us to continuously rerenewable energies may affect tesa’s business activities. duce our environmental impact. The previous environmenThreshold limits, technical standards, and approval processtal program ran through the end of 2015. We succeeded in es for energy generation and production facilities are also in reducing many of our environmental impacts during this peflux, which calls for a forward-looking approach. Besides that, riod: energy use (-24 percent), CO2 emissions (-19 percent), climate protection is garnering growing public attention. solvent use (-41 percent), waste (-77 percent), and emissions of volatile organic compounds (-91 percent). Our concept: boost efficiency – The goals we set for ourselves as part of the environreduce emissions mental program are regularly reviewed and adjusted. The current program applies to the period from 2016 until 2020. Climate protection is an element of environmental manageIt defines targets and control parameters for reducing CO2 ment and energy management at tesa. The Group headand waste. Further information appears in the specific secquarters and the sites with the highest CO2 emissions (Hamtions. burg and Offenburg) have not only an environmental To achieve continuous improvement in our environmenmanagement system, but also a certified energy managetal performance, we take into account the results generated ment system pursuant to ISO 50001. These sites together by our environmental management systems and environare responsible for approximately 60 percent of the CO2 mental audits. The tesa executive management is involved emissions generated by all tesa sites with environmental in this process each year, through management audits. In management systems. Introducing the energy management the process, the results of the environmental audits, which systems paved the way for further increases in the energy are conducted on a regular basis, are considered in order to efficiency of the systems and equipment in use there. We identify possible ways to conserve, further optimize enerstrive to offset possible increases in CO2 emissions as a regy-intensive processes, and reduce both costs and CO2 sult of production activities with these kinds of efficiency emissions. gains. Further strategic approaches include efficient generIn addition, we conduct annual processes to identify and ation of our own energy through cogeneration (combined assess major environmental risks both at the individual proheat and power, CHP) and obtaining electricity from renewduction site level and across the board. The goal here is to able sources. prevent possible environmental incidents and the costs they Through our internal planning and reporting activities, generate. we identify, assess, and monitor risks and measures associAs a company driven by innovation, we also develop enated with reducing CO2 emissions at the level of the headergy-saving, resource-conserving technologies that we use quarters and the individual sites certified according to ISO in our production operations. Environmental experts who 14001. are familiar with tesa’s global environmental guidelines and with local conditions and who network across locations A clear CO2 target – measurable advances work at all sites. They establish comparison values, initiate projects, and work to improve our environmental perforAs part of the tesa environmental program, we have almance on an ongoing basis. ready managed to reduce our energy use by 24 percent Environmental impacts also arise in our supply chain and from 2001 to 2015. During the same period, the specific CO2 within our business partners’ operations. The tesa Code of emissions (Scope 1 and 2) per ton of final products deConduct for Suppliers obligates our suppliers to uphold the creased by 19 percent. By 2020, we aim to reduce specific principles of the UN Global Compact, and thus also fundaCO2 emissions (location based) by another ten percentage mental standards in environmental protection. points compared to the reference year, 2015. Development of energy and CO2 emissions Energy efficiency and CO2 reduction Our environmental protection management activities focus Climate change brings both challenges and opportunities in on sites with production operations, as they have greater terms of our business development. In tesa’s role as an inenvironmental impact than office locations. With this in mind, dustrial supplier, it is especially important in this context for all of our sites with attached coating and/or adhesive pro2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 21 duction operations are certified under ISO 14001, a globally Measures for 2017 recognized standard that sets out requirements for environmental management systems. Energy management systems pursuant to ISO 50001 In the reporting period we once again significantly reduced the specific CO2 emissions per tonne of end product accordThe two largest emitters of CO2 across the Group, the Haming to the location-based method. In comparison with the burg and Offenburg production sites, further developed reference year of 2015, we are down by 9.5% overall in 2017; their energy management systems during this reporting according to the market-based method, taking into account year and received certification under the international ISO the electricity from renewable sources, actually by 32.6%. 50001 standard for the third time in 2017. The new tesa headquarters in Norderstedt successfully underwent ISO Energy use 2001 20152 2016 2017 50001 certification for the second time in 2017. Advanced monitoring processes are an element of the energy manNatural gas GWh 225 205 233 262 agement systems. These processes are expanded and imElectricity from renewable proved on an ongoing basis. Employees and external assoGWh 0 0 16 24 sources Conventionally generated ciates who have an influence over the company’s energy GWh 72 61 38 26 performance have been sensitized to this topic and have electricity Total energy use GWh 297 266 286 311 received training on keeping energy management in mind in their actions. Greenhouse gas emissions, 20011 20152, 6 2016 2017 Target, location-based3 2020 Generating our own energy through CO2 direct (Scope 1) 1000 t 44 41 47 53 cogeneration CO2 indirect (Scope 2) 1000 t 34 29 25 23 We began operating a CCHP (combined cooling, heat and CO2 total 1000 t 78 70 72 76 power) system for climate-friendly in-house power generation at the Offenburg plant in 2014, and the Hamburg plant Change, 2017 vs. 20155 % -9.5 -10.0 followed suit with a CHP (combined heat and power) plant in 2016. In these systems, we use not only the electricity genGreenhouse gas emissions, 20011 20152 2016 2017 market-based4 erated, but also the heat that is produced, which is used for purposes such as heating and in production processes. CO2 direct (Scope 1) 1000 t 44 41 47 53 These two plants together supplied enough electricity to CO2 indirect (Scope 2) 1000 t 34 42 23 14 meet about 47 percent of our worldwide demand in 2017. CO2 total 1000 t 78 83 70 67 Electricity from renewable sources Change, 2017 vs. 20155 % -32.6 In 2017, we purchased outside electricity from renewable 1 CO2 conversion factors before 2015: 0.47 t CO2/MWh electricity and sources at five European sites, covering about 25 percent of 0.18 t CO2/MWh gas 2 Reference year our global demand for the ISO 14001 certified sites. 3 Definitions according to GHG Protocol Scope 2 Standard; source, CO2 factors: GHG Protocol / IEA 4 Definitions according to GHG Protocol Scope 2 Standard; source, CO2 Supporting industry in terms of climate factors: electricity providers and/or residual mix: RE-DISS (07/2017); protection emission factor for electricity from renewable sources is set as equal to zero. 5 With reference to production volume Climate protection is also important to many of tesa’s indus6 Recalculation starting in the base year due to change of methods (shift trial customers. Our products can help to reduce CO2. For in CO2 factors: see footnotes 1 and 3) example, we offer the automotive industry solutions to affix We are currently reviewing whether it will also be possible to and insulate the lithium-ion battery elements used in cliidentify and report on Scope 3 emissions, such as those mate-friendly hybrid and electric vehicles. We also make it generated from the production of raw materials or transporpossible for manufacturers to reduce the weight of their vetation logistics, in the future. hicles, which also improves their fuel economy, by replacing items such as rivets and screws with lightweight, durable adhesive bonding solutions from tesa. 22 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 We also offer a wide range of solutions for operators of wind and solar energy facilities, covering everything from fast, secure assembly and installation to protecting sensitive surfaces and marking hazardous areas. Some of these adhesive tapes are used temporarily, to preserve value, while others are installed permanently. Transparent reporting We review the effectiveness of our measures by determining the amounts of electricity and gas used by the specific sites each year. We ascertain the Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions associated with this based on the specifications of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We voluntarily provide the public with information regarding the measures we take to protect the climate and our CO2 emissions. To this end, we regularly participate in the supply chain program run by the nonprofit organization CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). This program evaluates various factors, including the environmental footprint of production companies. The result for this reporting period was positive: tesa’s CDP 2017 Climate Score was well above the average for all program participants. Efficient use of resources We aim to offer our customers products that have as little environmental impact as possible over their entire lifecycle. To accomplish this, we develop ecofriendly, solvent-free production methods, use renewable and recycled raw materials where possible, conserve resources, and prevent production waste. We take care to ensure resource efficiency from the early stages of developing our products and the methods used to produce them. Measures to this end are an integral part of our environmental protection activities as a company. We also regularly raise awareness among our employees regarding the subjects of reducing and sorting waste. Comprehensive management of waste and raw materials Our waste and raw materials management activities are geared toward using materials efficiently and recycling wherever possible. There is no way to eliminate all waste when producing goods, but we are constantly at work on minimizing production-related losses of the raw materials we use when producing adhesives, coating tapes, and cutting rolls. We have already made significant improvements in many areas. Within the scope of the tesa environmental program, 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 23 for example, we were able to reduce emissions of volatile among other things. The ACX® method removes the solorganic compounds (VOCs) by 91 percent between 2001 vents used from the adhesive, eliminating the need for enerand 2015, and solvent use was down 41 percent in the same gy-intensive drying. The use of this technology was expandperiod. The volume of non-recyclable waste has also deed in 2017. The same is true of NRE technology, which is creased by 77 percent, and the recycling rate was over 90 used to manufacture and coat natural rubber adhesives. percent in 2017. This method substitutes solvent-free extruded rubber systems for solvent-based adhesives. New waste target We also commissioned a whole new production unit for ecofriendly manufacturing of adhesive tapes in Sparta, Our goal is to reduce the specific volume of waste per ton of Michigan, in 2017. The new unit allows us to replace solend products by a further two percentage points by 2020 vent-based adhesives with water-based ones, thereby imcompared with the reference year, 2015. proving our overall use of solvents. As a result of one-off effects and period adjustments in the Resource-efficient solutions reporting year, the amount of waste generated overall was for consumers not reduced in comparison with the reference year. Resource efficiency is important not just to tesa itself, but Target, Waste 2001 2015* 2016 2017 2020 also to our customers. As a result, we are continuously expanding our range of paper, office, and stationery products Non-hazardous waste 1000 t 2.7 0.3 0.8 1.1 aimed at environmentally conscious consumers. Under the for disposal tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand, we offer various products, includNon-hazardous waste 1000 t 3.9 9.6 9.2 10.4 ing adhesive tapes and dispensers, packing tapes, glue for recycling sticks, and corrective tape dispensers, all made primarily Hazardous waste for disposal 1000 t 1.0 0.6 0.6 0.6 from recycled or natural materials. We added a new product, the ecoLogo® glue stamp, to the range in 2017 as a fast way Hazardous waste for recycling 1000 t 4.7 4.5 4.5 5.8 to glue photos, notes, or decorations. The housing is made of 100 percent recycled plastic, and like in all ecoLogo® Total waste 1000 t 12.3 14.9 15.2 17.9 products, the adhesive used is free of solvents. The tesa Change, 2017 vs. 2015 % +0.1 -2.0 Easy Cut® Smart desktop dispenser was revamped with a new housing made from recycled plastic in a material-saving *Reference year design. The glue stick range was streamlined and shifted The waste generated at tesa is determined on a site-specific over entirely to ecoLogo® in 2017. basis according to various waste fractions and is then sepatesamoll® products for sealing gaps around windows rated for reporting purposes into categories based on and doors and the tesa® ISO SYSTEM for easy interior roof whether it is non-hazardous or hazardous and whether it is insulation help users to save energy. for disposal or recycling. tesa recycles almost all non-hazardous waste and hazardous waste containing solvents. Resource-efficient solutions Ongoing improvements in machinery and production for industry processes – including some at our employees’ instigation – have allowed us to reduce our waste volumes on a continuThese days, our industrial customers use adhesive tapes as ous basis. In 2017, for example, we improved the drives and key components in electronic devices. Tapes help to make controls on existing converting systems for greater accuracy the devices more durable and prevent the need for reof control. The result is even, straight feeding, generating source-intensive new purchases. At the customer’s request, less production-related waste. To harness our employees’ recyclability can also be taken into account when designing expertise for waste-reducing measures like these, we conthe adhesive bonds. tinued a successful campaign at the tesa plant in Offenburg that highlighted the need for creative solutions. We have used our unique, patented ACX® technology to produce double-sided acrylic adhesive tapes for highly durable adhesive bonds for years now. In 2017, as in years past, this technology helped to further reduce solvent use, 24 te s a S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Rev i ew – 20 1 7 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Offering safe, long-lasting products to our customers is part of our approach to corporate responsibility. With this in mind, we strive to protect people and the environment across the entire product lifecycle, from manufacturing and use through to disposal. Our goal? Products that meet the very highest standards of quality and safety. Our work in this area is supported by product safety officers and founded on our product safety guidelines, which provide a framework for appropriate actions and approaches. They supplement the already stringent legal regulations that apply. Product safety law and by our customers. We look to applicable laws and regulations for guidance. When it comes to ensuring that our customers are satisfied, The Product Safety and Product Development de­ and thus that we are successful in economic terms, it is crupartments are responsible for assessing materials and cial for our products to be safe. Any safety issues could have substances. In the process, they evaluate the latest research negative effects on both the people who use our products findings and consider information on safety-related suband the natural world. Harm to our image is also possible. stance properties and safe handling of substances and mixWith all this in mind, we strive to ensure that there are no tures. risks associated with our products, and we provide reliable The Product Development department and the producprotection for the safety and health of customers and emtion team use various tools to prevent product defects. ployees. Standards and processes are used to minimize relThese tools include failure mode and effects analysis evant risks for tesa. We train selected employees on the (FMEA), which is used to identify and eliminate faults in the laws that apply to chemicals, product liability legislation, and system, the design of products, or how production and asproduct issues management. These activities were also part sembly processes are arranged at an early stage of product of our efforts during this reporting year. Product safety mancreation. agement is a key element of our quality management system and is and within the organizational structure is steered Responsibility for the entire product lifecycle by the Management Board. Once products are already on the market, our business units Measures for safe products continue to monitor them. If the units determine that a new risk analysis and assessment and relevant measures are Our goal is to design products and processes in a way that necessary, they initiate the necessary steps to ensure the ensures they meet the various expectations of our stakehealth and safety of our customers and employees. In 2017 holders and no one is harmed by them. Alongside our own there have been no product recalls of safety relevance for standards, we also have to meet the requirements set by customers. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 25 SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND INVOLVEMENT Beyond our core activities, we as a company aim to make a positive contribution to society. Voluntarily assuming social responsibility is part of tesa’s corporate philosophy. This aspect is also an integral element of our company values and corporate citizenship strategy. Corporate citizenship strategy der responsibility for matters affecting society at large and for ensuring sustainable development. This self-image has a We have a clear vision for our corporate citizenship (CC) aclong history at tesa. The Beiersdorf group of companies, to tivities as a company: We want to effect positive change in which we belong, has been actively involved in promoting the world around us and, beyond our core business, shoulthe welfare of its own employees and the wider society 26 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 throughout its 130-year history. We are still carrying on this is needed. This forges ties between employees and the tradition as an independent affiliate. Our social commitment community and enhances team cohesion. We also support and involvement creates a bridge to the core tesa compecharitable causes by providing funding and donations in tencies and the company’s strengths – its inventiveness and kind. spirit of ingenuity, solution-oriented approach, focus on Our corporate citizenship strategy emphasizes specific practical assistance and team spirit. areas where involvement is most urgently needed and where we can have the biggest impact. All of the projects Global strategy, local implementation we support fall thematically into at least one of our three core fields: social commitment and involvement, support We firmly believe that all sides win through our commitment for education, and environmental protection. At the proand involvement: the organizations and projects that reject level, these fields are reflected in the four pillars of our ceive support, and tesa itself. We give back at several levels activities to give back: “tesa helps” and “tesa donates” worldwide – in the form of donations, supporting member(social), “tesa supports” (education), and “tesa protects” ships and sponsorships as well as through employee volun(environment). All projects also fit the identity of the brand teering. This helps us form lasting bonds – just like our prodand the company as a whole and our regions. Taking these ucts do. principles into account, all tesa affiliates are free to deterThe Executive Board explicitly supports and welcomes mine their own areas of emphasis. civic involvement. It sets guidelines for our affiliates to doFundamental information on social commitment and nate part of their local sales for social projects. The board involvement is set out in our strategy, the tesa Corporate also urges employees to get involved with social causes Giving Policy, a set of guidelines on brand and product through volunteering and team building activities. sponsoring activities along with internal informational mateOverarching responsibility for the subject of social rerials regarding the various ways to get involved. These docsponsibility rests with the Corporate Citizenship unit, which uments can be downloaded from the company intranet. is part of Corporate Communications. This unit decides on We work together with selected partners in cooperative and coordinates all support activities by tesa headquarters initiatives and projects for these activities. This represents a and coordinates them. Based on our donation guidelines win–win–win situation, benefiting all concerned in different and the CC strategy, the unit also makes recommendations ways: regarding suitable topics of support in the regions. In keep• Benefit to nonprofit organizations (NPOs): Our contribuing with the “global strategy, local implementation” aptions support the activities of selected organizations, proach, the regional companies perform the planned activihelping them to achieve their short-term and long-term ties independently. They are the ones who are most familiar goals. with local circumstances, so they can help ensure that activ• Benefit to society: By supporting the work of selected ities represent effective solutions to social challenges. The NPOs, we have a positive impact on their topics of focus. CC unit provides personal advice as needed. Once a year, • Benefit to tesa: Our involvement enhances the percepthe regional companies report to CC on the advances they tion of tesa and tesa’s credibility with regard to social rehave made in their local projects. sponsibility while also boosting employees’ motivation and helping them to grow and cultivate their skills. We keep several strategic criteria in mind in our work with Our “tesa connects” program partners: • Relevance: We make certain the topics selected focus on areas and organizations where contributions are used in a way that generates maximum benefit to all concerned. • Long-term commitments: We strive to establish lasting cooperative initiatives. This also includes helping those responsible for projects and their target groups achieve Our activities in support of social causes follow an integral independence and autonomy beyond the aid they reapproach, bringing things and people together. With this in ceive from us. We focus on helping others to help themmind, the guiding principle behind our CC strategy is “tesa selves. connects.” Across a wide range of projects, colleagues • Equal partnerships: To strengthen local responsibility, apply their knowledge and expertise in specific areas, act tesa works with partners in the local community in a spirit as mentors, or roll up their sleeves and pitch in where help of equal partnership. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 27 Once a year, employees can take a day off from work to ization connects volunteer helpers with over 150 instituwork together with colleagues for a social cause. The CC tions in the Hamburg area. In the year under review, 83 unit and cooperation partners such as tatkräftig e.V., a nonemployees supported eight projects in all, including play profit initiative for volunteer activities, help employees to and craft activities or gardening, handicraft, and renovaselect the projects. Our individual affiliates handle these action work at social and charitable institutions, such as chiltivities differently depending on their size. Several affiliates dren’s and youth facilities, day care centers, and refugee have longstanding ties with particular initiatives, organize centers. A “tesa helps” project with “tatkräftig” has now annual activities such as summer festivals, renovation days, become an integral part of the first year of apprenticeship or afternoon craft projects during the Christmas season. In at the tesa plant in Hamburg. many countries, the social commitment and involvement of tesa employees is a longstanding tradition. tesa affiliates also provided active assistance in their local As part of our employee communications, we report on areas in 2017: our social commitment and involvement in various tesa Group media. We post information on all of the volunteering Worldwide commitment and involvement projects we have implemented and on donations and events on the intranet, for example. We also emphasize personal • tesa UK has supported the Walnuts School, a school for feedback toward the employees involved and appreciative autistic children in Milton Keynes, since 2009. tesa concommunications in publications such as the employee magtributed funding to the project in 2017, as in past years, azine and the annual overview of all CC measures. making it possible for young people with autism to gain As touched on above, all of the projects within the “tesa initial experience in the working world. connects” program fall within four areas: help, donate, sup• tesa employees in the Czech Republic spent an afternoon port, and protect. While our focus in the first two of these of games and contests with children suffering from leuareas is on social projects, “support” encompasses the subkemia at the Motol University Hospital Transplant Center ject of education and “protect” covers the environment. The in Prague this year, as in the past. Colleagues from Slovasections that follow describe our approaches and activities kia teamed up with the foundation Deti slovenska (Chilin each of these areas. dren of Slovakia) in 2017 to organize a similar activity for children who have hemophilia. • In the Netherlands, tesa supports Stichting het Raakt U, a foundation that helps and advocates for children with physical limitations. tesa organized a field trip with the children and made monetary donations and donations in Being there for others as a good neighbor kind in 2017. • In Switzerland, tesa has been committed to helping TheNeighbors helping neighbors in the immediate vicinity of odora, an initiative that brings clowns to hospitals to enour sites – that’s the principle behind “tesa helps.” Many of tertain and distract pediatric patients, through donations our employees live near our sites and want to give back to at Christmastime for the past six years. tesa also ran a social causes in their local areas. All over the world, local fundraising campaign for Theodora in 2016 and 2017. tesa teams pitch in to help with projects and support their • The Austrian tesa team supports Stiftung Kindertraum, a communities. foundation that grants wishes for children and teens with At the tesa headquarters (Norderstedt), for example, emdisabilities or serious illnesses. tesa helped to make big ployees can choose from a pool of projects compiled by the dreams come true once again in 2017. Corporate Citizenship unit. Alternatively, they can also ar• In Hungary, tesa has been supporting a children’s facility range to support self-chosen initiatives in the local area. in Budapest for two years. Among other things, employDuring this reporting period, our employees continued variees designed a special room for infants and toddlers and ous existing activities and started new ones. organized a Christmas gift donation campaign. • An orphanage for disadvantaged children in India has reCommitment and involvement in Germany ceived financial support from tesa since 2008. tesa employees also help with IT matters to meet the site’s needs. • The tesa headquarters continued its partnership with the • tesa maintains a longstanding partnership in Italy with the nonprofit organization “tatkräftig – Hände für Hamburg” nonprofit organization Fondazioni Piatti. The initiative in 2017. With “1 day, 1 team, 1 goal” as its motto, the organprovides care for children with neuropsychiatric condi28 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 tions at one of its sites in northern Italy. tesa provided cially disadvantaged families in time for the holiday. In all, necessary accessories for the swimming pool there dur131 packages were handed out in 2017. ing this reporting period. • Instead of giving Christmas gifts to customers, we sup• The colleagues in Russia supported the Mercy aid center ported the Hamburg-based nonprofit Chancen für Kinder for children and families, near Moscow, with a donation e.V. with a donation of 20,000 euros again in 2017. Some and hands-on help with renovations in 2017. tesa also parof the money was used to make it possible for children ticipated in a Christmas bazaar for children at a German who are forced to work in quarries in Yeleswaram, India, school in Russia this year. to attend school. The other part supported Klinik-Clowns Hamburg e.V., an initiative that brings clowns to hospitals to entertain severely ill children with the aim of strengthening their will to live. Uncomplicated help for social projects As part of “tesa donates,” we make targeted monetary and product donations to support people and the day-to-day Recruiting the next generation of employees work of selected institutions. We provide tesa products for various purposes and groups, from schools and childcare Education in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and centers to campaigns to provide aid to victims of natural dismathematics) fields is important when it comes to sustaining asters and other emergencies, when items like fly screens human life and securing social progress. From digitization to and packing tape can be useful. The company also provides climate change and energy issues, STEM skills help to solve financial support, runs “leftover change donation” programs, present-day challenges. For tesa as a technology company, and gives away old computers. In 2017, as in the past, we strengthening this knowledge is essential in order to recruit were able to support various initiatives through numerous the next generation of employees. That’s why we work with donation activities. Examples: various initiatives to support educational projects that unlock prospective futures for kids and teens in these areas. Donation campaigns Specific projects and cooperative activities are associated with these efforts in Germany and at many international tesa • The tesa companies in Norderstedt, Hamburg, and Lanaffiliates. genfeld continued their “leftover change donation” programs in 2017, in line with the slogan “small gesture, big Partner to Initiative Naturwissenschaft & impact.” The concept is simple: Employees donate the Technik (NAT) cents amount of their net monthly pay (0.01 to 0.99 euros) to nonprofit organizations in their communities. The tesa SE in Germany has been partnering with Initiative money collected, amounting to a maximum of 11.88 euros Naturwissenschaft & Technik (Science & Technology Initiaper employee per year, is credited to a separate tesa tive – abbreviated NAT) since 2014. In Hamburg and the surdonation account. Donations totaling 3251.04 euros were rounding metropolitan area, NAT connects schools with unicollected in 2017. The amount was matched by the versities, colleges and technology-driven companies. The executive management, for a total of 6502.08 euros, objective is to give young people a variety of insights into which was then donated to the project Knack den various occupational fields. tesa is a supporting member, Krebs, a cancer-fighting initiative run by nonprofit organiproviding donations and encouraging volunteer efforts by zation Fördergemeinschaft Kinderkrebs-Zentrum Hamemployees. We provide particular support for two NAT initiburg e.V. atives: “mint:pink,” a support program to promote girls’ par• Because not every child is fortunate enough to receive ticipation in STEM, and “90 Minutes of STEM,” a course that gifts at Christmas, tesa organized a Christmas gift camoffers a view into scientists’ working lives. tesa provided paign again in 2017. New gifts were collected during the conceptual and financial support to both programs again in holiday season from tesa colleagues, who were encour2017. aged to place them under the Christmas tree at tesa headquarters. Employees of ToysCompany, a nonprofit • In the “90 Minutes of STEM” program, tesa employees partner organization, then distributed the presents to sospend two hours in a classroom, giving groups of about 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 29 20 school students real-life insights into their working unteers Foundation of Turkey, which offers extracurricular lives. In 2017, a class from a specialized higher grade leveducational and enrichment programs for children. el at an academic secondary school in Hamburg visited • In Mexico, the regional office provides funding to the Funvarious labs where basic research is performed. dación para la Protección de la Niñez (Foundation for the • In February 2017, tesa organized this year’s kickoff event Protection of Children), which awards scholarships for for the mint:pink program, which encourages girls to exlearning English as a second language. plore STEM fields, in Norderstedt. About 170 ninth grad• The Guatemalan tesa affiliate finances a partial scholarers from 13 schools attended, along with teachers, parship for a student otherwise unable to afford higher eduents, and representatives of the political sphere. Over the cation. course of the year, the students visited five companies in • tesa India donates to the Nanhi Kali organization, which all, where they were given insight into exciting technolooffers primary school education opportunities to disadgies and working worlds. vantaged young girls. • tesa also participated in mint:pink with various practical • In 2015, tesa tape North America began sponsoring a units in 2017. During these activities, R&D employees four-year study program concentrating on automotive shared their own enthusiasm for science with the girls technology. The EcoCAR program is devoted to the deand gave them a wide range of insights into the basic velopment of an extremely energy-efficient high-perforprinciples behind adhesive technology. In 2017, students mance vehicle. visited the production facility at tesa’s plant in the Hausbruch district of Hamburg and the tesa physics lab, for example. • NAT is further expanding its activities starting in 2018, thanks in part to encouragement from tesa. Future plans call for opening up the mint:pink program to 50 female Working to protect the environment students from the city of Norderstedt, Schleswig-Holstein, as well. We view environmental protection as part of our social re• NAT celebrated its tenth anniversary with a major event sponsibilities. After all, an unspoiled natural environment is at Hamburg’s arguably most spectacularbuilding, the part of good quality of life. This is why environmental protecElbphilharmonie orchestra hall. Over 1300 students and tion and nature conservation are a part of tesa’s corporate supporters of the initiative were there for the celebra­strategy. Our engagement on the production and product tion. tesa made a donation that allowed two classes to level is complemented by specific projects for preserving attend. nature and improving quality of life in the regions where we operate. International support From 2011 to 2017, we worked to preserve the sensitive for education ecosystem of the “Niedersächsische Elbtalaue” UNESCO Biosphere Reserve near Hamburg. • 2017 marked the fifth time the tesa affiliate in Japan participated in the Tsukuba Science Festival. Held in TsukuEnvironmental protection ba, the famous “City of Science,” the event is aimed at projects introducing children and teens to the world of science through fun experiments and games. The potential scien• These activities focused on measures that serve to contists of tomorrow learned about interesting aspects of adserve or restore the original landscapes of this area and hesive technology at the tesa stand. thus preserve species and biodiversity. We supported ac• The tesa plant in Suzhou, China, initiated its tesa Suntivities on site through the active efforts of employees shine Education Assistance program ten years ago to and financial support alike. Our one-time donation of help children from families of migrant laborers get a bet100,000 euros in 2011 made possible various activities ter elementary school education. The program has probetween then and 2017, including planting trees typical of vided tesa Sunshine Scholarships to about 630 children the region, which now offer new habitats for native speso far. cies of birds and insects. • Other tesa affiliates have an established practice of con• tesa is planning a new cooperative relationship with an tributing funding to educational initiatives: environmental initiative in the area of the Norderstedt • In Turkey, tesa supports the organization Educational Volheadquarters starting in 2018. 30 tesa Sustainabilit y Review – 2017 • Colleagues from tesa China have been working to protesa’s efforts make significant contributions to all three of tect the environment since 2015 as part of the “Million the company’s core areas: social commitment and involveTree Project.” In 2017, tesa Greater China donated fundment, support for education, and environmental protection. ing for 2500 trees to the program, and five volunteers participated in a tree planting campaign in Inner Mongolia. 2017 – tesa Sustainabilit y Review 31 tesa SE Hugo-Kirchberg-Straße 1 22848 Norderstedt Germany Phone: +49 40 88899-6597 Fax: +49 40 888 99-186597 responsibility@tesa.com tesa.com/about-tesa/responsibility tesa.com
