TA B L E O F C O N T E N T S 1. A WORD FROM ADRIANA 4 2. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 6 A SUS TAINABLE REPORT 3. TROPICALIA 8 Our annual sustainability report is primarily distributed via our website and other online platforms. The copies that we do print use 100% Forest Stewardship Council 4 . F U N DAC I Ó N T R O P I CA L I A  22 (FSC) certified paper, and in 2017, 61% of our reports were distributed using electric motorbike messengers. Whenever possible, we use FSC paper and ecodelivery options 5 . PA R T N E R S F O R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N 2 0 1 7  50 for our events, invitations and print materials. In 2017, this approach: 6 . L O O K I N G F O R WA R D  56 Mitigated 470.10 kg of Saved 39 trees and 94,007 CO² emissions gallons of water 7. G L O B A L R E P O R T I N G I N I T I AT I V E  58 1. A WORD FROM ADRIANA A WORD FROM ADRIANA GRI 102-14 A WORD FROM ADRIANA Ensuring resource efficiency and environmental protection remains a core area of our project and corporate values as we continue to rigorously evaluate, test and apply our robust A WORD Sustainability Management System (SMS) with “Join us in our design, development and architecture accelerating the teams. This year we completed the design of shift toward a Four Seasons Tropicalia, which in addition to LEED, will also comply with the IFC’s rigorous more sustainable standards for Excellence in Design for Greater tourism sector Efficiencies (EDGE). While EDGE requires a for the future” minimum of 20% energy and water savings, we FROM anticipate surpassing that figure, achieving up to 50% in savings due to the implementation of passive cooling design strategies such as green roofs and open corridors. Children are the future of Miches, and sustainable economic development depends on the quality of their education and the protection of their ADRIANA rights. Fundación Tropicalia’s education and gender programs support these objectives by providing administrative and career support to educators, while simultaneously working directly with children via in-school programs and our all-girls summer camp, Soy niña, soy importante (“I’m a Girl, I’m Important”). We are particularly proud of this program, which empowers girls and dares them to dream big. In 2017, we reached a record of 306 girls and FOREWORD created an Ambassador’s Network to support fundraising and awareness efforts in the Dominican Republic. In an effort to counteract the rampant gender violence taking place in the Dominican Republic, we also organized the conference, Gender Equality in Dominican Republic: Rights and opportunities, which received support from UN Women and the Dominican Ministry of Women. Welcome to Tropicalia’s 2017 Sustainability Report. As CEO of exceptional worldwide leaders committed to positively Cisneros, I am honored to reflect upon our journey in becoming impacting and inspiring sustainable tourism development. At Tropicalia, we have established a strong one of the most sustainable luxury resorts in the world. Nearly foundation to advance the United Nations a decade ago, we started supporting sustainable development We believe sustainability must also be integrated within all SDGs. Protecting natural and cultural resources, in the Miches community in eastern Dominican Republic, and stages of the development life-cycle, including financial while empowering host communities and we are celebrating great accomplishments during a remarkable processes. In 2017, we were able to leverage our sustainable creating effective management systems for year, deemed the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for architecture and community development programs in Miches our business, will be crucial for this. Development by the United Nations. to help secure lenders and investors that support tourism projects which significantly affect economic growth in the Many thanks to all who have supported our We acknowledge the role of tourism in achieving inclusive and smallest and poorest regions, while supporting biodiversity efforts to date. In 2018 we will continue forging sustainable economic growth, as well as social inclusiveness, and other environmental considerations like climate change. our way toward the collective Journey to 20301. employment and poverty reduction; we have ensured that our Our talented team of collaborators, led by Patrick Freeman, Please join us in accelerating the shift toward a initiatives and efforts with the local community contribute President of Cisneros Real Estate, successfully obtained more sustainable tourism sector for the future. to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). In fact, we preliminary approvals for financing of Four Seasons Tropicalia started 2017 with a great milestone Fundación Tropicalia’s with both IDB Invest of the Inter-American Development Adriana Cisneros de Griffin sustainable tourism supply-chain program, supported by the Bank Group, and International Finance Corporation (IFC) of Inter-American Development Bank’s Multilateral Investment the World Bank Group and will be finalizing this transaction Fund (IDB-MIF), received the second runner-up United Nations in early 2018. During this process Tropicalia received IDB World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) Award for Innovation Invest’s highest development impact score of all their projects 1 World Tourism Organization (2017) Tourism and the in Non-Governmental Organizations. At the UNWTO Awards approved in 2017. Sustainable Development Goals – Journey to 2030, Highlights. Ceremony held in Madrid, we were honored to join other https://www.e-unwto.org/doi/book/10.18111/9789284419340 Accessed January 2018. 4 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 2017 HIGHLIGHTS The Sustainable Tourism Supply-Chain Tropicalia Prioritizes Economic Program with the Inter-American Sustainability Development Bank’s Multilateral Investment Fund (IDB/MIF) Draws to a Close Tropicalia leveraged its sustainable design, and 9 years of implementing socioeconomic and community development Fundación Tropicalia completed its fifth and final year programs in Miches, to advance financing of the project of implementation of this great project for inclusive with IDB Invest and International Finance Corporation (IFC). supply chains. We launched a website, https://mype. fundaciontropicalia.com/, supported climate smart agricultural products, developed a business plan competition and training programs, created a new microfinance product and reached more than 1,800 people, among many other milestones. The project also received the UNWTO Award Tropicalia Ranks Top Project for for Innovation in NGOs in 2017. Development Impact at IDB Invest Tropicalia received IDB Invest’s highest DELTA score Fundación Tropicalia of all projects approved in 2017; DELTA (Development Strengthens Communities Effectiveness Learning Tracking and Assessment Tool) is used to measure a project’s development impact and effectiveness. 2017 In 2017, Fundación Tropicalia’s initiatives and programs served 852 beneficiaries2, 63% of whom are women and Four Seasons Tropicalia young girls. (FST) Pursues EDGE Certification 2 This number is in addition to the students and teachers we indirectly impact as a result of our PRyME program. FST commits to pursuing IFC’s Excellence in Design for HIGHGreater Efficiencies (EDGE) certification program for green Soy niña, soy importante building, in addition to LEED certification. (“I’m a Girl, I’m Important” or SNSI) Breaks Records Tropicalia Receives Award “Solutionist Company of the Year” Fundación Tropicalia celebrated the fifth year of the SNSI summer camp with the participation of over 300 girls and the creation of an Ambassador’s Network to help raise funds and give visibility to the program; the Network enlisted 19 LIGHTS program ambassadors in its first year. En Sociedad magazine of the Dominican journal Hoy recognized Tropicalia as the “Solutionist Company of the Year” for promoting luxury sustainable tourism. 6 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3. TROPICALIA TROPICALIA TROPICALIA TROPICALIA GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-9 TROPICALIA T R O P I C A L I A Tropicalia is a luxury resort development created by Cisneros Real Estate offering sophisticated architecture in a captivating and breathtaking site of diverse natural beauty in northeast Dominican Republic. Comprised of residential and resort developments and a Tom Doak golf course, Tropicalia integrates smart design with the natural landscape creating a sense of balance between time and space. The project embodies the philanthropic and cultural values of the Cisneros Family and is uniquely poised to be a model for sustainable luxury tourism in the Caribbean and the world. A N AT U TA L H AV E N A N A T U R A L H A V E N Miches Coastline Tropicalia is located in the community of Miches of El Seibo province, an especially beautiful coastal settlement on the southern shores of the Samaná Bay. A place where FOUR SEASONS TROPICALIA sky and ocean horizons blend into one, Miches boasts a diverse ecosystem of beaches, mountains, mangrove forests, jungle, lagoons and rivers. Natural attractions include the magnificent beaches of Costa Esmeralda and Playa Arriba, the majestic Cordillera Oriental, and lush prairie landscapes. F O U R S E A S O N S Every year more than 2,000 humpback whales migrate to Samaná Bay, a world renowned and protected Marine Mammal Sanctuary, to give birth and mate in its warm waters. T R O P I C A L I A Nearby, Los Haitises National Park exhibits magnificent limestone plateaus, conical hills, caverns and a large mangrove forest. The Wildlife Refuge Lagunas Redonda The project’s first phase of development includes Four Seasons Tropicalia and Limón features two impressive lagoons, home to (FST), a 169 key Four Seasons resort, 24 branded residences and its associated several regionally native plant and animal species. La Gina infrastructure. Designed by Brazilian architect Isay Weinfeld, FST is located on is a spectacular bay outlined by mangrove and coconut the Costa Esmeralda beachfront; amenities include a luxurious spa, meeting forests, currently preserved by the Dominican government and banquet spaces, a kids’ club, and a fitness center. Four Seasons Tropicalia’s as a species and habitat management area. Other historical minimalist architecture and tropical modernism diminish the barriers between and cultural landmarks in El Seibo include the Santa Cruz indoor and outdoor space, evoking natural luxury and effortless transitions for Church and the Battle of Palo Hincado Monument. the ultimate peace of mind. Surroundings offer a rich combination of adventure and leisure activities to guests and residents alike. 10 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TROPICALIA TROPICALIA Miches: A community on the rise ATLANTIC OCEAN HIGHWAY With a population of approximately 21,000, 104 Miches’ historical isolation has catalogued SAMANÁ BAY it as one of the poorest yet most beautiful regions of the Dominican Republic. Its main HAITI DOMINICAN REPUBLIC LOS HAITISES NATIONAL PARK economic activities include subsistence LA GINA EL CEDRO agriculture, cattle-raising, artisanal fishing, SABANA MICHES micro-business services and artisanal DE LA MAR EL SEIBO craftsmanship. Despite its diverse and abundant resources, Miches faces many NORTH AMERICA PUNTA social and economic challenges. Limitations SANTO DOMINGO LA ROMANA CANA were noted in an assessment conducted in 2006 for the El Seibo region to meet the Millenium Development Goals at that time3. Furthermore, census data from 2010 CARIBBEAN SEA highlights a low employment rate of 31.9%; low education levels, with about 57% of the population only having either primary or basic education; and limited access to basic hygiene services, as 58.5% of homes did not have indoor toilets. Today, Miches is forging a more promising future. The Dominican government has invested in transportation and SOUTH telecommunication infrastructure to expand Miches’ market access. In early 2015, the AMERICA HIGHWAY government completed a highway project 104 from Miches to Punta Cana, removing one of the largest barriers to socioeconomic COSTA ESMERALDA “Since the opening of the new development. Now, this coastal community is just an hour away from the Punta Cana highway connecting Punta PLAYA ARRIBA airport, which attracts more than 3 million4 Cana to Miches, we’ve seen tourists annually. In 2016, the government a tremendous increase in LAGUNA inaugurated the highway segment from economic activity in Miches. REDONDA Miches to Sabana de La Mar, adding 40 kilometers to the Punta Cana–Uvero Alto– I’ve lived in Miches for eight RÍO Miches highway launched in 2015. years and have never seen more LA YEGUADA businesses pop up and flourish, because more visitors make their way MONTAÑA here. In the last year, we’ve seen car REDONDA LAGUNA 104 LIMÓN rentals, grocery stores, pizza shops and 104 even whale watching tours set up shop 104 3 Comisión Presidencial sobre los Objetivos del Milenio y el Desarrollo Sostenible (COPDES) y el Programa de in our town. It’s very exciting.” MICHES las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (PNUD) (2006) Evaluación de Necesidades y Análisis de Costos para Cumplir con los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio: El Gustavo A. Román, General Coordinator, Seibo, Pueblo del Milenio Fundación Tropicalia 4 Turistical Statistics. Dominican Republic Central Bank. 12 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TROPICALIA GRI 102-12, 102-16, 103-3 TROPICALIA Economic Sustainability: S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S International lenders and financing “...Economic success without accountability and social inclusion is not sustainable.” S U S T A I N A B L E –Sri Mulyani Indrawati, Minister of Finance, Indonesia (former Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of World Bank Group B U S I N E S S Economic sustainability is an intrinsic part of our project. Financing Four Seasons Tropicalia required time to engage in conversations with international lenders and investors that shared our vision for driving sustainable business. In 2017, we focused on adjusting and consolidating the project to secure financing partners that valued projects with significant development impact. As a result, Tropicalia actively leveraged its sustainable design and 9 years of implementing socioeconomic and community development programs in Miches to access financing by IDB Invest of the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDBG), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank Group (WBG). Tropicalia’s business model aligns perfectly with both banks’ mandates to mitigate climate change, alleviate poverty, create dignified employment opportunities and generate an inclusive, responsible and local supply chain. Upon receiving mandate letters from both IDB Invest and IFC, Tropicalia successfully completed their due diligence procedure, which Four Key Elements that Guide revised all documents related to Four Seasons Tropicalia’s design, development, permits and proposition; as well as Tropicalia’s commitment and actions regarding sustainability management systems, reporting and community development initiatives carried out by Fundación Tropicalia’s work. During this process Tropicalia received IDB Invest’s highest DELTA score of all of their projects approved in 2017; DELTA our Most Important Decisions (Development Effectiveness Learning Tracking and Assessment Tool) is a tool used to measure a project’s development impact and effectiveness. KEY COMMITMENT TO DETAIL SUSTAINABILITY “Our firm commitment to Miches and its sustainable growth, carried out through Fundación Tropicalia’s work and other partnerships with local actors aligned with our values, has been fundamental in the process of engaging Financial, environmental, social and aesthetic viability are institutions such as IDB Invest and IFC to become part of Tropicalia.” Economic Sustainability equally considered in making sound business decisions. Patrick Freeman, President of Cisneros Real Estate Protection and conservation of the natural environment using sustainable site development and destination Environmental Balance management to preserve biological integrity, habitat connectivity, and green space; preserving the natural amenities that draw visitors to this special place. About IDB Invest About IFC IDB Invest is a member of the Inter-American International Finance Corporation (IFC) —a sister Development Bank (IDB) Group committed to organization of the World Bank and member the environmental and social development of of the World Bank Group—is the largest global Latin America and the Caribbean through the development institution focused exclusively on Design and development standards that guarantee private sector. As part of its mission to promote the private sector in developing countries. IFC’s Thoughtful Architecture resource efficiencies, and lasting and environmentally sustainable economic development, IDB Invest strategic commitment to sustainable development sound construction techniques. supports the private sector and state-owned is an integral part of their approach to risk enterprises through financing in the form of loans, management, and promotes sound environmental equity investments and guarantees. and social practices, encouraging transparency and accountability. Local economic diversification, socio-cultural advocacy Community Advancement and community development led by Fundación Tropicalia. 14 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TROPICALIA GRI 102-11, 102-44 GRI 102-11, 201-2 TROPICALIA Beach Program – Tropicalia Thoughtful Architecture: Sustainable design certified Taking care of the environment that surrounds us is a priority for Tropicalia. On average, Tropicalia staff cleans the beachfront along Costa Esmeralda twice “Architecture is the thoughtful making of space.” –Louis Kahn, US Architect (1901-1974) per month. This includes the collection of waste and pruning trees and grass. Organic waste is used as nutrient and fertilizer for soils, while inorganic waste is separated into four types and then recycled, including: This year we completed the design of the Four Seasons Tropicalia. In addition to meeting the United States Green Building Council’s Environmental Balance: glass, metal, plastic, and cardboard. Approximately 30 (USGBC) standards for LEED, the design will also comply with the IFC’s rigorous standards for Excellence in Design for Greater m3 of plastic, or nearly three times the volume of a Our management systems and cement mixer truck, and 200 m3 of organic waste are Efficiencies (EDGE). To achieve EDGE certification, Four Seasons Tropicalia will be required to achieve a minimum of 20% energy and water savings, as well as 20% savings of embodied energy in materials. Nevertheless, after running our design through EDGE, programs collected per year. we anticipate achieving up to 50% energy savings thanks to the implementation of passive cooling design strategies, such as green roofs and open corridors. In November 2017, Tropicalia engaged Bouygues Bâtiment International (Bouygues) via a pre-construction agreement and letter of intent for a three month period of pre-construction services in order to competitively price out the construction of the Four Seasons “Conservation is the state of harmony between Tropicalia. These services include identifying subcontractors and suppliers to ensure that the construction process will comply with men and land.” – Aldo Leopold, US conservationist, our various environmental and sustainability requirements. Our construction contract with Bouygues will include references to the ecologist, philosopher and writer (1887-1948). United Nations Global Compact, our proprietary Sustainability Management System (SMS), IDB and IFC Environmental and Social Action Plans (ESAP) and all applicable environmental laws and regulations, making these commitments legally binding. Environmental Management Programs and Permits Environmental permits for both Tropicalia and Four Seasons Tropicalia are current and require the implementation of a rigorous Environmental Management and Protection Program (PMAA). The PMAAs are drafted in accordance with the Environmental Compliance Reports (ICA) we submit to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MIMARENA). About Bouygues Both PMAAs include distinct programs that ensure protection Bouygues Construction is a global leader in of habitat and biodiversity; health, safety and training for sustainable construction, with operations in About LEED workers and stakeholders; as well as environmental, physical more than 80 countries, headquartered in France. Since its establishment in 1993, LEED has become and biological controls for resource management. The company designs, constructs and operates one of the most internationally-recognized green building, infrastructure and industrial projects. As building rating systems by establishing metrics, The latest Tropicalia ICA, covering the period September 2016 – a responsible and committed leader in sustainable standardizing performance and setting up a March 2017, was submitted to MIMARENA in 2016, which in turn construction, Bouygues sees innovation as its common understanding to help building owners issued a response informing that no further ICAs for Tropicalia primary source of added value, benefitting its and operators be environmentally responsible and are required until construction begins. As for the ICAs related to customers, employees and partners through every use resources efficiently. Four Seasons Tropicalia, the Ministry also requested we present stage of the value chain of construction. our first ICA upon breaking ground. Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) A key activity of both IFC and IDB Invest’s due diligence procedures included an analysis of Tropicalia and Four Seasons LEED Certification result, Tropicalia will request placing meters and sensors to Tropicalia social and environmental programs in relation to Four Seasons Tropicalia is seeking certification under version optimize control regarding energy and water consumption as World Bank Guidelines (WBG) for Environmental and Social three (3) of the USGBC’s LEED Green Building Rating System well as the ability to digitally monitor water quality, output and Performance Standards. As a result, in 2017 Tropicalia and IDB for New Construction. At completion, the project is anticipating consumption. We also determined that: Invest issued an Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) LEED Silver certification, corresponding to 50-59 points for which lists several activities we must implement in order to sustainable design, construction and operation strategies • 26% of total roofs will be green, contributing to passive align our environmental and social policies with bank standards. ranging across seven categories: sustainable sites, water use cooling commitments. reduction, energy and atmosphere, materials and resources, • The building’s exterior finishes are specified with materials Tropicalia’s ESAP was made publicly available in October 2017, indoor air quality, innovation and regional priority. that are found locally including limestone (coralina), brick, when IDB Invest posted our project on their portal. As we move and stucco finished walls. into 2018 we anticipate finalizing IFC’s ESAP and merging both SMS Implementation in Design • Ozone-Depleting Substances as identified in the Montreal ESAPs into one guiding document. Tropicalia vetted design decisions against its proprietary Protocol are prohibited and are not included in our Sustainability Management System (SMS), resulting in a purchasing orders for the HVAC systems. productive exercise that prompted further analysis regarding • The landscape design is aligned with our biodiversity water and energy metrics and measuring capabilities. As a management. 16 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT M A N AG E M E N T A N D G OV E R N A N C E M E C H A N I S M S TROPICALIA GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 G R I 1 0 2 7, 1 0 2 8 , 1 0 2 1 8 , 1 0 2 4 6 , 1 0 2 4 7, TROPICALIA 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 405-1, 414-1 Community Advancement Management Sustainability Committee Tropicalia’s Sustainability Committee is a cross-functional “All that is valuable in human society depends upon the opportunity for development accorded to the individual.”– Albert Einstein, world known physicist and Nobel Prize recipient. and Governance team that meets annually to discuss strategy, report progress and define goals for the upcoming year. The diversity of Mechanisms our Committee members brings strength to this corporate governance body. Members include internal employees hailing from a wide variety of roles and backgrounds, in addition to external advisors such as Alan Kelso, Chairman and CEO of Established in 2008, and after nearly a decade of work, Fundación Tropicalia (FT) supports the Sustainability Management Sinergo, our Costa Rican development partner specialized in high-end, ecologically sensitive tourism real estate projects. socioeconomic development of the Miches community. Our foundation strikes “We came to understand the land by working with the System (SMS) and Materiality local community. Through our work at Fundación We held our 12th annual Sustainability Committee meeting multisector partnerships, and designs Tropicalia, the mothers, teachers, children and In an effort to ensure we focus on reporting and measuring in December 2017, and discussed strategic decisions for the and implements programs with an farmers have shown us what makes this place material topics to Tropicalia, we rely on our Sustainability project’s short, medium and long-term development, with acute awareness of stakeholder so special and yet so fragile. Through our work, Management System (SMS), which prompts us to analyze issues valuable input of senior leadership and employees across the interests. This enables us to identify we have acquired profound knowledge of in key topic areas: sustainable destination management; cultural organization. Strategic priorities for 2018 include bolstering shared value opportunities that our community, which makes us particularly heritage and community development; legal accountability, our economic sustainability as we continue to advance contribute to the social, economic sensitive to their needs, and allows us to devise labor, health and safety; and built and natural environmental financing for the project, establish a sustainability division and environmental progress of the solutions collectively and bring in the right management. within Cisneros Real Estate to oversee implementation of community, while also paving the partners to increase our development impact.” Tropicalia’s environmental and social commitments, as well as way for establishing a successful In 2017 two key stakeholders entered the stage IFC and preparations for Fundación Tropicalia’s ten-year anniversary. sustainable tourism business. Adriana Cisneros de Griffin IDB Invest which furthered our materiality assessment as CEO Cisneros Organization they benchmarked our SMS with World Bank Group’s (WBG) Fundación Tropicalia supports programs Guidelines for Environmental and Social Performance Standards. in education, environment, productivity and As we move into 2018, useful insights gained through this exercise sociocultural advocacy. Within this scope of work, regional, and national authorities; local and international organizations; will refine our SMS, its criterion and indicators in the areas of FT contributes to quality education, works with community leaders and media; and partners, suppliers and employees. labor, biodiversity and sustainable destination management. women and girls to improve their economic and We were pleased to see that these lenders referenced our SMS social position, supports a local supply chain of We approach key stakeholders through our work both as a business and to acknowledge that Tropicalia was in compliance with several goods and services, promotes the region’s cultural foundation. Community, local and national authority stakeholders are other WBG Performance Standards. traditions, and encourages sustainable practices in consulted on nearly a daily basis, as Tropicalia and Fundación Tropicalia environmental and agricultural activities, among team members reside in Santo Domingo and Miches, allowing for Our continuous collaboration with key partners such as other initiatives. frequent and regular interaction, as well as an intimate understanding of Gensler, Sinergo, Thompson Engineers, Epsa Labco and The their needs. We structure programs and business strategy accordingly, Ocean Foundation, has allowed us to include a wider and more At Tropicalia, stakeholder engagement is a dynamic prioritizing quality and transparency above all else. integrated environmental perspective into our resort design. In exercise and we continuously identify those most fact, in 2017 we benchmarked design proposals against our SMS affected by our activities by mapping out local, criteria. See section 3.4.3 Thoughtful Architecture for details and outcomes. Finally, our SMS product is tailored for each end user (Owner, General Contractor, and Hotel Operator), so that we can involve each user in its implementation. As a result the SMS was included in Cisneros Real Estate’s Request for Proposals (RFP) for identifying our General Contractor. For more details on SMS implementation by our General Contractor see section 3.4.3 Thoughtful Architecture. “It is time for things to get real; our customized SMS for this unique location is now moving to the implementation stage. This is the test for Tropicalia. Will it remain committed as our theoretical construct is tested out in practice? And, I am excited to watch as it is expressing every indication that it will stay committed and be a leader in sustainability by pragmatically putting into practice one of the most advanced SMSs in use today.” Mark J. Spalding, President, The Ocean Foundation 18 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TROPICALIA GRI 102-12, 401-1 TROPICALIA Gender Number of employees (*) Region Number of employees (*) 15 Total 16 Total Rural Men 24 24 9 8 Women Urban (*) Information compiled and verified through the employee payroll for calendar year 2017. All employees are permanent and full-time. Commitments to the UNGC and Sustainable conference “Gender Equality in Dominican Republic: Rights Labor and Human Rights Development Goals (SDGs) and opportunities” in partnership with the Universidad We continue to require our major partners to comply with the Iberoamericana (UNIBE) and with the participation of In 2010, we committed to the United Nations Global the Dominican Ministry of Women, UN Women, Save the UNGC principles and other sustainability and environmental Compact’s (UNGC) universal principles on human Children, Plan International and other protagonists. Lastly, rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We are proud obligations by incorporating these requirements into our contracts, thereby making them legally binding. In 2017, a we incorporated in our SMS our intent to pursue the Gender We translate these commitments into policies that Equality Seal developed by the United Nations Development counter child labor, advocate for gender equity, to say that total of five major development partners committed to this expectation. Program (UNDP) and the Dominican Ministry of Women by equal opportunity employment, and encourage 2022. individual freedom of association. We are proud almost 40% Additionally, Cisneros is committed to SDG 5 for Gender to say that almost 40% of our current employees We remain committed to human rights, environmental are women; all employees are remunerated based of our current Equality and as a result Tropicalia and Fundación Tropicalia have committed to incorporating The Women’s Empowerment protection, structural integrity, smart and efficient infrastructure on experience and position; we hire and train local design, and community development, all of which are guided residents (more than 65% come from rural regions); employees are Principles, developed by UNGC and UN Women to offer businesses guidance on how to empower women in and monitored by a proprietary SMS, which cross-references and all operations implement local community internationally recognized best practices and reporting engagement and development programs via our women the workplace, marketplace and community. Together with Fundación Tropicalia, Cisneros also organized the guidelines such as the UNGC and SDGs. foundation, Fundación Tropicalia. 20 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4. FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA O U R A C H I E V E M E N T S I N 2 0 1 7 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA GRI 102-44, 203-2, 413-1, 413-2 Concluded water and carbon footprint study for agricultural production and sourcing. F U N D A C I Ó N Costa Esmeralda, Playa Arriba and Montaña Redonda environmental Environment T R O P I C A L I A conservation programs rescates to support beach clean-up, installation of educational signage, and trash collection points. Since 2008 Tropicalia has carried out its community engagement and social investment efforts through its corporate nonprofit, Fundación Tropicalia. Fundación Tropicalia drives sustainable, socioeconomic development in the Miches community by striking multi-sector Education Productivity partnerships and working with the local community. The Foundation focuses on four main program areas productivity, environment, education and sociocultural advocacy. Through the years, Fundación Tropicalia continues to develop and implement high-impact and innovate initiatives in agriculture, gender equality, education, environment, entrepreneurship and microfinance. 84 Participants conclude ecological agriculture and 205 Students participate in our complementary organic fertilizer production workshops. education programs Website Launch | mype.fundaciontropicalia.com to showcase our work with IDB/MIF and other initiatives 4 Scholarship students graduate college for economic diversification in Miches. Fundación Tropicalia 1 New school is added to Fundación Tropicalia’s Leadership workshops to motivate and inspire reach over one hundred stakeholders. drives sustainable, School Renovation and Maintenance Program socioeconomic (PRYME), for a total of 14 schools. development in the Hurricane Relief Efforts Miches community. 199 Participants in Good Behavior Workshops, Teaching Children with Love and Limits Served as local coordinator to deliver dozens of donations to support post-hurricane relief efforts focused on basic needs (food, clothes and cooking equipment) and hygiene. Donated food, gas and equipment to Civil Defense and the Municipality of Miches to support their disaster relief efforts. Sociocultural Advocacy 450 School Kits Distributed 450 school kits and repaired school infrastructure in partnership with Save the Children. 306 Girls 96 Volunteers Participated in Soy niña, soy importante (“I’m a Girl, I’m Important” or SNSI) program International Recognitions United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) International gender equality conference Award for Innovation in Non-Governmental Organizations: Gender Equality: Rights and opportunities Fundación Tropicalia named as a finalist for its sustainable in Dominican Republic endorsed by UN tourism supply-chain program. In January 2017, it received the Women and the Ministry of Women of second runner-up award at the UNWTO Awards Ceremony Dominican Republic in the International Tourism Fair (FITUR) in Madrid, Spain. Forbes’ Dominican Republic – October 2017 Edition featured Fundación Tropicalia in a special article on foundations and highlighted its transparency and ethics in reporting in 2017. 24 TROPICALIA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N E N V I R O N M E N T A L P R O T E C T I O N Playa Arriba Beach Rescue and Administration Committee To restore and protect Playa Arriba, in 2016 Fundación Tropicalia partnered with local businesses, authorities and community members to form the Playa Arriba Administration Committee. In 2017, the Committee organized two clean-up days, one in the framework of the International Coastal CleanCosta Esmeralda Beach Rescue Program Up Day and the other after Hurricane Maria. The Miches Municipality led both events with the support of Committee members. Moreover, Fundación Tropicalia Since 2013, in collaboration with local authorities, Tropicalia and Fundación Tropicalia work to restore and protect established six puntos verdes or ‘green the breathtaking beach of Costa Esmeralda. Recent road improvements from Bávaro and El Seibo to Miches, as points’ on the beach, donating up to well as greater promotion of tourism destinations such as Montaña Redonda, have increased beach-goer arrivals to twelve trash bins and working with Costa Esmeralda. Our partnership aims to enhance the municipality’s natural attractions and promote compliance local artisans to create educational and with related environmental regulations, while providing basic services for visitors to responsibly enjoy the beach. welcome signage. Fundación Tropicalia contributed US$3,300 to these activities. 2017 activities A two-day beach Restoration of the Appointment of The provision of 15 new Police patrol cleanup of more than beach parking lot and ‘Coastal Ambassadors’ waste containers to support of the beach to 200 linear meters of pathway for up to 30 to inform and raise trash collection by the ensure visitors’ beachfront with the vehicles using local awareness regarding municipal district of El safety during help of volunteers. natural materials. responsible beach use. Cedro and the coordination peak season. of waste collection. 26 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Reforestation in Montaña Redonda Montaña Redonda is a Miches owned and Fundación Tropicalia staff joined Brigada Verde or Green Rescue Initiative operated tourist attraction, located in the La Yeguada River Squad for a river cleanup in July and reforestation day in Municipal District of El Cedro. Views from the December 2017 in the catchment area of La Yeguada River top offer a spectacular 360 degree panorama in Miches. Volunteers from governmental institutions, local of oceans, mountains and lagoons, drawing in Miches schools, and other entities planted approximately 300 trees. thousands of visitors from the Bavaro-Punta Cana area. Fundación Tropicalia identified an opportunity to support this budding business with its solid waste management processes as Montaña Redonda lies adjacent to the Laguna Redonda and Limón Wildlife Refuge. “We always try to encourage our customers to never throw plastic [on the ground] anywhere they visit. In Montaña Redonda we have planted flowers and we plan to place signs so that people know where to throw their waste. We want Miches Main aspects of the program, include: to have another perspective, to work collectively and change the way we see things.” Edy Hernández Partner, Montaña Redonda (Community Newsletter No. 35, March April 2017) Fundación Tropicalia established three puntos verdes or ‘green points’ at the top of the mountain, placing six trash cans and trash shelters made from 100% recycled material. Owners committed to keep the green points clean and available, and to facilitate garbage collection with local authorities. Total investment: US$2,589 28 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA GRI 203-1 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA School Renovation & Maintenance Program To achieve competitive and sustainable economic Fundación Tropicalia visited 12 of the 14 schools that development, quality education is vital. Yet, Dominican pertain to the PRyME program to assess the conditions Republic produced the lowest scores in the Third of school infrastructure and tally their educational Regional Comparative and Explanatory Study (TERCE), needs. Findings were presented and discussed with published in 2015, among 15 countries in Latin America school principals and these outcomes were shared with and Caribbean, even though it was the fastest improving the Ministry of Education. S U P P O R T I N G E D U C AT I O N country when compared to previous studies. 5 In 2017, the Los Mameyes Primary School joined the In 2017, Fundación Tropicalia culminated another year PRyME program, growing to a total of 14 schools in the S U P P O R T I N G of the School Renovation and Maintenance Program ( P R y M E ) , w h i c h b r i n g s to g e t h e r t h e e d u c a t i o n PRyME network. E D U C A T I O N community to address administrative and infrastructure repair and maintenance challenges. Fundación Tropicalia requires that schools provide counterpart funding or resources (including in-kind labor) to encourage selfdetermination, responsibility, pride of accomplishment, and independence. 5 EDUCA (2015) Informe de Progreso Educativo. ¡Decididos a mejorar! “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” – Nelson Mandela, South African anti-apartheid revolutionary and political leader. To achieve competitive and sustainable economic development, quality education is vital. 30 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA PRyME in 2017 IMPACT Hicaco Blanco Primary School 138 _________________________ Contribution Fundación Tropicalia supported painting projects, plumbing work, the repair of bathrooms and toilet US$1,597 Students 11 doors, and the construction of eight benches for the playground. After the passing of Hurricane 72% Fundación Tropicalia Maria, we did additional repairs to fix the school’s 28% Hicaco Blanco School Teachers septic tank and roof. IMPACT Kilómetro 10 Primary School ________________________ Contribution 33 Fundación Tropicalia supported the installation US$843 Students 2 of electrical wiring and connection to the energy grid. 100% Fundación Tropicalia Teachers As for the remaining nine schools in the PRyME network, OVERALL IMPACT Fundación Tropicalia continues to play an advisory role in Liceo Padre Daniel High School IMPACT maintenance, management and academic processes. _________________________ OUR NETWORK Fundación Tropicalia repaired eight bathrooms Contribution 632 In 2017, Fundación Tropicalia hosted its eighth annual PRyME of the school’s old and new pavilions, provided construction materials and hired local labor. US$2,059 Students celebration with representatives from Miches education community – directors, teachers, local authorities and Ministry 14 Walls were painted, interior doors and sinks Schools 100% Fundación Tropicalia of Education (MINERD). More than 200 guests came together in were repaired, and lavatories were installed and connected to the water pipeline system. 24 a cowboy-themed party to commemorate the year’s work and achievements in 2016. 3,138 Teachers Students 145 Teachers Kilómetro 6 Primary School IMPACT ________________________ Contribution Fundación Tropicalia provided building materials and hired local labor to paint the interior and US$294 198 PROJECTS Students exterior walls of the school, repaired the gravel 78% Fundación Tropicalia 5 playground and replaced the PRyME school sign, which had deteriorated because of the sun and rain. 22% Primary School Km6 7 Schools Teachers Contribution US$7,034 Los Mameyes Primary School IMPACT 79% Fundación Tropicalia ________________________ 21% Schools Los Mameyes participated for the first time in Contribution 203 the PRyME program, becoming the 14th center to US$2,241 Students join this network. Fundación Tropicalia supported 1,204 the painting of the interior and exterior walls, ensured adequate installation of electricity in four 57% Fundación Tropicalia 43% Primary School Los Mameyes 14 Students Teachers 58 classrooms and repaired the boys’ toilet. Teachers 32 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Scholarship & Cultural Exchange Program IN 2017 EDUCA Partnership Since 2011, Fundación Tropicalia has coordinated a Scholarship and Cultural Exchange Program in partnership with the Instituto Superior de Agricultura 4 University, or UISA, which specializes in agricultural sciences, located in Santiago de los Caballeros, the EDUCA (Business Action for Education), a national NGO located in Santo second largest city of Dominican Republic. The program Domingo, was created by a group of business men and women concerned offers young, promising Micheros an opportunity to with the global competitiveness of the Dominican Republic, and to this pursue an undergraduate degree that links up to labor day is one of the most important influencers in education public policy. 15 demand in Miches, including degrees in engineering Fundación Tropicalia had been a member of EDUCA for five years, and in agronomy, animal production and food technology; board member since 2016; however, in 2017 we transitioned membership education specialized in natural sciences; or business to Fundación Cisneros, which is more accurately aligned with EDUCA’s administration. Scholarship mandate. As a result, for the last half of 2017, Fundacion Cisneros has students participated in round table discussions with the Ministry of Education for In 2017, the program extended its academic offer by graduated the development of initiatives to improve career and technical education including two new degrees: veterinary science and from college. in the country and particularly in Miches. environmental management. Moreover, candidates from El Seibo province were also invited to apply. In Students are total, three new outstanding high school graduates currently enrolled Complementary – two from El Seibo and one from Miches – who in the program. //////////////////////// demonstrated exceptional leadership potential and commitment to the community, were selected to Education Program 3 participate. All scholarship students benefit from work-study, Three new students cultural and professional support services, as well as admitted to the exchange opportunities, on-campus counseling, and program in 2017. In 2014, Fundación Tropicalia launched a Complementary parent meetings in Miches and El Seibo. Education Program (formerly known as In-School Education Program) in Miches’ public schools to support soft and motor skills development in students. Through a curriculum that includes courses in crafts, plastic and performing arts, the program aims to complement standard education requirements of public schools. In 2016, the program was initiated in Hicaco Blanco Primary All students participated in our School for the 2016-2017 academic year, and soon after, Los Urabos Primary School requested to join the program. In 2017 annual Professional and Cultural Exchange we implemented the program simultaneously in both schools, Initiative, which took place in Centro León. reaching nearly 100% of the student body and delivering more than 10 arts and crafts workshops. OVERALL IMPACT 2 Schools STUDENTS TEACHERS ASSISTANTS Located in Santiago, students visited the permanent exhibition dedicated to the Taino indigenous people, 112 11 2 created their own Taino Girls Women Women 90 0 0 ceramic pieces and learned about the career path of our guest speaker and alumni, Boys Men Men Engineer Angel Castillo. 34 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA GRI 102-9, 203-1 FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA P R O D U C T I V I T Y : S U S TA I N A B L E T O U R I S M S U P P LY C H A I N I N M I C H E S PRODUCTIVITY: SUSTAINABLE 2017 Milestones Include: TOURISM SUPPLY CHAIN IN MICHES The project “Inclusion of Micro and Small Enterprises in the Strategic Alliances Sustainable Tourism Supply Chain in Miches” marked its fifth Fundación Tropicalia continued strengthening strategic alliances with specialized and final year of implementation in 2017. Supported by the stakeholders, including the IDB/MIF, Junta Agroempresarial Dominicana (JAD, Inter-American Development Bank’s Multilateral Investment Dominican Agribusiness Board), Banco ADOPEM, ADOPEM NGO and FONDESA. Fund (IDB/MIF), this initiative improved market access for In 2017, this local farmers and entrepreneurs by incorporating them into the tourism and agricultural value chain generated by program was The Cooperative Tropicalia, its partners, and other anchor companies in the region. The project also sought to initiate, develop and distinguished as In February 2017, Fundación Tropicalia signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Cooperative of Production and Multiple Services of Miches promote climate-smart agricultural production in Miches. a finalist for the (COOPROMI) and JAD. This partnership builds on previous collaborations of joint work on strengthening and consolidating sustainable agricultural To carry out this initiative, Fundación Tropicalia received UNWTO Award production in Miches and enabling COOPROMI to access funding opportunities a total amount of US$466,338.02 from IDB/MIF, 47% of channeled through JAD/PRO-RURAL and IDB/MIF. The agreement fosters a the project’s total investment. The Foundation put a total for Innovation in single and integrated work plan with actions to increase productivity and of US$524,657.08 equivalent to 53% as a counterpart investment. As a whole, the project represented a global Non-Governmental agricultural diversification in Miches. Moreover, COOPROMI had its commercial name officially registered. investment of US$990,995.10. Organizations. As we move forward, several aspects of this project have Training become permanent productivity programs overseen by Fundación Tropicalia: We developed thirteen training programs between 2014 and 2017, delivering 55 workshops that benefitted a total of 1,829 people (58% men and 42% • ¡Miches, sí!, an education and women). Topics include financing, business plans, land administration, use b u s i n e s s p l a n co m p e t i t i o n t h a t US$466,338.02 of pesticides, organic production, and best agricultural practices, including t e a c h e s e n t r e p r e n e u r s h ow t o ecological agriculture and organic fertilizer production. IDB/MIF (47%) develop a business plan. In 2017, due to hurricanes Maria and Irma, we postponed implementation and will US$524,657.08 55 58% 42% offer the program again in 2018. Fundación Tropicalia (53%) Workshops Men Women • ¡Miches emprende!, a microfinance GLOBAL INVESTMENT Study: Carbon and Water Footprint product that supports micro and of Agricultural Production in Miches. small enterprises (MSEs) in tourism or agriculture, launched in partnership US$990,995.10 Fundación Tropicalia funded a carbon and water footprint study related to w i t h B a n co A D O P E M . I t o f f e r s agricultural production in Miches. preferential interest rates and is accessible only to graduates of the Water Footprint. We mapped and modeled the superficial and subterraneous ¡Miches, sí! program. In 2017, the fund acquired two new clients. water table in order to understand the hydrological footprint of agricultural Since its launch in September 2016, a total of US$16,048.78 has production in Miches specific to these crops: rice, cacao, ginger, pineapple, been disbursed to nine entrepreneurs (6 women and 3 men) who passion fruit, yuca and breakfast cucurbits like melon and watermelon. Our operate food and beverage businesses, agricultural enterprises, and study area was 200 km2 and is delimited by the Atlantic Ocean to the North, the arts and crafts and gift shops. These credits enabled the creation Eastern Corridor to the South, Laguna Limon to the East and Rio La Yeguada in and strengthening of 27 direct jobs and indirectly benefited 135 Miches to the West. The study results provide a theoretical model that allows people 6 . Additional candidates have been identified as potential for an initial analysis of the impact of agricultural production on available participants for Phase II of ¡Miches emprende! which is planned water resources. to launch in 2018. Carbon Footprint. We conducted a comparative study of Greenhouse Gas • Training and Mentorship: Fundación Tropicalia is committed to (GHG) emissions associated with producing, processing and sourcing seven (7) supporting the agricultural sector of Miches via continued support different crops from various distribution points in the Dominican Republic and and technical assistance to improve crop production via ecological the world. GHG emissions calculations were made using Cool Farm Tool and methodologies. the crops analyzed included: rice, cacao, pineapple, passionfruit, ginger, yuca and cucurbits like melon and watermelon. Ultimately, the study determined that sourcing produce at Zero Kilometers decreases considerably the product’s GHG emissions, making an environmental and business case for why a hotel 6 These numbers are calculated such that each client provides direct employment to 3 people, and each developer should source locally. of these indirectly benefits 5 family members. (Source: Banco ADOPEM) 36 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Greenhouse Cultivation for Women Farmers In partnership with Estancia La Querencia, Fundación Tropicalia established a training program for women farmers to teach them how to cultivate sustainably in controlled environments. We repaired and transported the 1000 m2 greenhouse in La Gina, built with USAID financing, to Estancia La Querencia to facilitate supervision of the program and good working order of the greenhouse. Fundación Tropicalia provided US$2,367for the materials and Estancia La Querencia provided transportation and qualified personnel to support the project. Three women will be trained “I am very thankful over the next two years and upon completion of the for Fundación program, will have the opportunity to develop their business plans with the support of ¡Miches, sí!, and Tropicalia’s invitation access to seed funding through ¡Miches emprende!. to share with the Miches community Microfinance Opportunities my talk “Beyond the for Local Entrepreneurs English Channel” In collaboration with long time partner Fondesa, as part of their a m o n g D o m i n i c a n Re p u b l i c ’s m o st i m p o r t a n t social programs on microfinance institutions, Fundación Tropicalia launched a farmer friendly microfinance product in behalf of such a 2014 to support its inclusive supply chain program. beautiful region in our country. I was Leadership Workshops filled with beautiful Fundación Tropicalia organized three leadership emotions due to workshops to motivate project beneficiaries and the this warm and lovely general population in Miches. These workshops were delivered by well-known Dominicans whose careers welcome.” and expertise inspire all to accomplish their goals: Marcos Díaz (world champion distance swimmer), Mercedes Canalda (owner, Banco ADOPEM) and – Marcos Díaz, world champion Edison Santos (social entrepreneur). Over one distance swimmer hundred community stakeholders attended these events and were also able to share their own personal stories of overcoming hardship. Closing Celebratory “Most of us, sometimes, have an unclear idea of Cocktail Event what growth is in small enterprises, and these talks have been great mentoring for us. We have F u n d a c i ó n Tr o p i c a l i a h o s t e d a celebratory cocktail to bring closure learned very important details on how to grow, to the project, share results and launch how to make most of opportunities.” the new productivity website mype. fundaciontropicalia.com. Nearly one – Rafael Bonilla, beneficiary of the Program hundred people related to the tourism, agricultural and entrepreneurship sectors attended and more than 11,400 impressions were captured on social media. 38 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Why girls? • Dominican Republic ranks 70th out of 144 countries for gender inequality according to the World Economic Forum’s 2017 Global Gender Gap Report. 7 • O n e i n eve r y f i ve t e e n a g e girls between ages 15 and 19 is currently married or in union with a man 10 years her senior. 8 • One in every five teenage girls between ages 15 and 19 has been a mother or has been pregnant 9, placing Dominican Republic as the S O C I O C U LT U R A L A D V O C A C Y fifth country in Latin America and the Caribbean with the highest rate of teenage pregnancy 10. • Dominican Republic ranks S O C I O C U L T U R A L third with the highest rate of femicide in Latin America and A D V O C A C Y the Caribbean 11 . 2017 registered the highest number of female murders in the country to date 12 . 7 World Economic Forum. (2017). Global Gender Gap Report. Rankings. Obtained from http://www3.weforum. org/docs/WEF_GGGR_2017.pdf Accessed January 2018. 8 Plan International. (2017) El Matrimonio infantil forzado también existe en República Dominicana. Obtained from https://plan-international.org/es/el-matrimonio-infantilforzado-tambien-existe-en-republica-dominicana Accesed February 22, 2018. 9 Plan Internacional (septiembre 2017). El embarazo Soy niña, soy importante adolescente en La República Dominicana. Planteamientos. Número 3. Pág. 10 10 Altagracia Ortiz (27 de septiembre 2017). Plan Summer Camp Internacional exige reducir embarazo de niñas. Obtained from http://hoy.com.do/plan-internacional-exigereducir-embarazo-de-ninas/. Accesed March 06, 2018. Fundación Tropicalia celebrated its fifth year of the Soy niña, 11 República Dominicana ocupa el tercer lugar regional en tasa anual de homicidios a mujeres (25 soy importante (“I’m a Girl, I’m Important” or SNSI) summer day de noviembre 2016) https://www.one.gob.do/Prensa/ camp, a program that serves at-risk girls ages 9-12 years old. The NotaPrensa?ContenidoId=1847. Accesed March 05, 2018 camp provides guidance and a constructive, yet fun space for 12 José Rafael Sosa (26 de noviembre 2017). República young girls to reflect upon their future and encourage them to Dominicana va hacia una meta triste: 130 mujeres make timely life choices like staying in school and postponing asesinadas en 2017. Obtained from http://www.7dias. pregnancy. com.do/portada/2017/11/26/i237203_dominicanahacia-una-meta-triste-130-mujeres-asesinadas-2017. html#.Wp2ndiXOXIU/. Accesed March 05, 2018 40 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA In 2017, the SNSI program initiated an Ambassador’s Network that serves to advocate the program’s objectives, give visibility through the media and There are multiple structural factors affecting the overall In 2017 many girls completed their full four years of encourage others to support the cause. As a result, wellbeing of girls and women in the Dominican Republic, participation in our SNSI program. As they enter we secured more funding and support enabling us all of which ultimately increase their risks of malnutrition, adolescence, we hope SNSI has given them the tools to increase the amount of girls that participate in domestic work overload, prostitution, and physical and experience to reflect on their future, their rights the program. and emotional violence, among other consequences. and their short, medium and long term goals. Family Moreover, the value of women in the labor force is involvement and support continues to grow with more The SNSI program relies on a volunteer program significantly reduced, perpetuating the cycle of poverty. parents and grandparents attending the informational and a fundraising campaign that takes place in the SNSI seeks to curb these trends by empowering girls and registration sessions and in some cases, volunteering United States and Dominican Republic. In 2017, 96 and their families by sharing information and resources. to make SNSI a reality every year. men and women volunteered to dedicate 4,338 hours as camp counselors and supporters. We doubled in-kind and monetary donations from 29 national and international organizations and individuals. We raised a total of US$58,000 thanks to Cisneros employees who throughout the year participated in the company’s corporate fundraising program, corporate donations, friends and family, as well as the 19 members of the newly created ambassador’s network. Launch of an ambassadors network, //////////////////////// SNSI 2017 composed of 19 members. By The Numbers “I feel happy and thankful for being part of Fundación Tropicalia’s great work and SNSI camp. I learned a lot in Miches, from the girls 306 3 US$58,000 Girls participated in three Participant camp sessions in La Mina, Communities Amount Raised (Cash & In-Kind) and the community of La Mina. They have so La Gina and Miches. little, but were able to give so much to make this the most amazing and beautiful week of my life, filled with many great lessons, laughter, joy, smiling little faces, colleagues and friends that I will always carry in my heart. But more than anything, I’ll remember these days as ones full 96 4,338 3 29 19 Camp Corporate Ambassadors of sincere love and affection.” Number of Volunteer hours registered, Sessions Sponsors Volunteers ranging from camp counselors 251% to soccer, photography, yoga, SNSI social media music and environmental increased its reach – María Alejandra Alí, SNSI Volunteer 2017 instructors. by 251% from 2016, achieving 353,444 impressions. 42 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Conference on Gender Equality Good Behavior Workshops, in the Dominican Republic: Teaching Children Rights and opportunities with Love and Limits Following the SNSI camp, Fundación Tropicalia continued its efforts toward ensuring In partnership with Banco Popular Dominicano and PACAM, Fundación the accomplishment of UN Sustainable Tropicalia organized a series of workshops delivered by PACAM Development Goal 5: Achieve gender specialists. These workshops sought to teach parents, teachers and equality and empower all women and girls. children how to learn and teach from a place of love, respect and On November 2017, we hosted the ‘Conference nonviolence. One hundred three (103) children aged 9 to 12, 18 teachers on Gender Equality in the Dominican Republic: and 78 parents from La Gina Primary School attended. Rights and opportunities’ in partnership with Universidad Iberoamericana (UNIBE), with the purpose of raising awareness of violence against women and girls, and women empowerment. This event included Cultural Identity the participation of key speakers from Fundación Tropicalia works to preserve and enhance the cultural heritage international agencies including UN Women, of the region by supporting various activities in partnership with the UNDP, UNFPA, Save the Children, Plan local government and community leaders. International, as well as the Ministry of Women and other national institutions working on women issues: Patronato de Ayuda para Casos 2017 Programs include: de Mujeres Maltratadas (PACAM), Instituto Tecnológico de Santo Domingo (INTEC), and Profamilia, among others. //////////////////////// • The annual and historically significant “Carnaval” celebrations: In 2017, Miches’ Carnaval Committee centered its efforts on renewing local cultural identity, reviving people’s values and educating youth on their traditions. Fundación Tropicalia supported the celebration with the purchase of required materials for the municipality, as well as for the main Carnaval group “Comparsa Los Negros.” In May 2017, Fundación Tropicalia organized a gathering for the winners of the different Carnaval troupes to recognize their efforts and to exchange lessons learned among community groups. • School Carnaval: Fundación Tropicalia sponsored the sound equipment for the celebration at the high school TV Centro La Gina. Janet Camilo Luis Isava Minister of Women UN Women Program Specialist • Fiestas Patronales: Fundación Tropicalia sponsored the celebrations of the annual traditional festivity of atabales (a regional percussion instrument) in June 2017, in which Micheros come together to honor their patron saint, San Antonio de Padua, dance and play music. It included decorations and two days of atabales performances. Moreover, Fundación Tropicalia sponsored the meals for the security staff to ensure a safe environment during the celebrations. 44 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA Communications Community Newsletter N E W Six new editions of Fundación Tropicalia’s Community Newsletter were issued in 2017, 2,000 copies of each P A R T N E R S H I P S were circulated across more than 60 distribution points in Miches. The Community Newsletter is an educational and informational medium that co m m u n i c ate s to p i c s l i ke s u st a i n a b l e to u r i s m development, environmental stewardship, health awareness, local culture and traditions, and individual and civic responsibility for children and adults alike. Fundación Tropicalia’s Online Community Fundación Tropicalia’s main website and social media handles (www.fundaciontropicalia.com) launched in May 2015, and as of December 31, 2017, have generated 401,840 impressions and attracted 656 new followers. In addition, Fundación Tropicalia currently manages two microsites: 1. snsi.fundaciontropicalia.com for Soy niña, soy importante (“I’m a Girl, I’m Important” or SNSI), social media impressions reached 353,444 and 826 new followers. 2. mype.fundaciontropicalia.com for productivity, which launched in December 2017. Universidad Iberoamericana – UNIBE In January 2017, Fundación Tropicalia and UNIBE signed an agreement to collaborate on programs that contribute to the social development of Miches through joint plans in community service and social responsibility. The agreement favors bilateral or multilateral research projects and allows UNIBE students to participate in internship and volunteer programs at Fundación Tropicalia. In particular, the University’s schools of education and psychology advised on the contents of the Soy niña, soy importante program, participated in its execution, and co-hosted our Gender Equality Conference. 46 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA FUNDACIÓN TROPICALIA In 2017, several climate disasters occured in the Fundación Tropicalia, in partnership with various Caribbean region, including two major hurricanes institutions, established collection points in Santo (Irma and Maria), which devastated some islands and Domingo and led distribution efforts in Miches. caused severe damage to infrastructure and human life. Donations included hygiene kits, clothes, food and gas Hurricane Maria strongly hit the Dominican Republic and tanks for cooking. Additionally, we made donations to affected Miches too, drawing national attention to post support the purchase of gas for response vehicles of the hurricane aid efforts. Municipality of Miches; provide tools to remove debris; and buy food for volunteers who worked in the recovery Fundación Tropicalia actively took part in hurricane of Playa Arriba. relief efforts together with the local authorities and stakeholders to help Miches recover in the aftermath. Schools received assistance with the replacement of Our staff conducted an assessment of the basic needs, 447 educational kits in 17 centers, in coordination with priorities and affected groups. Sixteen schools, some Save the Children; the recovery of the electrical system of which are part of the PRyME network were visited to in School Km. 10, as well as its roof and toilets. assess their conditions. Two schools – Hicaco Blanco and in particular Km. 10 – suffered severe damage to their All combined and coordinated efforts from the authorities H U R R I C A N E roofs and educational materials. and the local population demonstrated great solidarity and allowed Miches’ recovery in record time. R E L I E F E F F O R T S “We need our community to be empowered and to continue taking actions the way we saw them with Hurricane Maria; we were able to recover our municipality in three days.” – Griselin Gil Zorrilla, Community Newsletter No. 37, September October 2017 48 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5. PARTNERS FOR SUSTAINABILITY IN 2017 PA R T N E R S F O R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y IN 2017 PA R T N E R S F O R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N 2 0 1 7 GRI 102-9, 102-13 PA R T N E R S F O R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N 2 0 1 7 Tropicalia Building a strong foundation for Tropicalia means creating a thoughtful, engaged network of partners. Tropicalia proudly recognizes its relationships with these organizations and will continue to pursue successful partnerships for years to come. Government • Ministry of Tourism (2009 present): Tropicalia complies with the Ministry of Tourism regulations for touristic developments. • Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (2008 – present): Tropicalia is in complete compliance with environmental regulations of the Dominican Republic; environmental permits are current. • Export and Investment Center of the Dominican Republic – CEI-RD (2015 – present): Tropicalia works alongside the CEI-RD to promote investments in the country. • Ministry of Public Works and Communication (2015 – present): Tropicalia works with the Ministry of Public Works and Communications to encourage the completion of infrastructure projects in the region. Civil Society and Non-Profit Organizations • The Ocean Foundation (2013 – present): Tropicalia works with The Ocean Foundation to support reporting efforts, elaborate measurement tools and obtain third-party verification of social and environmental sustainability initiatives. • United Nations Global Compact (2010 – present) Tropicalia supports the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. • National Association of Hotels and Restaurants ASONAHORES (member since 2011). “At Tropicalia, we believe that a successful • National Private Business Council CONEP (member since 2014). business must be built upon activities that • Dominican Association of Tourism Real Estate Businesses – ADETI (member since 2011). generate real positive impact in surrounding communities. That’s why we’ve always understood that engaging civil society and key Business and Development actors through partnerships and collaborations is fundamental to guarantee sustainability and • • Bouygues Holsteinson & Asociados, SA (HOLASA) • EPSA LABCO • Perez Morales pursue our vision of the future.” • HVS • Rios Legal • Isay Weinfeld • Craig Robert Associates, INC • LLORENTE & CUENCA • EDG • Marshall • Thisone Designwork – William Phelan, Vice President and General Manager, Tropicalia • Renaissance Golf Design • Blu Spas • Sheila Donnelly & Associates (SDA) • W.F.Baird & Associates Coastal Engineers LTD • Sherwood • Fer Figheras • Sinergo Development Group • ECO Mensajería • Thompson Engineering 52 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PA R T N E R S F O R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N 2 0 1 7 PA R T N E R S F O R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N 2 0 1 7 Fundación Tropicalia Government • Municipality of Miches and municipal districts El Cedro and La Gina (2008 – present): We collaborate on special projects related to culture, sports, education, and environment. • Ministry of Education of the Dominican Republic (2010 – present): We work to improve the quality of education in the Miches school district. • Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (2013 – present): We support special projects related to the environment, research and education. Business, Civil Society, and Non-Profit Organizations • ADOPEM Banco (2015 – present): We work to widen the scope of financial services available to the micro entrepreneurs that are supported by Fundación Tropicalia’s programs. • Banco Popular Dominicano (2017): Supported and collaborated with SNSI. • EDUCA (2013 – present): We work to improve public education policy and drive impact in Miches education programs. • Fondo para el Desarrollo, Inc FONDESA (2008 – present): We work to democratize access to financial services, diversify banking products, and support the inclusion of micro and small enterprises in the tourist and agricultural supply chains. • Junta Agroempresarial Dominicana JAD (2015 – present): We work to bring development opportunities to local farmers and agribusinesses in Miches. Academic Institutions • National Business Network for Environmental Protection ECORED (2008 – present): • Universidad ISA (2011 – present): Fundación Tropicalia gains access to a private-sector network that increases environmental We host a scholarship program for Miches students who protection efforts and promotes public/private-sector dialogue. are interested in agricultural science and science education careers. • Inter-American Development Bank, Multilateral Investment Fund (2012 – present): Principal advisory and financing entity supporting the Fundación Tropicalia supply-chain • Universidad Iberoamericana – UNIBE (2017 – present): initiative. We collaborate in programs aimed at contributing to the social development of Miches, including the ‘Playa Arriba • Miches Cooperative of Labor, Production and Multiple Services – COOPROMI (2015 – Rescue Committee’ and Soy niña, soy importante. They also present): supported post hurricane recovery. As COOPROMI gains institutional strength, it will provide market access to small farmers, technical assistance in sustainable agriculture, agritourism opportunities, and support Miches as a sustainable tourism destination. • World Vision (2012 – present): Fundación Tropicalia collaborates with World Vision on projects that support community development. • Save the Children (2017): Supported Hurricane Relief Efforts in Miches. 54 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6. LOOKING FORWARD LO O K I N G F O R WA R D LO O K I N G F O R WA R D In 2018 we expect to fortify this area by LOOKING 2017 was a pivotal year for Tropicalia and its foundation Fundacion Tropicalia. With novel and pronounced interest accomplishing these major milestones: F O R WA R D in our project from international development lenders, sustainability has never been more at the center of everything we do. Finalize Four Seasons Consolidate Environmental Tailor our proprietary SMS Tropicalia financing with and Social Action Plans set for implementation in the international lenders forth by IDB Invest and IFC. construction and operational IFC and IDB Invest. phases of our project. Engage our general contractor and Celebrate the 10-year anniversary of define a construction schedule. Fundación Tropicalia. 56 TROPICALIA TROPICALIA 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LOCATION DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION LEVEL NOTES 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OTHER 7. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE GRI 102-54, 102-55, 102-56 GRI 102: General Disclosures 1. Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization ! 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia website 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services ! 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia website 102-3 Location of headquarters ! Cisneros Real Estate website Coral Gables, Miami, Florida 102-4 Location of operations ! 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia website; Cisneros Real State 102-5 Ownership and legal form ! website 102-6 Markets served ! 3. Tropicalia Total number of employees: 24 Total number of operations: 1, Dominican Republic 3.5 Management and Governance Net sales: does not apply 102-7 Scale of the organization P Mechanisms for Sustainable Business Capitalization: information not available Quantity of products and services provided: 169 keys and 24 residences operated and managed by Four Seasons. 1 golf course. 3.5 Management and Governance 102-8 Information on employees and other workers ! Mechanisms for Sustainable Business 3. Tropicalia 4.3. Productivity: Sustainable Tourism 102-9 Supply chain P Supply Chain in Miches 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 Significant changes to the organization and its supply 102-10 ! None during this reporting period chain Tropicalia applies the Precautionary Principle. The project's EIA, as 3.4.2 Environmental Balance: Our Tropicalia EIA; Four Seasons Tropicalia well as all required Environmental Compliance Reports (ICAs) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach ! management systems and programs DIA; Tropicalia SMS (Sustainablity submitted to the MARENA have been developed following this 3.4.3 Thoughtful Architecture: Management System). approach. Sustainable design certified 3.4. Sustainable Business 102-12 External initiatives ! 3.5.3 Labor and Human Rights 102-13 Membership of associations ! 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker ! 1. A word from Adriana 3. Ethics and Integrity Tropicalia EIA Chapter 7 presents inventory of national and international Tropicalia abides to all national and international laws and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior P 3.4. Sustainable Business standards and laws governing the regulations pertinent to the tourism industry development of the project. 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure ! 3.5.2. Sustainability Committee 5. Stakeholder engagement 3.4.4. Community Advancement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ! 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements ! None at this time For identifying its stakeholders, Tropicalia developed a stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders ! 3.4.4. Community Advancement map. Both stakeholders that would be impacted by the project, and that could impact the project, were considered. Tropicalia engages with stakeholders on an ongoing basis, including business partners, community (through Fundación Tropicalia), industry leaders, etc. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement ! 3.4.4. Community Advancement According to the specific program or initiative, Fundación Tropicalia develops community surveys to measure and assess the quality of the interventions and the level of satisfaction of the local people. Beach access was identified as one of the major community concerns. Tropicalia has developed a Beach Program for the recovery and maintenance of Costa Esmeralda to address 3.4.2 Environmental Balance: Our stakeholder's concerns. management systems and programs Four Seasons Resort DIA; Sustainability 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised ! 4. Fundacion Tropicalia Management System Fundacion Tropicalia programs and initiatives are derived from understanding and attending to key concerns of stakeholder groups. For example, school programs are executed in GLOBAL consultation with local education professionals that express concern with specific areas of interest. Entities included in the consolidated financial Tropicalia's financial statements are shared with material 102-45 statements ! stakeholders upon request and subject to internal approval. 6. Reporting Practice Boundaries of each material topic are limited to Tropicalia's 3.5.1. Sustainability Management 2016 Tropicalia Sustainability Report, pg property, everything that happens within the property, and the 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries ! System (SMS) and Materiality 16. community that is impacted by the project activities: Miches REPORTING Municipality, located within El Seibo Province. Sustainability Management System All the material topics are presented in the SMS as criteria and 3.5.1. Sustainability Management 102-47 List of material topics ! 2016 Tropicalia Sustainability Report, pg indicators. Material topics are also included in this Content Index, System (SMS) and Materiality 16. Disclosures GRI 301-1 through GRI 419-1. Correct Productivity Infographs in 2016 Report: Total amount disbursed by Supply chain program omits FT contribution. 300 farmers certified in organic production is not accurate. Our 102-48 Restatements of information ! farmers were trained in best agricultural practices, but not certified. Number of keys and residences changed in 2017 from 2016, Four I N I T I AT I V E Seasons Tropicalia will be a 169 keys and 24 residences. Website report missing UNGC page or section references. No significant changes from previous reporting periods in list of 102-49 Changes in reporting ! material topics and boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period ! January 2017 to December 2017 102-51 Date of most recent report ! April 2017 The Corporate Sustainability Report is published annually. This is 102-52 Reporting cycle ! our seventh report. Sofia Perazzo Executive Director 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ! Last page of report Fundación Tropicalia sperazzo@cisneros.com This is our second year referencing the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G-4 standards in our Sustainability Report. GRI is an Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This material references the G-4 GRI Sustainability Reporting 102-54 ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative international independent organization pioneering sustainability reporting since the late 1990s (www.globalreporting.org). Standards Standards (2016). 102-55 GRI content index ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative This material references the G-4 GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (2016), is self-assured, and has been reviewed and 102-56 External assurance ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative validated by a carefully selected stakeholder panel that includes an independent third-party verifier, The Ocean Foundation. GRI 103: Management Approach (applies for all material topics covered) Boundaries of each material topic are limited to Tropicalia's property, everything that happens within the property, and the community that is impacted by the project activities: Miches Municipality, located within El Seibo Province. Our GRI Content Index Material topics were identified as part of a materiality assessment 3.5.1 Sustainability Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary P Sustainability Management System based on complying with multiple internationally recognized best System (SMS) and Materiality practices and reporting guidelines, including the LEED Scorecard, United Nations Global Compact, Global Sustainable Tourism Council Criteria for Destinations and Hotels and Tour Operators, The following index includes the GRI Standards referenced to during this reporting period. The Standards selected were Abu Dhabi Planning Council's Pearl Rating System for Estidama, determined in accordance with Tropicalia and Fundación Tropicalia’s materiality assessment processes. Our content index among several others. Each material topic will be managed according to the guidance also refers to the indicators of our Sustainability Management System, and UNGC’s 10 principles. Our customized index 3.5.1 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management System; provided in the SMS per topic included. 103-2 The management approach and its components P Tropicalia EIA chapter 10 and FST DIA chapter 8 presents the allows us to better track our sustainability efforts and provides our audience with a more integral snapshot of our multiSystem (SMS) and Materiality Tropicalia EIA, Chapter 10 Environmental Management Plan, which outlines the management level commitments toward sustainable development and our interrelated efforts for advancing the objectives that such strategies for the environmental material topics identified. The management approach of each material topic will be pledges imply. evaluated quarterly against the indicators included in the SMS, considering the baseline data provided in each case as a point of !1 reference. Working groups that would tackle specific areas of our sustainability approach have been established, making sure that 3.5.1 Sustainability Management decisions made at the committee level are operationalized on the 59 ground. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach P System (SMS) and Materiality Sustainability Management System TROPICALIA 3.4. Sustainable Business Tropicalia has been continually executing a rigorous SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental Management and Protection Program (PMAA), through which significant environmental management processes are implemented and relevant parameters closely followed and evaluated. All requested Environmental Compliance Reports (ICAs) have been presented to the Ministry of Environment and Natural among several others. runoff discharges. Each material topic will be managed according to the guidance GRI 307: Environmental compliance provided in the SMS per topic included. GRI 400: The Social organization has not been identified as non-compliant with 3.5.1 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management System; 103-2 The management approach and its components P Tropicalia EIA chapter 10 and FST DIA chapter 8 presents the GRI 401: Employment laws and regulations. environmental System (SMS) and Materiality Tropicalia EIA, Chapter 10 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental regulations ! LOCATION Environmental Management Plan, which outlines the management LOCATION EIA, Chapter 7 presents an inventory DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION LEVEL NOTES DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION LEVEL NOTES of national and international 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OTHER strategies for the environmental material topics identified. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OTHER standards New 401-1 and lawsemployee hiresthe governing anddevelopment employee turnover of Tropicalia. ! GRI 102: General Disclosures The management approach of each material topic will be 102: General GRI 400: Social Disclosures 1. Organizational profile evaluated quarterly against the indicators included in the SMS, 1. Organizational GRI 401: Employment profile considering the baseline data provided in each case as a point of Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not !1 102-1 Name of the organization ! 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia website 102-1 Name of the organization ! 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia website 401-2 One employee provided (female) hired in this to temporary year, ageemployees or part-time <40, rural region. ! reference. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services ! 3. Tropicalia Tropicalia website 401-1 102-2 New employee Activities, brands,hires and employee products, turnover and services ! ! 3.5.3. 3. Labor and Human Rights Tropicalia Tropicalia website 'Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting Working groups that would tackle specific areas of our period, by Parental 401-3 age group, gender and region : 0.05% leave ! 102-3 Location of headquarters ! Cisneros Real Estate website Coral Gables, approach sustainability Miami, Florida have been established, making sure that 102-3 Location of headquarters ! Cisneros Real Estate website Coral Gables, Miami, Florida AllDiversity GRI 405: employees, andfull-time and temporary, are eligible for the same Equal Opportunity 102-4 Location of operations ! 3. Tropicalia decisions made at the committee level are operationalized on the 102-4 Benefits provided Location to full-time employees that are not of operations ! 3. Tropicalia 3.5.1 Sustainability Management 401-2 ! benefits, including: life insurance, health care, disability and 103-3 102-5 Ownership of Evaluation andthe management legal form approach P ! System (SMS) and Materiality 3.4. Sustainable Business Tropicalia website; Sustainability website CisnerosSystem Management Real State ground. Tropicalia has been continually executing a rigorous 102-5 401-3 provided to temporary or part-time employees Ownership and legal form Parental leave ! ! !2 Tropicalia website; Cisneros Real State website invalidity coverage, parental leave, etc. Not applicable in this reporting year. Environmental Management and Protection Program (PMAA), 102-6 Markets served ! 3. Tropicalia GRI 405: DiversityMarkets 102-6 served and Equal Opportunity ! 3. Tropicalia through which significant environmental management processes -are Total number of and implemented employees: relevant24 parameters closely followed and -Tropicalia's 405-1 Total number of employees: Diversity 24 bodies of governance Sustainability Committee and employees as a governance body, is ! Total number evaluated. of operations: All requested 1, Dominican Environmental Republic Reports (ICAs) Compliance Totalup made number of operations: 1, Dominican Republic of 16 members: 3.5 Management and Governance -have Net been sales:presented does not apply to the Ministry of Environment and Natural 3.5 Management and Governance -Net sales: does not 37.5% female, 62.5% male. apply 102-7 Scale of the organization P 102-7 Scale of the organization P Mechanisms for Sustainable Business Capitalization: Resources and no information further reports not available are required until construction Mechanisms for Sustainable Business Capitalization: -18.75% under 30 information not available years old, 56.25% between 30-50 years old, 25% -phase Quantity of products and services provided: 169 keys and 24 3.5 Management and Governance -over Quantity of products and services provided: 169 keys and 24 starts. 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ! Mechanisms for Sustainable Business 50 years old. residences operated and managed by Four Seasons. 1 golf course. residences About our 24operated employees:and managed by Four Seasons. 1 golf course. GRI 200: Economic topics Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 3.5 Management and Governance 3.5 Management and Governance 405-2 12.5% under 30 years old, 83.3% between 30-50 years old, 41.2% P GRI 201: Economic 102-8 performance Information on employees and other workers ! 102-8 Information on employees and other workers ! men Mechanisms for Sustainable Business Mechanisms for Sustainable Business over 50 years old. There are financial implications due to climate change that have 3. Tropicalia 3. Tropicalia 67% in rural GRI 406:Non-discrimination region, 33% in urban region been considered in design and development plans. These include, 4.3. Productivity: Sustainable Tourism 4.3. Productivity: Sustainable Tourism All positions are remunerated based on experience and position, 102-9 Supply chain P for example, the need to raise construction 3 m above sea level in 102-9 Supply Ratio ofchain basic salary and remuneration of women to P 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ! Supply Chain in Miches 405-2 P Supply Chain in Miches and give equal consideration to both men and women, including order to protect the investment against sea surge. men 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 managerial of GRI 407:Freedom positions. Association and Collective Bargaining Tropicalia vetted design decisions against its proprietary Significant changes to the organization and its supply Significant changes to the organization and its supply GRI 406:Non-discrimination Operations and suppliers 102-10 ! Sustainability None during this Management reporting period System. Methods that will be used to 102-10 ! 407-1 None during this reporting period in which the right to freedom ! chain manage the opportunities entailed include: use of Carbon Offsets, chain There haveofbeen no incidents association of discrimination and collective bargaining maythe during be reporting at risk Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 3.4.3 Thoughtful Architecture: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ! period 201-2 P EIA Annex 3.3: Climatic characterization use of lower Tropicalia Carbon applies thefootprint Precautionary energy, etc. Principle. The project's EIA, as GRI 408: Child Labor Tropicalia applies the Precautionary Principle. The project's EIA, as due to climate change Sustainable design certified 3.4.2 Environmental Balance: Our Tropicalia EIA; Four Seasons Tropicalia 3.4.2 Environmental Balance: Our Tropicalia EIA; Four Seasons Tropicalia -well As as partallof our commitment required Environmental Compliance environmentally to implementing Reports (ICAs) GRI 407:Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations well as all required and suppliers Environmental at significant Compliance risk for Reports incidents (ICAs) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach ! management systems and programs DIA; Tropicalia SMS (Sustainablity friendly development, the project is anticipating 102-11 PrecautionaryandPrinciple suppliersorinapproach ! management systems and programs DIA; Tropicalia SMS (Sustainablity 408-1 ! submitted to the MARENA have been developedLEED (Leadership following this Operations which the right to freedom submitted of to child labor the reporting MARENA have been developed following this 3.4.3 Thoughtful Architecture: Management System). in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver certification, 407-1 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk ! 3.4.3 Thoughtful Architecture: Management System). None during this period approach. GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor approach. Sustainable design certified corresponding to 50-59 points for sustainable design, construction Sustainable design certified GRI 408: Child Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 3.4. Sustainable Business and operation strategies. LEED certification prepares sustainable, 3.4. Sustainable Business 409-1 ! 102-12 External initiatives ! 102-12 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents External initiatives ! of forced or compulsory period labor 3.5.3 Labor and Human Rights energy efficient buildings that are resilient towards climate change, 408-1 of child labor ! 3.5.3 Labor and Human Rights None during this reporting GRI 413: Local communities 102-13 Membership of associations ! 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 and that contribute towards climate change mitigation. 102-13 GRI 409: Membership Forced or compulsory associations of labor ! 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 Operations with local community engagement, impact 2. Strategy Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement All employees are covered by the general benefit and retirement 2. Strategy Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 413-1 ! 201-3 P assessments, andperiod development programs 102-14 plans Statement from senior decision-maker ! 1. A word from Adriana plan, as required by local laws. 409-1 102-14 Statement forced orfrom of senior decision-maker compulsory labor ! ! 1. A word from Adriana None during this reporting Operations with significant actual and potential negative GRI 202: Market presence 3. Ethics and Integrity 3. Ethics GRI and Integrity 413: Local communities 413-2 ! impacts on local communities Tropicalia EIA Chapter 7 presents All positions are given equal consideration to all people, including Operations with local community engagement, impact Tropicalia EIA8,Chapter EIA, Chapter presents7 presents a social impact All currentsocial operations and processes are implemented with local GRI 414:Supplier assessment inventory of national and international managerial Tropicalia abides positions. to all6,national out of 14 andpositions (43%)laws international of senior and 413-1 assessments, and development programs ! 4. Fundación Tropicalia inventory of national and international assessment Tropicalia abides community to all national and international laws and engagement 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior P 3.4. Sustainable Business management, have been filled with employees 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior P 3.4. Sustainable Business standards and laws governing the regulations pertinent to the tourism industry from the local Operations with significant actual and potential negative standards and laws governing EIA, Chapter 8, presents a social theimpact 414-1 regulationsNew suppliers pertinent that to the were screened tourism industry using social criteria P development of the project. community. 413-2 impacts on local communities ! 4. Fundación Tropicalia development of the project. assessment Proportion of senior management hired from the local We prioritize hiring people that are from the local community. GRI 418: Socio-economic compliance 4. Governance 202-2 ! 4. Governance GRI 414:Supplier social assessment community Dominican citizens or permanent residents of the Dominican 102-18 Governance structure ! 3.5.2. Sustainability Committee Republic are considered as 'local'. 102-18 Governance structure ! 3.5.2. 3.5 Sustainability Management Committee and Governance We have included a clause listing Non-compliance the and principles with laws of thein regulations UNGC in all the social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria P 419-1 ! 5. Stakeholder engagement Senior management is defined as anyone with the title of 5. Stakeholder engagement Mechanisms for Sustainable Business of our contracts, including and economic our five major partners and contractors area 3.4.4. Community Advancement Manager or above (i.e. Vice President, General Manager, Executive GRI 418: Socio-economic compliance 3.4.4. Community Advancement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ! 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ! The organization has not been identified as non-compliant with 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 Director, etc.) 5. Partners for Sustainability in 2017 102-41 GRI 203: economic bargaining Indirect Collective impacts agreements ! None at this time 102-41 Non-compliance Collective with agreements bargaining laws and regulations in the social ! socio-economic None at this timelaws and regulations. 419-1 ! EIA, Chapter 8 Annex presents a chart on For identifying its stakeholders, Tropicalia developed a stakeholder and economic area EIA, -For Chapter 7its identifying presents an inventory stakeholders, of national Tropicalia andainternational developed stakeholder Information for the corresponding disclosure is included 4.2.1. School Renovation & standards and laws governing the development of 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders ! 3.4.4. Community Advancement potential impacts on the socioeconomic map. Both stakeholders that would be impacted by the project, and 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders ! 3.4.4. Community Advancement map. Botheither stakeholders that would in the report, be impacted in another byTropicalia. report/study project, and the(referenced Maintenance Program Disclaimer 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported ! development of the local community that could impact the project, were considered. that could here, impact butthe notproject, publiclywere considered. available), or within the table in 4.3. Productivity: Sustainable Tourism during preconstruction, construction, and Tropicalia engages with stakeholders on an ongoing basis, Tropicaliathe notes with engages column. stakeholders on an ongoing basis, Supply Chain in Miches operation of Tropicalia. including business partners, community (through Fundación Information for the corresponding disclosure is included including business partners, community (through Fundación EIA, Chapter 8 Annex presents a chart on Tropicalia), industry leaders, etc. either in the report, in another report/study (referenced Tropicalia), industry leaders, etc. Disclaimer LEGEND 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement ! 3.4.4. Community Advancement potential impacts on the socioeconomic The Accordingrelevance to of thethe specific program identified impacts or initiative, was assessed Fundación in terms of here, but Approach 102-43 Information not to stakeholder for the publicly available), corresponding or within the table in disclosure is included either in the ! engagement report,3.4.4. Community in another Advancement report/study (referenced here, but not publicly available), or According to the specific program or initiative, Fundación NOTE ! 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts ! 4. Fundación Tropicalia development of the local community Tropicaliaextension, intensity, develops community development, surveys to measure duration, and assess the and reversibility. the notes withinthe table incolumn. the “notes” column. 100% compliance Tropicalia develops community with the disclosure. surveys to measure and assess the during preconstruction, construction, and -quality Most of the interventions of Fundación Tropicalia'sand the level ofand initiatives satisfaction of the local projects generate quality P of the interventions Partial compliance and the level of the of satisfaction of the local disclosure. operation of Tropicalia. people. impacts in the Municipality of Miches. economic people. LEGEND Fundación Tropicalia Website Beach access was identified as one of the major community Beach access was identified as one of the major community GRI 204: Procurement practices concerns. Tropicalia has developed a Beach Program for the ! 100% compliance with the disclosure. concerns. Tropicalia has developed a Beach Program for the recovery and maintenance of Costa Esmeralda to address Tropicalia: P Partial compliance of the disclosure. recovery and maintenance of Costa Esmeralda to address 3.4.2 Environmental Balance: Our 3.4.2 Environmental Balance: Our stakeholder's Contracts concerns. for the supply of building materials preferably contract stakeholder's concerns. management systems and programs Four Seasons Resort DIA; Sustainability management systems and programs Four Seasons Resort DIA; Sustainability 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised ! Fundacion local Tropicalia businesses before nationaland programs initiatives arebusinesses. or international derived from Efforts 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised ! Fundacion Tropicalia programs and initiatives are derived from 4. Fundacion Tropicalia Management System 4. Fundacion Tropicalia Management System understanding will be taken toand create a moreto attending key concerns sustainable supply of stakeholder chain for the understanding and attending to key concerns of stakeholder groups. For company. example, However, asschool the projectprograms has not areyet startedin executed construction, groups. For example, school programs are executed in consultation this disclosure with does localnoteducation apply for professionals the current project'sthat express phase consultation with local education professionals that express 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers P concern with specific areas of interest. concern with specific areas of interest. Entities included in the consolidated financial Tropicalia'soffinancial Definition local, asstatements result of due arediligence shared withprocessmaterial with IDB, is Entities included in the consolidated financial Tropicalia's financial statements are shared with material 102-45 statements ! stakeholders upon request 102-45 ! anything procured within a and 50km subject radiustoofinternal Tropicalia.approval. Domestic statements stakeholders upon request and subject to internal approval. 6. Reporting Practice procurment is anything obtained in Dominican Republic. 6. Reporting Practice Boundaries of each material topic are limited to Tropicalia's Boundaries of each material topic are limited to Tropicalia's 3.5.1. Sustainability Management 2016 Tropicalia Sustainability Report, pg Fundación Tropicalia:that happens within the property, and the property, everything 3.5.1. Sustainability Management 2016 Tropicalia Sustainability Report, pg property, everything that happens within the property, and the 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries ! System (SMS) and Materiality 16. 100% community of Fundación Tropicalia's that is impacted byactivities the project areactivities: locally procured. Miches 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries ! System (SMS) and Materiality 16. community that is impacted by the project activities: Miches GRI 205: Anti-corruption Municipality, located within El Seibo Province. Municipality, located within El Seibo Province. Sustainability Management System The All the topics is of corruption riskmaterial arepart of all ourinoperations' presented the SMS asrisk assessments. criteria and Sustainability Management System All the material topics are presented in the SMS as criteria and 3.5.1. Sustainability Management 3.5.1. Sustainability Management 205-1 102-47 Operations assessed List of material topicsfor risks related to corruption ! 2016 Tropicalia Sustainability Report, pg No significant indicators. risks topics linked to Material arecorruption also included wereinidentified this Content for this Index, 102-47 List of material topics ! 2016 Tropicalia Sustainability Report, pg indicators. Material topics are also included in this Content Index, System (SMS) and Materiality System (SMS) and Materiality 16. reporting Disclosures period. GRI 301-1 through GRI 419-1. 16. Disclosures GRI 301-1 through GRI 419-1. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ! Correct No to date. Infographs in 2016 Report: Total amount Productivity incident Correct Productivity Infographs in 2016 Report: Total amount GRI 300: Environmental topics disbursed by Supply chain program omits FT contribution. disbursed by Supply chain program omits FT contribution. GRI 304: Biodiversity 300 farmers certified in organic production is not accurate. Our 300 farmers certified in organic production is not accurate. Our 102-48 Restatements Operational sitesof information owned, leased, managed in, or ! farmers The project were is trained not located in best agricultural within practices, any protected area but areacertified. or not of high 102-48 Restatements of information ! farmers were trained in best agricultural practices, but not certified. Number of keys and residences adjacent changed protectedinareas 2017 andfromareas 2016,of Four Number of keys and residences changed in 2017 from 2016, Four 304-1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ! EIA, Chapter 3 biodiversity value. The high biodiversity value outside protected areas Seasons Tropicalia will be a 169 biodiversity value are described in the project's EIAkeys and 24 residences. Website Seasons Tropicalia will be a 169 keys and 24 residences. Website report missing UNGC page or section references. report missing UNGC page or section references. As the project has not yet started construction, there have not No been significant any impacts changes from previous reporting periods in list of on biodiversity. No significant changes from previous reporting periods in list of 102-49 Changes in reporting ! 102-49 Changes in reporting ! -material topics Tropicalia beenboundaries. has and continually executing a rigorous material topics and boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period ! -EIA, Chapter 8 Annex presents potential January 2017 to Environmental Management2017 December and Protection Program (PMAA), 102-50 Reporting period ! January 2017 to December 2017 102-51 Significant Date of most impacts recentof activities, products and services report ! -impacts on biodiversity during through April which significant Environmental Management processes 2017 102-51 Date of most recent report ! April 2017 304-2 ! are on biodiversity preconstruction, construction, and Theimplemented and relevantReport Corporate Sustainability parametersis published followedThis closelyannually. and is The Corporate Sustainability Report is published annually. This is 102-52 Reporting cycle ! -operation of Tropicalia. evaluated. our seventhAll requested Environmental Compliance Reports (ICAs) report. 102-52 Reporting cycle ! our seventh report. have been Sofia Perazzopresented to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Sofia Perazzo ResourcesDirector Executive and no further reports are required until construction Executive Director 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ! Last page of report phase Fundación starts. No impacts have been reported so far. Tropicalia 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ! Last page of report Fundación Tropicalia EIA, Chapter 3 presents a list of sperazzo@cisneros.com sperazzo@cisneros.com ClaimsRed IUCN List species of reporting and nationalwith in accordance conservation the GRI list nationally and internationally protected This material references the G-4 GRI Sustainability Reporting Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This material references the G-4 GRI Sustainability Reporting 304-4 102-54 species with habitats in areas affected by operations ! ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative 102-54 ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative Standards species found within the property Standards (2016). Standards Standards (2016). boundaries of the project 102-55 GRI content index ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative 102-55 GRI content index ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative GRI 306: Effluents and waste 102-56 External assurance ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative Tropicalia has been continually executing a rigorous Environmental 102-56 External assurance ! 7. Global Reporting Initiative GRI 103: Management Approach (applies for all material topics covered) Management and Protection Program (PMAA), through which GRI 103: Management Approach (applies for all material topics covered) EIA Chapter 1 of each material BoundariesEnvironmental significant topic are limited Management processes to Tropicalia's are implemented Boundaries of each material topic are limited to Tropicalia's 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination P property, everything thatclosely happens within the ICAs 1-11 and relevant parameters followed andproperty, evaluated. and the case In the property, everything that happens within the property, and the community of that is water, quality ofimpacted potable water, by thesea project water,activities: Miches is and wastewater community that is impacted by the project activities: Miches Municipality, being continuously locatedassessed within Eland Seibo Province. reported. Municipality, located within El Seibo Province. 3.5.1 Sustainability Management -Material No spillstopics to datewere identified as part of a materiality assessment 3.5.1 Sustainability Management Material topics were identified as part of a materiality assessment 306-3 103-1 Significant spills Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary ! P Sustainability Management System based on complying EIA Chapter 9 outline with multiple proper internationally procedures for handlingrecognized best oil spills. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary P Sustainability Management System based on complying with multiple internationally recognized best System (SMS) and Materiality System (SMS) and Materiality Water bodies affected by water discharged and/or practices No water andbodies reporting have been affectedincluding guidelines, to date due the LEED to runoffScorecard, or practices and reporting guidelines, including the LEED Scorecard, 306-5 ! United Nations Global Compact, Global Sustainable Tourism United Nations Global Compact, Global Sustainable Tourism runoff discharges. Council Criteria for Destinations and Hotels and Tour Operators, Council Criteria for Destinations and Hotels and Tour Operators, GRI 307: Environmental compliance Abu Dhabi Planning Council's Pearl Rating System for Estidama, Abu Dhabi Planning Council's Pearl Rating System for Estidama, The organization has not been identified as non-compliant with among several others. among several others. environmental laws and regulations. 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental regulations ! Each material topic will be managed according to the guidance EIA, Chapter 7 presents an inventory of national and international Each material topic will be managed according to the guidance provided in the SMS per topic included. provided in the SMS per topic included. 3.5.1 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management System; standards and laws governing the development of Tropicalia. 3.5.1 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management System; 103-2 The management approach and its components P Tropicalia EIA chapter 10 and FST DIA chapter 8 presents the 103-2 The management approach and its components P Tropicalia EIA chapter 10 and FST DIA chapter 8 presents the GRI 400: Social System (SMS) and Materiality Tropicalia EIA, Chapter 10 System (SMS) and Materiality Tropicalia EIA, Chapter 10 Environmental Management Plan, which outlines the management Environmental Management Plan, which outlines the management GRI 401: Employment strategies for the environmental material topics identified. strategies for the environmental material topics identified. -One employee (female) The management approach year, agetopic this material hiredofineach <40, will ruralberegion. The management approach of each material topic will be 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover ! 3.5.3. Labor and Human Rights 'Total number evaluated and against quarterly rate of employee the indicators turnover includedduring reporting the SMS, in the evaluated quarterly against the indicators included in the SMS, period, by age considering thegroup, baseline data and gender provided 0.05% regionin: each case as a point of !1 considering the baseline data provided in each case as a point of 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not ! All employees, full-time and temporary, are eligible for the same reference. Workingincluding: benefits, insurance, lifewould health care, of ourand disability !1 reference. 2 ! provided to temporary or part-time employees groups that tackle specific areas Working groups that would tackle specific areas of our invalidity sustainabilitycoverage, approach parental have leave, etc. been established, making sure that sustainability approach have been established, making sure that 60 401-3 Parental leave ! 3.5.1 Sustainability Management Not applicable madeinatthis decisions thereporting committee year. level are operationalized on the 3.5.1 Sustainability Management decisions made at the committee level are operationalized on the 61 GRI 405: DiversityEvaluation and EqualofOpportunity ground. ground. 103-3 the management approach P System (SMS) and Materiality Sustainability Management System Tropicalia has Tropicalia's been continually Sustainability Committee executing T R O Pbody, a rigorous as a governance ICA is L I A T R O103-3P I C A LEvaluation IA of the management approach P System (SMS) and Materiality Sustainability Management System Tropicalia has been continually executing a rigorous 3.4. Sustainable Business 3.4. Sustainable Business Environmental made Management up of 16 members: SUST andA Protection INABIL Program I T Y (PMAA), REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental Management and Protection Program (PMAA), 3.5 Management and Governance -through 37.5% female, are 18.75% which significant under 30and implemented 62.5% male. years environmental management processes relevant parameters old, 56.25% between closely 30-50 followed and25% years old, !3 through which significant environmental management processes are implemented and relevant parameters closely followed and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ! evaluated. over 50 yearsAll requested old. Environmental Compliance Reports (ICAs) evaluated. All requested Environmental Compliance Reports (ICAs) Mechanisms for Sustainable Business have been presented to the Ministry of Environment and Natural GRI 102-53 PUBLISHED ON TROPICALIA April 20th, 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTACT Sofía Perazzo Executive Director Fundación Tropicalia sperazzo@cisneros.com CONTENT Tropicalia The Ocean Foundation TRANSLATION Voice Ink DESIGN & ADAPTATION LLORENTE & CUENCA Nearvana PHOTOGRAPHY Fer Figheras Bengala Audiovisual Please visit www.tropicalia.com and follow us on social media to share our sustainable vision for this world-class development. /TropicaliaRD, /FundacionTropicalia and /SNSICAMP @TropicaliaRD and @FundTropicalia PRINTER @tropicaliard, @fundaciontropicalia and @snsicamp ECO Mensajería
