Partners for the Future sustainability report 2017-18 Partners for the Future How can a metals and mining company impact the future? Can an ancient industry like mining ﬁnd a place for itself in a rapidly modernising society? We believe that it can. At our core, we are miners of potential. From natural resources to people, when both these reserves are harnessed responsibly and sustainably the destiny of nations can change. As a large, diversiﬁed metals and mining company, we have the potential to transform the future of the communities, regions, and countries from where we operate. In FY 2017-18 alone, we generated an economic value of US$ 15,092 million, of which only US$ 526 million was retained by the company. The remaining was distributed to our employees, investors, communities and governments in the form of wages, dividends, interest payments, community investments and taxes. We contributed nearly US$ 5.4 billion to the exchequer and invested US$ 39 million in community support and CSR programmes. Sustainable development is the only way forward. In this form of development, local communities beneﬁt from our presence; employees & contract workers don't just earn a paycheck, but thrive through their association with us, are safe and are able to transform the future of their families positively. In this sustainable future, both genders are able to harness their potential and the environment is treated as a stakeholder that is cared for; and that care is reﬂected in the way we conduct our business. Vedanta has committed to walk-the-talk on sustainability and in the process, we are conﬁdent that we will become a partner in the future of the countries where we are located. 01 OVERVIEW 01 Vedanta at a Glance 03 From the Chairman's Desk 05 CEO's Message 07 Global Context 09 Our Strategy and Approach 11 Roadmap & Progress 14 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP 15 Governance 22 Safety and Occupational Health 27 Environment 37 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS 38 Stakeholder Engagement 42 Human Rights 44 Neighbourhood Dialogue ABOUT THIS REPORT Welcome to our 10th Sustainable 45 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Development Report, which has been 46 Community prepared in accordance with the Global 60 Employees Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: 68 Economy Core option. It is mapped to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and aligns to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It reports our approach and 75 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION disclosure towards triple bottom line 76 Communicating Constructively principles people, planet and proﬁt over FY 2017-18. See page 82 for more 78 Strategic Engagements & Advocacy information about our reporting. 79 Awards and Accolades 82 ANNEXURES Visit our online 82 About this Report Sustainable Development 83 External Indices Report 2017-18 at http://sd.vedantaresources.com/ 84 Assurance Statement SustainableDevelopment2017-18/ 86 GRI Standard Index Vedanta at a Glance 01 From the Chairman's Desk 03 CEO's Message 05 OVERVIEW Global Context 07 Our Strategy and Approach 09 Roadmap & Progress 11 VEDANTA AT A GLANCE Vedanta Resources is a London Stock Exchange listed, globally diversiﬁed natural resources company with interests in Zinc, Lead, Silver, Copper, Iron Ore, Aluminium, Power and Oil & Gas. Our exploration portfolio from all the four continents that we operate in, follows a history of consistent geological discovery, sustainable growth, long-term value creation and improved best-in-class operations. Our focus on sustainable development is reinforced through building strong, engaging and beneﬁcial partnerships with all our stakeholders. INTEGRITY | R OUR CORE PURPOSE CE| ES N Vedanta is a globally diversiﬁed TRUST | EXCE | CARE | natural resources company CT with low-cost operations. LLE PE OUR We empower our people to drive CORE excellence and innovation to VALUES create value for our stakeholders. We demonstrate world-class standards of governance, safety, sustainability and social responsibility. Zinc-Lead-Silver Oil & Gas Copper Aluminium • Debari smelter • Rajasthan block • Silvassa reﬁnery • Lanjigarh alumina reﬁnery • Chanderiya smelters • Ravva (PKGM-1) block • Tuticorin smelter • Jharsuguda smelters & • Rampura-Agucha mine • Cambay (CB/052) block • Mt Lyell mine, Australia** power plants • Rajpura Dariba mine & smelters • South Africa block • Konkola Copper Mines, • Korba smelters & and Sindesar Khurd mine Zambia power plants • KG-OSN-2009/3 block • Zawar mine • PR-OSN-2004/1 block • Skorpion mine, Namibia Power • Black Mountain mine, Iron Ore • MEL power plant * Lisheen had safe, detailed South Africa • Iron ore operations Goa and fully-costed closure • SEL after 17 years of operation • Lisheen mine, Ireland* • Iron ore operations Karnataka • Talwandi Sabo in November 2015 • Iron ore projects Liberia Power Plant ** Under care and maintenance VEDANTA OPERATES ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN FROM EXPLORATION, ASSET DEVELOPMENT, AND EXTRACTION, TO PROCESSING AND VALUE ADDITION, TO DELIVER LONG-TERM VALUE AND GROWTH ACROSS ALL STAGES. 01 ZERO HARM WASTE Managing risk in all forms by It’s all of our responsibility to DISCHARGE applying controls and testing their ensure that everyone who works effectiveness on our site returns home safely H S E C H A R T E R every day while protecting the Setting priorities and commitments environment for our future and measuring, monitoring and We will fulﬁll our duty to protect the safety generations. reporting performance and welfare of our people and plan to achieve our health, safety and environment Maintaining an open dialogue with goal of zero harm to become the best our business partners and performer in the resources industry by: stakeholders ANIL AGARWAL Implementing world class standards Chairman that deliver our legal obligations Applying this discipline every day in and company policies every aspect of our business June 2016 G R O U P S T R U C T U R E OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD6 . SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS |4ZINC-LEAD-SILVER % 92% | ALUMINIUM | POWER | 100 * * es IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER Zinc | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | | ALUMINIUM erMin In pp mania H Z d ia o ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER s L C |TaIRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER TD. | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | ANTA L (50.25 %) VED Bh MALC OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | inium 100 O % (100 Ene ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | lu m 51% MW rgy tA O * ara BALC COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD) SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | VEDANTA IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | RESOURCES ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON OREPLC | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | 100 10 0% % ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD1 00%| COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER % SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE 100 | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER | OIL Listed entity Unlisted entity *Option to increase stake to 100% | **Option to increase stake to 94.4% 02 Vedanta at a Glance 01 From the Chairman's Desk 03 CEO's Message 05 OVERVIEW Global Context 07 Our Strategy and Approach 09 Roadmap & Progress 11 FROM THE CHAIRMAN'S DESK Vedanta is a purpose-driven organisation. Our vision is to leverage innovation and technology to harness the elements of natural resources and transform them to fuel progress and development, with a committed goal of Zero Harm, Zero Discharge and Zero Waste. To achieve this vision, sustainable development principles are inter-twined with each of our businesses and our growth agenda. A company's performance should be measured by its contribution to society as well as by ﬁnancial metrics. It is encouraging to see investors and non-ﬁnancial stakeholders value ﬁrms that have social and responsible ways of working. We want communities to feel that they are an integral part of Vedanta's growth story. Zero Harm, Zero Waste, Zero Discharge In recent years, we have put our energies into improving our safety performance and environmental standards. Our vision is to have an organisation that works on the premise of 'Zero Harm, Zero Waste, and Zero Discharge'. We have made good progress in both areas; however the loss of nine of our colleagues in work-related accidents in the past year is a reminder that further improvement is required. I am encouraged by the response of our organisations leadership to these incidents whether it is emphasising improved training methods, enhancing leadership presence on the ground, or inducting global experts into our workforce. I am conﬁdent that we will become a signiﬁcantly safer organisation in the years to come. Waste from extractive operations is signiﬁcant and our endeavour has always been to create value from this waste. We have put considerable efforts into programmes such as 'waste to wealth'. AT VEDANTA JHARSUGUDA, WE DEDICATED THE 1ST 'GREEN ROAD' MADE USING FLY ASH AS THE PRIMARY COMPONENT. 03 In the pursuit of our goal of Zero Waste, we will continue to develop innovative ways to upcycle/recycle all waste produced as part of VEDANTA, THROUGH THE VEDANTA MEDICAL our operations. RESEARCH FOUNDATION, ALSO INAUGURATED CENTRAL INDIA'S FIRST WORLD-CLASS CANCER We are also cognizant of the role large businesses such as ours need FACILITY IN NAYA RAIPUR, CHHATTISGARH IN to take in combating climate change. We remain fully supportive of THE PAST YEAR. the outcomes from the Paris Agreement from three years ago. Internally, we have constituted a 'Carbon Forum' to help steer the group towards a less carbon-intensive way of operating. This initiative aligns with the larger vision of Vedanta Group's commitment to give back to society, and I look forward to many Renewable energy can help us reduce our carbon footprint. Our zinc more research & development initiatives from the foundation business in India has installed 324 MW of renewable energy and has going forward. plans of installing an additional 110 MW in the near future. As a group, we are also excited by the rise of the renewable economy, Our programmes in children's well-being & education, women's because our products copper, zinc, lead, aluminium, silver, and iron empowerment, healthcare, drinking water & sanitation, skilling of will play a crucial role in helping this industry achieve scale. youth, environmental protection, sports & culture, community infrastructure development, and agriculture & animal husbandry will continue to enhance lives of those who live around our operating sites. Harnessing Talent I am happy to note that in the last year our work in sustainability is A talented, diverse and an inclusive workforce has helped make us being recognised by global organisations. one of the leaders in natural resources. At Vedanta, we respect merit and have nurtured a culture, which enables our employees to realise their full potential. We have identiﬁed 500+ young leaders across the BOTH VEDANTA LIMITED AND HINDUSTAN ZINC organisation and entrusted them with leadership opportunities to IMPROVED THEIR RANKINGS IN THE METALS & drive the next phase of business growth. MINING SECTOR AND MOVED UP TO THE 17TH Vedanta Group is also rapidly moving to become more gender AND 11TH PLACE RESPECTIVELY IN THE DOW inclusive. Today, women constitute nearly 11% of our total workforce JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX. and 14.3% of our Board. We have set ourselves a target to achieve 33% women representation at the Board-level by 2020. Vedanta Limited was again ranked as India's leading publicly listed company in the India Disclosure Index 2017 after having achieved the same recognition in 2016. I am proud of our transparency and commitment to welfare of all our stakeholders. Commitment to Society As we look out into the next year and beyond, Vedanta will continue Over the course of the last year, Vedanta invested over US$ 39 to operate under the highest standards of corporate governance and million in social programmes. Our efforts have touched the lives of deliver value to all our stakeholders. There is much potential in the 3.4 million people in over 1,400 villages. Our ﬂagship programme, markets where we operate and Vedanta is positioned well to create 'Nandghar' aims to transform pre-primary education and healthcare an impact not just for ourselves but also for the communities, regions, in rural India. We have committed to construct 4,000 state-of-the-art countries and industries where we operate. child welfare centres across the country to support women and children by providing nutrition, education, skills development and It is an exciting journey to be part of! healthcare they need. ANIL AGARWAL CHAIRMAN, VEDANTA RESOURCES 04 Vedanta at a Glance 01 From the Chairman's Desk 03 CEO's Message 05 OVERVIEW Global Context 07 Our Strategy and Approach 09 Roadmap & Progress 11 CEO'S MESSAGE At Vedanta, Sustainable Development is the core belief driving all our actions and decisions. In the decade since we began disclosing the company's sustainability performance, we have made signiﬁcant improvements to our safety, environmental and social management systems and have laid a strong foundation for the future growth of the company. Our approach to sustainability is very simple. The work that we do should add value not just to our shareholders, but should improve and enhance the futures of the communities, regions and nations where we operate, and do so in a manner that causes zero harm to the environment and society. The Vedanta Sustainable Development Model comprises of four key elements Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships, Adding & Sharing Value and Strategic Communications. This model is integral to all our businesses and helps them evolve their risk management strategy. Responsible Growth While we pursue our goals of delivering growth through higher volumes, optimising costs and leveraging of technology & innovation for operational excellence, we are focused on achieving these with robust safety, health and environmental performance. We have taken sustained action to reduce impact on environment. Our vision of 'Zero-harm' and 'Zero-discharge' saw us spend nearly US$ 100 million on environmental management and improvement activities. OUR WASTE TO WEALTH PHILOSOPHY HAS SEEN US RECYCLE 82% OF OUR HIGH-VOLUME, LOW-IMPACT WASTES SUCH AS FLY ASH, SLAG, GYPSUM AND RED MUD. We have successfully met targets to reduce our water and energy consumption. We saved 4.1 million M3 of water against a target of 2.2 million M3. We also conserved 2.6 million GJ of energy against a target of 1.39 million GJ. We remain committed to minimise our carbon footprint and are well ahead in our plan to reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 16% by 2020 compared to a 2012 baseline. As of 31st March 2018, we have already reduced our GHG emissions intensity by 14%. We seek to implement international best practices in tailings-dam management and have appointed a global05 expert to provide long-term monitoring and advice on the design, multi-pronged interventions including development of community construction, and operation of each dam. infrastructure, empowering women entrepreneurs, providing safe drinking water, teaching youth vocational skills, improving agricultural We have a workforce of over 78,000 people, and our overriding yield and many others. Our ﬂagship programme Nandghar is a goal is that every one of them goes home safe every single day. reimagined anganwadi addressing nutritional and educational needs Our 'zero harm' policy puts health and safety ﬁrmly at the forefront of young children and empowering women. We built the 154th of our operations. Nandghar this year and our goal is to build 4,000 across 11 Indian We have been working relentlessly to enhance the safety culture of states. We also established a 170-bed cancer hospital The BALCO the organisation. No injury, much less a loss of life, is ever acceptable Medical Center in Naya Raipur, thereby bringing much-needed and we continue to invest in training and skill enhancement to prevent modern oncology care to the state of Chhattisgarh and central India. accidents before they can happen. The need for improvement, and While we have one of the largest CSR programmes in India, we have our determination to achieve zero harm, means that this priority is more work to do in engaging with the community and seeking their receiving the direct attention of the Executive Committee. Due to our feedback. The incidents in Tuticorin are a reminder of the need for continued intense focus on safety, our Lost Time Injuries Frequency strong community relations. This year we began the process of Rate has improved by nearly 37% over the last ﬁve years and we strive improving our social performance standards and we hope to see to get better. signiﬁcant changes in the manner in which the company engages with its communities over the next few years. That is the next phase of our growth as a sustainable company. OUR EFFORTS HAVE BEEN RECOGNISED BY ORGANISATIONS SUCH AS THE BRITISH SAFETY COUNCIL WHO AWARDED OUR STERLITE Future Outlook COPPER BUSINESS THE PRESTIGIOUS 'SWORD Vedanta's robust performance led by signiﬁcant increases in our OF HONOUR' AND THE UPSTREAM AND revenues and expansion in our production volumes has created a MIDSTREAM OPERATIONS OF CAIRN OIL & clear pathway for sustainable growth. Vedanta's Sustainability GAS A '5-STAR RATING'. Framework will play a central role as we ramp-up Zinc India's operations, commission the Gamsberg project, grow our Oil & Gas business and integrate Electrosteel into our business structure. To introduce new ideas that drive an improved safety culture, we have Each project and activity needs to meet our high standards of reinforced our HSE organisation by recruiting 10 HSE experts with sustainability performance. global experience. New safety standards (in addition to the existing We have made a commitment to deploy new technologies such as six standards) on Machine Guarding, Cranes and Lifting, Molten autonomous equipment to improve operational efﬁciencies and Metals, and Pit, Dump & Stockpile Safety have been introduced and on-site safety. we continue to provide training to both employees and contractors. Last year, they underwent around 921,550 hours in safety training. Our Digitisation of our systems and process will also go a long way in effort is to eliminate fatalities by instilling an intense safety discipline improving the overall performance of our businesses. The programme among our workforce through continuous education, motivation and on business excellence will help achieve the full potential of our rigorous implementation of safety procedures. assets. Leadership development, energising and facilitating teams, and driving high impact projects at each of our businesses are all I am however deeply saddened by the loss of nine lives during the aspects of this growth journey, and I look forward to the results. course of the year and offer my condolences to their families. We have conducted a thorough root-cause analysis and formulated deﬁnitive Each year we enjoy presenting our sustainability performance to our steps to strengthen visible felt leadership, especially in high-risk areas. stakeholders and we look forward to your feedback and comments. We would not like to repeat these unfortunate incidents in the future. You can write to us at sustainability@vedanta.co.in. At Vedanta, we believe that progress and development should not just improve the economic status of communities but should enhance Connecting with Communities their dignity. We will continue to operate our business with this underlying philosophy, and I look forward to a sustainable growth I strongly believe that our social license to operate hinges on good journey ahead! relations with the communities who live around our operating sites. Last year, we spent US$ 39 million on community development programmes and positively impacted 3.3 million people. Our programmes seek to improve the lives of these communities through KULDIP K. KAURA CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 06 Vedanta at a Glance 01 From the Chairman's Desk 03 CEO's Message 05 OVERVIEW Global Context 07 Our Strategy and Approach 09 Roadmap & Progress 11 GLOBAL CONTEXT 2017 saw the global economy grow by 3.8% according to the IMF's World Economic Outlook (WEO). This was a 0.5% increase over the previous year and the fastest growth rate since 2011. This global uptick was driven by resilient growth in advanced economies combined with a continued pick-up in growth in emerging markets. Key drivers included an increase in investment spend, supported by an improved outlook and a rise in private consumption. Global metals markets are still looking at are some of the steps in the past year towards creating a more favourable operating China to play a key role given that it accounts environment. for more than 50% of world metal Positive demographic factors such as an increasing workforce and urbanisation are driving a consumption. However, India is projected to greater need for infrastructure development. The Indian government continues to invest in the grow by 7.4% in 2018 and 7.8% in 2019, infrastructure sector, having increased its spending in the Union Budget 2018-19. maintaining its status as one of the fastestgrowing major economies in the world, Vedanta, as the only diversiﬁed natural resources company in India, is uniquely positioned to according to the IMF's WEO. leverage India's growth potential by catering to that demand. With such a vast domestic market, everything we produce in India, we aim to sell in India. In the medium term, growth is expected to rise gradually as structural reforms continue We expect to see a continued focus and further investments in the infrastructure, to be implemented, raising productivity and transportation and power sectors. We also anticipate changes in government policy to incentivising private investment. An incentivise domestic metal and energy production, and to reduce dependence on imports. amended MMDRA (Mines and Mineral These initiatives will lead to an increasing demand for domestically produced metals. Development and Regulation Act) in 2015 has brought increased clarity on the With various growth opportunities in the pipeline, we anticipate that our performance in licencing around mining. Key regulatory FY 2018-19 will be even stronger. reforms around opening commercial coal We expect to focus on organic growth in areas where we have deep expertise: mining to the private sector and the launch principally, oil & gas, and zinc. Equally, we continue to monitor markets and make our of Open Acreage Licensing Policy (OALP) in decisions with a strong sense of realism. the oil & gas sector to improve exploration, 07 Some of the other factors that will continue to affect the mining industry in general and Vedanta in particular include: CLIMATE THE RIGHT RETAINING OUR SOCIAL CHANGE TALENT LICENSE TO OPERATE Changing climate can have a dual impact on As Vedanta grows across sectors and The metals & mining industry has always the natural resources industry. It can directly geographies, we want to ensure that we are walked a ﬁne balance between creating new impact operations and performance and able to do so in the most sustainable manner economic value, ensuring that local indirectly can affect supplies and increase possible. To be able to deliver on this communities beneﬁt from the presence of energy costs. Vedanta is sensitive to the ambition, we need people who have global the industry and minimising the impacts on impact we have on the environment. exposure and a proven track record of the environment. In areas with indigenous delivering sustainable solutions in the populations, additional care needs to be Vedanta is committed to addressing the mining industry. We are also mindful that as exercised to ensure community buy-in. challenges posed by climate change. Our we create new opportunities, we do so in a Given the nature and scale of the industry, energy management approach hinges on a manner that enables gender diversity within challenges to social license to operate by two-pronged strategy: the workforce as well as allows local local communities have been common in Improving energy and process efﬁciency communities to become part of this the metals & mining sector. In response workforce whether directly or with our companies and industry organisations such Diversifying our energy portfolio to the multiple suppliers, vendors, and partners. as IFC and ICMM have developed several extent possible guidelines and best practices to aid greater Vedanta has been attracting the right acceptance of the industry in communities. We continued to take sustained actions to talent from across the globe due to our address climate change. Our Sustainable employee-centric human resources policies Vedanta connects with the community even Development Framework is in place, which and culture that fosters entrepreneurship. in the remotest areas where we operate. As includes an Energy and Carbon Policy, and The new, diverse talent that we attract is responsible stewards of sustainable an Energy and Carbon Management given the freedom to innovate and create. development, we create direct and indirect Standard. As responsible stewards of employment, empower local communities sustainable development, we report our We routinely induct a large numbers of through initiatives in health and living GHG emissions as per the requirements of university graduates, which gives us an inﬂux standards; and add value to the economy. the World Business Council for Sustainable of fresh minds, while providing them with We also provide employment to candidates Development (WBCSD), World Resource lucrative growth opportunities. Our Global from the community in senior management Institute (WRI) GHG Protocol and Carbon Leadership Programme provides an ideal and other positions to empower them and Disclosure Project (CDP). Our zinc and lead opportunity to develop mutual appreciation enable economic activity in the region. mining operations are transitioning from for the best practices across the Group open pit to underground mining. This will companies and leverage the synergy. This Apart from providing employment to the help us in reducing our carbon footprint. programme also helps the organisation youth, we work for children's well-being & create talented global resource pools that education, women's empowerment, Our Carbon Forum a group-level body led can bring out the best and excel in a multihealthcare, drinking water & sanitation, by the CEO-Diversiﬁed Metals comprises of cultural environment. agriculture & animal husbandry, skilling the business COOs and representatives from youth for new opportunities, environment Corporate HSE and Sustainability. We have Internal growth workshops identify young protection & restoration, sports & culture formulated a Carbon Strategy and are leaders through a structured process, in and community infrastructure. planning to initiate carbon pricing. By order to develop them into highly putting a price on carbon, we will be able to competitive leaders and provide them We are also committed to ensuring that reduce emissions while encouraging growth and recognition. We attract female indigenous communities have the sustainable and robust growth. candidates as our policies are progressive opportunity to give free, prior, informed and women-friendly. We provide leadership consent for new projects that we plan to development, women-networking forums undertake. SDG 7, 13 and enhanced parental leave policy. SDG 1, 5, 6 SDG 8, 5 08 Vedanta at a Glance 01 From the Chairman's Desk 03 CEO's Message 05 OVERVIEW Global Context 07 Our Strategy and Approach 09 Roadmap & Progress 11 OUR STRATEGY AND APPROACH Our strategy continues to focus on delivering long-term value and growth to our shareholders through a diversiﬁed portfolio of large, long-life and low-cost assets. We want to achieve this while upholding the principles of sustainable development. At Vedanta, we understand the value of a uniﬁed sustainable development agenda that goes beyond compliance. Though each of our subsidiary businesses operate independently under a federal structure, we have developed the Vedanta Sustainability Framework, which is integral to the core business and risk management strategy. Developed keeping in mind multiple internal and external sustainability imperatives like materiality and core values of Vedanta, UNGC's 10 Principles, United Nation's SDGs, standards set by International Finance Corporation (IFC), ICMM and OECD, our Sustainable Development Model comprises four pillars responsible stewardship, building strong relationships, adding and sharing value, and strategic communications. APPROACH The Vedanta Sustainability Framework is central to our sustainability agenda. It has allowed the Group to operationalise the intent that is centred on our four strategic pillars of: Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships, Adding and Sharing Value, and Strategic Communications. Governance | Safety & Occupational Health | Environment | 360° Project Management RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Responsible governance supports relationship building Ensuring effective business processes for robust compliance and risk management, protecting health and safety of our employees and managing our environmental impacts STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS ADDING & BUILDING STRONG SHARING VALUES RELATIONSHIPS Value helps us maintain Relationships enable us to a licence to operate contribute to a wider society Ensuring direct and indirect Engaging effectively with positive impact to employees, our diverse stakeholders to communities, investors, foresee and manage relevant suppliers and risks, opportunities and the government challenges Employees | Communities Stakeholder Engagement Shareholders & Lenders Human Rights Government | Industry Neighbourhood Dialogue Supply Chain | Customers These four pillars are critical to ensuring the long-term successful future of our business meeting our strategic goals of growth, long-term value and sustainability. For further details on Vedanta Sustainability Framework, refer to Governance Section page 15 09 MATERIALITY Materiality assessment helps us maintain the relevancy and credibility of the report, and ensures that it remains focused on what matters. Our materiality process is in line with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. We seek to identify the issues most important to our stakeholders and our business, and prioritise our interventions accordingly. Two years ago, Vedanta identiﬁed and prioritised those issues that are most material to our business. We sought the views of a diverse group of stakeholders and their responses were presented to our management group, who then prioritised the most important issues for our business. MATERIAL ASPECTS M A T E R I A L I T Y M A T R I X Critical importance High importance Average importance Low importance Policies and actions to restrict Leadership development and Public policy and advocacy unethical business practices talent management Disclosure on slavery and Rights of indigenous peoples Diversity and equal human trafﬁcking UK's and human rights opportunity Modern Slavery Act Employee health, safety and Transparency in reporting on Broader economic beneﬁt well-being revenue and production ﬁgures to host country Community engagement and Labour rights and development initiatives industrial relations Ethics and integrity Local hiring and content compliance to Community health and safety Code of Conduct Energy management and climate change Responsible Supply Chain Management Environmental management (water management, waste Mine and site closure plans management, air emissions and quality control, biodiversity management, environmental incidents Employee retention management) Tax transparency and reporting This materiality matrix is reviewed and ratiﬁed by both the Executive Committee (EXCO) and the Sustainability Committee. During the year, we continued our efforts to improve our systems and their performance in all the key issues identiﬁed in the matrix through our Sustainability Framework. As the year progressed, the following material areas emerged as the most signiﬁcant drivers of our business commanding either management or stakeholder attention: THE SAFETY RETAINING OUR DIVERSITY OF OUR OF OUR ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL LICENCE WORKFORCE AND WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT TO OPERATE EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Our sustainability roadmap sets out our targets and performance during the year on the key material issues. 10 Vedanta at a Glance 01 From the Chairman's Desk 03 CEO's Message 05 OVERVIEW Global Context 07 Our Strategy and Approach 09 Roadmap & Progress 11 ROADMAP & PROGRESS OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS FY 2017-18 STATUS PERFORMANCE FY 2017-18 OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS FY 2018-19 THE SAFETY OF OUR WORKFORCE • 4 of 11 businesses achieved Achieve score >75% in six safety score of 75% or above Achieve score >75% in six safety performance standards • 9 of 11 businesses achieved performance standards 70% or above Hindustan Zinc, Sterlite Copper, Extend baseline health assessment Cairn Oil & Gas, KCM and BALCO across businesses have completed their initial exposure survey 9 fatalities occurred in the ﬁscal year. Zero fatal incidents and 26% reduction Zero fatal accidents and an LTIFR improved from 0.39 to 0.34 in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) LTIFR of 0.30 a reduction of ~13% ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT • Water risk assessment tool • Standardise water risk assessment developed in collaboration with approach for business independent experts • Undertake water risk assessment for • Water risk assessment studies Achieve water saving of 4.0 million m3 signiﬁcant businesses with water conducted for 30 signiﬁcant as a material issue business units across the group 3 • Water savings target: 2.2 million m • Water savings of 4.1 million 3 m achieved Compliance with environmental and social management plan for new Work in progress projects across the business Complete Biodiversity Management BMP study complete Plan at our Oil & Gas business Achieve 50% of ﬂy ash utilisation rate 90% of the generated ﬂy ash utilised Achieve ﬂy ash utilisation of 75% We are considering formal GHG reduction targets and we expect to Continue our reduction trajectory ~14% reduction achieved in GHG achieve a 16% reduction in carbon and formalise our GHG intensity intensity over baseline of 2012 intensity by 2020 from a 2012 baseline, reduction target which was the ﬁrst year of audited data Energy saving of 2.6 million Energy Saving: 1.39 million GJ Achieve 2 million GJ energy saving GJ achieved • In FY 2016-17, two dams across our businesses had been identiﬁed for the analysis. Analysis completed at both Develop capability and facilitate Complete the dam break analysis of • We have taken a serious note of the strengthening of tailing management the identiﬁed facilities across businesses dam-failure incidents at VALpractices across the Group Jharsuguda and BALCO and have taken appropriate actions to ensure this is not a recurring issue for our business Initiate the capacity-building of selected Not initiated professionals on biodiversity 11 OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS FY 2017-18 STATUS PERFORMANCE FY 2017-18 OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS FY 2018-19 RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE Partnered with an independent expert Social impact studies to be continued to conduct baseline, need, impact Complete the baseline and social for remaining sites and SWOT assessments in all impact assessments in all businesses businesses. Work is under way • The development of a uniﬁed reporting system to record aggregated impact of CSR initiatives, and to manage entire CSR cycle, is in process Increase the implementation and utilisation rate of the SAP system • IFMR has been commissioned to develop uniﬁed indicators, and Goodera (under process) has been identiﬁed for providing the software platform Expand the company's ﬂagship Nandghars constructed: 250 Nandghars to be constructed in FY Nandghar CSR programme to all 54 in FY 2017-18; 154 till date; 2018-19 and planning for additional our businesses 250 under construction 1,000 to be completed. • Employee engagement initiatives have been undertaken in businesses including HZL, Sterlite Copper and BALCO Embed and encourage employee Develop employee engagement as a volunteering for social initiatives • These initiatives included Khushi standard policy for the group Baatiye, audio description movie for visually impaired children, and mentoring programme by employee families, among other activities PEOPLE AND DIVERSITY Employee scorecard coverage to be extended to 100% of the professional Target completed employees 95.7% of our new hires have received the Code of Conduct training. Ensure 100% coverage of code of Continue to focus on Code of Conduct The balance at KCM will be covered conduct training for all new training for all professional employees within the initial 12 months of their professional employees including new hires joining date as per the Code of Conduct training calendar Increase gender diversity by hiring 20% ~21% of all new full-time hires in women this ﬁnancial year FY 2017-18 have been women • Achieve 33% female representation at Vedanta Board-level by 2020 • Currently, female representation on the Board of Vedanta Resources • Focus on anchoring and engagement Achieve 33% female representation at is 14.3% of high potential employees through Vedanta Board-level by 2020 our ﬂagship programme V-Connect • We continue to focus on our target of achieving 33% representation • Focus on Right Management In place in each SBU Achieved in Progress Partially Achieved Not Achieved 12 Vedanta at a Glance 01 From the Chairman's Desk 03 CEO's Message 05 OVERVIEW Global Context 07 Our Strategy and Approach 09 Roadmap & Progress 11 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY Our sustainable development journey continues to create value for our stakeholders. We have invested our time and resources in introspecting our actions; we have achieved our targets and formulated ambitious new ones; we have adopted global best practices and taken innovative leaps; we have aligned our standards with industry benchmarks and charted some of our own. We have done all this and continue to do it with a singular agenda: ensuring long-term growth for all stakeholders. SNAPSHOT OF OUR JOURNEY FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 Businesses started Introducing 'Strategic Environment & Social VSAP and its Strong Focus on Safety embedding Vedanta Communications' Review of VSAP Implementation Sustainable as a new pillar of our Continued external review Alignment across Development Sustainable VSAP material priorities businesses on a Framework training and Development Model VSAP into its Fourth identiﬁed for the collective carbon implementation of Year of Implementation FY 2016-17 strategy policies and standards Rolling out of revised as per the material are occupational health Vedanta Sustainable priorities with more and safety, resource use Launching a systematic, External Review Development emphasis and focus on and management, Group-wide programme Concluded (URS Framework continues safety by inclusion of stakeholder engagement, to monitor and maintain Scott Wilson) Introduction of safety safety performance and supplier and contract tailings dams in line with all recommendations performance standards, standards, supported by management global best practices got successfully closed formal safety risk external auditors assessment, industrial Social Impact Consolidating efforts Sustainability linked hygiene baseline Advancing Safety Assessment Studies to drive effective with Remuneration assessment and safety by developing safety completed for nearly all implementation of the Sustainable development leadership coaching performance standards our businesses. provisions of the KPIs linked to executive and incorporating The major social impact Modern Slavery Act remuneration VSAP into its Third Year executive remuneration assessment studies were across our businesses of Implementation done at Cairn Oil and Vedanta Sustainability revised as per the Social Impact Gas Business Re-evaluating our Assurance Programme material priorities, Assessment Studies social performance (VSAP) into its Second supported by external HZL & Cairn India Advancing auditors standards in order to Year of Implementation aligning all community Accountability enhance our Social supported by external projects with updated employee health, safety License to Operate auditors Environment & Social studies and well-being identiﬁed Review of VSAP as the material issue is a Started external review key priority for the company. Revisiting our Community Need Assessment Studies aligning all community projects with updated studies 13 Responsible Stewardship GOVERNANCE SAFETY & OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH ENVIRONMENT 14 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 SDG 16 GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE PHILOSOPHY We are a multi-locational federated Group, where each company is independent for its day-toIS TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE TO day operations and the comprehensive governance structure acts like a glue to ensure a uniform ACHIEVE DEVELOPMENT THAT IS culture of accountability, fairness and transparency. SUSTAINABLE, GROWTH THAT IS INCLUSIVE AND PROGRESS THAT At the helm of our governance structure is the Board of Directors, who provide leadership for the IS ACCOUNTABLE. Group and strategic direction to the management. It is collectively responsible to shareholders for promoting long-term success of the Group through the creation and delivery of sustainable shareholder value. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the majority of our Board, excluding the Chairman, comprises independent Non-Executive Directors. As of March 31, 2018, our Board consists of the Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman, and ﬁve independent Non-Executive Directors. The Board has four established committees that help oversee the management of the Group: LESS THAN 30 YEARS 0 AGE GROUP BETWEEN 30-50 YEARS 1 SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT NOMINATIONS REMUNERATION ABOVE 50 YEARS 6 COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Ably assisting the Board are our 'Code of Business Conduct and Ethics' and the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. While the Code is a guiding set of principles for our employees to conduct themselves impeccably, the Framework is for our businesses to understand and integrate sustainability into their operation and decision-making. To further ensure the robustness of our structure, we also follow global standards and good practices such as ICMM, IFC and OECD guidelines. International consultants are also engaged to audit and provide feedback on the structure's strengths and weaknesses. FEMALE MALE EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 1 6 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mr. Anil Agarwal Mr. Edward Story Ms. Katya Zotova Mr. Ravi Rajagopal Mr. Navin Agarwal Mr. Geoffrey Green Mr. Deepak Parekh 15 V E D A N T A B O A R D SUSTAINABILITY REMUNERATION AUDIT NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chaired by Chaired by Chaired by Chaired by Chairman, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Mr. Anil Agarwal Ms. Katya Zotova Mr. Geoffrey Green Mr. Ravi Rajagopal The Committee oversees The Committee reviews and The Committee oversees the The Committee reviews the size, the Group’s management of recommends to the Board the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting, the structure and composition of sustainability matters including executive remuneration policy efﬁcacy of the internal control the Board and its Committees HSE, employment practices, and determines the and risk management to ensure the appropriate sustainable development, remuneration packages framework and scrutinises the balance of skills, experience, engagement with the of each of the Executive work of the internal and diversity and independence are communities in which the Directors. external auditors. present; and leads the Board Group operates, human rights appointment process. and land access. The Committee meets monthly and is responsible for implementing strategic plans formulated by EXECUTIVE Chaired by CEO, the Board, allocating resources in line with delegated authorities and monitoring the operational COMMITTEE Mr. Kuldip Kaura and ﬁnancial performance of the Group. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TEAM COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING & OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY RELATIONS COMMUNICATION HEALTH Review of Sustainable Development Team and Segment Business Committee (Monthly Operational Reviews / Business Management Group Meetings) For Vedanta, compliance with the local regulations is non-negotiable. Requisite checks and balances are built in the system with a well-deﬁned reporting structure and responsibilities to address local issues equitably. A responsive feedback mechanism and quick redressal system ensure that we are effective and efﬁcient. See the Annual Report for detailed information on the performance of the Board Committees CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS SDG 16 Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (CBCE) provides a set of principles, which ensure compliance with the law of the land and sets out expected standards of behaviour. Our reporting requirements in the UK, comprise various governance facets such as: HUMAN INSIDER POLITICAL CONFLICTS CONFIDENTIALITY FRAUD, BRIBERY RIGHTS TRADING CONTRIBUTIONS OF INTERESTS AND CORRUPTION Vedanta will not compromise on ethics and integrity. Fraud, bribery or any form of corruption is non-negotiable, and the Company is committed to their eradication. Each suspected case is thoroughly investigated and concluded. The Audit Committee reviews the actions taken by management in the elimination of fraudulent practices and to promote ethical working practices. 16 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 In order to ensure transparent and easy access to our policies in the public domain, our Insider The CBCE: Trading Prohibition Policy and Anti-trust Guidance Notes relating to Disclosure of Sensitive Information are publicly available on our website and are incorporated into contracts where • Complies with the UK Bribery Act, relevant. 2010 Vedanta's Whistle-blower Policy currently communicates our commitment to a 'policy against retaliation', and commitment to maintaining conﬁdentiality, in case of a company employee. • Prohibits payment and receipt of bribes directly or indirectly through associated persons Number of whistle-blower cases opened in 2017-18 87 • Is applicable across the organisational hierarchy Number of whistle-blower cases upheld and found correct in 2017-18 23 • Is aligned with the UK Modern Number of whistle-blower cases closed in 2017-18 76 Slavery Act 2015 The CBCE is supported by the following additional policies and Appropriate disciplinary actions against erring employees, contract workforce and vendors, guidance notes: including warning, counselling, transfer and separation, were taken. • The Insider Trading Prohibition Awareness of CBCE among the employees is important. To make sure that all our employees Policy are well-versed with our Code, mandatory training is provided for new recruits, and refresher workshops on anti-corruption policies and procedures are conducted for relevant employees. • The Whistle-blower Policy As part of our commitment to continual improvement, and going 'beyond legal compliance', we are currently working on rolling out an e-learning module for the CBCE across the Group • Anti-trust Guidance Notes and issuance of post-training e-certiﬁcates. • The Supplier Code of Conduct The supply chain is a signiﬁcant contributor to our performance and we have institutionalised a dedicated accountability mechanism for suppliers and contractors. Our Suppliers' Code of Conduct communicates our requirement for our suppliers to operate in compliance with all relevant legislation, align to our policies while executing work for, or on behalf of Vedanta or on This year, we provided more than 13,000 our sites, and adopt ethical practices. Vedanta encourages suppliers to adopt principles and hours of training on Code of Conduct, practices comparable to our own, including the Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier and including Human Rights aspect, to further contractor management policies and supplier screening checklist. reinforce implementation of CBCE. 17 A FRAMEWORK FOR SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainable Development Model is reinforced by a Vedanta Sustainability Framework (VSF), which assists each business in the implementation of the Model. Developed in line with ICMM, IFC, OECD, UNGC and SDGs guidelines, the Framework comprises several policies, standards and guidance notes which help us in its execution. The chart below illustrates the implementation of our comprehensive Sustainability Framework aligned to global standards and practices. LENDERS EQUATOR PRINCIPLES IFC Performance Standards, EHS Guidelines, ICMM & OECD Guidelines and Internal Standards VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK RESPONSIBLE BUILDING ADDING & STEWARDSHIP STRONG RELATIONSHIPS SHARING VALUE STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Policies Technical Standards / Management Standards / Guidance Notes VERIFICATION PROCESS (VSAP) Run by VEDANTA LIMITED KONKOLA COPPER MINES Management Assurance System Function Subsidiaries Divisions HZL BALCO MEL WCL ZI CMT TSPL Sesa Sterlite Vedanta Al Cairn O&G Iron Ore Copper & Power Business GAP ANALYSIS Upgrading all Subsidiary Company Management Systems including ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 Subsidiary Local Assurance Process Implementation of Sustainable Development Framework in all Operations The Framework is an effective tool to unify Vedanta's sustainability approach across locations and businesses. It is an integral part of our business strategy and helps us to conduct business in line with our core values of trust, entrepreneurship, innovation, excellence, integrity, respect and care. It is a great sieve to check all our decisions, which ensures that we remain safe, ethical, transparent and responsible all the time. It is also a tool to help strengthen our commitment to conduct our business in an ethical and responsible manner. Every year, a gap analysis to identify any lacunae between the existing management systems and the requirements of the Framework is conducted at each business. The identiﬁed gaps are discussed and reviewed by the leadership teams, and action plans are put in place to ensure compliance within a speciﬁed period. VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE PROGRAMME (VSAP), OUR INTERNAL RISK MANAGEMENT TOOL RUN BY THE GROUP'S MANAGEMENT ASSURANCE SYSTEM, ASSURES THAT ALL BUSINESSES ARE IMPLEMENTING THE FRAMEWORK CONSISTENTLY. SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES ARE MONITORED AND REVIEWED IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE FRAMEWORK. 18 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT The Sustainability Committee has been established at Vedanta to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities in relation to matters of sustainable development arising out of the activities and operations of the Company and its subsidiaries. The top priority for the Committee is to ensure robust implementation of Vedanta Sustainability Framework (VSF). ADDRESSING SAFETY IMPROVING HSE PERFORMANCE Our focus remains on our philosophy To boost our HSE performance and capability, we have inducted 11 global experts into our of 'Zero Harm, Zero Waste and Zero operating businesses with three further appointments on the anvil. These experts have been Discharge'. While we have achieved a brought on board to design and implement programmes needed at the business level to lot in strengthening safety, we also had address high potential incidents and eliminate fatalities, in addition to improving our overall disappointments. Nine deaths occurred HSE performance. across our businesses in the ﬁnancial year. This led to much soul-searching by our senior leadership, by the Sustainability Committee (including an extraordinary meeting) and the Board. Our Executive Committee (ExCo) has taken the role of directly monitoring implementation of safety standards and risk management plus other issues, which directly affect safety performance. These are discussed at the monthly ExCo meetings with all businesses present, performance is compared and pro-active interventions encouraged. As a result of the fatal accidents, we also introduced three new safety performance standards Machine Guarding, Molten Materials, and Pits, Stockpiles and Waste Dump Stability. While these actions resulted in improvement, we did have one fatality in the fourth quarter near the end of KEEPING THE DOOR OPEN FOR DIALOGUE the ﬁnancial year. We have continued to improve our social We will continue to increase our efforts performance and this has been seen next year with a particular emphasis on positively in several areas. Despite this, we leadership's role and capability in did have an unfortunate incident at our managing safety in work teams and on Tuticorin smelter that started due to task hazard assessment. A strong part dissatisfaction with the contracting of this focus will be on the engagement arrangements with local providers and then and management of business partners escalated to a more signiﬁcant social and (or contractors) who have a majority environmental concern. We continue to representation in our safety statistics. engage with the community and regulatory authorities to resolve the matter. ASSESSING TAILINGS DAMS During the year, we undertook third-party assessments of all our tailings dams and ash dykes following an ash dyke breach at our aluminium business in India. Further, we have engaged reputed consultants to provide engineering advice in developing and implementing effective tailings management systems at all businesses. Our operations focused on air, water, waste and energy management to minimise our environmental impact and we achieved our annual target on resource conservation. 19 This year the Company also conducted a MEMBERSHIP AND Group-wide water risk assessment exercise to identify potential water-related business risks. ATTENDANCE The Committee regularly reviewed and will The Sustainability Committee comprises ﬁve continue to evaluate progress on signiﬁcant Directors and it met on ﬁve occasions sustainability issues for the Group such as (including one extraordinary meeting) safety performance at BALCO mines, KCM during the year. water and emission management projects, Katya Zotova and the outcomes of social measures Chairperson, following the BALCO chimney incident. Katya Zotova* # 5/5 100% Sustainability Committee During the year, we welcomed Mr. Kuldip Ravi Rajagopal* # 5/5 100% Kaura as a member of the Committee Kuldip Kaura* 2/2 100% following his appointment as Interim Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Mr. Sunil Duggal, Deshnee Naidoo* New Appointees CEO, Base Metals and Zinc India and The Vedanta Sustainability Deshnee Naidoo, CEO Africa Base Metals Sunil Duggal* New Appointees Framework guides us to ensure also joined the Committee. We look forward a long-term, sustainable future Tom Albanese 2/2 100% for our business operations, to their contributions in strengthening our meeting our growth aspirations, performance. Mr. Tom Albanese and Kishore Kumar 3/3 100% and creating long-term value Mr. Kishore Kumar also made valuable for all our stakeholders. *Current Members contributions to the Committee. #Board Members SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Area of Responsibility Description • Review of the Sustainability Committee performance and Terms of Reference • Oversee development and roll out 3 new safety performance standards Sustainability • Review and approve annual HSE & sustainability targets Framework • Periodic review of HSE programmes and performance • Review VSAP score and VSF implementation for the Group • Review sustainability issues signiﬁcant to the Group and stakeholders • Review the Group's safety incidents and performance • Oversee the implementation of corrective actions for fatal incidents Health & Safety • Review progress on implementation of the Safety Performance Standards • Review progress on the safety improvements at BALCO mines • Review outcomes of the third-party tailings dam assessments, corrective actions and implementation plans Environment • Review the Group's resource conservation targets and achievements • Review progress on KCM's environmental projects Community Relations • Engage with stakeholders at the Sustainable Development Day in London and Stakeholder • Review outcomes of the BALCO chimney social remedial measure Engagement • Review Vedanta's stakeholder engagement strategy 20 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 MANAGING OUR RISKS Risks are inherent in a business opportunity. We recognise that identifying and actively managing them leads to sustainable growth for all stakeholders. A robust risk governance framework and a risk management framework are in place to identify, assess and respond to the principal and emerging risks facing the Group's businesses. RISK GOVERNANCE The Board has the ultimate responsibility for management of risks and for ensuring the effectiveness of internal control systems. The Audit Committee's report on the risk matrix and signiﬁcant risks, and actions put in place to mitigate these risks, helps the Board gain a detailed understanding of the risks. The Audit Committee is in turn supported by the Group-level Risk Management Committee (GRMC), which assists them in evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the risk mitigation programme and the control systems. The Group has a consistently applied methodology for identifying risks at the individual business level for existing operations and for ongoing projects. RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK EXTERNAL STRATEGIC L U AT E E VA Board of Directors NTIFY M I T I G AT E Audit Committee IDE GRMC EXCO Business Unit Management Teams FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL Our management systems, organisational structures, Each business has developed its own risk matrix of top twenty risks, processes, standards, and Code of Conduct and Ethics which is reviewed by their respective Management Committee/ together form the system of internal control that governs how Executive Committee, chaired by their respective Chief Executive the Group conducts its business and manages associated risks. Ofﬁcers. In addition, each business has developed its own risk register depending on the size of its operation and number of SBUs/locations. The effective management of risk is critical to support the Risks across these risk registers are aggregated and evaluated, and the delivery of the Group's strategic objectives. Risk management Group's principal risks are identiﬁed based on the frequency, potential is, therefore, embedded in critical business activities, functions magnitude and potential impact of the risks identiﬁed. and processes. The risk management framework is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure. Key sustainability risks that are part of the corporate risk register: • Health • Safety • Environment • Climate Change • Managing Relationship with Stakeholders • Tailings Dam Stability For more information about our Risk Management mechanism, please refer to the Vedanta Annual Report. 21 SDG 3 SAFETY & OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Our products help shape the destiny of nations, but it is our workforce that has allowed us to become one of the largest metals & mining company on the planet. We believe that long-term success is only possible if each one of our employees and workers is able to return to their families safely at the end of the day. Their safety and well-being drives our performance. Health and safety of our workforce is therefore a material issue for us. APPROACH We are building a positive safety culture at Vedanta where employees get to perform to their peak potential in a safe environment and where they feel part of the safety solutions. A system has been put in place to ensure higher ownership and accountability of safety across the SAFETY & OCCUPATIONAL organisational hierarchy. Safety is discussed at senior leadership meetings and incidents fully HEALTH ARE PRIME ELEMENTS OF investigated. THE VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE PROGRAMME (VSAP) The message from our Board and Senior Leadership is very clear – we will continue to operate in AND EVERY MEMBER OF THE a manner that puts safety ﬁrst. To ensure that the organisation lives up to those expectations, we WORKFORCE IS EDUCATED AND have a comprehensive group-level HSE policy that seeks to embed safety as a value across our ENCOURAGED TO EMBRACE operations. This policy is supported by several management and technical standards that seek to SAFETY WHOLEHEARTEDLY. guide our workforce into implementing safe operations. SAFETY HIGHLIGHTS 921,550 MAN-HOURS PERIODICAL OF TRAINING ON SAFETY 100% MEDICAL EXAMINATION LOST TIME INJURIES STERLITE COPPER RECEIVED FREQUENCY RATE REDUCED FROM THE BRITISH SAFETY COUNCIL 0.39 TO 0.34 in FY 2016-17 in FY 2017-18 SWORD OF HONOUR 22 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 ZERO HARM CULTURE Our Board-Level Sustainability Committee, chaired by the Board's senior independent director, and our Executive Committee, chaired by our CEO, regularly review our safety performance and share recommendations. THE IMPORTANCE OF ACHIEVING A ZERO-HARM WORKPLACE HAS For a culture of safety to gain permanence, it needs to permeate across every level of the BEEN PROMOTED IN ALL OUR organisation. This year, we continued to enthuse, educate and encourage every member of our GROUP COMPANIES. workforce to embrace safety as a value and managers at all levels were made accountable for THIS ASPIRATION IS DRIVING A ensuring safe performance. Safety & Occupational Health is a mandatory module in our CULTURAL SHIFT, WITH AN induction and refresher training programme, and periodic workshops are conducted to EMPHASIS ON A SYSTEMIC enhance safety awareness and knowledge among employees and contractors. RISK-BASED APPROACH, CLEAR EXPECTATIONS FROM OUR Despite our consistent efforts to strengthen safety, the number of fatalities this year increased. LEADERSHIP TEAM, AND This is unacceptable to us and is a matter of great concern and regret for the entire Vedanta BENCHMARKING WITH Group. We have analysed the root causes of these incidents and have come up with deﬁnitive GLOBAL STANDARDS steps to stem and reverse this trend. REDESIGNED THE HSE ADDED NEW SAFETY STANDARDS SAFETY ORGANISATION TO DRIVE OVERHAUL SAFETY PERFORMANCE Apart from the six existing standards, new standards on Machine Guarding, Cranes and AT VEDANTA Appointed Chief Health & Safety Ofﬁcers Lifting, Molten Metals, and Pit, Dump and and Chief Environment Managers to Stockpile Safety were added. All sites are MAIN AREAS OF enhance engagement with businesses on expected to strictly adhere to the provisions INTERVENTION safety. Also appointed site-based line of these standards and will be audited leaders to implement effective safety against their implementation in our annual controls. Experienced employees were given VSAP audit. the responsibility at 'regional' levels to drive safety performance and ensure that APPOINTED ZONE-WISE MANAGERS knowledge sharing and lessons learnt are adequately implemented across all sites. To ensure that every area in our operations adheres to all principles of safe operations, we have appointed zone-wise managers who are accountable for the overall safety of their areas. HIRED EXPERTS TO DRIVE INTERNATIONAL SAFETY PRACTICES Global experts on safety will drive international safety practices at the unit and regional level. 11 experts have been brought on-board. INTRODUCED SAFETY AS COMPETENCY METRIC TO EVALUATE EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE Safety competency was introduced as an indicator in the KPI of each employee. This will help us track employees on their ability to follow safe behaviour as well as keep themselves abreast of safe work practices through training and capacity building programmes. 23 SDG 3 SAFETY PERFORMANCE Safety incidents in the areas where we put LTIFR (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate) our focus have reduced over a 3-year period. This can be seen in the LTIFR, which has FY 2013-14 0.54 reduced from a high of 0.54 in FY 2013-14 to FY 2014-15 0.46 0.34 in FY 2017-18. Against the target to achieve more than 75% in six safety FY 2015-16 0.46 performance standards, average safety FY 2016-17 0.39 score across all our businesses increased from 52% to 60%. FY 2017-18 0.34 However, this positive trend has been marred by an uptick in the number of FATALITIES fatalities experienced in the reporting period. After seeing a downward trend in FY 2013-14 19 the number of fatalities in the previous FY 2014-15 8 years, our operations experienced 9 fatalities this year. Two thirds of these FY 2015-16 12 fatalities occurred in areas that were outside FY 2016-17 7 of the focus of our 'fatal risk standards campaign'. FY 2017-18 9 In one way it is an afﬁrmation of our approach. However, it also tells us that safety is all-inclusive, and we need to remain ever vigilant. We have introduced additional safety standards considering these events, and we are also conducting trainings and programmes for our workforce so that they can identify, prevent, and manage safety risks irrespective of the presence of a standard. LAST YEAR, WE PROVIDED 984,137 MAN-HOURS OF HSE TRAINING, 89,567 894,570 MAN-HOURS FOR MAN-HOURS FOR CONTRACTORS WHICH INCLUDED THE EMPLOYEES AND & THIRD-PARTY WORKERS MBRD CRI Training programmes such as 'Making Better Risk Decisions' (MBRD) and 'Critical Risk Identiﬁcation' are among the key programmes through which we have collectively imparted Making Critical over 921,550 hours of safety training to our employees, contractors, and third-party vendors. Better Risk We also regularly share learnings from the investigations to our High Potential and Fatal safety Risk Decisions Identiﬁcation incidents. 24 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 SDG 3 KEY INITIATIVES OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AUDIT – CAIRN 1 With the objective of validating effective Throughout the audit, ﬁve best practice implementation of safety programmes and indicators, including leadership, stakeholder strengthening workplace safety, Cairn Oil & engagement, risk management, Gas roped in British Safety Council to organisation health and safety culture, and conduct a health and safety audit. The Five continual improvement, were evaluated. Star Audit process focused on the key Cairn achieved an audited score of 92.96%, aspects of managing health and safety in the equating to ﬁve stars. workplace and offered a structured path for continual improvement towards best practice status. GOOD HOUSEKEEPING LEADS TO SAFER WORKPLACES 2 Housekeeping is crucial to workplaces as it During the reporting period, we have been helps prevent injuries and improves able to improve the 5S score from an productivity. In FY 2017-18, we launched the average of 65 at the beginning of the year '5S Housekeeping Programme', with a goal to an average of 74, and we hope to to achieve a score of 90% in housekeeping achieve a score of 90 by the close of the audit across all of our assets. The thinking next ﬁscal year. was very clear – bad housekeeping is one of 5S SCORE 65 74 the primary reasons why accidents take place. If we are able to systematically TO improve housekeeping, then we are likely to see a reduction in safety incidents. CASE STUDY BEING SAFE A STEP TOWARDS ATTAINING 'NO UNSAFE ACT' With more than 10,000 contract employees working on various Multiple outreach mechanisms were developed to create sites in Hindustan Zinc, propagating safe work practices to self-awareness for the overarching need to remain safe. everybody is no mean feat. While stringent safety procedures play a decisive role, actions to elicit individual buy-in can go a SAFETY PROMOTING CATCHING long way in creating positive & safe outcomes. OWNERSHIP SAFETY TO MASSES THEM YOUNG 25 CASE STUDY SAFETY OWNERSHIP A scientiﬁcally designed interactive project, the objective of 'Being Safe' is to reduce the mental stress of employees and help them realise the importance of safety for themselves and their families. The project used several engagement tools, such as informal interactions, screening of specially crafted ﬁlms on safety and meditation sessions to help employees imbibe safety as a value. Post-ﬁlm interactions with the employees brought forth several examples in the form of case studies or personal incidents that put a spotlight on how safety is compromised knowingly/unknowingly, at work or away from work. Each attendee was asked to pledge to follow the path of Being Safe henceforth. CATCHING THEM YOUNG Extending 'Being Safe' to children, workshops were conducted for school students of Rajasthan where over 200 students pledged for being safe and conveyed the same to their parents and extended family members. PROMOTING SAFETY TO MASSES Conceptualised as part of our communication project, Being Safe workshops have touched many families through on-ground interactions. With the aim to promote safety beyond the boundaries of Hindustan Zinc, among the citizens of Rajasthan, a new initiative titled – 'Be Safe' was launched in association with All India Radio (AIR) Rajasthan. This 5-minute programme is broadcast daily by AIR and reaches the masses in urban and rural Rajasthan, motivating self and the families to remain safe. 26 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 SDG 6, 7, 12, 13, 15 ENVIRONMENT All that Vedanta produces comes from the earth and it is thus natural that protecting and nurturing the environment is built into our business strategy and philosophy. Both our products and processes have sustainability as their central pivot. WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED Our products enhance longevity of other products and over time, reduce demand for natural TECHNOLOGIES AND resources. For instance, a coat of Zinc increases the longevity of metal bodies, Lead is used in SYSTEMS TO OPTIMISE the covering on wires and cables to protect them from corrosion and Silver helps in preserving WATER CONSUMPTION, food. Aluminium is one of the most recyclable metals on the planet and over the long-term, if ENHANCE ENERGY recycled, can help reduce the need to mine virgin ore. Copper is the ubiquitous metal that PRODUCTIVITY, SAFEGUARD powers our life. By being a strong conductor of electricity, it is one of the primary metals of an BIODIVERSITY, MAINTAIN increasingly electriﬁed society and is a key component of the renewable energy industry. AIR QUALITY, AND RECYCLE & UPCYCLE WASTE. Invested US$ 100 million in environmental performance Recycled management programmes 82% of high volume and low effect waste in sustainable applications (ﬂy ash, slag, red mud, gypsum) Conserved 2.6 million GJ of energy against the target of 1.39 million GJ HIGH Saved LIGHTS 4.1 million m3 of water against the target of 2.2 million m³ GHG intensity reduction from a 2012 baseline is on-track achieved 14% Dedicated the against expectation of 16% reduction 1st Green Road by 2020 made by Vedanta Jharsuguda using ﬂy ash as primary component 27 APPROACH The Vedanta Sustainability Framework comprises comprehensive policies, standards and guidance notes, which instil systems thinking and process-oriented approach to manage THE VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY environmental impacts. We have developed and publicly announced speciﬁc objectives and targets for environmental issues material to our stakeholders and to our business. We review FRAMEWORK ENSURES and report our performance against these targets on an annual basis. THAT EACH OF OUR BUSINESSES FOLLOW As part of the quantitative risk assessment and critical control THE SAME HIGH STANDARDS development exercise, all our businesses evaluate the effectiveness of OF ENVIRONMENTAL their current environmental controls and strengthen them where required. MANAGEMENT The goal is to minimise risks arising from environmental factors WATER SDG 6, 12 Water plays a crucial role in the socio-economic development of a nation. Once considered as a free and inﬁnite resource, water because of its growing demand, increasing scarcity, and insufﬁcient access, has moved right up on the national and business agendas. More than ever, stakeholders now expect organisations to disclose the water risks they face. We believe that Vedanta can help alleviate the situation by effective management of water within our operations and aiding rejuvenation of sources beyond our facilities. 1ST STERLITE COPPER WAS PLACED FIRST UNDER THE CATEGORY OF 'INDUSTRIAL WATER USE EFFICIENCY' AT NATIONAL COMPETITION FOR EXCELLENCE IN WATER MANAGEMENT 2017 ORGANISED BY FICCI INDIA. APPROACH Our approach to water management respects the water use rights of all stakeholders, which in turn helps strengthen our license to operate. We have instituted a water policy and a water management standard that integrates with decision-making processes for all our new and existing projects, thereby ensuring that necessary measures are in place to minimise the water footprint of our projects. We deploy a two-pronged strategy towards better water management within our operations optimising our water consumption, and minimising the amount of fresh water we consume by reusing as much water as possible in our processes. WATER RISK ASSESSMENT We undertook a 'water risk assessment' Findings Measures Taken to Counter Risk exercise at 30 of our most signiﬁcant business locations this year to evaluate The water risk assessment found that our Each of our businesses has been mandated to physical, social/reputational, and regulatory business operations in India (Rajasthan, review and put in place appropriate mitigation risks related to water. Punjab, Tamil Nadu) have manifested higher measures to counter water-related risks. degree of physical risks compared to our The risk assessment evaluated all of the businesses in other locations due to their Hindustan Zinc has entered into a Public – processes that utilise water at our operations presence in high water-stress areas. Private Partnership to install and treat 20,000 to understand where vulnerabilities exist. m3/day of Municipal Wastewater from City of It also looked at the internal and external In Zambia, our operations perceive that they Udaipur. The water will be used for perception of water risk and compared it have higher regulatory risks due to legacy operations at Rajpura Dariba Complex and with the water stress information available in water pollution challenges. Based on these replace part of the unit's freshwater. global, public databases and site-speciﬁc ﬁndings, we identiﬁed the areas of measurements. The study also sought to improvement and are in the process of KCM's Zambian operations are working with standardise the water risk assessment developing and implementing strategies to the regulatory agency and other stakeholders approach across our Group companies so mitigate the risks. to mitigate water-risks. that we have a consistent methodology to Sterlite Copper has increased the proportion evaluate this risk. of desalinated sea-water in it's water mix. 28 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 TO FURTHER SUPPORT THE BETTER MANAGEMENT OF WATER, WE HAVE ROLLED OUT A REVISED WATER MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE STANDARD. IN THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR, WE PLAN TO RELEASE A GUIDANCE NOTE ON WATER MANAGEMENT TO ALLOW FOR A UNIFORM IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PERFORMANCE STANDARD. WATER PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD Conservation and Consumption Snapshot in cubic meters 3 4.1 MILLION M WATER SAVINGS AGAINST Total Water Consumption 280,016,308 277,609,052 THE TARGETED SAVINGS OF 236,833,021 2.2 MILLION M³ % Water Recycled 26.6% 24% 22.6% 26.6% OF WATER RECYCLED AS COMPARED TO 24% IN THE Water Recycled/Reused 74,400,437 66,813,316 53,626,679 PREVIOUS REPORTING PERIOD FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 CASE STUDY IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF DISCHARGE WATER | KCM CHALLENGE INTERVENTION The Copper mines at Konkola in Zambia KCM embarked on a 10-year, $22 million project to improve the quality of the discharge are some of the wettest mining water. Ore in KCM is mined from 'wet' pits that need to be dewatered. In the past, operations in the world. The mining sediments were removed from the water that ﬂows through the mine before being processes require ~ 350,000 m3 of water discharged to the surface. However, the concentration of suspended solids remained to be removed per day in order to high, which meant that additional measures were needed to improve discharge water dewater the mine shafts. Only 10% of quality. The primary means of separating TSS from the water is via 20 settling tanks, this water is used in the processing plant some of which are as deep as 1,850 feet below the ground. In order to improve the and other mining operations, while the efﬁciency of the settling tanks, four major projects were undertaken: remaining 90% is discharged into a local water body – the Kakosa stream. Refurbishment of existing underground settlers to make them more efﬁcient Historically, prior to Vedanta's ownership, Desilting of choked drain drives, which included the removal of mud that had this discharged water had concentrations accumulated over the years of total suspended solids (TSS) of 260 mg/l; this was signiﬁcantly higher than Procurement and installation of slurry pumps, which allowed the desludging the statutory threshold of 100mg/l period to be reduced from 8 months to 3 weeks prescribed by the Zambia Environmental Management Agency. Procurement and use of ﬂocculants to enhance settling OUTCOME The immediate outcomes of this project have been two-fold: 1. TSS levels are now below the statutory threshold of 100 mg/l 2. Wear and tear on pumping infrastructure is notably reduced due to improved water quality, which has lessened abrasive impacts. 29 SDG 7, 13 ENERGY, EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE RELATED BUSINESS RISK APPROACH Vedanta's Energy and Carbon Management policy and performance standard are the guiding documents for the organisation's approach to mitigating our climate related business risk and ensuring that we minimise our energy consumption and air emissions. We have constituted a 'Carbon Forum', which is led by the Chief Operating Ofﬁcers of our businesses. The Carbon Forum has been tasked with developing and overseeing the implementation of the group's carbon mitigation approach. Among the aspects that are managed by the Forum are discussions related to: approving the group carbon management strategy, long-term GHG emissions intensity reduction targets, alignment with investor requirements as part of the 'Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures' (TCFD), emerging regulatory risks, and carbon pricing. ENERGY AND EMISSIONS Climate change continues to pose an ever-present risk to the planet. India has set ambitious targets of reducing its emission intensity by 33-35% by 2030 and sourcing 40% of its electric power from non-fossil sources. IN LINE WITH INDIA'S COMMITMENTS, AT VEDANTA, WE EXPECT TO REDUCE OUR GHG INTENSITY BY ABOUT 16% BY 2020 FROM A 2012 BASELINE. Companies such as Hindustan Zinc and Cairn Oil & Gas increased their investment in solar power, while other businesses made signiﬁcant improvements in their process efﬁciencies. During the reporting period, we were able to achieve a 14% reduction in our GHG intensity from our baseline number. Additionally, this was coupled with a 2% decline in absolute GHG emissions as compared to the previous year, which is a testament to our emission mitigation measures. ENERGY & GHG EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD GHG Emissions – Group-wide in tons of CO2 equivalent Scope 1 (Direct) Scope 2 (Indirect) Total FY 2017-18 51,142,511 1,202,076 52,344,587 HIGHLIGHTS FY 2016-17 51,896,907 1,432,665 53,329,572 WE ACHIEVED OUR ANNUAL ENERGY SAVING TARGET FY 2015-16 39,581,088 1,567,606 41,148,693 AND SAVED ABOUT We calculate and report Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory i.e. Scope 1 (process emissions and other direct emissions) and Scope 2 (purchased electricity) as deﬁned under the World Business Council 2.6 MILLION GJ for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and World Resource Institute (WRI) GHG Protocol. OF ENERGY THROUGH OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECTS Energy Consumption in million GJ AGAINST THE TARGET OF 1.39 MILLION GJ Direct Indirect Total OF ENERGY IN THE YEAR FY 2017-18 425.5 21.12 446.62 Our total energy consumption FY 2016-17 413.39 14.61 428 increased by 4% as compared to the previous year on account of FY 2015-16 394 11 405 increased production volumes across our businesses. 30 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 CONSERVING ENERGY Closing the Loop to Save Energy | BALCO To cut down on energy consumption, we introduced the closed-loop system in Rectiﬁer Pot line 1 & 2 pump houses. Through this new system, the process water in the rectiﬁer is directly sent to cooling tower instead of going to the two hot well pumps for processing. The new system helped save 2.5 MWH of energy per day in each rectiﬁer pump house. This initiative also helped reduce consumption of chemicals and water. Changing Lights and Changing Perspectives | BALCO We replaced conventional street lights and ofﬁce lights with LED lights in BALCO's plant and township, which reduced the lighting load by 40%. To further promote LED lights among the local community, we set up a distribution counter of energy efﬁcient light ﬁttings and fans under the government's Ujala & Pawan Scheme through EESL in BALCO township. We reached out to the school children and distributed 5,000 booklets, which detailed energy saving best practices. Installation of Vapour Absorption Machine Chiller | HZL The installation of a Vapour Absorption Machine Chiller at the Captive Power Plant of the Dariba Smelter Complex (CPP) resulted in savings of 2000 KwH/day by utilising the waste steam from the lead plant. Additionally, the Absorption Water Chiller uses water as a natural refrigerant, eliminating the need of CFC or HCFC refrigerants, which have a high global warming potential. CLIMATE THE TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) PUBLISHED ITS FINAL REPORT SETTING OUT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR HELPING BUSINESSES DISCLOSE RELATED CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION. WE ARE STUDYING IT CLOSELY AND LOOK RISKS & FORWARD TO INCORPORATING RELEVANT FACETS INTO OUR EXISTING FRAMEWORK OPPORTUNITIES OF RISK MANAGEMENT. We are aware that climate change is Carbon and water are two of our key focus areas. To keep in step triggering regulatory changes, with evolving national and global priorities, we have activated a which might affect our business group-wide carbon strategy. An internal carbon price mechanism operations. At Vedanta, climate to embed climate related ﬁnancial risk in business decisions, is on related business risk sits at the the anvil. Group level risk register. This While we continue to monitor and mitigate climate related risks, we enables us to review its progress at are gearing our businesses through expansion projects, to harness the highest level in the organisation. climate related business opportunities. For example, copper is a We believe that resilience is the key material for clean energy and we are working to increase best approach we can take to copper production capacity at our Zambia operations to meet the safeguard our climate related expected increase in demand. We are also hopeful that our copper business risks and are committed to operations in Tasmania will start operations in the near future. We work with all our stakeholders in have also increased the production volumes of other metals (zinc, safeguarding our business. silver) that will be part of the renewable energy industry. 31 CASE STUDY CHECKING THE HIDDEN FUGITIVE | CAIRN OIL & GAS CHALLENGE INTERVENTION OUTCOME In the oil & gas industry, fugitive Cairn Oil & Gas, along with an The ﬁndings were surprisingly emissions can often constitute a independent external expert, conducted positive, fugitive emissions signiﬁcant proportion of the company's a fugitive emissions study, based on the accounted for only 0.011% of the GHG emissions. US EPA Method 21 approach, for its total GHG emissions of the process Rajasthan operations. and well pad areas; signiﬁcantly These invisible but accounted for lower than the 13% correction factor emissions are not only a waste of A leak detection and repair (LDAR) that was being applied to account resources, but also have a high global programme was carried out to check for for the unmeasured emissions. warming potential (GWP), as they are emission leaks from process equipment. primarily methane emissions, which are All joints such as valves, connectors, These numbers also compared favourably 23 times more potent than carbon pumps, sampling connections, with fugitive emission ranges found in dioxide in terms of GWP. Excessive, compressors, pressure relief devices and North American oil and gas installations. unchecked fugitive emissions also pose open-ended lines in the process plant This study highlights the excellent asset a potential ﬁre hazard. and well pads were monitored. management and upkeep of facilities in our oil and gas business. CASE STUDY UNLOCKING PIPELINE CAPACITY TO REDUCE EMISSIONS | CAIRN OIL & GAS CHALLENGE INTERVENTION OUTCOME At Raageshwari Gas terminal, wet gas Drag Reducing Agent was introduced in The injection of drag reduction agent helped: received from well pads is separated as the pipeline to reduce turbulence. Increase ﬂow capacity of the gas, hydrocarbon condensate and This diminished the drag force between pipeline from 3,000 barrels per water. pipeline wall and condensate resulting in day to 5,000 barrels per day unlocking of additional capacity. reducing trucking requirements Separated condensate is transferred to the Mangala Processing Terminal, Reduction of risks involved in daily 150 km away, through a 4-inch pipeline. transportation of hydrocarbon The carrying capacity of this pipeline condensate was limited to 3,000 barrels per day and to manage additional condensate Reduced GHG emissions by around production, trucking was the only 900 tCO2 equivalent per year solution. 32 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 SDG 15 BIODIVERSITY VEDANTA STRIVES TO PREVENT ANY ADVERSE IMPACTS ON BIODIVERSITY. WE MANAGE AND USE LAND ACROSS THE ENTIRE PROJECT LIFE-CYCLE IN A MANNER THAT BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION NEEDS ARE INTEGRATED WITH BUSINESS NEEDS. APPROACH We have adopted a 'Biodiversity Policy and Management Standard' in line with international standards and guidelines of IFC. It is an integral part of Vedanta's commitment to sustainable development. We also follow International Finance Corporation (IFC) guidelines and ICMM mitigation hierarchy an internationally recognised approach designed to help limit, as far as possible, the impacts of development projects on biodiversity and ecosystem services. We conduct Environmental Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) of new projects or major expansions to understand the presence of critical biodiversity attributes before commencing BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT work on a new project. HAS BEEN MADE INTEGRAL IN ALL OUR PROJECTS Sites that have the potential for having a signiﬁcant impact on the biodiversity of an area have ACROSS ALL THREE PHASES developed a Biodiversity Management Plan (BMP) to mitigate the impact of our operations. THE DESIGN STAGE, As of FY 2017-18, more than 80% of our sites have re-evaluated their BMP and are in THE OPERATION PHASE the process of developing plans to mitigate any impact. AND DURING THE POST CLOSURE PHASE. Even after the project site closure we continue our efforts to restore and rejuvenate the site by developing degraded land into green zones. CASE STUDY TURNING DEGRADED LANDS INTO GREEN ZONES | KCM CHALLENGE INTERVENTION OUTCOME Over 70 years of mining operation in KCM and BetterWorld Energy Ltd. The growing trees and intercrops are Zambia have resulted in the degradation pioneered a phyto-stabilisation and solving several critical environmental of large tracts of land by mine waste that phyto-remediation approach for the and employment issues such as: contains elevated levels of heavy metals regeneration of disused copper-tailingsand low levels of plant nutrients, storage facilities and overburden. In a Reducing wind and water beneﬁcial soil micro-organisms and poor pilot programme, 3,000 nitrogen ﬁxing, erosion and river water retention capabilities. Weak drought and salinity tolerant, non-edible sedimentation as roots bind consolidation, pollution and low fertility oil-seed Pongamia pinnata were planted the soil mean that the land is not useful for on 5 hectares of land at TD2 Nchanga conventional agriculture. Plus, wind and Mine Site, Chingola. Tree survival rates water erosion of sediments pose a after 1 year exceed 99%. Phytostabilisation of heavy serious potential threat to the metals in their roots system environment and human health. and in the soil through strong binding with organic matter that is built up in the soil from leaf fall The land regeneration approach is providing jobs in post-mining and peri-urban towns of Zambia not just during the land regeneration process but also beyond 33 CASE STUDY PROTECTING THE WILDERNESS WHERE WILDLIFE LIVES | CAIRN OIL & GAS CHALLENGE Deserts are usually stereotyped as lifeless wastelands, low in diversity of both plants and animals. But the Rajasthan block of our oil & gas business is one of the exceptions. It is home to 300 ﬂora and fauna species, which are supported by a good distribution of waterbodies. However, due to low rainfall, recurring drought-like conditions, and depleting ground water table, water availability beyond the monsoon becomes a challenge. INTERVENTION Pond Development Ambulance for Injured Wild Animals Cairn developed a pond 'Gajlar' in the reserved forest area of Cairn handed over to the forest department a dedicated vehicle Gangali in Barmer district with the purpose of making water with necessary tools and tackles to transport injured and dead available to the wild animals throughout the year. Water to this wild animals. pond is supplied from a dedicated bore-well equipped with a solar power operated 5-HP water pump. Shelterbelt Plantation on Community Land Cairn in collaboration with the local forest department The habitat in Gangali is vastly different from the habitats developed ~84 ha of greenbelt cover on community land in observed in the block area and it is known to support wildlife Barmer and Jalore districts. These greenbelts provide good such as Indian gazelle and many other wild animals and birds. shelter for wild animals. De-silting of Water Bodies Cairn, under its CSR projects, carried out de-silting of seven OUTCOME water bodies with cumulative storage of ~10 lakh cum of rainwater, which is available during post-monsoon period or A signiﬁcant number and variety of wild throughout the year in some cases. animals and bird species are thriving in this area since the commissioning of the pond in June 2017 34 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP Governance 15 Safety and Occupational Health 22 Environment 27 SDG 12 AIR QUALITY APPROACH As part of our ambient air quality monitoring process, we monitor Particulate Matter (PM) and VEDANTA OPERATES WITH SOx. We also monitor lead, ﬂuoride and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) emissions A PHILOSOPHY OF 'ZERO HARM' from our operations as applicable. We do not record ozone-depleting emissions as this is not a AND MANAGE EMISSIONS TO material issue to our operations. AIR FROM POINT SOURCES New stringent norms for stack emissions SOx, NOx, Particulate Matter and Water Efﬁciency AND FROM PROCESS from independent and captive power plants in India came into effect in December 2017. Most ACTIVITIES ASSOCIATED of our operations meet the NOx and Particulate Matter norms or are in the process of meeting WITH COMBUSTION. them, but the challenge for us is to meet the new SOx norms considering our site layout and effectiveness of available technologies in abating overall pollution and environmental impact. STACK EMISSIONS SNAPSHOT in MT Particulate Matter 8,837* 11,056* 7,239* SOx 191,751 178,324 157,484 NOx 56,853 44,935 49,464 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 * Numbers have minor variations from those reported in the Annual Report 2017-18 WASTE EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES PROVIDES GREAT ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR RESOURCE-RICH COUNTRIES. BUT IT ALSO GENERATES LARGE QUANTUM OF WASTE, WHICH NEEDS TO BE MANAGED WELL. APPROACH In accordance with our Resource Use and The major wastes generated from our Waste Management Technical Standard, we operations can be segmented into two follow the waste management hierarchy of categories: ﬁrst decreasing the waste, quantitatively as well as qualitatively by reducing its toxicity, Hazardous waste which includes and then recovering and recycling where used/spent oil, waste refractories, possible, either by ourselves or through aluminium dross, spent pot lining and authorised recyclers. The last stage is residual sludge from smelters disposal in landﬁll or by incineration, using authorised, licenced and secured landﬁlls. High-Volume Low-Effect waste which We aim to remain environmentally friendly includes ﬂy ash, slag, red mud, gypsum, across all the stages. and jarosite 35 WASTE PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD Waste Generation & Recycle Snapshot in million MT High Volume & Low Effect Waste 16.66 16.57 11.90 0.40 0.32 0.86 Hazardous Waste FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 High-Volume & Low-Effect Waste Management in million MT Fly Ash Slag Red Mud Gypsum Jarosite Total Generated 11.88 1.43 1.69 1.12 0.53 16.66 Recycled 10.70 1.56 0.24 1.17 13.67 Percentage % 90% 109% 14% 104% * 0% 82% *includes recycling of legacy waste HIGHLIGHTS R E U S E D / R E C Y C L E D TOTAL FLY ASH UTILISATION INCREASED TO ~61% 82% OF OUR OF OUR HIGH-VOLUME AND 90% IN FY 2017-18 FROM 53% IN THE PREVIOUS YEAR AS WE DEPLOYED HAZARDOUS WASTE LOW-EFFECT WASTE IN IT TO REPAIR THE TAILINGS DAM AND ASH-DYKE SUSTAINABLE APPLICATIONS WALLS AT JHARSUGUDA AND BALCO TAILINGS DAMS Tailings dams are considered a signiﬁcant HSE In anticipation of a lack of storage space for We have engaged an experienced third party to risk and have been part of the Group Risk newly produced ﬂy ash, the regulator (Odisha conduct this evaluation. We have also rolled out Register since FY 2015-16. A breach in the dam is State Pollution Control Board) imposed partial the 'Vedanta Tailings Management Standard', a loss of containment event, which results in the restrictions on operation of our power plants. to ensure that we have consistent dam spillage of accumulated wastes that can pollute This restriction was progressively lifted as storage management practices across all Group the soil and damage property due to a 'ﬂood' space became available. Corrective actions have companies. event. It therefore becomes imperative that their been taken at both the critical structures where The assessment was completed in March 2018 integrity is maintained. the dam-break analysis was conducted. and the ﬁndings have been shared with our Last year we conducted a tailings dam risk We also experienced a minor overﬂow of the ash Group executive committee and risk committee. assessment study at nine dams across our dyke at BALCO. However, the incident did not The businesses are in the process of addressing businesses that would have signiﬁcant impacts in result in any signiﬁcant environment, health and issues reported from the assessment. case of failure. In two out of these nine dams, an safety, and social impacts. We have also established a regular third-party additional dam-break analysis was conducted These incidents have raised the urgency with the inspection to critical locations and appointed due to the condition of their structures. organisation on potential failures in the future. a global expert to provide long term advice However, as responses to the ﬁndings were A comprehensive plan to eliminate this risk has and monitoring, covering the design, being designed, one of the dams located at been undertaken. construction and operation of each our Aluminium & Power Business in Jharsuguda storage dam. A crucial ﬁrst step is the decision to further review experienced a breach in the wall of the ash dyke. all our dams globally so that we can ensure they This resulted in a spillage of the contained ﬂy ash are all designed, constructed and managed onto an adjacent plot of land, majority of which consistently in line with global practices. belongs to Vedanta. 36 Building Strong Relationships STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT HUMAN RIGHTS NEIGHBOURHOOD DIALOGUE 37 SDG 17 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Open, ongoing and organised dialogue contributes signiﬁcantly to trust and transparency, which is a vital ingredient of a successful partnership. At Vedanta, we believe that such partnerships with stakeholders, with a focus on 'development where it matters most' can lead to economic, environmental and social well-being. Our key stakeholders include: EMPLO YEE S CIVIL S OC S IET NT Y GOVER NM DING NGOS) CLU E OUR KEY (IN STAKEHOLDERS INCLUDE THE FOURTH PILLAR OF OUR Diverse stakeholders necessitate varied modes of engagement. So, we deploy a range of SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT engagement channels based on the nature of the stakeholder segment. These include public MODEL STRATEGIC hearings to one-on-one discussions, information disclosures to feedback forms, and participatory COMMUNICATION (DETAILS ON PAGE 77), sessions to satisfaction surveys, with a view to understand stakeholder expectations, aligning their IS TESTIMONY OF OUR interests and updating them on our intentions and actions. COMMITMENT TO CONTINUALLY All stakeholder engagements are anchored by our social responsibility performance standards ENGAGE IN A TRANSPARENT AND with an aim to transform relationships into partnerships, provide adequate grievance mechanisms TIMELY DIALOGUE WITH ALL OUR to help resolve situations of potential conﬂict and enhanced interaction with vulnerable STAKEHOLDERS. communities such as indigenous people. 38 BUILDING STRONG Stakeholder Engagement 38 RELATIONSHIPS Human Rights 42 Neighbourhood Dialogue 44 OUR ENGAGEMENT MODEL Ask Answer Analyse Align Act Our dialogue begins We disclose not just We have established a We work hand-in-hand We back up our with questions that because we want to be robust investigation with stakeholders and words with solicit feedback. Our heard, but because we process for complaints align our goals and demonstrable stakeholders have are responsible. We reported via the actions with their highactions that move access to a number of aim to provide a whistleblowing priority areas. The the needle towards platforms to reach out constructive response mechanism, feedback from all our promised outcomes. to Vedanta personnel to feedback received. sustainability ID and engagement becomes and voice concerns. group communications part of our materiality ID, involving senior identiﬁcation process. management and relevant personnel. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MECHANISM Our Group-level Stakeholder Engagement Standards have been formulated with an aim of ensuring effective and efﬁcient engagement across multiple industries and geographies where we operate. Stakeholder identiﬁcation and engagement analysis is done every year and the channels and periodicity of engagement for the identiﬁed stakeholders are updated to meet the changing requirements on the ground. Local expectations are identiﬁed, impacts monitored, and engagement plans are ﬁnalised and implemented, with regular reviews and revisions. Dedicated stakeholder representatives facilitate stakeholder engagement at all our operations. The engagement mechanism has become integral to our sustainable development approach and helps us: 1 Identify, categorise and 2 Determine 3 Disclose 4 Implement engage stakeholders engagement modes information interventions in across the project life and frequency for in a timely consultation with cycle for each business each stakeholder manner stakeholders STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STRUCTURE At Vedanta, we employ formal and informal channels to engage with our stakeholders. Each department is responsible for ensuring effective engagement with their primary internal and external stakeholders during their daily business functioning. INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Vedanta has developed several communication channels to ensure that information about evolving ground realities reaches the organisation's decision-makers in a timely manner and the stand of the Company on an issue is communicated to all the internal stakeholders. We keep all lines of engagement open with our employees as well as contract workforce. COMMUNICATION CHANNELS SUCH AS CHAIRMAN'S WORKSHOPS, TOWN HALL MEETINGS, DAILY LEADERSHIP UPDATE FORUMS, HSE LEADERSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE MEETINGS, SITE-LEVEL RISK SUB-COMMITTEES, EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEYS, AND THE VARIOUS ENGAGEMENT FORUMS AT SITE BOTH FORMAL AND INFORMAL, ALLOW US TO KEEP A CONSTANT FINGER ON THE PULSE OF OUR INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS. 39 EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Teams from across our businesses engage with our external stakeholders over various platforms. Media and Local Communities Investors Industry Associations The CSR teams across our businesses Our Investor Relations (IR) team The Corporate Communication team have the primary responsibility of interacts with our investors and rating is primarily responsible for any overseeing our engagement with agencies and when appropriate, engagement with the media and with local communities. Stakeholder directs their queries to the relevant industry bodies such as Engagement Teams and Grievance departments. Confederation of Indian Industries Cells have been formed so that (CII), Federation of Indian Chambers In FY 2017-18, the IR team received members of the local community can of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), several enquiries from our investors bring their grievances and and the Associated Chambers of about our sustainable business suggestions to the Company. In the Commerce and Industry of India practices and in coordination with our event of plant expansions, the HSE (ASSOCHAM). The team is also HSE & Sustainability teams ensured and CSR teams are mandated with responsible for connecting with our that all of them were resolved to the conducting public hearings for the stakeholders via regular and social satisfaction of the investors. Environmental & Social Impact media platforms. Assessment process. Vendors, Contractors and Suppliers Governmental Ministries and Regulators Vendors, contractors, and suppliers form a Multiple teams across each business are responsible for engaging with Governmental large component of our external Ministries and regulators on speciﬁc issues. stakeholders and our Commercial team is Our Legal, HSE and on-site teams are responsible for engaging with regulators such as the empowered to manage and communicate District Administration, Ministry of Environment and Forests, State and Central Pollution with them. Control Boards, and the Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) among others. In FY 2017-18, the team organised several In addition, the CEO's Ofﬁce along with identiﬁed ExCo members are responsible for capacity building sessions for our large engaging with senior government functionaries in the respective line ministries. The ofﬁce also vendors, in our on-going commitment to engages with ministries through industry associations on industry-speciﬁc policy matters. help them comply with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS Engagement is a two-way process. To facilitate easy communication with the group we have created two simple points of contactdedicated public email addresses sustainability@vedanta.co.in, and ir@vedanta.co.in for all queries regarding the Vedanta Group and its Companies. Our Sustainability Team is also the single point of contact for all emails and correspondence related to our sustainable development initiatives, received by corporate functions like Corporate Communications and Investor Relations teams. Feedback received through our website, sustainability and annual reports, and all other modes, is recorded to review and revise our stakeholder engagement performance. Eventually, all these serve as valuable inputs in our materiality identiﬁcation exercise. We also utilise every opportunity available to share our view, whether it is industry associations, meeting with governments, media, community, NGOs or any other external stakeholder. In-house journals and newsletters along with social media is used to engage and interact with internal stakeholders. 40 BUILDING STRONG Stakeholder Engagement 38 RELATIONSHIPS Human Rights 42 Neighbourhood Dialogue 44 OUR RESPONSE TO THE INCIDENTS IN TUTICORIN Our social licence to operate was challenged this year by communities living around our Sterlite Copper Plant in Tuticorin. The protests were based on misinformation around the perceived pollution caused by the plant. The fears stem from historic incidents, for which the company received legal sanctions in 2013. However, it has since taken corrective and progressive measures to ensure that incidents of pollution are not repeated. Ÿ Our SO2 levels are well within the prescribed Some facts: national limits Ÿ Sterlite Copper has been operating in Tuticorin for the last twenty years Ÿ Dust extraction allows capturing of fugitive Ÿ Produces approximately 1/3rd of the country's present demand for copper emissions, which goes Ÿ Since 2010, contributed approximately US$ 1.7 million (M 110 billion) to the through scrubbing state exchequer Ÿ Continuous air emissions Ÿ Provided direct and indirect employment to around 4,000 people monitoring system that Ÿ Till date, we have invested more than US$ 77 million (M 5 billion) in environment measures reports data to TNPCB in real-time Ÿ Till date, we have invested US$ 13 million (M 850 billion) in social development measures covering 88 villages of Tuticorin Ÿ Being a zero liquid Ÿ Leveraging technology to ensure operations are safe for employees and communities discharge plant, no eﬀluents pollute local Ÿ Hazardous waste is transferred to a secure landﬁll as guided by the CPCB guidelines water sources Ÿ Before plant was shut, it was operating well within regulatory limits for air emissions In 2013, the Honourable Supreme Court of India, asked us to deposit M 1 billion with the District Collector. The money was to be used for remedial actions in case of any environmental damage due to the plant's operations. Till date, more than 90% of those funds remain un-utilised. After the 2013 verdict we have implemented all 30 recommendations made by NEERI. We have also taken action on the 15 directions given by the National Green Tribunal. We understand that pollution will remain a key issue in the region, which is an industry cluster with more than 60 manufacturing units (including thermal power plants, dyeing units, and other large, medium and small-scale industries), and we would like to play a key role in reaching longterm solutions that incorporate the views of all stakeholders. We are deeply saddened by the shootings that occurred during in front of the District Collector's ofﬁce (located 9 KM away from the plant) the protests of 22nd May 2018. The police in India and in Tuticorin are independent and they were responding to a very fast-changing situation. We had no role to play in the decisions taken by the police on that day. A much under-reported story was that the protestors attacked the homes and property of our employees, many of them saw their vehicles damaged and set ablaze. This is a situation that we would never like to see repeated. We remain open to sit and negotiate with the community on how to move forward amicably and within the legal framework. We remain hopeful for a positive outcome for all stakeholders. 41 SDG 8, 10, 16 HUMAN RIGHTS At Vedanta, human rights are accorded the highest category of 'critical importance' in the materiality matrix and forms an integral part of our core value of Respect. Our human rights policy is aligned to the 'United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights’ and includes strict prohibition on the use of child or forced labour either directly or through contract vendors. We adhere to all human rights regulations, in letter and spirit, ensuring the protection of fundamental rights of all direct and indirect employees as well as those who are in our circle of inﬂuence. We recognise that for our workforce to adhere to the tenets of human rights they need to undergo training. We ensure that all our new hires go through Code of Conduct and Human Rights training. In FY 2017-18, more than 95% of our new hires received this training. We also train our security personnel on the organisation's policies and procedures related to human rights. In the last ﬁscal year, nearly 95% of our security force underwent this training. DIRECT & INDIRECT WORKFORCE Employees, whether direct or indirect, are a part of the Vedanta family and human rights of each of them are respected. Comprehensive systems, which include employee grievance processes, collective bargaining and contract labour management cells are in place at all our locations to protect their interests and partner in their progress. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING At Vedanta, we believe that collective bargaining is a collaborative process which ensures better compensation, allowances, incentives and bonuses, and creates a more productive and vibrant work environment in terms of output, health and safety. Thus, the right to freedom of association is endorsed at all our operations. The collective bargaining agreements are formed based on transparent and fair discussions between the management and union representatives. Remuneration, allowances, working conditions, incentives and bonuses, health and safety, manpower productivity are part of the arrangement. 59% of our full-time employees at BALCO, CMT, HZL, KCM, Sesa, and Zinc International are covered by collective bargaining agreements 42 BUILDING STRONG Stakeholder Engagement 38 RELATIONSHIPS Human Rights 42 Neighbourhood Dialogue 44 SUPPLIER DILIGENCE As one of the global leaders in the natural resource industry, we feel responsible to percolate the principles of human rights to our circle of inﬂuence. Our Suppliers Code of Conduct is implemented as part of the terms and conditions of supplier contracts across the Group and all new suppliers are required to sign, endorse and practice this Code. We also have in place a Supplier & Contractor Sustainability Management Policy to implement sustainable practices across the supply chain. Both the Code and the Policy clearly communicate our expectations from our suppliers: to operate in compliance with all relevant legislation and follow our policies while executing work for or on our behalf. The Supplier and Contractor Technical Standard further includes a Supplier Screening Checklist to evaluate contractor compliance relating to key issues, e.g. legal compliance, HSE management, labour management, human rights and child labour. We continue to enhance adherence by conducting inductions, screenings, inspections and audits. Any concerns raised by interested parties on any of our key suppliers is promptly addressed by undertaking an independent assessment. ENSURING RIGHT AGE FOR THE RIGHT JOB Child, forced, or compulsory labour is a non-negotiable offence at Vedanta be it direct or through a contractor. We strictly enforce this policy at all our operations. Further, we carry out periodic inspections of our remote mine locations and require proof of age for all contract workers. AT STERLITE COPPER, WE USE A FOOL-PROOF RADIOLOGICAL AGE IDENTIFICATION PROCESS TO ASSESS CHILD LABOUR VIOLATIONS. LOCAL COMMUNITIES The nature of our industry necessitates our presence in remote corners and diverse geographies. While operating in multiple locations and multicultural communities, we always respect the local people and their culture. We abide by the following well-articulated and communicated standards to conserve and nurture the native heritage: Cultural Land & Resettlement Indigenous People and Heritage Standard Management Standard Vulnerable Tribal Groups Standard These standards have been developed in alignment with international practices including ICMM guidelines and IFC standards. 43 NEIGHBOURHOOD DIALOGUE At Vedanta, we believe that meaningful dialogue and positive outcomes lay the foundation for a strong social licence to operate. Our operational locations are spread over a large cumulative area across India, South Africa, Zambia, Namibia, Australia and Ireland, and this brings us in contact with diverse communities. Many of these communities are agrarian in nature, depending on farming or animal husbandry for their livelihood. Traditionally, these areas have ranked low on human development index parameters such as education, healthcare and nutrition, gender justice and women's empowerment, and economic development. Enhanced economic activity ushers a multitude of new paradigms in these geographies and we realise the importance of expectation setting through communication, consultation and participation. Our goal is to jointly arrive at a shared purpose and vision that integrates local voices and choices. Our structured process includes: In FY 2017-18, several of our locations Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA) led by our HSE and CSR teams, to help in put their expansion plans into motion. early identiﬁcation of potentially affected communities at the planning stage of every new project As part of the process of seeking approvals from the appropriate During the operational phase, these teams undertake ongoing consultation with interested and government authorities, we held affected parties to manage changes in the risk proﬁle of our operations and sustain our positive several public hearings with village relationship with communities communities, explaining to them the environmental and social impacts of Cultural Heritage Land Acquisition and Resettlement Standards include consideration of our expanded operations. The EIA's Indigenous People and have been developed to reﬂect relevant ICMM guidance (including that were conducted at the ICMM Guidance Document: 'Indigenous Peoples and Mining') and IFC Performance Standards commencement of our operations can be found publicly on the website of the A Guidance Note addressing Indigenous People/Vulnerable Tribal Groups (IP/VTGs) to help Ministry of Environment and Forests. operations understand these standards. The core aim of the standard is to enable our teams to engage, negotiate, and partner with IPs/VTGs to avert negative impacts and risks for all stakeholders while establishing new projects COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISM Grievances are the seeds of disputes. At Vedanta, we have institutionalised globally benchmarked redressal processes to deal with the grievances in a timely manner. All community incidents (social and Each grievance is addressed by the Unresolved grievances are labour) and grievances are recorded and concerned department as per our escalated to senior management for categorised as negligible (1), minor (2), Grievance Mechanism standard their perusal and decision-making moderate (3), serious (4) or disastrous (5) Community Engagement at SKM The expansion of Sindesar Khurd Lead-Zinc underground Mine (SKM) from 4.5 million TPA to 6 million TPA ore production, and beneﬁciation from 5 million TPA to 6.5 million TPA, involved community engagement. The public hearing was conducted by Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board on 1st November 2017 outside SKM. It was presided by the Government ofﬁcials and about 800 villagers from nearby areas participated in it and shared their views. The mine has since received the Environmental Clearance for the expansion, after a successful public hearing process. 44 Adding & Sharing Value COMMUNITY EMPLOYEES ECONOMY 45 COMMUNITY IT IS IMPORTANT TO GIVE BACK Business and society are interdependent. Strong economic growth advances community WHAT WE EARN FOR THE development, which, in turn, promotes economic growth. At Vedanta, inclusive development has GREATER GOOD OF SOCIETY. always formed an integral part of our progress and we continue to invest in initiatives that lead to COMMUNITY PROGRAMMES equitable growth in society. THAT WORK TOWARDS ERADICATION OF POVERTY, Our social programmes are designed to empower the impoverished and mainstream the CHILD WELFARE AND WOMEN marginalised, thus, partnering in their progress. The social interventions are developed using a EMPOWERMENT WILL BE OUR needs-based approach. They seek to bring about long-term impact and are often implemented FOCUS FOR COMMUNITIES AT to supplement or enhance existing government programmes. Vedanta's CSR policy lists the LARGE IN OUR COUNTRY. following ten focus areas of work: Anil Agarwal Chairman, Vedanta Resources ELL-BEING & E N'S W DU E CHIL N DR TIO CA NITY INTER MU V M N AREAS OF C TIO EN T US O TH R INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DISASTER MITIGATION, RESCUE, RELIEF AND REHABILITATION OUTREACH SOCIAL INVESTMENTS BENEFICIARIES (In alignment with SDGs) 580 859 CORE PERIPHERAL VILLAGES 39 MILLION US$ 3.36 MILLION VILLAGES (INCLUDES 24 OUTREACH VILLAGES) 46 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 SIGNATURE Although the focus of all our development programmes is to partner with the communities for their progress, there are certain initiatives, which PROGRAMMES we consider as our Signature Programmes. These programmes are: Nandghar, Football and Healthcare through Hospitals. NANDGHAR This is a pioneering initiative for children's well-being and education, along with women's health and empowerment. Vedanta signed an MoU with the Ministry of Women & Child Development in FY 2015-16 to construct 4,000 new-age Nandghars (Anganwadis) across India. It aims to touch the lives of around 4 million community members, while directly impacting around 200,000 children and around 180,000 women on an annual basis. Nandghars are designed as state-of-the-art child friendly spaces that facilitate quality preschool education, primary healthcare and entrepreneurship training, besides being a convergence point for several government programmes. Till now, 154 Nandghars have been started in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Madhya Pradesh. In Rajasthan: Ÿ Over 1,000 children are being provided prepacked, hot-served wholesome nutrition every day Ÿ Around 150 Anganwadi workers/sahayikas have been trained to utilise TV for e-learning sessions and smart kits for interactive teaching sessions in all Nandghars Ÿ Nearly 1,000 OPDs are being conducted every week by the Nandghar Mobile Health Vans Ÿ More than 750 pregnant and lactating women are provided with immunisation and regular health check-ups at Nandghars Ÿ 72% children at the Barmer Nandghars are fully immunised, which is higher than the state average for Rajasthan (53%) Ÿ 100% Nandghars have pre-deﬁned curriculum for imparting pre-school education Hirakali Devi, an Anganwadi worker at the Nandghar in Ghera Richola, Pilibhit, Uttar Ÿ More than 1,600 women have been trained Pradesh, not only encourages parents to educate their children, but also inspires other and 165 women have started their own women in her village to become self-dependent and organises health awareness micro-enterprises with nearly US$ 27,000 sessions for pregnant women and new mothers. Her Nandghar that has an average (M 17.50 lakh) of credit distributed attendance of 43 children a day has been declared a 'Model Anganwadi Centre'. We plan to construct 250 Nandghars in Hirakali Devi's efforts were rewarded by the Ministry of Women and Child FY 2018-19 and another 1,000 are in the Development when she won the National Award, which comprises a citation and a planning process. cash award of US$ 400 (M 25,000). 47 THE NANDGHAR PROJECT WAS AWARDED THE PRESTIGIOUS 'CSR PROJECT OF THE YEAR AWARD' FOR THE YEAR 2017 BY INDIA CSR GROUP, WHICH ENCOURAGES PRACTITIONERS AND ORGANISATIONS IN INDIA TO BUILD RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESSES CONTRIBUTING TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF SOCIETY. 154 functional Nandghars across Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Goa & Uttar Pradesh 100% 72% IMPACT Nandghars have children at the Barmer pre-deﬁned Nandghars are fully curriculum for immunised, which is higher imparting pre-school than the state average for education Rajasthan (53%) As per the impact study done by SEED Nandghars beneﬁt scores of These centres are 'happy' places with modern infrastructure including children and women by solar power, treated drinking water and IT-enabled learning equipment. providing pre-school education, They have slowly become centres in the villages not only for nutrition for children and skill supplementary nutrition and early education services, but also centres development for women. for capacity building for women and mothers. Smt. Vasundhara Raje Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi Hon'ble CM, Rajasthan Minister, Women and Child Development, GoI 48 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 FOOTBALL SESA FOOTBALL ACADEMY Established in 1999 on a reclaimed mine at Sanquelim, this started as a CSR programme at our Iron Ore Business, with the vision to become a premier academy in India. Till date, the Sesa Football Academy (SFA) has graduated 123 boys, some of whom have represented India internationally and many are pursuing their football career with major Indian football clubs. SEVEN ALUMNI OF SFA HAVE PLAYED FOR THE INDIAN NATIONAL TEAM AND EIGHT ARE PLAYING IN THE ELITE INDIAN SUPER LEAGUE 2017-18 SEASON. Taking forward the commitment and passion to nurture the girl child through sports, we launched 137 WOMEN FOOTBALLERS HAILING the 'Vedanta Women's Football League' in November 2017 with the support of Goa Football FROM ALL OVER GOA PARTICIPATED IN Association (GFA). Vedanta created history through this ﬁrst-of-its-kind league by providing THIS LEAGUE THROUGH 6 TEAMS AND women footballers, a prominent platform to showcase their talent and skills. MADE IT A GRAND SUCCESS. 49 ZINC FOOTBALL ACADEMY Hindustan Zinc has been organising the 'All India Mohan Kumar Mangalam Hindustan Zinc Football Tournament' in Zawar for the last 42 years. Given this long and rich footballing tradition, the Company has now set up a Football Academy, which will not only have a residential academy, but also 64 community academies across ﬁve districts. The residential academy also has a technology centre which helps bring more objective metrics to player assessments. DURING THE YEAR, SCOUTING CAMPS WERE HELD ACROSS RAJASTHAN, EVALUATING NEARLY 3,500 CHILDREN AND SHORTLISTING 56 OF THEM FOR THE RESIDENTIAL ACADEMY. CURRENTLY, 58 COMMUNITY FOOTBALL CENTRES ARE OPERATIONAL, INCLUDING FOUR CENTRES FOR GIRLS WHO MADE THEIR DEBUT IN RAJASTHAN STATE CHAMPIONSHIP AND REACHED THE SEMI-FINALS. 50 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 HEALTHCARE THROUGH HOSPITALS BALCO MEDICAL CENTRE The Vedanta Medical Research Foundation (VMRF), a voluntary, non-proﬁt organisation, has been set up by BALCO, to contribute to the prevention, control and eradication of cancer and related illnesses. Dr Raman Singh (center left), Chief Minister of Chattisgarh inaugurates the BALCO Medical Centre along with Vice-Chairman, Mr Navin Agarwal (center right) VMRF'S FIRST FLAGSHIP INITIATIVE WAS TO ESTABLISH 'BALCO MEDICAL CENTRE' A 170-BED, STATE-OF-THE-ART TERTIARY CARE ONCOLOGY FACILITY IN NAYA RAIPUR. THIS FACILITY WAS INAUGURATED ON 25TH MARCH 2018, AND BRINGS MODERN, COMPREHENSIVE AND HIGH QUALITY MEDICAL CARE WITHIN THE REACH OF THE POPULATION OF CENTRAL INDIA IN GENERAL, AND CHHATTISGARH IN PARTICULAR. The services rendered include: Medical Oncology, Surgical Oncology, Radiation, Nuclear Medicine, Critical Care, Pain and Palliative Care, Laboratory Services, Radiology and Transfusion Medicine. 51 SDG 2, 4 CHILDREN'S WELL-BEING AND EDUCATION Education is the great engine of personal development. It is through education that the daughter of a peasant can become a doctor, that the son of a mine worker can become the head of the mine that a child of farm workers can become the president of a great nation. Nelson Mandela Vedanta ﬁrmly believes in the power of education to unlock the potential of a nation. We therefore, have a broad spectrum of community interventions around education beginning from pre-school and all the way to higher education. Our education programmes are carried out in partnership with government and civil society, and at times, independently. THE MAIN AREAS OF INTERVENTION ARE: Access to quality pre-primary, Basic infrastructure development at schools Counselling, career guidance workshops primary, high school, college such as sanitation facilities, drinking water and ﬁnancial assistance to talented and university level education facilities and recreational facilities students from low income families OUR EDUCATION INITIATIVES HAVE IMPACTED OVER 230,000 CHILDREN IN FY 2017-18 THROUGH THESE PROGRAMMES. THE COMPANY IS ALSO SERVING HOT, FRESH & NUTRITIOUS MEALS TO MORE THAN 56,000 STUDENTS THROUGH 4 KITCHEN CENTRES. CASE STUDY KHUSHI | HINDUSTAN ZINC Hindustan Zinc's Khushi programme focuses on supporting the government in improving Total coverage the functioning of the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) programme in 5 districts of Rajasthan. 3,089 Anganwadi Centres The programme is the largest such Public-Private-People initiative in the ICDS space and (AWCs) directly reaching aims to improve children's attendance, retention, learning levels, health status and community engagement. 64,000 children in the age group Children's attendance at the centres has gone up from 43% last year to 60% this year. A of 3-6 years unique Anganwadi Grading Tool was developed and is used to rate each one of the 3,089 Anganwadis and will be used year-on-year to assess progress. 25,067 COMMUNITY MEETINGS WERE HELD DURING THE YEAR, AND COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS EQUIVALENT TO NEARLY US$ 83,500 (E 54.32 LAKH) WERE MOBILISED 52 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 SDG 3, 4 HEALTHCARE To keep the body in good health is a duty... otherwise we shall not be able to keep our mind strong and clear. Gautam Buddha Our effort is to bring quality healthcare closer to the communities of our operational areas through our health initiatives. We partner with non-governmental organisations and government authorities in their efforts to deliver healthcare facilities to remote rural locations, and in urban areas. Our healthcare services include clinical healthcare through hospitals using state-of-the-art methods and practices, mobile healthcare vans, and health camps. The focus is on both preventive and curative services. DURING FY 2017-18, OUR HEALTH SERVICES BENEFITTED 1.13 MILLION PATIENTS, AND MORE THAN 168,000 PEOPLE WERE REACHED THROUGH HEALTH AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS. SETTING UP A MEDICAL COLLEGE AT KALAHANDI Vedanta Limited has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Government of Odisha for setting up a medical college and a 500-bed hospital at Bhawanipatna with an investment of US$ 15.3 million (E 100 crore). This will be the ﬁrst such facility to come up in the Kalahandi District a big leap towards bringing quality and comprehensive medical care to the people of Kalahandi. Presently, the company runs the Vedanta Hospital in Lanjigarh, which is a state-of-the-art hospital with 24x7 ambulance and emergency services. It was established in 2010 and continues to serve the neighbouring communities with free medicine, treatment and consultation. Mobile Health Units offer free doorstep consultation and medicine to more than 45 remote villages in the Lanjigarh and Muniguda Block. 53 SDG 6 DRINKING WATER AND SANITATION We shall not defeat any of the infectious diseases that plague the developing world until we have also won the battle for safe drinking water, sanitation, and basic healthcare. Koﬁ Annan Clean water and sanitation are the very foundations of a healthy life, which is a prerequisite for progress. Ensuring clean and safe drinking water along with adequate sanitation infrastructure, is thus one of our key priorities. Across locations, various initiatives have been taken up to fulﬁl this objective. Initiatives like installation of borewells, overhead tanks, laying of drinking water pipelines and establishing community water ﬁltration units are a few of them. DURING FY 2017-18, CLOSE TO 212,000 INDIVIDUALS BENEFITTED THROUGH OUR SAFE DRINKING WATER INITIATIVES. Aligning with the government vision of 'Ghar Ghar Mein Shauchalaya', Vedanta has taken up the initiative of supporting the development of sanitation infrastructure. The initiative also includes hygiene awareness, maintenance of toilets and changing practices to enhance toilet usage. MORE THAN 57,000 VILLAGERS ARE BEING BENEFITTED THROUGH THE CONSTRUCTION OF 8,746 INDIVIDUAL HOUSEHOLD TOILETS AND 61 COMMUNITY TOILETS CASE STUDY JEEVAN AMRIT YOJANA | CAIRN OIL & GAS This is Cairn's ﬂagship safe drinking water project being run in Barmer District. The project During the reporting period, has also won 2 prestigious awards. the project touched the lives of more than Work is in progress for installation of additional 75 RO plants in Barmer region. In addition, Cairn has reached out to the Border Security Force (BSF) to address their concerns on 9,000 availability of safe drinking water for its forces deployed in the border area. 4 RO plants will families with an uptake of be installed by Cairn under operations & maintenance of BSF. more than 3 million litres through 71 RO plants. 54 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 SDG 1 WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT I raise up my voice not so I can shout, but so that those without a voice can be heard...we cannot succeed when half of us are held back. Malala Yousafzai We believe that empowering women to be economically independent and self-reliant is vital for any society. Financial inclusion, skill development and access to employment opportunities are important for their holistic progress. So, the Company has been working towards a variety of programmes aimed at women's socio-economic development. Several of our businesses are promoting sustainable, women-run, grassroots institutions like Self Help Groups (SHGs) to act as vehicles for empowerment. The primary objective is to enable women to come together and leverage the power of self-help. We provide them support in terms of linkage with ﬁnancial institutions, enterprise training and market linkages, so that they begin to take small, but sure steps towards economic empowerment. There are various women empowerment initiatives running across the group. The total reach at the end of this ﬁnancial year was: TOTAL SAVINGS CREDIT LEVERAGED FROM BANKS 2,614 TOTAL 32,838 TOTAL ~US$ 1 MILLION (E 6.7 CRORE) INTER-LOANING AMOUNT ~US$ 0.83 MILLION (E 5.3 CRORE) SHG MEMBERS WHO STARTED SHGS MEMBERS ~US$ 2.2 MILLION (E 14.3 CRORE) THEIR MICROENTERPRISES 3,001 CASE STUDY SAKHI | HINDUSTAN ZINC Sakhi, Hindustan Zinc's Self-Help Group (SHG) programme, has a mission to form 2,000 SHGs By the end of FY 2017-18, by the year 2021, touching lives of nearly 24,000 women. By then, the project also aims to HZL had set up have set up 6 self-sustaining federations owned and managed by these women. During the year, 10,580 women took loans amounting to US$ 1.2 million (M 7.9 crore). These 1,299 functional SHGs, with loans were taken for household consumption, agriculture, health & sanitation and animal a membership of over husbandry. Women used the loans to set up new or expand existing enterprises. At Pantnagar, a sanitary napkin making unit 'Sparsh' was established in collaboration with ICDS. This unit is giving direct employment to 20 women. 16,620 women, having an accumulated savings of about US$ 0.5 International Women's Day 2018 was celebrated across all HZL locations with the participation million (T 3 crore). of more than 12,400 women from the communities and company's own employees. 55 SDG 4 SKILLING THE YOUTH FOR NEW OPPORTUNITIES The youth of a nation are the trustees of posterity. Benjamin Disraeli India is poised to beneﬁt from having a very young population at this juncture in its history. The resultant demographic dividend can be huge, but it will need our young people to be skilled and educated. Skill India is the government's initiative to bridge the skilled manpower gap by providing training to all sections of the workforce. We at Vedanta, are committed and collaborating for the same. The skilling initiatives are especially important, if we want to include youth from rural areas into the national development process. We are also looking to skill them in such a way that they not only get employment, but also improve their entrepreneurship skills. THERE ARE 11 WORKING PROJECTS FOR SKILLING THE YOUTH ACROSS THE GROUP. IN FY 2017-18, CLOSE TO 3,400 YOUTHS WERE TRAINED IN DIFFERENT TRADES AND 77% OF THEM WERE PLACED IN WELL-PAYING JOBS. CASE STUDY TAMIRA MUTHUKKAL | STERLITE COPPER Sterlite Copper commenced this project in 2008 as a 'Coastal Livelihood Project' (CLP) in the requirements of new skill-sets, the partnership with NGOs and vocational training institutes. Youth were trained in disciplines institute added three additional courses like computer training, beautician, nursing assistant, cell phone mechanic, embroidery, in 2017 welding technician, solar PV tailoring and shipping management. technician, and forklift operator/driver. As part of our continued care to the community, CLP has metamorphosed as 'Tamira Since 2014, more than Muthukkal' with the objective to mobilise, motivate and train unemployed, unskilled youth and facilitate suitable employment linkages within or outside the district. 1,100 youth have been placed with In partnership with the IL&FS Skills, the centre began by offering training courses for the an employer or have become following vocations electrician, data entry operator, and sewing. However, to keep pace with self-employed. 56 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 SPORTS & CULTURE Sports has the power to change the world. It has the power to inspire, it has the power to unite people in a way that little else does. Nelson Mandela We believe that there are few things as powerful as sports. It has the ability to improve health and builds an individuals' character, which in turn can build communities and nations. However, often the lack of infrastructure and opportunity, lead to this potential remaining locked. AS A GROUP, WE ARE DEEPLY INVESTED IN BRINGING SPORTS OPPORTUNITIES CLOSER TO OUR CHILDREN AND YOUTH. FOOTBALL IS ONE THAT WE HAVE CHOSEN TO FOCUS ON, WITH ONE ACADEMY ALREADY FUNCTIONAL IN GOA AND ANOTHER ONE NOW BEING SET UP IN RAJASTHAN BY HINDUSTAN ZINC. KALAHANDI UTSAV, LANJIGARH KUMBHALGARH HERITAGE WALK Like every year, the 'Kalahandi Utsav' is hosted by the district With an objective to promote tourism, and to preserve and protect administration of Kalahandi in Odisha as a platform to encourage the traditional culture, Kumbhalgarh Heritage Walk is being and showcase their art and culture to the world. organised every year. This year, it was organised on 30th November 2017 by District Administration, Archaeological Survey of India with Vedanta also participated in the festival to pay homage to the the support of HZL. native culture and enlighten visitors about health, education and development as a way forward for both the community More than 400 people from across the country participated in and the organisation. the 12 km long walk along the boundary wall of the Kumbhalgarh fort. UDAIPUR WORLD MUSIC FESTIVAL SWACHH ICONIC PLACES INITIATIVE Conceptualised by the cultural organisation SEHER and supported We strongly value the conservation of our heritage and under this by HZL, the Udaipur World Music Festival has become a matter of initiative, HZL took the responsibility of maintaining cleanliness at cultural pride in the city of Udaipur. the Ajmer Sharif Dargah. Our vision for this initiative is to convert the Dargah into a future-ready, iconic site. This includes the This year the festival hosted over 200 musicians from development of a state-of-the-art Interpretation Centre as per the 17 countries over 3 thrilling days and was attended by Ministry's agenda, and the process of appointing an architecture 50,000 people. ﬁrm for this Centre is complete. 57 SDG 2 AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Agriculture is our wisest pursuit, because it will in the end contribute most to real wealth, good morals, and happiness. Thomas Jefferson Agriculture is the backbone of the village economy. We believe that strengthening farmers' capabilities helps strengthen not just farm-linked livelihoods, but also makes for a stronger foundation for the rural economy. Our programmes in agriculture include a whole gamut of activities including agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and water conservation measures. THIS YEAR, WE SUPPORTED 8,735 FARMERS IN ADOPTING SUSTAINABLE FARMING PRACTICES IN NEARLY 5,900 ACRES OF LAND. ABOUT 2,900 FARMERS HAVE ADOPTED HORTICULTURE AS WELL AS FLORICULTURE TILL DATE, AS A SOURCE OF LIVELIHOOD AND HAVE BEEN FOLLOWING IT ON 446 ACRES OF LAND. 152 VETERINARY CAMPS WERE HELD IN OUR OPERATIONAL VILLAGES WHICH BENEFITTED 6,769 ANIMALS. CASE STUDY PROJECT UNNATI | CAIRN OIL & GAS Project Unnati, part of Cairn's livelihood project in Rajasthan, was launched to increase the income of farmers by implementing measures to enhance their agricultural productivity. Over the last 5 years, the project has touched the lives of farmers in ~130 villages of Barmer district. Not only has the project helped increase farmer incomes, but it has done so by improving the overall environmental conditions of the region. The key to improve farming yields was the construction and/or renovation of several water-harvesting structures (850 wadis, 550 khadins or on-farm check-dams, and 5 nadis or traditional community water bodies). The khadins have harvested nearly 270,000 cubic metres of water and helped conserve nearly 30,000 tons of fertile soil annually. The nadis have helped harvest nearly 500,000 cubic metres of water. All of this has resulted in farmers being able to plant fruit trees, set-up 3 silvi-pastoral units, start 32 milk-chilling units that procure and sell nearly 11,500 litres of milk/day, and procure livestock for 36 landless and marginal farmers. Collectively, the programme is well on its way to help improve farmer incomes in the region. 58 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 SDG 6 ENVIRONMENT It is our collective and individual responsibility… to preserve and tend to the world in which we all live. Dalai Lama For us, responsible environmental stewardship is of vital importance. Our efforts are towards creating a cleaner and greener environment with the help of technology, resources, intent and action. Our initiatives include the restoration of water bodies, promoting the use of solar-powered devices, tree plantation activities, and development of soak pits to manage household sewage. 74,410 PLANTS WERE PLANTED ON 132 ACRES OF LAND. 582 SOLAR STREET LIGHTS WERE INSTALLED IN VILLAGES NEAR OUR OPERATING LOCATIONS. CASE STUDY SOAK PITS TO SAVE WATER | TSPL It is anticipated that Punjab faces a looming water crisis brought on by declining rainfall and excessive withdrawal of ground water. Recycling household waste water can help alleviate this problem, up to a certain limit. In continuation of the successful joint effort by TSPL and Zilla Parishad (under MGNREGA) initiated last year, 32 soak-pits were developed in FY 2017-18 in the village of Aspal. The development of these soak-pits takes the total number of soak-pits constructed over a two-year 97 soak pits constructed over period to 97. These soak-pits have helped tackle waste-water management in the areas facing two years of which 32 soak pits water disposal and sanitation issues. The soak-pit based system, which results in the ﬁltration of were developed in FY 2017-18. household waste water, has also enabled in the recharge of approximately 17 million litres of This has enabled recharge of approximately ground water per year. Looking at the successful outcomes of the soak pits, the Secretary, Rural Development, Punjab, 17 million litres of ground water/year ordered the replication of the project across Punjab. THE PROJECT HAS BEEN RECOGNISED BY THE MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN IT'S ANNUAL PERFORMANCE REPORT 'SANKALAN' AND 'SADA PIND', A MONTHLY MAGAZINE PUBLISHED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND PANCHAYATS, PUNJAB. 59 EMPLOYEES THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A GOOD COMPANY AND With a 78,000+ diverse workforce spread A GREAT ONE, ARE ITS EMPLOYEES. THEY ARE THE ONES across four continents and multiple WHO ACTUALISE THE VISION. AT VEDANTA, WE BELIEVE countries, we have fostered a uniﬁed THAT HUMAN CAPITAL DRIVES CORPORATE PERFORMANCE, performance culture. A culture that AND PARTNERING IN THEIR PROGRESS, IS THE MOST exempliﬁes our core values and nurtures IMPORTANT INVESTMENT WE CAN MAKE. excellence, creativity and diversity. HIGHLIGHTS 21% OF THE NEW 12,000 500+ EMPLOYEES ARE PART CROSS-FUNCTIONAL, 921,550 HOURS OF SAFETY <6 % ATTRITION 2,832 EMPLOYEES WERE EMPLOYEES OF THE V-CONNECT HIGH-POTENTIAL NEW TRAINING GIVEN TO RATE GIVEN ESOS ARE WOMEN MENTORSHIP PROGRAMME LEADERS IDENTIFIED EMPLOYEES IN FY 2017-18 IN FY 2017-18 WORKFORCE SNAPSHOT Full-time Employees Contract Employees Retainers Business Location TOTAL Male Female Male Female Male+Female Zinc, India 4,022 362 11,836 113 14 16,347 Lead & Namibia 614 97 887 0 24 1,622 Silver South Africa 732 118 3,288 188 30 4,356 Australia 20 1 9 0 0 30 Copper Zambia 5,735 673 6,151 736 95 13,390 India 1,034 136 2,883 53 2 4,108 Aluminium India 5,811 705 16,278 530 61 23,385 Iron Ore India 2,628 167 2,350 99 20 5,264 Power India 84 22 1,462 22 2 1,592 Oil & Gas India 1,270 253 5,790 75 262 7,650 Others* India 80 66 323 10 15 494 TOTAL 22,030 2,600 51,257 1,826 525 78,238 *Includes the Port Business and corporate ofﬁce locations 60 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 OUR PRIORITIES Our priority is to ensure that our employees remain motivated and deliver to their full potential. Their health, safety, and well-being are key focus areas for the organisation. WE HAVE SEEDED AND NURTURED The company also has put signiﬁcant efforts to provide expanded career and leadership A CULTURE OF TRUST, INTEGRITY, DISCIPLINE, EMPOWERMENT AND opportunities across all levels, with an emphasis on promoting gender diversity across roles. OWNERSHIP IN EVERYTHING WE DO. Starting from recruitment to development, and engagement to retention, we are constantly evolving at all phases of the talent management cycle. Digitisation and user-friendly technology are our allies in upgrading and introducing best-in-class people practices. TALENT ACQUISITION Vedanta's push to become one of the most efﬁcient and sustainable mining businesses on the planet can only be achieved if we have the right people managing our business. As our collective businesses mature, we need to ensure that we hire, train, and equip our workforce to handle the complexities of an increasing inter-connected business. We have put a range of initiatives in place for hiring quality talent. VEDANTA'S GLOBAL INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME The Global Internship Programme (GIP) seeks to attract the best talent from the world's leading universities. We want to on-board students who have exposure to the best and most current management thinking. Our GIP candidates are ﬁrst-year MBA students from premier B-schools including Harvard, INSEAD, London Business School, IIM-Ahmedabad, IIM-Bangalore and IIMKolkata. The GIP is designed to create a symbiotic relationship wherein the students get handson business experience and Vedanta attracts emerging bright managers. Internships provide these candidates with an opportunity to work with the top management, especially the C-suite, on live projects that directly impact the business. They work in a dynamic, fast-paced team environment, and gain broad experience in several facets of the natural resources industry. RIGHT MANAGEMENT IN PLACE (RMIP) STRATEGIC HIRING VEDANTA LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (VLDP) The Vedanta Leadership Development Programme for full-time hires aims to build organisational We introduced a recruitment drive to ﬁll capability for the future by onboarding best-in-class young talent from the top management and several leadership positions including technology institutes as full-time employees. expat/specialist positions to realign the organisation structure and strengthen our We nurture them to be the leaders of tomorrow by providing them with a tailored programme management teams across the business. including induction, job rotation, and a range of roles, opportunities and anchoring. Hiring for these positions focused on During the ﬁrst year of the programme FY 2016-17, 19 students were selected and in recruitment of high performing individuals and domain specialists from leading global the second year FY 2017-18, 28 students have been enlisted. companies. TALENT MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT We have a sharp focus on nurturing existing employees and grooming them to take up leadership roles within the organisation. An assortment of talent management and development initiatives are in place. These include training and development programmes, job rotations, additional projects and responsibilities, and mentoring programmes. These have helped us build a talent pipeline of future leaders across levels. Employee Training man-hours Male Female Full-time Employees (FTE) 660,854 80,611 Average Training Hours for FTEs 30 31 Contract Employees 1,219,852 (male + female) Average Training Hours for Contract Employees 23 (male + female) 61 FUTURE LEADERSHIP Nothing makes us happier than accelerating the careers of our people and witnessing their professional development, thus creating value for both the organisation and our employees. CHAIRMAN'S INTERNAL GROWTH WORKSHOPS An outstanding platform to identify We have always aimed to be an organisation headed by 'leaders from within'. Recognising talent and give them growth internal talent and promoting them to leadership roles has been a driving factor in our rapid opportunities, Internal Growth growth. Aligned with this philosophy, the Group conducts 'Chairman's Internal Growth Workshops shall be patented as Workshops' to identify potential candidates across the Group. Vedanta DNA. I personally felt very The objective energised to be a part of this process, and thankful to the Identifying young leaders Developing highly Evaluating corrective management for such a great for enhanced and competent leaders and actions, providing opportunity and conﬁdence in my elevated roles through motivating them to growth and recognition capabilities. This move has a structured process perform exceptionally well wherever required motivated me to put forth my best eﬀorts and surpass management expectations by delivering my best These workshops have resulted in the identiﬁcation of 500+ cross-functional, highin the Gamsberg Project and by potential new leaders in the Group's businesses to date, who have taken up signiﬁcantly making Zinc International, a bestenhanced roles and responsibilities. in-class business. Our Internal Growth Workshops have also enabled us to reduce our lateral hiring signiﬁcantly for critical roles across the Group in the past two years. Pushpendra Singla | CFO, Zinc International 'V-CONNECT' INITIATIVE NON-HR TO HR This initiative was launched across the Group in association with Aon as an anchoring/mentoring One of our popularly christened programme, and training partner, covering 12,000 professionals. The key output has been to derive enhanced Non-HR to HR is aimed at 'developing and engagement levels from employees. deploying diverse perspectives' in HR function for achieving next level growth and setting up a platform for aspiring leaders to get into General Management Leadership MORE THAN 5,000 CONVERSATIONS HAVE BEEN COMPLETED TILL DATE roles. Over the last two years 9 non-HR leaders have been selected for this program. These new leaders are encouraged to connect with the leadership team and are being anchored by the HR Heads at respective businesses. As part of my group connects, I recently The V-Connect sessions are continuously conducted an exercise with my talents contributing to enhance my leadership and to help them identify their leadership functional skills by providing abundant styles and build effective relationships opportunities to work in cross-functional with their stakeholders. V-Connect has areas beyond my area of expertise. given the opportunity for Anchors and Talents to learn together. Anchor Talent Mr. Deepak Prasad Mr. Subrata Dasgupta Head Aluminium Operations, Associate GM, MRSDS & Rectiﬁer, BALCO BALCO 62 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 SDG 5 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION At Vedanta, merit is the only criteria for growth. We provide equal opportunities to all our employees, irrespective of gender, nationality and background. We strongly believe that diverse individuals bring varied perspectives and new ideas to the organisation, and collectively can take collaborative decisions and create superior outcomes. Since most of our operations are in remote areas, we place a strong emphasis on recruiting employees from among the local population. A signiﬁcant percentage of our employees are recruited from the country in which our operations are located, creating jobs for people and partnering in the progress of the local economy. In FY 2017-18, a majority of the individuals hired at our operations were local to the business. This strategy ensures that our business beneﬁts from the socio-cultural knowledge that those individuals bring in their management approach. It also allows us to create a direct economic and skills-based impact for the individuals who live in the communities where we operate, which is a crucial element for our social license to operate. New hires who are local, across regions VEDANTA IS RAPIDLY MOVING TO BECOME MORE GENDER INCLUSIVE. INDIA SOUTH AFRICA 21% OF NEW EMPLOYEES 82 % 39 % ARE WOMEN NAMIBIA ZAMBIA 91 % 92 % 10.56% 14.3% WOMEN IN OUR WOMEN IN TOTAL WORKFORCE OUR BOARD WE HAVE SET OURSELVES A TARGET TO REACH OVER 33% WOMEN AT SENIOR LEVELS BY 2020 AND AIM TO ACHIEVE 20% DIVERSITY AMONGST OUR EMPLOYEES. AUSTRALIA 67 % 63 Some of the women-oriented initiatives during FY 2017-18: TARANG TUFemina We have a clear commitment towards a diverse workforce and priming our employees to take up An initiative launched at Sterlite Copper, leadership roles. A unique developmental initiative has been launched this year by the Iron Ore TUFemina is a forum where our women Business for our women professionals across functions including Geology, Civil, Mining, employees get an opportunity to learn, share Maintenance, Finance and others. This programme aims to improve the gender diversity in and experience new things. businesses' Executive Committee through a structured intervention. There are teams, divided and named after The individual development plans for these participants have been charted out based colours of the rainbow: Violet, Indigo, Blue, on psychometric assessment and career development plans, and further focus would be Green, Yellow, Orange and Red. A monthly on building competencies in ﬁnancial acumen, strategic thinking and leadership. meet is hosted by each colour where experienced women professionals share their journey at Sterlite. PROGRESSIVE POLICIES The liberal parental leave policy wherein maternity leave is 26 weeks, adoption leave is 12 weeks and paternity leave is 1 week has resulted in better productivity and retention, especially of our women employees. Male Female Number of employees who have taken 635 180 parental leave in FY 2016-17 For returning mothers, we also provide Number of employees who were in 433 141 ﬂexibility to move into another job proﬁle or continuous service for the next 12 months continue with the same role, to manage both after returning from parental leave professional and personal priorities. Retention* % 68.18% 78.33% These policies make them feel more engaged and motivated as a result, and their *Retention % is calculated based on the number of employees who returned and were in continuous positivity rubs off on the entire workforce. service for the next 12 months / number of people who went on parental leave. WOMEN ACROSS THE BOARD Amongst the few global natural resources companies that enjoy a healthy gender diversity ratio across all levels, we believe women are critical to a healthy and productive work environment. With varied perspectives and patterns, they are helpful in providing a different set of solutions for the challenges we face, making us more responsive to future risks and opportunities. We are signatories of the 'CEO Statement of Support' for the United Nations' Women's Empowerment Principles (WEP) 'Equality Means Business'. 28 of our top Over 500 individuals were identiﬁed at Vedanta as high potential, In our 'Club 100' of potential future leaders, we have We continually focus on improving gender diversity leadership positions are being held by women professionals 10% of whom are women 7% women leaders across the group, across grades and management levels. We have placed internal recruitment targets to ensure equal gender representation. 64 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND RETENTION Engaged employees are more effective and efﬁcient employees, doing well for themselves as well as the organisation. We realise the importance of an engaged workforce and work towards building an inclusive workplace through various initiatives, enabling our employees to make meaningful contributions. We also ensure that we monitor and reward performance. The various internal channels of communication, including Chairman's workshops, town hall meetings, daily leadership update forums, HSE Leadership and Sustainability Steering Committee meetings, site-level risk sub-committees, employee engagement surveys, and the various engagement forums at site both formal and informal, allow us to keep a pulse on the day-to-day functioning of the company. Collective bargaining also offers the opportunity to build a constructive relationship between the Management and Union representatives. 59% of our full-time employees at BALCO, CMT, HZL, KCM, Sesa, and Zinc International are covered under collective bargaining agreements across the organisation. ATTRITION RATE IN FY 2017-18 WAS LESS THAN 6%. ALSO, LESS THAN 1% OF OUR FEMALE EMPLOYEES LEFT US IN THAT PERIOD, WHICH IS A TESTAMENT TO VEDANTA BEING A GREAT COMPANY FOR WOMEN TO WORK AND DEVELOP THEIR CAREERS. CAIRN LEADERSHIP CONNECT EXPRESS | LEARN | INNOVATE V-PERFORM: ONE PERFORMANCE Leadership Connect is a highly engaging forum that gives employees an opportunity to learn about the company's leadership perspective in an informal & interactive platform with its leaders. SYSTEM FOR ONE VEDANTA As part of this initiative, Cairn's leaders throw light on their personal career anchors and talked V-Perform is a pan-Vedanta initiative to about the career trajectory, whilst also spending time talking about key approaches towards standardise our performance management Cairn's short and long-term objectives. Three such Connect Workshops were organised with system (PMS) and processes by leveraging three different leaders. Each one of them received enthusiastic participation and a total of 360 technology. This assists the functions, teams employees attended these sessions. and individuals in tracking performance, generating analytics and taking steps to ensure they are achieving Vedanta's overall To-the-point sessions clearing some very basic points and highly interactive, given by a business plan and targets. leader who inspired me within an hour. Surabhi Paharia | PSCM, Gurugram To enhance our safety performance in the workplace and achieve our ultimate vision of It was well organised and an excellent session planned, focused and transparent, with zero harm, a safety competency assessment great replies on diverse questions raised by participants. Not only are these types of process has also been initiated as part of Vsessions good for getting to know more about our company direction, but also good for Perform to strengthen our existing safety participant motivation. Navratan Sharma | HSEQ, Gurugram management system. 65 ONE VEDANTA NETWORK As an international company employing thousands of people working across a range of remote and diverse geographic locations, we recognise the importance of fostering a culture of transparency, collaboration and knowledge-sharing across the organisation to keep employees informed and engaged. As social networking platforms continue to grow in popularity, we have developed One Vedanta a platform on Workplace by Facebook, which enables all Vedanta employees to share content with their peers using a range of interactive tools such as live videos, news feeds, posts and media upload options. THE PLATFORM WAS LAUNCHED IN EARLY 2017 AND CURRENTLY MORE THAN 13,000 EMPLOYEES ARE SIGNED UP TO THIS EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT TOOL WITH 4,000 ACTIVE CONVERSATIONS PER WEEK. IN NOVEMBER 2017, A NEW 'CHAIRMAN CONNECT' BOT APPLICATION WAS LAUNCHED ON ONE VEDANTA BY OUR CHAIRMAN, ANIL AGARWAL. This application aims to give every employee direct access to the During the year, Vedanta Resources Chairman Chairman and the leadership team to share ideas, feedback and to post Mr. Anil Agarwal interacted with more than questions. Mr Agarwal's vision is to tap into the rich pool of ideas and experiences shared by employees and to make Vedanta, an open and connected organisation. 5,000 30 EMPLOYEES ACROSS LOCATIONS IN 5 COUNTRIES ADDING PURPOSE TO THE PROFESSION Employee volunteering has been an important way for involving team members to go beyond their work and donate time, money and skills for the betterment of society. During the reporting period, nearly 2,500 employees of HZL were engaged through various CSR initiatives such as: KHUSHI BAATIYE PAINT FOR JOY A fundraising campaign held during the festival of Diwali to 100 employees volunteered to help children with hearing impairment, spread joy among the children of our anganwadi (child day-care) autism, and cerebral palsy showcase their talents in a painting event. programmes. Employee contributions made it possible to donate While the children exhibited their ability, this one-on-one connect with new clothes and footwear to 64,000 children. the kids was very fulﬁlling for the employees. EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEME (ESOS) 2017 We launched an Employee Stock Option Scheme to reward our employees and enable them to share in the ﬁnancial success of the company. The scheme was launched after obtaining statutory approvals, including shareholders' approval in 2016. ESOS 2017 covers 2,832 employees of the Company and aims at rewarding them with wealth creation opportunities, encouraging high-growth performance and reinforcing employee pride. 66 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 SDG 3 HEALTH AND WELL-BEING The World Health Organisation deﬁnes health as a 'state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease'. It is with this deﬁnition in mind that we at Vedanta have institutionalised various programmes across our locations. EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PROGRAMME NCHINGILILE UBUMI | HEALTH Nchingilile Ubumi, a Zambian phrase which means 'I will protect my health', is a 100-day wellness journey aimed at improving the health and wellbeing of our people at the Zambian operations. KCM's intent behind launching the programme was to have the staff recognise that exercise is an important part of healthy living and should be a lifestyle choice, not a one-off event. Under this programme, while the main physical activity is walking, other forms of exercise such as aerobics, soccer, golf, netball, cycling and volleyball are also encouraged. This wellness journey was launched for all KCM staff and contractors. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP HAPPY HOME | PERSONAL FINANCES Concerned about the number of miners in the Nchanga & Nampundwe Business Units (BUs) who were heavily in debt, their Manager initiated a Human Capital Management (HCM) workshop focused on educating them and their spouses about wealth management. Knowing that their ﬁnancial status and personal life affects not only their concentration at work, but also their productivity and safety, she came up with the initiative where KCM as an organisation could help improve the quality of life in general, and the lives of impacted families in particular. The workshop was designed to educate these couples on Property and Finance Management causes and effects of debt, and ways of eliminating them. 67 ECONOMY WE LEVERAGE INNOVATION Natural resources form a signiﬁcant portion of the AND TECHNOLOGY TO world's economy. As a globally diversiﬁed company HARNESS THE ELEMENTS OF operating in the energy and metals sector, with NATURAL RESOURCES AND operations spread across four continents, we have a TRANSFORM THEM TO FUEL long history of creating consistent value for our PROGRESS AND DEVELOPMENT, shareholders, while taking care of all stakeholders. WITH A COMMITTED GOAL OF ZERO HARM, ZERO DISCHARGE At Vedanta, we believe that wealth generation is not an AND ZERO WASTE. end in itself, but the means to distribute better shareholder returns and employee beneﬁts plus Anil Agarwal contribute to the exchequer, invest in social prosperity Chairman, Vedanta Resources and fund environmental protection. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED In million US$ ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 15,092 14,566 526 11,310 631 1,583 1,004 39 OPERATING EMPLOYEE WAGES PAYMENTS TO PAYMENT TO COMMUNITY COSTS AND BENEFITS PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL GOVERNMENT INVESTMENTS Total Full-time Payment to CSR Direct Employees (By Business) Exchequer Investment (By Business) in Nos. 24,630 5,366 in US$ mn 38.75 in US$ mn 6,408 6,516 1,773 1,822 15.66 14.17 4,384 2,795 816 2.09 1,561 223 1,523 397 155 1.23 3.61 1,191 0.69 101 1.2 106 146 84 0.09 -5 Zinc India Aluminium Aluminium Aluminium Copper India Zinc India Copper Zinc India Copper Iron Ore Copper India Copper India Oil & Gas Others Dividend Power Others Power Oil & Gas Iron Ore Oil & Gas Iron Ore Zinc & Australia Zinc Zinc International International International International International Copper Zambia 68 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 During the reporting period, Vedanta saw its direct economic value generated (a function of its revenue generation) increase by 30% from the last ﬁscal year. In line with our strategy to ramp MOODY'S UPGRADED THE up across our asset base, we had record production of Zinc, Copper and Aluminium, whilst CORPORATE FAMILY RATING (CFR) growth projects in our Oil & Gas business are on track. OF THE COMPANY FROM B1 TO BA3 IN NOVEMBER 2017 AND THE Favourable market conditions, higher production volumes and ﬁrmer commodity prices, RATING ON ITS SENIOR UNSECURED combined with enhanced productivity and material efﬁciency, resulted in a strong annual BONDS TO B3 FROM B2. performance. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ACROSS THE STAKEHOLDER SPECTRUM SHAREHOLDERS & LENDERS Our focus continues to be on generating shareholder earnings through prudent capital allocation, with a focus on low-risk, phased projects with high returns. Our cost saving programme coupled with plant productivity and material efﬁciency continue to result in low cost operations, contributing to investor returns. During FY 2017-18, Vedanta Limited took successful steps towards acquiring Electrosteel Steels Limited (ESL). The ﬁnal closure of the HONOURED COMPANY transaction will happen after applicable regulatory requirements. VEDANTA LIMITED WINS TOP ACCOLADE FOR INVESTOR RELATIONS IN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR MAGAZINE'S 2017 ASIA EXECUTIVE TEAM RANKINGS. RECOGNISED AS AN 'HONOURED COMPANY' AMONG THE TOP 4.7% OF NOMINATED COMPANIES RANKS AMONG TOP THREE COMPANIES IN THE BASIC MATERIALS SECTOR IN 2017 ESL has steelmaking design capacity of 2.5 MTPA in Bokaro, Jharkhand with blast furnace/ basic-oxygen-furnace technology. It manufactures pig iron, billets, thermo-mechanically WE DELIVERED A ROBUST YEAR treated bars, wire rods and ductile iron pipes. The acquisition would provide the Group, an WITH EBITDA SIGNIFICANTLY opportunity for an integrated iron ore and steel play, at the same time beneﬁtting from the HIGHER AND WITH OUR EBITDA fast-growing steel sector in the country, leading to the creation of long-term sustainable value. MARGIN REMAINING STRONG. Kuldip Kaura Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Vedanta Ltd. REVENUE & EBITDA In FY 2017-18, our revenue stood at US$ 15.4 billion compared with US$ 11.5 billion in REVENUE EBITDA FY 2016-17 a growth of 34%. EBITDA for FY 2017-18 improved by 28% to US$ 4.1 billion from US$ 3.2 billion. This was primarily driven by higher commodity prices, the ramp-up at our Zinc and Aluminium businesses and cost efﬁciencies across the business. 34% 28% 69 SEGMENT CONTRIBUTION TO REVENUE In million US$ Zinc 3,903 Oil & Gas 1,480 Iron Ore 487 Copper 5,116 Aluminium 3,588 TOTAL Power 877 Others* -92 15,359 *Others include port business and eliminations of inter-segment sales, which were lower in the current period. DIVIDEND RETURN TO In US Cents SHAREHOLDERS per share We have always believed in sharing the economic value generated. A consistent dividend is a healthy sign of a growing company. With a robust operational performance and a FY 2013-14 61 complementary market environment, we returned impressive numbers for FY 2017-18. FY 2014-15 63 FY 2015-16 30 THE FINAL DIVIDEND OF US CENTS 41 PER SHARE (TOTAL DIVIDEND OF US CENTS FY 2016-17 55 65 PER SHARE) WAS DECLARED, WITH A YIELD OF 6%. FY 2017-18 65 GOVERNMENT We collaborate with governments across every country we operate in, contributing to the exchequer by paying direct as well as indirect taxes, creating direct as well as indirect jobs and by purchasing goods and services. We also contribute to reduce the country's import dependency, by enhancing production of natural resources. We have not received any direct ﬁnancial IN FY 2017-18, WE CONTRIBUTED US$ 5.4 BILLION TO THE EXCHEQUER THROUGH assistance from governments during the DIRECT AND INDIRECT TAXES, LEVIES, ROYALTIES AND DIVIDEND. reporting year, although as part of various direct tax holidays and similar exemptions, Vedanta did beneﬁt by US$ 157.5 million We also work closely with host governments, on initiatives to protect the environment during FY 2017-18. and become active partners in community programmes that touch the lives of innumerable people. TAX TRANSPARENCY At Vedanta, we believe that transparency breeds trust and accountability builds responsibility. Governance principles, Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, and systems of checks and balances are in place, and bribery and corruption are non-negotiable. In whichever nation we operate, all disclosures based on local laws are made. Starting 2015-16, we publish a Tax Transparency Report (TTR) every year and it is made available on our website. It contains all the details of the contributions we made to public ﬁnances in the countries of our operations. The latest TTR of 2017-18 is also available on: www.vedantaresources.com. 70 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 POLITICAL PARTIES In accordance with the UK Bribery Act, it is a Vedanta Board policy that neither the Group nor its subsidiaries will make donations or contributions to political parties within the United Kingdom or European Union. In India, political donations or contributions made within the context of legitimate business operations are made only with the approval of the Board. Last year, no political donation was made by any of our businesses. EMPLOYEES Human resources are Industry-best remuneration and beneﬁts coupled with merit-based growth opportunities are instrumental in making Vedanta offered to all employees. Employee-friendly policies and inventive programmes nurture talent one of the global leaders in and keep them motivated to deliver their best. natural resources. We continually Beneﬁts to our employees include: life insurance, mediclaim, disability coverage, parental invest in the well-being and leave, pension and retirement beneﬁts, stock ownership, and educational assistance. development of our 78,000 strong workforces and in IN THE LAST FINANCIAL YEAR, WE SPENT US$ 630.70 MILLION FOR providing them a safe and EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS. conducive work environment. To read more about our employee-centric initiatives, please refer to the Employees section on page 60 71 SOCIETY Through our operations, we generate proﬁts, employment, and economic growth and through partnerships with government and civil society, we ensure that beneﬁts of mining extend beyond the boundary of the mine itself. It is our constant endeavour to see that the mining industry has a long-lasting positive impact on the natural environment and social capital. Many of our operations are located in remote, often economically backward regions. We invest in developing infrastructure, taking care of people's health, providing education and training, creating opportunities for employment and entrepreneurship, and speeding up the development curve of the regions where we operate. Many spearhead programmes have been initiated, like Nandghar for children's well-being and education, Subhalaxmi and Sakhi projects for women empowerment, Vedanta hospitals and mobile hospitals for health, skill schools for skill enhancement through vocational courses, and various projects for farming and animal husbandry. SOCIAL INVESTMENT BENEFICIARIES 38.75 3.36 A LION'S SHARE OF OUR INITIATIVES ARE PLANNED TO ASSIST ACHIEVEMENT OF THE UN SDGs US$ MILLION MILLION To read more about our community initiatives, please refer to the Community section on page 46 72 ADDING & SHARING VALUE Community 46 Employees 60 Economy 68 SUPPLY CHAIN Holistic sustainability is not a localised MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 (MSA) phenomenon and cannot be achieved by a few companies. It requires global adoption In accordance with the UK's Modern Slavery Act 2015, we have updated our Supplier Code of and everyone's support including people, Conduct & Contract Conditions, and our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics to ensure the business and nations. We help propagate prevention of modern slavery and human trafﬁcking in our operations and supply chain. sustainability further and faster, by cascading it through our supply chain. WE HAVE ALSO INTRODUCED THE MSA FRAMEWORK AT ALL OUR BUSINESS At Vedanta, we believe that by managing UNITS. UNDER THIS FRAMEWORK, WE HAVE A SYSTEM IN PLACE FOR TRAINING and improving environmental, social and OF VENDORS/SUPPLIERS, DUE-DILIGENCE AND SELF-DECLARATION. WE economic performance throughout supply PERIODICALLY UNDERTAKE INTERNAL AS WELL AS EXTERNAL AUDITS, TO chains, we can: ENSURE RIGOROUS ADHERENCE TO THE FRAMEWORK BY ALL BUSINESS UNITS. CONSERVE RESOURCES | OPTIMISE PROCESSES | UNCOVER PRODUCT Implementation of the compliance framework for MSA rests with the Commercial teams at INNOVATIONS | SAVE COSTS | each BU. They have been given the responsibility to ensure that all our vendors meet the stringent requirements of the Act. INCREASE PRODUCTIVITY | PROMOTE CORPORATE VALUES. Our businesses continued to cascade adherence to the act across the supply chain and highlights during the reporting period include: It is a material issue for us as it affects both, upstream and downstream, and hence given BALCO has received MSA declaration IOB stopped dealing with 2 vendors prime importance. from around 90% of its vendors based on the audit report. Of the remaining 15 vendors, most have We have an established Supplier Code of formulated internal policies in line Conduct, Supplier and Contractor VAL Jharsuguda, stopped dealing with the requirements of the MSA. Management Policies and Supplier with 6 suppliers on the basis of nonThe company has also received Screening Checklists that encourage business compliance with the MSA Annual MSA declaration from about partners and suppliers to adopt principles requirements 60% of our Medium-Risk Vendors and practices comparable to our own. These include key aspects on legal compliance, HSE management, labour Cairn Oil & Gas introduced external Konkola Copper Mines completed management, human rights and child labour. due diligence for MSA as part of the an audit of high-risk vendors. They The nature of our industry stipulates our vendor registration process and has stopped dealing with one vendor as presence in far-ﬂung areas, where we support raised awareness towards MSA in a result of the audit. They also local suppliers to boost local economy and Vendor Conferences. Annual introduced supplier declaration mitigate carbon footprint. We engage with declarations have been obtained electronically during the registration them to make them understand their from 70% of the vendors and process and have conducted MSA responsibilities towards the environment, external audits are in progress at training programmes for internal safety, human rights and also support them vendor sites teams and contract employees to come up to international standards. 73 CUSTOMERS Vedanta is now the sixth largest diversiﬁed natural resources company in the world, with operations in four continents and customers across the globe. With products in energy and metals sector, we invest time, money and talent to understand evolving customer requirements and fulﬁl them safely, speedily while matching their desired quality and quantity. Engagement with the customers is our priority, and pre-deﬁned modes and platforms, which include third party surveys, are in place to understand and meet their expectations. Innovation and technology are leveraged to increase operational efﬁciency, value addition and logistics. Our advanced supplier portal is equipped to handle supplier as well as customer's needs, and handle auctions. OUR METAL PRODUCTS MEET THE REQUIRED LONDON METAL EXCHANGE (LME) STANDARDS. No cases of non-compliance with relevant regulations, anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, monopoly and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of our products and services were observed or reported. Similarly, no signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were reported. 74 Strategic Communication COMMUNICATING CONSTRUCTIVELY STRATEGY ENGAGEMENTS & ADVOCACY AWARDS & ACCOLADES 75 COMMUNICATING CONSTRUCTIVELY INVESTORS & LENDERS The best approach to communicate with investors and lenders is to do it early and as often as possible. We communicate with our investors and lenders periodically through investor calls, performance reports & meetings and forums such as Sustainable Development Day. Vedanta Plc. Annual Report 2017-18 Vedanta Resources Plc TTR 2017-18 CELEBRATING SUSTAINABILITY Each year since 2015, Vedanta has hosted the Sustainable Development Day in London. The day allows us to update analysts, investors and members of key industry bodies on the company's sustainable development activities in the past year and give them an opportunity to hold an open discussion with our management team. At the meeting Vedanta Resources Chairman Mr. Anil Agarwal reiterated the commitment to make a positive impact through operations by caring for employees, eradicating poverty, protecting the environment and contributing to the development of strong and vibrant nations. GOVERNMENTS Policies and regulations have a profound impact on the natural resources industry and thus we invest time and effort to maintain a proactive, honest, transparent and sustainable relationship with the government. We consistently engage with governments and offer our expertise where required and keep them informed on the progress of our projects, milestones traversed and challenges faced. 76 STRATEGIC Communicating Constructively 76 COMMUNICATION Strategic Engagements & Advocacy 78 Awards and Accolades 79 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our employees are our biggest assets and it's their perseverance that drives the Group's success. 'One Vedanta', the Group's intranet, enables effective engagement and communication with employees and is the preferred platform to share information, ideas and opportunities quickly. In addition to the intranet, there are Group-wide and business-speciﬁc newsletters that are distributed on a monthly or quarterly basis to help us engage with our employees in a transparent and timely manner. Weekly Buzz/VAL YOU Zinc News: HZL's monthly A weekly E-Newsletter by in-house newsletter Vedanta Limited Jharsuguda Pulse: A Group-wide monthly HR newsletter E-Finder The monthly newsletter at Cairn Konkola News The KCM in-house monthly newsletter includes updates and case studies BALCO Manch: The company's monthly newsletter Dhortori: Vedanta Sesa, Goa's Copper Tones: A quarterly quarterly newsletter in-house magazine by Sterlite Copper 77 STRATEGIC ENGAGEMENTS & ADVOCACY SDG 17 Leaders shape behaviours and as a leader in the natural resources industry it is our duty to mobilise interest and actions across peer groups. We engage and communicate with the industry and the community to build long-term sustainable relationships. Our advocacy efforts include organising and attending conferences on the natural resource sector, liaisoning with governments on public policy, and using mass media to communicate our positions on important issues. We participate in the major industry summits and forums to share and get insights on emerging opportunities and persisting challenges. High frequency interactions with media and academia help us gain strategic inputs, raise awareness about Vedanta and the natural resources industry among our stakeholders. COMMUNICATING WITH THE WORLD AT DAVOS World Economic Forum at Davos discusses major political, economic, social and environmental issues. Mr. Anil Agarwal, Chairman of Vedanta Resources, announced US$ 8 billion investment over the next three years to increase capacities across most of the ventures. NEWS18 RISING INDIA SUMMIT Mr. Anil Agarwal, was a speaker at the News18 Rising India Summit, a marquee thought leadership initiative which brought together thinkers, scholars, global statesmen, high achievers and well-wishers of India, from around the world. Mr. Agarwal made a pertinent case for the privatisation of state-run companies to enhance their productivity and efﬁciency. MEDIA Media helps amplify our message to a wide audience. Our strategy is to provide the media consistent and credible information to shape the true brand image of Vedanta among our stakeholders and build trust through transparency. Gazing in the Media Mirror While media is a gateway to all our stakeholders, one of our vital constituencies is the media itself. During the reporting 80% Respondents gave 36% Mentioned CSR and 48% Indicated regulatory period, we conducted a dipstick research about Vedanta with 25 key journalists and a bright outlook credible management as a hurdles as being a of Vedanta positive of the company key challenge for Vedanta analysts of the natural resources sector. The ﬁndings were very encouraging. Social Media – fast emerging as the engagement tool of choice Social media as a medium has gained popularity across the group and among our senior leadership. Daily updates and posts on our handles across Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn help us communicate the achievements of the Group, across the triple bottom-line, to the world. All Group Companies have a vibrant presence on social media. 78 STRATEGIC Communicating Constructively 76 COMMUNICATION Strategic Engagements & Advocacy 78 Awards and Accolades 79 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT & CSR VEDANTA LIMITED SESA GOA Ÿ Awarded the '2GOOD, 4GOOD CERTIFICATION RATING' by Economic Times Ÿ Bagged the National Award for Excellence in Water Management, 2017 presented by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) BALCO Ÿ Won Best Community Development Ÿ Won the Asia Sustainability Excellence Award 2017 under the category 'Best Overall Sustainable Performance' by World CSR Day Award at National Awards for Excellence in CSR & Sustainability Ÿ Won the Award for Excellent Management in Industrial Health, Safety & Environment from Grow Care India VAL JHARSUGUDA HINDUSTAN ZINC LIMITED Ÿ Won Kalinga Award for Best CSR Practices from the Institute of Quality and Ÿ Ranked 11th Globally by Dow Jones Sustainability Index, featured in the Sustainability Environmental Management Service Year Book by RobecoSAM Ÿ Won Best Sustainable Practices, Best Sustainability Report and Best Carbon Foot Printing at the National Awards for Excellence in CSR and Sustainability KONKOLA COPPER MINES Ÿ Ranked 20th in Responsible Business Rankings 2017 by Economic Times and IIM, Udaipur Ÿ Won the Best CSR Award by Kitwe Chamber of Commerce & Industry Ÿ Won the Safaigiri Award 2017 under the category of Best Public Private Partnership (PPP) Model for Project Sewage Treatment Plant, Udaipur awarded by the India Today Group Ÿ Awarded with Bhamashah Award 2016-17 for Exceptional Contribution in the Field of TALWANDI SABO POWER LIMITED Education by the Government of Rajasthan Ÿ Distinction in CSR Governance Ÿ Kayad Mine bagged the Global Sustainability Award under Gold Category. Award given by Mechanism and Established Processes by the Energy and Environment Foundation Economic Times Ÿ Won the CSR Leadership Award 2018 in the category of Best CSR Practices on World CSR Day VAL LANJIGARH STERLITE COPPER Ÿ Won the FAME Excellence Award for Ÿ Won the BT-CSR Excellence Award for Promoting Education through the project IIAM Women Empowerment Project Mottukal, organised by Bureaucracy Today Ÿ Won the Community Initiative Award by Ÿ Won a Silver Trophy in the category Best Higher Vocational Institute for Skill Development India CSR for Project Tamira Muthukkal, organised by and presented at ASSOCHAM India Summit Ÿ Winner of Chairman Sustainability Award 2017-18 SKORPION ZINC Ÿ Won the Healthcare Support Initiative of Ÿ Skorpion Zinc was placed First at the Keetmanshoop Agricultural & Industrial Show the Year by CSR Health Impact Award 79 ENVIRONMENT BALCO Ÿ Won Environment Excellence Award at ICC Environment Excellence Award, 2017 Ÿ Won Excellent Energy Efﬁcient Unit at CII Energy Summit, 2017 Ÿ Conferred Most Innovative Project-Power Sector by the CII Energy Summit Ÿ Won the D.L. Shah Gold Award, 2017 for project implementation in Reduction of SCC in 540 MW Power Plant, conferred by the Quality Council of India HINDUSTAN ZINC LIMITED Ÿ Won the Solar Innovation & Excellence Award during 2nd Annual Conference Expo Awards Ÿ Won the 8th Rajasthan Energy Conservation Award 2017 by Government of Rajasthan Ÿ Won the Gold Award for Best Performing Project of the Year in the 'Rising' Category at RE ASSETS Excellence Awards Summit Ÿ Won the 2nd Prize in the Fertilizer (Phosphate) Sector at the National Energy Conservation Award, 2017 Ÿ Zawar Mines recognised as Energy Efﬁcient Plant for Business Sustainability at the 3rd International Conference of Society of Power & Energy Professionals Ÿ Dariba Smelter Complex won at Water Awards 2016-17 presented by The Water Digest Ÿ Kayad Mine won Environment Excellence Award 2017 by Indian Chamber of Commerce KONKOLA COPPER MINES Ÿ Won the Golden Ribbon Award for the Company's stewardship in Environmental Sustainable Development TALWANDI SABO POWER LIMITED Ÿ Runner up for Srishti Good Governance Award 2017 for high commitment towards environment management Ÿ Runner up Award for Excellence in Research & Development for Innovation in Fly Ash Utilisation SESA GOA Ÿ Won the National Award for Excellence in Energy Efﬁciency by CII STERLITE COPPER Ÿ Won First Prize in 'Industrial Water Use Efﬁciency' at the National Competition for 'Excellence in Water Management' by FICCI VAL JHARSUGUDA Ÿ Awarded Excellent Energy Efﬁcient Unit by CII Ÿ Won the Innovation Award in Energy Conservation Category by IPPAI 80 STRATEGIC Communicating Constructively 76 COMMUNICATION Strategic Engagements & Advocacy 78 Awards and Accolades 79 HEALTH & SAFETY GOVERNANCE CAIRN OIL & GAS VEDANTA LIMITED Ÿ Awarded at Health Awareness Campaign of the Year 2017 at the CSR Health Impact Awards Ÿ Highest Ranking for Disclosure in the 'India Disclosure Index 2017' by FTI Ÿ Obtained 5 Star Rating from British Safety Council for our Upstream and Midstream Consulting in the metals & mining sector operations BLACK MOUNTAIN MINING HINDUSTAN ZINC LIMITED Ÿ Rampura Agucha Cast Mine won First Prize in 31st Mines Safety Week of Ajmer Region Ÿ Won the Chairman's Award for Best Business Performance Ÿ Awarded the Safety Innovation Award by Institution of Engineers, Delhi State Chapter KONKOLA COPPER MINES Ÿ Conferred the Business Leaders Award for the ﬁght against Malaria by the Zambia Chamber of Commerce and Industry VAL JHARSUGUDA Ÿ Won the Kalinga Safety Award (Silver) for the performance year 2016 VAL LANJIGARH Ÿ Won the Safety Gold Award 2018 at the Greentech Safety Awards TALWANDI SABO POWER LIMITED Ÿ Won Gold Award for Outstanding Achievements in Safety Management System 2017 at the GreenTech Safety Awards STERLITE COPPER Ÿ Won the British Safety Council's Sword of Honour HUMAN RESOURCES HINDUSTAN ZINC LIMITED Ÿ Certiﬁed as Great Place to Work by Great Place to Work Institute VAL JHARSUGUDA Ÿ Won the Signiﬁcant Achievement in HR Excellence at the 7th CII National HR Excellence Awards 2016-17 SESA GOA Ÿ Won the Best Employer Brand in Goa by the Goa State CSR Leadership Awards 2017 STERLITE COPPER Ÿ Won the Golden Peacock HR Excellence Award for 'Overall Excellence in HR' and 'People Management Practices' Ÿ Won the Talent Acquisition Award at 7th National Conference & Game Changer Awards by The HR Club Ÿ Won the Strong Commitment to HR Excellence Award by CII 81 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is our tenth Sustainable Development Report and coincides with the publication of our Annual Report. Combined these two documents provide an overview of our approach and our achievements in FY 2017-18, outlining our actions over the past year to achieve our mission to be a world-class diversiﬁed natural resource company. REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Covering the ﬁnancial year 2017-18, the report is structured around our Sustainable Development Model's pillars of Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships, Adding and Sharing Value, and Strategic Communications. All group subsidiary companies have been reported in full as though they were 100% wholly owned as we recognise the level of control and sphere of inﬂuence the Group has over these operations. The aspect boundaries and content of this Sustainable Development Report have been deﬁned using reporting principles prescribed in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) of the Global Reporting Initiative. We followed the approach described in GRI implementation manual for designing the report content. The material aspects that have been covered in the report are clearly brought out in the materiality matrix. In the report, the DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) describes the Company's approach to the subjects relevant to it and the indicators provide details on performance on the speciﬁc subjects. There are no speciﬁc restatements of the information provided in the previous reports and no signiﬁcant changes in terms of acquisition and physical boundaries from the previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. The report is also mapped to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) principles. It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles people, planet and proﬁt over the ﬁnancial year 2017-18. GRI STANDARDS CONTENT AND DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT The GRI Standards detailed content index and Vedanta GRI Standards Disclosure Document FY 2017-18 includes additional indicators including the Mining and Metal and Oil and Gas supplements disclosure is available on our website. ASSURANCE AND DISCLOSURE Assurance of this report was carried out by KPMG under 'limited assurance' services in accordance with the ISAE 3000. There is an internal approval system in the Company for appointment of external assurance provider for the sustainability report. 82 ANNEXURES About this Report 82 External Indices 83 Assurance Statement 84 GRI Standard Index 86 EXTERNAL INDICES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT We continue to uphold the ten principles of the UNGC. Our Sustainable Development report communicates our progress in implementing the ten principles, and below we have mapped the principles against our various sustainability aspects and speciﬁc report sections. Aspect UNGC Principle Report Reference Page No. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights 42 internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights 42 Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Human Rights 42 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Child and Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Human Rights 43 Forced Labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Human Rights 43 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Employees 63 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment 27 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental sustainability Environment 27 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environment 27 AntiPrinciple 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Governance 16, 17 Corruption extortion and bribery UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (UN SDGS) In September 2015, the UN member states agreed on a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to end poverty, ﬁght inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. Given below is our SDG priority list which states our endeavours that align with the said goals. SDGs Corresponding Sections Page No. SDG1 Poverty Community 8, 55 SDG2 Hunger Community 52, 58 SDG3 Good Health and Well-being Safety and Occupational Health 22, 24, 25 Community 53 Employees 67 SDG4 Quality Education Community 52, 53, 56 SDG5 Gender Equality Employee 8, 63 SDG6 Clean Water and Sanitation Community 8, 27, 28, 54, 59 SDG7 Affordable and Clean Energy Environment 8, 27, 30 SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Employee 8, 42 SDG9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Executive Statements 3-5 SDG10 Reduced Inequalities Employees 42 SDG12 Responsible Consumption and Production Environment 27, 28, 35 SDG13 Climate Action Environment 8, 27, 30 SDG15 Life on Land Environment 27, 33 SDG16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Governance 15, 16, 42 SDG17 Partnership to achieve the Goal Stakeholder Engagement 38 Strategic Engagements & Advocacy 78 83 ASSURANCE STATEMENT KPMG (Registered) Tel.: +91 124 307 9000 Building No. 10, 4th Floor, Tower-C Fax: +91 124 336 9001 DLF Cyber City, Phase-II, Gurugram 122 002 (India) www.kpmg.com/in INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ON THEIR CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR FY 2017-18 To the management of Vedanta Resources Plc KPMG in India (KPMG) was engaged by Vedanta Resources Plc ('the Company' or 'Vedanta') to provide an independent assurance on its Sustainability Report for FY 2017-18 ('the Report'). The Report is prepared by the Company based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 'in-accordance core' option for sustainability reporting. The development of Report, its content, identiﬁcation of key material topics and related impacts, engaging with stakeholders is the sole responsibility of the management of the Company. KPMG's responsibility is to provide limited assurance on the Report content as described in the scope of assurance. REPORTING CRITERIA Vedanta applies its sustainability performance reporting criteria based on Sustainability Reporting Standards of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards) including the Mining and Metals and Oil & Gas Sector Disclosures, National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG) framed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of India, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles, International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and Sustainable Development Goal frameworks for the Company as detailed in the 'Scope, Boundary and Limitations'. ASSURANCE STANDARDS USED We conducted limited assurance in accordance with the requirements of International Federation of Accountants' (IFAC) International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Under this standard, we have reviewed the information presented in the report against the characteristics of relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability. SCOPE, BOUNDARY AND LIMITATIONS OF ASSURANCE The Assurance has been provided for selected sustainability performance disclosures presented by Vedanta in its Report. The reporting boundary included data and information for the period 01 April 2017 to 31 March 2018 for India and Global operations, based on Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) Standards in accordance Core option. Our Scope of assurance included veriﬁcation of the sample data and information on selected material topics reported at the following units/locations and Corporate ofﬁces in Gurgaon and Udaipur: • Vedanta Limited (Jharsuguda smelter & power plant, Orissa) • Vedanta Limited (BALCO Korba Smelter & Power Plants, Chattisgarh) • Vedanta Limited (Narrain Mines, Iron Ore Operations, Karnataka) • Vedanta Limited (Tuticorin Smelter & Captive Power Plant, Tamil Nadu) • Konkola Copper Mines Plc (Zambia) • Cairn India Limited (Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan) • Cairn India Limited (Bhagyam ﬁeld) • Cairn India Limited (Aishwariya Field, Rajasthan) • Cairn India Limited (Viramgam Gas Terminal, Gujarat) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Chanderiya Lead and Zinc Smelters, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Dariba Smelting Complex, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Debari Zinc Smelter, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Kayad Mines, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Pantnagar Metal Plant, Uttarakhand) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Rajpura Dariba Mines, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Rampura Agucha Mines, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Sindesar Khurd Mines, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Zawar Mines, Rajasthan) • Vedanta Limited (Gurgaon Corporate Ofﬁce, Haryana) • Cairn India Limited (Gurgaon Corporate Ofﬁce, Haryana) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Udaipur Corporate Ofﬁce, Rajasthan) The assurance scope excludes: • Data and information outside the deﬁned reporting period and boundary; • The Company's ﬁnancial performance; • The Company's compliance to legal obligations/disclosures; • The Company's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention and assertions related to Intellectual Property Rights; and • Aspects of the report other than those mentioned below; The Universal and Topic Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures subject to assurance were as follows: Universal Standard Disclosures General Disclosures • Organizational Proﬁle (102-7 to 102-11) • Strategy (102-14) • Ethics and Integrity (102-16) • Governance (102-18) • Stakeholder Engagement (102-40 to 102-44) • Report Proﬁle (102-46 to 102-56) Management Approach • Disclosure on Management Approach (103-1)1 1 Disclosures on Management Approach were veriﬁed for select topic speciﬁc disclosures as per the given table 84 ANNEXURES About this Report 82 External Indices 83 Assurance Statement 84 GRI Standard Index 86 Topic Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures Environment • Energy (302-1, 302-3, 302-4, OG3) • Water (303-1, 303-3) • Biodiversity (304-1) • Emissions (305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-7) • Efﬂuents and Waste (306-1, 306-2, OG5, OG7, MM3) Social • Employment (401-1, 401-2, 401-3) • Occupational Health and Safety (403-2) • Training & Education (404-1, 404-2, 404-3) • Diversity and Equal Opportunity (405-1) • Non Discrimination (406-1) • Local Communities (413-1) METHODOLOGY ADOPTED FOR ASSURANCE Our assurance processes involve performing procedures to obtain evidence about the reliability of speciﬁed performance information. The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the selected sustainability disclosures whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we have considered internal controls relevant to the preparation of the Report in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. We have obtained sample evidence, information and explanations that were considered necessary in relation to the assurance scope and have arrived at conclusions mentioned below. Our work included a range of evidence-gathering procedures which included: • Assessing that the report is prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards in accordance Core option). • Reviewing the Report to ensure that there is no misrepresentation of disclosures as per scope of assurance and our ﬁndings. • Reviewing the materiality and stakeholder engagement framework deployed at Vedanta. • Understanding the appropriateness of various assumptions used for estimation of data by Vedanta. • Assessing the systems used for data collection and reporting of the Universal Disclosures and Topic Speciﬁc Disclosures of material topics as listed in the assurance scope above. • Verifying systems and procedures used for quantiﬁcation, collation and analysis of sustainability performance disclosures included in the Report. • Holding discussion with senior executives at the plant locations and at the corporate ofﬁce to understand the risks and opportunities from a sustainability perspective including the strategy that Vedanta has adopted to address the same. • Assessing data reliability and accuracy. • Verifying select key performance data through site visits to operational locations and corporate ofﬁce for: Testing reliability and accuracy of data on a sample basis. Assessing stakeholder engagement process through interactions with relevant internal stakeholders and review of related documentation. Limited review of the materiality assessment process Reviewing the processes deployed for collection, compilation and reporting of sustainability performance disclosures at corporate and plant level. Appropriate documentary evidence was obtained on a sample basis to support our conclusions on the information and data veriﬁed. Where such documentary evidence could not be collected due to sensitive nature of the information, our team veriﬁed the same at Vedanta's premises. CONCLUSIONS We have reviewed the Sustainability Report of Vedanta. Based on our limited review and procedures performed in line with scope, boundary and limitations of assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that the sustainability data and information presented in the Report is fairly represented in line with the identiﬁed material topics and is in accordance with the sustainability reporting standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). We have provided our observations and areas for improvement to the company in a separate management letter. These, do not, however, affect our conclusions regarding the Report. INDEPENDENCE The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including professionals with suitable skills and experience in verifying environmental, social and economic information in line with the requirements of ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard. Our work was performed in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements, that the members of the assurance team (practitioners) as well as the assurance ﬁrm (assurance provider) be independent of the assurance client, in relation to the scope of this assurance engagement, including not being involved in writing the Report. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, conﬁdentiality and professional behavior. KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conﬂicts regarding independence. The ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 and the practitioner complies with the applicable independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA code. RESPONSIBILITIES Vedanta is responsible for developing the Report contents. The Company is also responsible for identiﬁcation of material sustainability topics, establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems and derivation of performance data reported. This statement is made solely to the Management of Vedanta in accordance with the terms of our engagement and as per scope of assurance. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to Vedanta those matters for which we have been engaged to state in this statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Vedanta for our work, for this Report, or for the conclusions expressed in this independent assurance statement. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. By reading this assurance statement, stakeholders acknowledge and agree to the limitations and disclaimers mentioned above. Santhosh Jayaram Partner KPMG 24th August, 2018 85 GRI STANDARDS INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Response GRI 101: Founda on 2016 [GRI 101 does not include any disclosures] General Disclosures Organisa onal Proﬁle GRI 102General 102-1: Name of the Organisa on Vedanta Resources plc Disclosures 2016 102-2Ac vi es, brands, products, and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 01 (Vedanta at a Glance) services 102-3: Loca on of headquarters Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Back Cover 102-4: Loca on of opera ons Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 01 (Vedanta at a Glance) Australia, India (Andhra Pradesh, Chha sgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu), Namibia, South Africa, Zambia 102-5: Ownership and legal form Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2017-18: Pages 105, 167, 241-246, 102-6: Markets served Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 01 (Vedanta at a Glance) 102-7: Scale of the organisa on Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 01 (Vedanta at a Glance), Page 68 (Economic), Page 70 (Segment contribu on of revenue) 102-8: Informa on on employees and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 60 (Employees) other workers 102-9: Supply chain Vedanta’s supply chain spans all ﬁve areas of the metals & mining business explora on, asset development, extrac on, processing, and value addi on. Given the nature of our business, our supply chain consists of vendors who provide us with the workforce who help us operate our extrac ve and processing businesses as well as operators who supply us with high-end technologies that help us conduct our opera ons in the most eﬃcient, responsible, and cost eﬀec ve manner possible. We are also commi ed to ensuring that we encourage local vendors become part of our supply chain so that the presence of our businesses beneﬁts the local economies and communi es. 102-10: Signiﬁcant changes to the There were no signiﬁcant changes to the organisa on and its supply chain in FY 2017-18. organisa on and its supply chain 102-11: Precau onary principle or Vedanta seeks to ensure that all of our opera ons follow a stringent applica on of environmental and approach social principles. All of our businesses undergo an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment before beginning opera ons. Findings from the ESIA are considered and a mi ga on plan developed. We have also commi ed to ensuring that we receive the Free, Prior, Informed Consent of indigenous communi es from where we source our ores. 10212: External ini a ves Vedanta aligns itself with the following external charters & principles: UN Global Compact, UN Sustainable Development Goals, ICMM, IOGP, IFC Performance Standards, GHG Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 10213: Memberships of associa ons Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 78 (Strategic Engagements & Advocacy) Vedanta is also a member of various industry associa ons in the countries where it operates (Eg: Confedera on of India Industry) Strategy GRI 102General 102-14: Statement from senior decisionVedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 03 (From the Chairman’s Desk), Page 05 (CEO’s Message) Disclosures 2016 maker Ethics & Integrity GRI 102General 102-16: Values, principles, standards, Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 01 (Vedanta at a glance) Disclosures 2016 and norms of behaviour Governance GRI 102General 102-18: Governance Structure Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 15 (Governance) Disclosures 2016 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102General 102-40: List of stakeholder groups Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 38 (Stakeholder Engagement) Disclosures 2016 102-41: Collec ve bargaining Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 42 (Collec ve Bargaining) agreements 102-42: Iden fying and selec ng Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 38 (Stakeholder Engagement) stakeholders 102-43: Approach to stakeholder Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 38-40 (Stakeholder Engagement) engagement 102-44: Key topics & concerns raised Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 38-40 (Stakeholder Engagement) Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2017-18: Page 126 Repor ng Prac ce GRI 102General 102-45: En es included in the Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2017-18 Disclosures 2016 consolidated ﬁnancial statements 102-46: Deﬁning report content and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 82 (About this report) topic boundaries 102-47: List of material topics Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 10 (Materiality) 102-48: Restatements of informa on Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 82 (About this report) 102-49: Changes in repor ng Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 82 (About this report) 86 ANNEXURES About this Report 82 External Indices 83 Assurance Statement 84 GRI Standard Index 86 GRI Standard Disclosure Response 102-50: Repor ng period The repor ng period for this report is FY 2017-18 102-51: Date of most recent report Vedanta’s previous sustainability report was released in June 2017 102-52: Repor ng cycle Annual 102-53: Contact point for ques ons Ques ons can be directed to: sustainability@vedanta.co.in regarding the report 102-54: Claims of repor ng in Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 82 (About this report) accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55: GRI Content Index Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 86 (GRI Content Index) 102-56: External Assurance Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 84 (Assurance Statement) Specific Standard Disclosures Category: Economic GRI Standard Disclosure Response ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: Management 103-1: Explana on of the material topic Boundary: En re organisa on Approach 2016 and its boundary 103-2: The management approach and Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2017-18: Page 6, Pages 26-29 its components 103-3: Evalua on of management Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2017-18: Pages 32-33, Page 107 approach 201-1: Direct economic value generated Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 68 (Economic Performance) and distributed Economic Value Generated and Distributed (in US$ million) FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Economic value generated 15,092.14 11,579.40 Economic value distributed 14,566.30 11,130.73 a) Opera ng Costs 11,309.80 8,842.00 b) Employee wages and beneﬁts 630.70 591.10 c) Payment to providers of capital 1,582.60 901.00 d) Payment to government 1,004.45 779.00 e) Community investments (including dona on)38.75 17.63 Economic value retained (Calculated as Economic value GRI 201: Economic generated less economic value distributed) 525.84 466.30 Performance 2016 Coverage of the organisa on's deﬁned beneﬁt plan obliga ons (US$ million) FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 201-3: Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obliga ons Deﬁned contribu on pension scheme costs 16.40 22.00 and other re rement plans Deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme costs 37.10 21.00 Share based payment charge 20.50 16.00 Total 74.00 59.00 201-4: Financial assistance received FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 from government Financial assistance received from government (US$ million) 157.50 204.80 MARKET PRESENCE GRI 103: Management Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2017-18: Page 20-25 Approach 2016 GRI 202: Market 202-1: Ra os of standard entry level At all our signiﬁcant loca ons, we ensure that the ra os of entry level wages meets or exceeds the Presence 2016 wage by gender compared to local legal requirements and complies with all applicable laws. With regards to gender, the ra o is 1:1 and minimum wage we don’t discriminate in any way in terms of standard entry level wages. 202-2: Propor on of senior management Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 63 (Diversity and inclusion) hired from local community INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: Management Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 08 (Global Context – Retaining our social license to Approach 2016 operate), Page 46 (Community) GRI 203: Indirect 203-1: Infrastructure investments and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 46 (Community), Page 47 (Nandghar), Page 51 Economic Impacts services supported (Healthcare through hospitals) 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2017-18: Page 123, Pages 117-124 Approach 2016 GRI 205: An 100% of our opera ons are assessed for risks related to corrup on. The assessments are conducted by Corrup on 2016 205-1: Opera ons assessed for risks the Management Assurance Services (MAS) team. More details can be found at: related to corrup on Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2017-18: Pages 117-124 205-2: Communica on and training about an -corrup on policies and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 16 (Code of business conduct and ethics) procedures 87 GRI Standard Disclosure Response 205-3: Conﬁrmed incidents of corrup on Number of whistle-blower cases opened in 2017-18 87 and ac on taken Number of whistle-blower cases upheld and found correct in 2017-18 23 Number of whistle-blower cases closed in 2017-18 76 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR GRI 103: Management From of Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: Approach 2016 Vedanta is commi ed to free and open compe on in the marketplace. Employees should avoid ac ons that would be contrary to laws governing compe ve prac ces in the marketplace, including federal and state an -trust laws. Such ac ons include misappropria on and/or misuse of a compe tor’s conﬁden al informa on or making false statements about the compe tor’s business and business prac ces. The Group and its employees shall under no circumstances engage in any an compe tive prac ces such as illegal ﬁxing of prices, sharing of markets or other ac ons which prevent, restrict or distort compe on in viola on of applicable an -trust laws. GRI 206: An 206-1: Legal ac ons for an -compe ve Compe ve Behaviour behaviour, ant i-trust, and monopoly No legal ac on. 2016 prac ces MATERIAL ASPECT: OIL RESERVES OG1 Volume and type of es mated proved reserves Proved & Probable Reserves Proved & Probable Reserves (developed) and produc on. Oil (mmstb) Gas (bscf) Oil (mmstb) Gas (bscf) Reserves as of 1 April 2016 160.20 55.05 144.73 28.47 Addi ons/revision during (4.81) (2.48) (1.60) (8.83) the year Produc on during the year (43.43) (4.84) (43.43) (4.84) Reserves as of 31 March 111.96 47.73 99.70 14.80 2017 Addi ons/revision during 27.68 12.01 13.44 20.95 the year Produc on during the year (41.86) (8.42) (41.86) (8.42) Reserves as of 31 March 97.78 51.32 71.27 27.32 2018 Category: Environment GRI Standard Disclosure Response ENERGY GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 30 (Energy, Emissions and Climate Related Business Risk Approach) Management Approach 2016 GRI 302: Energy 302-1: Energy Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 30 (Energy, Emissions and Climate Related Business Risk) 2016 consump on within the organisa on Unit wise breakup of total energy consump on (GJ) within organisa on is as below: Business Total Energy (GJ) FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Zinc India 50,654,946 44,356,047 Zinc Interna onal 3,060,086 3,016,401 Aluminium India 161,939,598 177,781,326 Copper India 4,107,254 4,074,534 Copper Australia 92,959 76,263 Copper Africa 7,498,295 6,972,026 Iron Ore Business 1,445,642 1,774,212 Oil and Gas Sector 19,358,552 19,624,038 Power Business 198,418,692 170,302,121 Port Business 42,343 26,952 Total 446,618,367 428,003,920 Our CMT opera ons in Australia and KCM opera ons in Zambia fetch electricity from Hydro Power sta on. There is a minor devia on (<4%) in the energy number, observed during the assurance exercise. The change is not reﬂected in this disclosure in order to maintain consistency with all of the public disclosures in FY 2017-18. It will be restated in all disclosures in FY 2018-19. 302-3: Energy Intensity Speciﬁc Energy Consump on (GJ/Unit of Produc on Output) Business Sector Company Name FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 HZL – Mines 0.29 0.39 Zinc India HZL – Smelts 17.05 17.62 Skorpion 29.31 27.97 Zinc Interna onal Lisheen BMM 0.35 0.41 Copper Australia CMT Copper India Sterlite Copper 8.33 8.35 88 ANNEXURES About this Report 82 External Indices 83 Assurance Statement 84 GRI Standard Index 86 GRI Standard Disclosure Response Business Sector Company Name FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Copper Africa KCM 36.06 28.71 BALCO 52.90 57.04 Aluminium Lanjigarh 8.15 7.87 Jharsuguda 54.18 53.9 Vedanta Iron Ore SSL Iron – PID 0.88 0.84 MALCO* TSPL 9.38 8.71 Power Jharsuguda IPP 10.36 7.05 Sterlite IPP 11.57 12.11 Oil and Gas Cairn India 1.87 2.13 Port Business VGCB 0.01 0.01 *Malco is not opera onal 302-4: Reduc on of Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 30 (Energy, Emissions and Climate Related Business Risk) energy consump on OG2: Total amount During FY 2017-18 our Cairn Oil & Gas business invested US$ 18,000 in renewable energy. invested in Renewable Energy OG3: Total amount of During FY 2017-18, total renewable energy generated at Cairn Oil & Gas in repor ng period is 483.91 Mwh renewable energy generated by source WATER GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 28 (Water) Management Approach 2016 GRI 303: Water 303-1: Water During the repor ng period, we withdrew nearly 332 million cubic metres of water. The water was sourced from: 54.2% 2016 withdrawal by source ground water, 4 2.5% surface water, 1.6% wastewater from another organisa on, 0.4% water from tankers and 1.4% rainwater harves ng. The total water withdrawal has decreased in comparison to FY 2016-17, when we withdrew 371 million cubic meters of water. FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Ground Water Surface Water 3 3 3 Business (m ) (m ) Ground Water (m ) Surface Water (m 3) Zinc India 3,681,071 20,382,341 3,289,487 16,684,509 Zinc Interna onal 2,002,257 5,027,207 1,364,266 4,339,589 Aluminium India 59,195 28,097,056* 59,200 50,719,645 Copper India 14,756 1,313,793 15,484 3,807,720 Copper Australia 4,015,868 3,425,614 3,352,162 3,139,927 Copper Africa 158,468,504 38,083,904 153,548,896 40,246,679 Iron Ore Business 259,120 3,139,259 341,946 2,638,065 Oil and Gas Sector 11,563,732 12,537,279 Power Sector 41,563,995 631,457 38,644,650 Total 180,064,503 141,033,169 175,140,177 160,220,784 303-2: Water sources In about ﬁve loca ons, our water withdrawals are greater than or equal to 5% of the water body’s annual average volume. signiﬁcantly aﬀected by However, none of these withdrawals can be considered sensi ve as it does not threaten the biodiversity of the area. At all of withdrawal of water our loca ons, we carefully monitor our water withdrawals and usage and where feasible, make eﬀort s to recharge the water sources. 303-3: Water recycled Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 29 (Water) and reused Vedanta has historically reported water recycling rates based on our total water consump on volumes. This amounts to 26.6% of water recycled. However, as per GRI requirements, the recycle rate of water is to be taken on water withdrawal volumes. The corresponding recycle rate becomes 22.3% in FY 2017-18. BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 33 (Biodiversity) Management Approach 2016 GRI 304: 304-1: Opera onal sites Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 33 (Biodiversity) Biodiversity 2016 owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2: Signiﬁcant Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 33 (Biodiversity) impacts of ac vi es, products, and services on biodiversity 304-3: Habitats Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 33 (Biodiversity) protected or restored 89 GRI Standard Disclosure Response IUCN Classiﬁca on Africa Asia Australia 304-4: IUCN Red List Cri cally Endangered 0 3 0 species and na onal conserva on list species Endangered 5 21 8 with habitats in areas Vulnerable 8 29 7 aﬀected by opera ons Near Threatened 4 7 0 Least Concern 184 8 0 MM2: The number and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 33 (Biodiversity) percentage of total sites iden ﬁed as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place OG4: Number and All sites in our Oil & Gas business percentage of signiﬁcant opera ng sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored EMISSIONS GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 35 (Air quality) Management Approach 2016 GRI 305: 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 30 (Energy, Emissions and Climate Related Business Risk) Emissions 2016 GHG emissions Our business-wise Scope I emissions are: Scope I Emission (tCO2e) Business FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Zinc India 4,830,185 4,288,645 Zinc Interna onal 87,919 54,168 Copper India & Australia 624,738 148,078 Copper Africa 150,306 153,127 Aluminium India 33,167,409 24,808,807 Power Sector 8,894,216 18,996,251 Oil & Gas Sector 1,550,610 1,465,348 Iron Ore Business 1,837,129 1,982,484 Port Business 0 0 Total 51,142,511 51,896,908 305-2: Energy indirect Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 30 (Energy, Emissions and Climate Related Business Risk) (Scope 2) GHG emissions Our business-wise Scope II emissions are: Scope II Emission (tCO2e) Business FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Zinc India 154,564 114,211 Zinc Interna onal 594,167 644,554 Copper India & 87,591 515,274 Australia Copper Africa 4,780 4,613 Aluminium India 237,024 52,542 Power Sector 8,901 6,736 Oil & Gas Sector 84,980 70,827 Iron Ore Business 18,428 18,986 Port Business 11,641 4,922 Total 1,202,076 1,432,665 Our Australia and Zambia opera on purchased electricity from hydro emission with low GHG emission factor. 90 ANNEXURES About this Report 82 External Indices 83 Assurance Statement 84 GRI Standard Index 86 GRI Standard Disclosure Response 305-4: GHG emissions intensity FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Scope 1 + Scope 1 + Scope 2 Scope 2 Revenue GHG Revenue GHG GHG GHG Intensity (US$ mn) Intensity (US$ mn) Emissions Emissions Business (tCO 2e) (tCO2e) Zinc India 4,984,749 3,369 1,480 4,402,856 2,525 1,744 Zinc Interna onal 682,086 535 1,275 698,722 332 2,102 Copper India & 712,329 3,833 186 663,353 3,134 212 Australia Copper Africa 155,086 1,283 121 157,740 874 180 24,861,348 33,404,433 3,588 9,310 2,040 12,187 Aluminium India 19,002,987 8,903,117 877 10,152 836 22,734 Power Sector Oil & Gas Sector 1,635,590 1,480 1,105 1,536,175 1,223 1,256 Iron Ore Business 1,855,557 487 3,810 2,001,470 615 3,252 Port Business 11,641 (92) (127) 4,922 (59) (83) Total 52,344,587 15,360 3,480 53,329,573 11,520 4,629 305-5: Reduc on of Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 11 (Roadmap & Progress), Page 30 (Energy, Emissions and Climate Related GHG emissions Business Risk) 305-7: NOX, SOX, and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 35 (Air Quality) other signiﬁcant air FY 2017-18 (in MT) FY 2016-17 (in MT) emissions PM SOx NOx PM SOx NOx Business Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Zinc India 1,039 22,112 6,798 887 19,255 6,328 Zinc Interna onal 105 Copper India & 7 773 7 902 Australia Copper Africa 417 2,018 104 1,760 3,984 125 Aluminium India 2,733 35,144 12,406 2,344 40,104 10,273 Power Sector 4,387 131,579 37,526 5,101 113,838 28,003 Oil & Gas Sector Iron Ore Business 255 20 20 957 242 206 Port Business Total 8,837 191,751 56,854 11,056 178,324 44,935 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 35 (Waste) Management Approach 2016 GRI 306: 306-1: Water discharge Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18 Eﬄuents and by quality and Waste 2016 des na on Most of our opera onal processes have been designed to be ‘zero discharge’ facili es, where the generated waste water is treated and completely recycled back into process areas such as slag granula on, lime prepara on and gas cleaning plants. In addi on to these ini a ves, eﬄuent and sewage treatment plants are installed at many loca ons for reusing water at primary loca ons. Waste water discharge complies with applicable regulatory limits and, at all sites waste water is treated in eﬄuent treatment plants. Metals are precipitated by addi on of lime and ﬂocculants with the use of sediment ponds. Waste Water Discharged: Business FY 2017-18 (m3) FY 2016-17 (m3) Zinc Interna onal 72,551 894 Copper India & Australia 4,208,027 3,379,344 Copper Africa 147,094,781 148,568,472 Aluminium India 310,497 414,826 Oil & Gas Business 1,009,356 750,258 Iron Ore Business 180,939 113,556 Power 94,700 Port Business 7 Total 152,876,157 153,322,050 91 GRI Standard Disclosure Response 306-2: Waste by type Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 36 (Waste) and disposal method FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Business Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste (MT) Non-hazardous Waste (MT) (MT) (MT) Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Zinc India 71,712 42,022 1,085,397 413,671 63,318 24,911 820,028 87,502 Zinc 705 91 359 9 Interna onal Copper India/ 83,938 39,053 1,788,903 1,857,134 71,732 25,899 1,771,050 1,791,993 Australia Copper Africa 11 297,656 503,880 1,662 386 231,009 Aluminium India 241,366 157,413 7,724,472 5,362,730 176,635 146,704 7,973,313 3,223,538 Power Sector 36 3 5,531,056 5,260,133 90 67 5,525,581 2,832,176 Iron Ore 1 240,721 282,313 2,913 247,066 221,307 Business Oil and Gas 5,164 5,916 1,747 90 Total 402,933 244,498 16,661,562 13,673,587 318,456 198,066 16,568,047 8,156,516 MM3: Total amounts of overburden, rock, Unit FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 tailings, and sludge’s and their associated Overburden MT 112,770,226 103,115,851 risks Tailings MT 29,490,392 27,979,345 Waste Rocks MT 29,626,329 15,566,958 OG5: Volume and disposal of forma on or Unit FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 produced water Total Produced Water KL 32,230,591 30,236,351 Produced Water Re-injected KL 37,807,548 35,139,091 OG6: Volume of ﬂared Unit FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 and vented hydrocarbon Volume of Flared Hydrocarbon SCM 70,786,868 78.6 million Volume of Vented Hydrocarbon SCM 922,253 1.06 million OG7: Amount of drilling The ﬁgure represents quan ty of drilling waste generated. waste (drill mud and cu ngs) and strategies for treatment and Category Unit Disposal Method FY 2017-18 disposal Drilling waste containing oil MT Secure Landﬁll 3,257 MT Used as subgrade material Water Based Mud Drill Cu ngs 1,998 for construc on Synthe c Oil Based Mud MT Secure Landﬁll 0 Drilling Waste PRODUCT AND SERVICES G4 – OG8: Benzene, Not applicable lead and sulphur content in fuels SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: At each of our businesses, the vendor on-boarding process requires vendor disclosure of their HSE & Sustainability systems. In Management addi on, project speciﬁc requirement may require addi onal screening of vendors for the environmental management systems. Approach 2016 GRI 308: 308-1: New suppliers All new suppliers undergo Sustainability screening checklist and scoring system be fore ge ng registered with us. Supplier that were screened using Environmental environmental criteria Assessment 2016 92 ANNEXURES About this Report 82 External Indices 83 Assurance Statement 84 GRI Standard Index 86 Category Social GRI Standard Disclosure Response EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 61 Management Approach 2016 GRI-401: 401-1: New employee Employment hires and employee Corporate Cairn Fujairah VL Jhar MALCO Stelite VL Lanj 2016 turnover BALCO Vizag R CMT KCM VZI HZL TSPL Copper Iron Ore Ports Oil & Gas Gold e Gender g Age Total SA Gamsberg i South Africa o n Australia Namibia India Zambia BMM UAE Below 20 2 2 1 5 Yrs 2030 1,454 27 14 5 12 61 73 827 121 1 33 10 5 1 264 Yrs L 31o 45 1,003 c 1 38 16 2 11 3 19 13 3 3 1 893 Yrs a l 46Male 58 1 17 4 2 2 1 1 16 44 Yrs Above 58 12 2 3 30 47 Yrs Below 20 1 1 Yrs N 20o 30 6 20 119 166 9 28 77 1 426 n Yrs 31L 45 6 4 1 31 4 1 33 2 4 15 1 102 o Yrs c 46a 58 l 1 3 14 2 4 8 1 7 40 Yrs Above 58 1 1 3 1 6 Yrs Below 20 1 1 2 Yrs 2030 37 2 3 10 16 18 127 58 1 1 15 10 10 178 486 Yrs L o 31c 45 a 18 4 2 2 3 1 3 93 126 l Yrs 4658 18 13 31 Yrs Above 58 35 35 Female Yrs Below 20 Yrs N 20o 30 2 33 44 5 12 38 134 n Yrs 31L 45 o 5 5 3 13 Yrs c 46a 58 l 3 3 Yrs Above 58 Yrs 93 GRI Standard Disclosure Response % of Total full me employees FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Employee turnover including 8.74% 8.40% re rements and including VRS Total A ri on (Refers to 5.33% 5.34% Employee ini ated Separa on) Employee Turnover & A ri on by Region (FY 2017-18) Australia Zambia Namibia South Africa India Employee turnover Number 4 347 134 54 1,601 including re rements and Rate 19% 5% 19% 0.26% 5.46% including VRS Total A ri on 5% 2% 6% 3% 5% (Refers to Male Employee ini ated 5% 0% 2% 0.6% 1% Separa on) Female 401-2: Beneﬁts provided Beneﬁts provided to fullme employees that are not provided to partme or temporary employees include: to fullme employees life-insurance scheme, health-insurance scheme, disability coverage, parental leave, re rement beneﬁts and that are not provided to management grades are covered under stock op ons scheme of Vedanta. temporary or partme employees 401-3: Parental leave Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 64 (Progressive Policies) LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 402: Labour/ 402-1: Minimum no ce Mechanism to bring awareness to all employees on any signiﬁcant opera onal change like restructuring, mergers, acquisi ons, Management periods regarding expansions etc. is in place. No ce period(s) regarding signiﬁcant opera onal changes is indicated in collec ve bargaining Changes 2016 opera onal changes agreements and cer ﬁed standing order of respec ve en es. For example in India it is minimum 21 days, Zambia minimum no ce period is one year; Namibia three months and South Africa one month. G4-MM4: Number of All incidence pertaining to social are categorised negligible (category 1), minor (category 2), moderate (category 3), serious strikes and lock-outs (category 4) and disastrous (category 5) and captured on a monthly basis. exceeding one week's dura on, by country OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 22 (Safety & Occupa onal Health) Management Approach 2016 GRI 403: 403-1: Workers 100% of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health and safety commi ee. Occupa onal representa on in formal Health & Safety joint managementAll units are having safety commi ee, having representa on from the management and unionised workers, which covers en re worker health and workforce working at site. The total workforce vary signiﬁcantly based on the opera ons and are generally speciﬁed in collec ve safety commi ees contractual agreements. The commi ee meets on regular basis to advice on occupa onal health and safety improvement. In case of opera ons without a worker union, the principle contractor along with sub-contractors is invited to the monthly mee ngs to discuss speciﬁc HSE issues. 403-2: Type of injury Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 24 (Safety Performance) and rates of injury, All deﬁni ons as per ICMM guidelines occupa onal diseases, FY 2017-18 lost days, and Employees Total Injuries 53 absenteeism, and total Injury Rates (Total Recordable Injury FR) 1.01 number of work related Lost Day Rate 14.68 fatali es Work-Related Fatali es 2 Contract Total Injuries 191 Workers + Injury Rates (Total Recordable Injury FR) 1.23 Third Party Lost Day Rate 14.92 Work-Related Fatali es 7 Combined Total Recordable Disease Frequency Rate 2.82 403-3: Health and safety Health and safety topics are covered in the formal agreements with trade union. It is clearly stated in the agreement that the topics covered in formal workmen / recognised union / federa on will support in all the measures / ini a ves to be taken by the Company for agreements with trade improving produc on / produc vity, work culture, quality & safety. unions Beside this, cer ﬁed Standing Orders of units also cover these topics. 94 ANNEXURES About this Report 82 External Indices 83 Assurance Statement 84 GRI Standard Index 86 GRI Standard Disclosure Response TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 61 (Talent Management and Development ) Management Approach 2016 GRI 404: Training 404-1: Average hours of Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 61 (Talent Management and Development) and Educa on training per year per 2016 employee 404-2: Programs for In line with our philosophy, con nuous learning & capability building is impera ve for an organisa on to grow. To cater to this upgrading employee need, our business en es provide training on technical skill building .We also conduct structured programs to assist employees skills and transi on for smooth transi oning from work to re rement. Some of the programs are on Computer Literacy programs, wealth assistance programs management, tradesman skill building programs, cer ﬁcates and diploma courses, re rement workshops & employee assistance programs. 404-3: Percentage of 100% of our employees receive regular performance reviews. employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 63 (Diversity and Inclusion) Management Approach 2016 GRI 405: 405-1: Diversity of Diversity and governance bodies and Composi on of Governance Bodies Equal employees. List diﬀerent type of Age group Gender Opportunity Board 2016 Between Less than Above 50 30-50 Male Female 30 years Years years Board of Directors 0% 14.3% 85.7% 85.7% 14.3% Employees 89.44% 10.56% 405-2: Ra o of basic We are an equal opportunity employer. Across Vedanta Group we recruit both men & women on equal salary ra o. Our salary and remunera on remunera on is linked to performance of the individual, business en ty and overall group. of women to men. NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 406: Non406-1: Incidents of Vedanta is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate based on race, religion, caste, gender, age, disability, discrimina on discrimina on and HIV/AIDS status, and any other characteris c. correc ve ac ons taken We see sexual harassment at the workplace as one form of discriminatory behaviour. We have formal procedures for media ng cases of sexual harassment brought to a commi ee. The commi ee includes external members on the panel to ensure independence and provide balance. Sexual Harassment cases FY 2017-18 Number of sexual harassment cases opened 16 Number of sexual harassment cases upheld and found correct 14 Number of sexual harassment cases closed 15 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: Vedanta’s Human Rights Policy recognises the right to associate freely and to collec ve bargaining. Management Approach 2016 GRI 407: 407-1: Opera ons and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 42 (Collec ve Bargaining) Freedom of suppliers in which the We have collec ve bargaining agreements with our workmen at HZL, BALCO, CMT, KCM, Sesa and Zinc Interna onal Associa on and right to exercise Opera ons. The agreements are nego ated and agreed by both management and union representa ves. The agreements Collec ve freedom of associa on include clauses rela ng to remunera on, allowances, working condi ons, incen ves and bonuses, health and safety, Bargaining 2016 and collec ve bargaining may be manpower produc vity. All the signiﬁcant policy and opera onal changes aﬀec ng the unionised employees are in mated to violated or at signiﬁcant them through union representa ves. Our units at BALCO, CMT, HZL, SESA GOA, KCM & Zinc Interna onal have recognised risk unions while other loca ons have adequate systems and processes for employee development, appraisal, remunera on and grievance redressal. Similarly our signiﬁcant suppliers are generally the big & well reputed industry organisa ons like Coal India, SAIL and L&T etc. with whom we engage directly for the bulk of material for further processing or as raw material. All these organisa ons have the collec ve bargaining and other labour union mechanisms. CHILD LABOUR GRI 103: Vedanta’s Human Rights Policy states that the company has zero tolerance for child labour – directly or through contracted Management labour. Approach 2016 GRI 408: Child 408-1: Opera ons and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 43 (Ensuring right age for the right job) Labour 2016 suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labour 95 GRI Standard Disclosure Response FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR GRI 103: Vedanta’s Human Rights Policy states that the company has zero tolerance for forced or compulsory labour – Management directly or through contracted labour. Approach 2016 GRI 409: Forced 409-1: Opera ons and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 43 (Supplier Diligence) or Compulsory suppliers at signiﬁcant Labour 2016 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour SECURITY PRACTICES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 410: Security 410-1: Security Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 42 (Human Rights) Prac ces 2016 personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES GRI 103: Vedanta has well-deﬁned policies and standards to ensure that we uphold the rights of indigenous peoples, should we need to Management interact with them around our opera ons. The standards outline the ac ons Vedanta needs to take at eac h stage of its Approach 2016 opera ons in case we are opera ng on or near their tradi onal lands and/or are faced with reloca on of indigenous peoples due to our ac vi es. The standards call upon the company to: Ensure full respect for the dignity, human rights, aspira ons, cultures, and natural-resource based livelihoods of the IPs. Avoid adverse impacts of the project on the IPs and when avoidance is unfeasible to minimise those impacts Establish and maintain an on-going rela onship with the aﬀected IPs Foster good faith nego a ons and informed par cipa on of IPs when projects are located on tradi onal lands Respect and preserve the culture, knowledge, and prac ces of IPs GRI 411: Rights 411-1: Incidents of There were no viola ons involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the repor ng year. of Indigenous viola ons involving Peoples rights of indigenous peoples G4-MM5: Total number None of our opera ng mines are opera ng in or adjacent to indigenous people territory. of opera ons taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of opera ons or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communi es. G4-OG9: Opera ons Our opera ons in Odisha are located near indigenous peoples territories. where indigenous communi es are present or aﬀected by ac vi es and where speciﬁc engagement strategies are in place. G4-MM6: Number and No signiﬁcant disputes rela ng to land use, customary rights of local communi es and indigenous peoples was brought to our descrip on of signiﬁcant no ce during the repor ng year. disputes rela ng to land use, customary rights of local communi es and Indigenous Peoples. GRI 411: Rights G4-MM7: The extent to No signiﬁcant disputes rela ng to land use, customary rights of local communi es and indigenous peoples was brought to our of Indigenous which grievance no ce during the repor ng year. Peoples mechanisms were used to resolve disputes rela ng to land use, customary rights of local communi es and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. G4-OG10: Number and None descrip on of signiﬁcant disputes with local communi es and indigenous peoples. HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 42 (Human Rights) Management Vedanta’s Human Rights policy is the guiding document for our human rights prac ces. Approach 2016 96 ANNEXURES About this Report 82 External Indices 83 Assurance Statement 84 GRI Standard Index 86 GRI Standard Disclosure Response GRI 412: Human 412-1: Opera ons that Each year, all of our opera onal sites undergo the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Program (VSAP) audit. This audit is Rights have been subject to conducted by an external 3 rd party overseen by our Management Assurance Services (MAS) team. As part of the audit, sites are Assessment 2016 human rights reviews or evaluated on their human rights management related to supplier and vendor management. impact assessments. 412-2: Employee Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 42 (Human Rights) training on human rights policies or procedures 412-3: Signiﬁcant Through our Human Rights policy – which has been implemented across all Group businesses Vedanta is commi ed to investment agreements ensuring that the processes that it has in place, and con nues to develop, follow the UN Guiding Principles. and contracts that include By conduc ng ESIAs in compliance with applicable legal requirements and Vedanta Sustainability Framework, human rights human rights clauses or considera ons are taken into account for all new projects, incl uding the obliga on to undertake a human rights screening that underwent human process in all merger and acquisi on ac vi es. rights screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 46 (Community) Management Approach 2016 GRI 413: Local 413-1: Opera ons with Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Pages 44-59 Communi es local community 2016 engagement, impact All of our opera ons have on-going local community engagements. These engagements are driven by a structured stakeholder assessments, and engagement plan for all of the mapped stakeholders. development programs In this ﬁscal year, we also began the process of conduc ng a mid-term needs and impact assessment for all of our CSR projects. The work will be completed in FY 2018-19. Prior to star ng opera ons, all of our sites conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment and Social Impact Assessment. These assessments are updated in case the sites undergo signiﬁcant expansion programs. Public disclosure is a mandated part of the EIAs and SIAs. SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Vedanta’s Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) serves at the guiding document for all our interac ons with suppliers and vendors. Management It is mandatory for all our suppliers to abide by the Code. The SCOC covers aspects related to: Labour & human rights, Health, Approach 2016 Safety, Environment & Sustainability, Ethics & business integrity, Intellectual property, and Prohibi on on insider trading. GRI 414: Supplier 414-1: New suppliers Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 73 (Supply Chain) Social that were screened Assessment using social criteria. PUBLIC POLICY GRI 103: Vedanta’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the guiding document on our interac ons with the government and poli cal Management par es. Approach 2016 GRI 415: Public 415-1: Poli cal Vedanta Sustainability Report 2017-18: Page 71 (Poli cal Par es) Policy 2016 Contribu ons ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING G4 – MM8 Number (and percentage) of company opera ng sites where ar sanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, Nil the site; the associated risks and the ac ons taken to manage and mi gate these risks. G4 – MM9 Sites where rese lements took place, the number of Nil households rese led in each, and how their livelihoods were aﬀected in the process. MATERIAL ASPECT: CLOSURE PLANNING G4 – MM10 Number and percentage of opera ons with the As a part of statutory clearance all our mines opera ons have a closure plan. closure plans. G4 – OG11 Numbers of sites that No site has been decommissioned or are in the process of decommissioning in the oil & gas business. have been decommissioned and sites those are in the process of being decommissioned. PROCESS SAFETY G4 – OG13 Number of process There were total 7 incident of Tier 1 (3) and Tier 2 (4) process safety events reported in ﬁnancial year safety events, by business ac vity. Process Safety Tier FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Tier 1 1 3 Tier 2 2 4 Total 3 7 97 WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK Email: sustainability@vedanta.co.in sd.vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2017-18/feedback 98 NOTES 99 Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street, London W1J 8DZ, Tel.: +44 (0)20 7499 5900 | Fax: +44 (0)20 7491 8440 | vedantaresources.com GET IN TOUCH MORE ONLINE View our online Annual Report We value your feedback and View our online SD Report http://www.vedantaresources.com/ welcome comments on this report sd.vedantaresources.com/ investor-relations/results-andor any aspect of our approach to SustainableDevelopment2017-18/ reports/annual-interimcognito sustainability reporting. reports.aspx sustainability@vedanta.co.in
