Epson Group SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Epson conducts its business activities with the aim of becoming a company that is indispensable to customers and society. These activities are rooted in our Management Philosophy and in the employee mission underpinning the “Exceed Your Vision” tagline. Editorial Policy This report has been compiled from comprehensive Financial information Non-ﬁnancial information information about Epson’s CSR activities that is available on our websites. An annual report, it is Integrated Report (booklet & PDF) organized into chapters, each of which is aligned with an element of Epson’s Management Philosophy. Annual Report (PDF) Sustainability Report (PDF) Investor Relations (Web) Social Responsibility (Web) Information for FY2017 has been reported in accordance with the Core option of the GRI Standards. Reference Investor Relations Social Responsibility websites https://www.epson.jp/IR/ https://www.epson.jp/SR/ In addition to this report, Epson has been working to improve communication with its stakeholders through the publication of an Integrated Report, its websites, and other media. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 1 Contents 001 Editorial Policy 004 Group Outline 006 Message from Management 007 Business Vision 010 Epson’s CSR and SDGs 026 United Nations Global Compact Commitment to Customer Satisfaction 027 Approach to Customer Commitment 029 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction 031 Universal Design 034 Sales/ Service & Support 036 Activities to Improve Quality 039 Product Safety Initiatives Commitment to the Environment 041 Environmental Vision 2050 043 2025 Goals 046 Life Cycle Thinking 049 Products and Services that Reduce Environmental Impacts 067 Production 074 Product Recycling 078 Eco Community 081 Biodiversity Conservation 083 Environmental Management Commitment to People 084 Human Resources Development 090 Promotion of Diversity 099 Respecting Human Rights 103 Fostering a Better Workplace 108 Occupational Safety and Health Commitment to Governance 114 Corporate Governance 122 Internal Control System 124 Initiatives of Internal Control 128 Security 130 Approach to Supply Chain CSR 133 Procurement Guidelines 134 Supply Chain CSR Initiatives 140 Conflict Minerals 142 Green Purchasing 143 Paper Products Procurement Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 2 Commitment to Society 144 Approach to Corporate Citizenship 145 Education for Young People 147 Culture and the Arts 148 Community Events 149 Environmental Conservation 150 Social Welfare 151 Approach to Communication 152 Customers, Shareholders and Investors 153 Governments, Communities, NGOs/ NPOs 154 Suppliers 155 Employees 156 Other Stakeholders 158 Appendices Reporting Period Previous Reports April 2017 to March 2018 Epson has been publishing a report every year since 1999. In 2003, the name of the report was changed from Environmental Report to Note: Contains some information on activities conducted after March 2018. Sustainability Report. Scope Date of Report Publication This report describes the sustainability efforts of Seiko Epson CorporaSeptember 28, 2018 (previous report: September 29, 2017) tion and 86 Group companies. The scope of environmental reporting, however, covers Seiko Epson Corporation, and 56 Group companies . Note: “Epson” refers to the Epson Group, unless indicated otherwise. Organizational Changes in This Reporting Period ● Addition of one subsidiaries and removal of two Inquiries about Sustainability Report ● Removal of zero affiliate Seiko Epson Corporation Memberships PR&IR Department ● Global Compact Network Japan ● Japan Portable Rechargeable Battery Recycling Center 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, ● Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association Nagano-ken, Japan 392-8502 ● Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries Association Tel: +81-266-52-3131 (main) ● Communications and Information Network Association of Japan CSR activity website ● Home Electric Appliances Fair Trade Conference https://global.epson.com/SR/ ● Japanese Business Federation (Nippon Keidanren) Guidelines This report has been prepared in accordance with the Core option of Disclaimer the GRI Standards *1. ISO 26000: 2010/ JIS Z 26000: 2012 (Guidance This report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, and plans on social responsibility) was used as a reference. based on the information available at the time of publication. Actual results may be different from those discussed. GRI Standards and ISO 26000 comparison (GRI content index) https://global.epson.com/SR/gri/ *1  he Global Reporting Initiative, an NGO established in 1997 that drafts and promotes T international guidelines for sustainability reporting. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 3 Group Outline Corporate Outline Company Name Seiko Epson Corporation Founded May 18, 1942 Head Oﬃce 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Nagano, Japan Paid-in Capital ￥53,204 million Revenue (consolidated) Number of employees Group companies Epson Group (consolidated): 76,391 87 ￥1,102.1 billion (includes parent company) (FY2017) Parent company: 12,502 Japan: 16, Overseas: 71 (as of March 31, 2018) (as of March 31, 2018) ■ Percentage of Sales Revenue by Region ■ Percentage of Employees by Region (consolidated) Japan Asia/ Oceania Japan Asia/ 25.4% 27.1% 22.6% Oceania Percentage of Percentage of The Americas 67.1% employees sales revenue by region 4.5% by region (consolidated) (FY2017) (as of March 31, 2018) Europe The Americas Europe 21.2% 29.1% 3.0% ■ Group Company Breakdown Manufacturing/ R&D Manufacturing/ 24 R&D 7 Japan: 16 Overseas: 71 (as of March 31, 2018) (as of March 31, 2018) Sales/ Sales/ Service Service 9 47 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 4 FY2017 Business Overview by Segment Consolidated Revenue ￥ 1,102.1 billion Business proﬁt ￥ 74.7 billion Printing Solutions Business segment E p s o n w i l l f u r t h e r r e fi n e i t s o r i g i n a l M i c r o Pi e zo i n k j e t t e c h n o l o g y t o p r o v i d e h i g h e r p r o d u c t i v i t y, b e t t e r e nvironme nt al pe r for ma nc e, a nd a susta inable p r inting ecosystem. Percentage of revenue Revenue ￥736.6 billion 66.7 ％ Segment proﬁt ￥94.8 billion Printers, scanners, office papermaking system, others Visual Communications Business segment Epson will hone the competitive edge of its microdisplay and projection technologies to provide exciting visual experiences and a natural visual communications environment in business and home settings. Percentage of revenue Revenue ￥198.8 billion 18.0 ％ Segment proﬁt ￥24.4 billion Projectors, smart glasses, others Wearable & Industrial Products Business segment Epson will create new value by capitalizing on the strengths of its technology in areas such as precision machining, high-density board assembly, low power designs, high-precision sensing, and advanced precision mechatronics. Marketed by Seiko Watch Corp. Percentage of revenue Revenue ￥ 167.3 billion 15.2 ％ Segment proﬁt ￥7.1 billion © Peanuts Microdevices, Watches Industrial robots others Other * Consolidated total sales exclude intersegment sales Revenue ￥ 0.9 billion * Segment sales include intersegment sales * Business profit and segment profit are ver y similar to operating income under Japanese accounting standards (J-GA AP), both conceptually and numerically. Epson began using -￥0.5 business profit as an indicator after adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Segment loss billion in FY2014 to facilitate comparisons with past results. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 5 Message from Management Aiming to Make Epson an Indispensable Company for Our Customers and the World In April 2017, we added the phrase “Epson aspires to be an indispensable company” to Epson’s Management Philosophy. This phrase declares our commitment to playing a central role in realizing a better world by continuing to leverage our original technology to create new customer value. Epson’s reason for being is to enrich lives and foster greater happiness. This statement of our commitment to becoming an indispensable company also expresses our desire to use our businesses to help achieve a sustainable society-a goal that happens to overlap the sustainable development goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. Epson joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2004. We have been contributing to solutions to social problems by implementing initiatives that are aligned with the 10 principles of the Global Compact relating to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In 2017, we created a CSR materiality matrix that identified and prioritized topics that we should tackle in light of their importance to both Epson and society. We then examined the relevance of these priority topics with the 17 SDGs by comparing them against the 169 targets of the SDGs. Ultimately, we found that 13 of the SDGs intersect with Epson’s current business activities. So, for the time being, we will focus more heavily on business activities that will achieve the targets under these 13 SDGs while at the same time contributing to solutions to social problems and sustainability through actions that achieve the growth strategy we have outlined in the Epson 25 Corporate Vision. Given the evidence of recent global climate change, initiatives that reduce the environmental impacts of enterprise are both critical and urgent for a sustainable future. Epson has a unique portfolio of efficient, compact and precision technologies that enable us produce products that reduce the environmental footprints of our customers. These are the technologies that enabled products like the PaperLab, a dry-process office papermaking system that produces new paper from used, and our high-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printers, which combine print performance and energy efficiency. We use these technologies to maximize the environmental performance of the products and services we create, produce, and sell for use in homes, offices, and the commercial and industrial sectors. We will contribute to progress toward achieving the SDGs in ways that only Epson can, by fully recognizing environmental and social issues throughout the value chain and by eliminating wasteful energy use. Going forward, we will persist in our aspirations to become an indispensable company that plays a central role in realizing a better world. Toward this end, we will continue to strive to create new value by advancing our technologies and driving innovation to make the world a happier and easier place to live for all. We will look hard at solutions to social issues, understand what customers and society expect from us, and provide products and services that far exceed those expectations. Minoru Usui President Seiko Epson Corporation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 6 Business Vision Epson 25 Corporate Vision In March 2016, Epson established the Epson 25 Corporate Vision, a strategic plan that will guide company growth out to the year 2025. Vision statement Advances in information and communications technology mean increasing amounts of information will become available on the internet, and so-called cyber space will continue to expand. Epson believes that products acting as the interface between cyber space and the actual or real world where customers operate will be of critical importance. As a company that specializes in generating value in the real world, Epson’s vision is to create a new connected age of people, things and information with efficient, compact and precision technologies that generate value to customers in the form of smart technologies, the environment and performance in four areas of innovation. Value generated by Epson technologies Smart technologies Create convenient and easy-to-use products that can be used a ny time a nd a ny whe re, a nd which he lp cu stome r s re duc e waste, and save money, effort and time. Environment Leverage Epson products to reduce environmental impact by improving customer s’ work processes, and contribute to a sustainable society. Performance Use outstanding products to contribute to customer s’ performance through productivity, accuracy and creativity. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 7 Epson’s four areas of innovation Epson will generate value with its efficient, compact and precision technologies in printing, visual communications, wearables, robotics and microdevices to drive innovations in four areas. We will also strengthen our business infrastructure to support these efforts. Printing domain Visual communications domain R e ﬁ n e M i c r o P i e z o t e c h n o l o g y, a n d Reﬁne original microdisplay and projection Printing domain Visual communications domain expand into high-productivity segments. te chnologies, and create outstanding R Improve i c r o P i e z o t eperformance e ﬁ n e Menvironmental c h n o l o g y, aand nd Reﬁne visual original microdisplay experiences and projection and a natural visual expand into high-productivity create a sustainable printing ecosystem. segments. te chnologies, and communications environment create outstanding for ever y Improve environmental performance and aspect experiences visual of business and and a natural visual lifestyles. create a sustainable printing ecosystem. communications environment for ever y aspect of business and lifestyles. Wearables domain Robotics domain Leverage our watchmaking heritage, reﬁne C o m b i n e o u r c o r e te c h n o l o g i e s w i t h Wearables domain Robotics domain timekeeping and sensing accuracy, and sensing and smar t technologies in Leverage oﬀer a sense our of watchmaking heritage, reﬁne status and fashion. C o m b i n e o u r cexpand manufacturing, ith h n o l o g i e s wand o r e te capplications, timekeeping and sensing accuracy, and s e n s i nag future create m which a n d sin a r t t e crobots h n o l osupport gies in oﬀer a sense of status and fashion. manufacturing, people in a wideexpand variety applications, of situations. and create a future in which robots support people in a wide variety of situations. Microdevices domain: Supporting the Four Innovations Contribute to Epson’s ﬁnishe d products and to the development of smar t communications, p owe r, Microdevices Microdevices domain: Supporting the Four Innovations transportation and manufacturing systems with advanced Epson quartz timing and sensing solutions and low-power to Epson’s ﬁnishe Contributesemiconductor d products and to the development of solutions. smar t communications, p owe r, Microdevices transportation and manufacturing systems with advanced Epson quartz timing and sensing solutions and low-power semiconductor solutions. Epson has set high targets and established its vision. Going forward, we aim to create a new connected age of people, things and information with efficient, compact and precision technologies, and become a company that is indispensable for our customers and society. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 8 Mid-Range Business Plan Objectives (FY2016-2018) The Epson 25 Corporate Vision is divided into three phases, and a mid-range business plan is established for each. Epson will take a three-phase approach to realizing the Epson 25 Corporate Vision. The Epson 25 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2016-2018) is the plan for the first phase. In this phase, we will continue the strategic initiatives begun under the previous corporate vision. At the same time, we will prepare the infrastructure to facilitate product development and will make the necessary investment in line with strategies for attaining the Epson 25 vision. Building a foundation for growth during this three-year phase will be an important first step toward accelerating revenue growth and increasing profitability in the phases that follow. Financial targets under the Epson 25 Corporate Vision, and Phase 1 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2016-18) positioning Stable Revenue Growth FY2016-2018 FY2019-2021 FY2022-2025 First phase Second phase Third phase ● Prepare foundation & ● Show results and ● Establish a high profit products grow profit structure ROS 10% ROS 12% (FY2021 target) (FY2025 target) FY2025 targets Revenue 1,700.0 billion ROS*2 12% Business proﬁt*1 200.0 billion ROE*3 15% Assumed rates: ￥115/ USD, ￥125/ EUR *1 Business proﬁt is very similar to operating income under Japanese accounting standards (J-GAAP), both conceptually and numerically. Epson began using business proﬁt as an indicator after adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). *2 Return on sales *3 Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent company Basic Policies ● In businesses where SE15*4 strategic initiatives were successful, continue to grow by honing our edge. In business domains where we were unable to fully advance, quickly address issues and establish a path to growth. ● E  nsure growth by creating products and services that deliver customer value in the areas of smart technology, the environment, and performance. ● Invest management resources as needed to achieve Epson 25, while also taking into account short-term profit growth. ● Quickly establish new business models, and strengthen sales, support, the brand, and operations. *4 Epson’s corporate vision from FY2009 to FY2015 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 9 Epson’s CSR and SDGs What Is Epson’s CSR? Epson has been helping to solve various social issues by delivering unique value through innovative and creative products and solutions. Our mission is to build stakeholder trust as we grow and prosper with communities and to help create a better world. We consider any action designed to realize Epson’s Management Philosophy to be a CSR activity. In addition to ensuring compliance, observing corporate ethics, and fulfilling our responsibilities at a level that exceeds what society requires, we will fully demonstrate our unique creativity in CSR by creating value through the products we develop and manufacture. In 2017, Epson developed a materiality matrix that identifies key CSR themes, such as environmental issues, respect for human rights, human resources development, and governance. We will use this matrix to guide and strengthen our CSR activities and to help make the world a better place as we seek to become an indispensable company. Management Philosophy (Please refer to page 158 of “Appendices”) Management Philosophy, Principles of Corporate Behavior, and Epson’s CSR Established in 2005 and applying to the entire Epson Group, Principles of Corporate Behavior spells out principles of conduct for realizing the goals of Epson’s Management Philosophy. In 2017, we updated Principles of Corporate Behavior in response to the latest societal requirements. Epson will fulfill its social responsibility by aspiring to live up to the principles below based on “trust-based management,” a concept that underlies Epson’s Management Philosophy. Principles of Corporate Behavior (Please refer to page 159 of “Appendices”) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 10 Key CSR Themes (Materiality) To reach the goals stated in our Management Philosophy and to become an indispensable company, we believe it is important to identify issues that should be addressed and to solve them through our business activities. In 2017, Epson selected CSR themes, taking into account social issues defined by ISO 26000 and other sources. We evaluated them from both our perspective and a social perspective, and prioritized the key themes in the “Key CSR Themes (Materiality)” matrix. Key CSR Theme Matrix (Materiality) Importance from Epson’s Perspective Principles of Corporate Behaviour ● Effective use of energy and resources ● Creating new products and services with Importance from a Societal Perspective ● Climate change and global advanced technology warming ● Contributing to the environment through Management Philosophy ● Respect for human rights products and services ● Consumer health and safety ● Information security ● Awareness-raising and ● Corporate governance ● Business operations aligned with global consumer education ● Communication with social trends ● Control of water and stakeholders ● Productivity improvement utilizing ICT drainage ● Community contributions and ● Product competitiveness ● Universal design engagement ● Strategic marketing ● Labor conditions and work ● Compliance environment ● Diversity ● Occupational health and safety ● Human resources development, hiring, and ● Transparent disclosure retention ● Product quality and communications ● Supply chain management ● Resource recycling ● Risk management (including BCP) ● Biodiversity conservation ● Air pollution Social trends affecting Epson Corporate Human rights Labor practices Environment Fair business Consumer affairs Community governance practices engagement Social trends, social norms GRI SASB ISO26000 SDGs RBA code of conduct ● Identifying Key CSR Themes Recognize social Evaluate materiality Evaluate materiality Determine validity trends and from a company from a societal of themes company direction perspective perspective Understand midand Epson’s CSR Executive Outside board members Epson’s CSR long-term trends and Council and CSR and experts evaluate Management Committee identified 466 potential Management Committee their materiality determines the validity of key themes in select evaluate their materiality the CSR themes and areas*1 selects key themes *1 Select areas Direction of company General social trends Electrical & Electronics Industry General societal demands management trends and societal demands ● Management Philosophy ● Global Japan ● RBA Code of Conduct ● GRI ● Principles of Corporate ● White Paper ● SASB Behavior Information and ● ISO26000 ● Corporate Vision Communications in ● SDGs Epson 25 Japan 2016 ● SRI survey item ● Mid-term Business Plan ● Environment Vision 2050 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 11 To help ensure that our activities are effective, we specified action items and targets (KPI) for each key CSR theme. We will periodically revise the key CSR themes and action items based on feedback from stakeholders and will systematically drive continuous improvements. Key CSR Themes (Materiality Matrix) (Please refer to page 14.) CSR Stakeholder Dialog Dialog with the Sustainable Management Forum of Japan We meet with various stakeholders to help ensure that our CSR activities are aligned with the needs of society. In April 2018, we welcomed representatives from the Sustainable Management Forum (SMF) of Japan, a nonprofit organization, to Seiko Epson to teach us about what they look for, as members of a business sustainability evaluation committee, when evaluating sustainability based on prepared guidelines. Epson’s CSR activities were also discussed based on the Epson Group’s Integrated Report and Sustainability Report. Discussions covered a wide variety of topics, with Epson explaining its current CSR activities and the SMF explaining recent business risks and opportunities related to SDGs. The SMF recommended that we strengthen our efforts to instill our corporate philosophy and corporate culture throughout the global Epson Group and supply chain, make it a point to provide easy-to-understand information that is written for the target audience, and release useful, timely corporate information to ESG investors. We will act on the SMF’s recommendations to reinforce our CSR activities. (From the left rear) The Sustainable Management Forum of Japan’s Masuhiro Kinugawa, Nobuyuki Kimata, Kyoji Okamoto, Michihiko Suzuki, Harunaga Nakamura, and (in the front row) Seiko Epson employees Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 12 CSR Organization Epson’s CSR Management Office has a direct reporting line to the company ● CSR Organization president. The director of the office is a member of Seiko Epson’s board of Board Meeting directors. He has overall responsibility and authority for the Epson Group’s CSR activities. President CSR Executive Council The mission of the CSR Management Office is to promote CSR activities CSR Director (board director) throughout the Epson Group and to help make Epson an indispensable company by executing a CSR strategy that builds stakeholder trust through business CSR Management CSR Management Office Committee operations that meet the expectations of society. Functional supervisory department Epson’s CSR Executive Council, which is made up of board members, serves as Functional an advisory body to the president and steers the CSR activities of the global supervisory department Epson Group. The council also reviews our CSR activities and deliberates action plans for the most important challenges. The CSR Executive Council has set up a CSR Management Committee to discuss and study CSR-specific issues. The CSR Management Committee, which is made up of general managers from functional supervisory departments, reports its findings to the CSR Executive Council. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 13 Key CSR Themes (Materiality Matrix) FY2017 Action Items, Achievements and Results Epson has identified 29 key CSR themes. Below we have listed the 16 themes that we consider to be the most important for society and for Epson. We have indicated our FY2017 action items for each of these, as well as our achievements and results. Principles of Key CSR FY2017 Action Item Corporate ESG Achievements & Results in FY2017 Theme Categories Behavior Creating new Connect cyberspace and • We released a blazingly fast yet energy-efficient Pursuing customer satisfaction Main business products the real world with the office inkjet multifunction printer equipped with newly and services aim of creating a new developed PrecisionCore lineheads. with leading connected age of people, • The PaperLab A-8000, a dry-process office technology things and information, papermaking system that mitigates environmental and provide the value of impacts and solves other social issues, was awarded our efficient, compact and the Japan Industrial Technology Prize in recognition of precision technologies its originality. to the real world in every • High-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printers (EWbusiness M670FT/ M571T) and the PaperLab A-8000 office papermaking system were recognized with a 2017 Good Design Award and were named to the Good Design Best 100, an honor bestowed on the products that are the best of the best. • High-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printers from Epson were recognized in 2018 with a prestigious iF Design Award by Hanover-based iF International Forum Design. • Epson released analog watches under the Trume brand. These watches combine design excellence with state-of-the-art functionality based on Epson’s unique strengths and technology. Business As the importance of • We shipped our 20 millionth high-capacity ink tank Main business operations smart technologies printer, products that provide value by allowing users aligned with and the environmental to print with peace of mind. global social performance grow • The Satogaeri ink cartridge recycling project, a joint trends increasingly important, effort with Brother, Canon, Dell, Epson, and HP Japan, Epson, as a real world entered its 10th year. manufacturing company, • Thomson Reuters selected Epson from more than 5,000 will continue to create technology companies for its list of the world’s top 100 smart products that technology companies. This honor recognizes Epson contribute to the as one of the industry’s most operationally sound and environment and financially successful organizations. demonstrate unrivaled • Global information company Clarivate Analytics selected performance Epson for inclusion in the “Top 100 Global Innovators” list for the 7th consecutive year. This award recognizes companies that have contributed to the advancement of science and technology through ongoing intellectual property activities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 14 Principles of Key CSR FY2017 Action Item Corporate ESG Achievements & Results in FY2017 Theme Categories Behavior Productivity Refine our efficient, • We began collecting and monitoring real-time data on Pursuing customer satisfaction Main business improvement compact, and precision things such as production equipment vibration using utilizing ICT technologies, advance our compact sensors developed by Epson. actuator, optical control, • We developed technology for high product quality and and sensor technologies, stable production. and bring in information • We launched high-efficiency factory logistics by and communications developing a site parts logistics management system technology to continue to that integrates production control information, create new customer value warehouse control information, and manufacturing instructions information. Products Continue to provide high• We began inkjet printer production at a new factory Main business competitiveness quality, cost-competitive in the Philippines with highly efficient, state-of-the-art products that other operations and improved space productivity. companies cannot easily • We announced construction of a new building that will imitate, and do so in a house a trial production and mass production factory timely manner through for large commercial and industrial printers and a test improvements in operation lab for digital textile printing. efficiency and personal • We began operation at a new factory in Aomori to productivity increase production capacity of superfine alloy powders that are used for a wide variety of high-performance parts. Strategic Optimize regional sales • We accelerated the building of B2B business Main business marketing organizations, improve infrastructure and resources. planning quality with a • Improved the sales and service organization in sales market-driven (market-in) companies. approach, and transform • Prepared a sales affiliate in Vietnam (established in the brand image 4/2018) to strengthen direct sales. • Strengthened collaboration with channels to expand sales of high-speed linehead inkjet printers. • Conducted a B2B brand campaign in Western Europe, North America, India, and Asia. Product Visiting customers directly • Product planners and design engineers visited quality and Social to gather and analyze customers to learn their wants. They analyzed these communications information about their wants and used the results to shape products and wants and needs, closely maintain and improve product quality. examining customer wants by analyzing customer Printing Solutions Business: Example 1 inquiries, using the • We learned from customer visits that customers findings to shape future wanted improved usability in Epson’s high-capacity products and services, EcoTank inkjet printers. So, we provided our new and improving quality and 2017 models with new tanks, new bottles, and a new customer satisfaction ink system that make it easier to fill the ink tanks, see how much ink remains in the tanks, and fill tanks faster the first time. Printing Solutions Business: Example 2 • We were told by customers when selling linehead inkjet printers that we would need to provide authenticated printing in a serverless environment, and we provided this functionality in about 6 months. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 15 Principles of Key CSR FY2017 Action Item Corporate ESG Achievements & Results in FY2017 Theme Categories Behavior Visual Communications Business: Example 1 Pursuing customer satisfaction • Multiple projectors are needed for uses such as projection mapping, and users wanted us to provide an application for adjusting the projectors. So, we met with users to hear their needs and developed an application that we were able to release 5 months ahead of schedule to meet user needs. Visual Communications Business: Example 2 • We conducted joint field tests with users of our BT300 smart glasses to identify issues and new needs for supporting users’ equipment and existing PC environments. An improved model offers connectivity with existing equipment. • We launched a voice-of-the-customer portal site and provided customer feedback (from about 2 million VOC reports annually in Japan) to relevant departments. This feedback was analyzed and used to improve our products and services. • We continued to take action against counterfeit goods on online shopping sites around the world to reassure customers that they are purchasing genuine Epson brand products. • Monitored and exposed online shopping sites particularly closely in China and the Middle East, where counterfeit goods are rampant. • Provided training to polices and customs agents. • We invited customers to Epson to exchange information and ideas about upcoming products. Consumer Strengthening actions to • There was one serious product-related accident in health and Social prevent product safety FY2017. safety issues by standardizing • The situation was handled by notifying customers the use of product and making non-invoiced repairs. safety risk assessments • Action was taken in all Group companies to prevent using information about accident recurrence. accidents involving • Preventive actions were taken. the products of other • Revised and communicated Group-wide operations companies procedures. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 16 Principles of Key CSR FY2017 Action Item Corporate ESG Achievements & Results in FY2017 Theme Categories Behavior Effective use Developing SBT-compliant • We set and executed measures to achieve SBTPreserving the natural environment Environmental of energy and mid-range targets for the compliant mid-range targets. resources Group and actions (for • Drafted proposed Group-wide mid-range targets the effective use of energy (scopes 1, 2, and 3) & applied for SBT approval. and resources in scopes • We disclosed data for GHG Protocol scopes 1, 2, and 1, 2, and 3 of the GHG 3. Protocol) • Scopes 1 and 2 results: FY2016 results verified by third party and published in Epson’s Integrated Third-party verification Report and Sustainability Report. of GHG emissions data • Scope 3 results: Prepared FY2017 results. (scopes 1, 2, and 3) • We had GHG data verified by a third party. • Scopes 1 and 2: Verified by third party. Climate Developing SBT-compliant Environmental • Scope 3: Had a third party verify and assess FY2015 change mid-range targets for the data, and prepared relevant guidelines. and global Group and actions (for warming all categories in scopes 1, 2, and 3 of the GHG Protocol) Third-party verification of GHG emissions data (scopes 1, 2, and 3) Contributing Developing SBT-compliant Environmental to the mid-range targets for environment the Group and actions through (for goods and services products and in scope 3 of the GHG services Protocol) Third-party verification of GHG emissions data (scope 3) Promoting Measures to increase • We strengthened recruitment of women in science & Fostering diverse values and teamwork Diversity Social the number of women in engineering fields. management positions • We revised the promotion system, and explored and implemented a telecommuting system on a trial basis. • Career design assistance for female employees was added to the manager and general manager training programs. • In addition to our existing targets (hiring and retaining female recruits [25%] and providing career design and childcare support), we set targets for women in management and leader positions. Management: 5% [40 women] in 2022 Leader: 7% [350 women] in 2022 • We established a Women’s Advancement Project as an initiative to promote diversity. We implemented policies to support both career advancement and child-rearing/ caregiving. The Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange recognized Epson as a company that encourages women’s success by selecting Epson as a “Nadeshiko Brand.” Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 17 Principles of Key CSR FY2017 Action Item Corporate ESG Achievements & Results in FY2017 Theme Categories Behavior Promoting Measures to hire persons • We strengthened our recruitment and hiring activities Fostering diverse values and teamwork Diversity Social with disabilities (strengthened cooperation with government and with special-needs schools, etc.). • We led factory tours for 202 people from assistance agencies and special-needs schools (compared to 80 in 2016). • We a target for the employment of persons with disabilities [2020: 2.5%]. Human Recruiting, hiring, and • We hired 675 (Group consolidated) in Japan. resources Social retaining talent in a • We rehired 434 retirees (as of 3/20/2018) (vs. 337 the development, shrinking labor pool previous year). hiring, and • We provided lifetime career support training for 716 (out retention of 795) employees aged 40 & 50. • We interviewed all 148 employees in their third year. • We began exploring a training program for technologists/ engineers. Training programs and • We expanded and enriched training for executive assessing their results management candidates. • We enhanced and enriched training from middle management (expanded eligibility for general manager training & explored training for assistance managers). • We held a new Global Executive Seminar for key personnel at our overseas affiliates. • The development of future executive management candidates was reviewed by the HR development strategy council (a meeting body made up of directors and executive officers). Respecting Communicating and • At the global HR meeting in November (attended by Creating a safe, healthy, and fair work human rights Social enforcing “The Policies personnel managers from overseas affiliates), managers regarding Human Rights were instructed to communicate and enforce the policy and Labor Standards” at their respective companies. • We communicated policies during training of CEOs of our overseas affiliates & training to prepare personnel for overseas assignments. • We provided anti-harassment training for personnel at each echelon. environment in which human rights are respected • We provided anger management & strategic criticism training to executive management. • Continued responding to and monitoring personal data protection requirements. Questionnaire to assess • Overseas affiliates completed a self-check human rights risks at questionnaire. overseas affiliates Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 18 Principles of Key CSR FY2017 Action Item Corporate ESG Achievements & Results in FY2017 Theme Categories Behavior Compliance Improvements to and use • The Epson Group’s Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Ensuring effective governance and compliance Governance of the global compliance held a Regional Chief Compliance Officer (R-CCO) system Meeting that was attended by the R-CCOs of the Americas, Europe, China, and the Asia-Pacific regions. Whistleblowing systems in • The use of whistleblowing systems was surveyed and all Group companies the situation was reported at a Corporate Management Meeting to increase the effectiveness of these systems. • We established a whistleblower system for used by our business partners. Education and training to • We provided compliance training for each echelon and still compliance awareness held Compliance Month (October of every year). • We provided risk management and compliance training for executive management (e.g., security export control, overseas crisis management, and legal training). Strengthening Information security • Software and web service products were inspected for Ensuring the security of people, assets, and information Governance information measures vulnerabilities based on quality standards. security • Information security & personal data protection regulations were amended, and the Epson Group’s information security programs were improved and strengthened. • Employees were reminded about the importance of information security in July during Information Security Awareness Month via training [online training for all personnel, managers (7 times), and information security promotion personnel (2 times)]. • We completed preparations to comply with the requirements of the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which took effect in May 2018. • We checked the information security situation of business partners on a trial basis. • We began round-the-clock monitoring of cyber attacks in Asia. • We completed the Group-wide installation of measures to prevent mistakenly send email. Providing information to • Information about information security was disclosed customers on the corporate website. • Information was provided about securing passwords on websites for customers. • We provided customers with information about product wireless LAN vulnerabilities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 19 Principles of Key CSR FY2017 Action Item Corporate ESG Achievements & Results in FY2017 Theme Categories Behavior Supply chain Asking key suppliers • Suppliers were briefed about the Epson Supplier Code Working with business partners for mutual benefit management Social to observe the Epson of Conduct and asked to observe it. A total of 493 Supplier Code of Conduct suppliers attended 11 briefing sessions in the major production sites of Japan, Indonesia, and China. Supplier questionnaires • We analyzed the answers to self-assessment and feedback on results questionnaires (SAQ) from 220 suppliers in 2016 and provided them with feedback on our findings. • All indirect production materials suppliers (e.g., temporary staffing, logistics, and construction companies) returned a completed SAQ. (50 first-tier suppliers & 16 second-tier suppliers). Supplier on-site verification • We implemented on-site verification of suppliers and and corrective action requested corrective action where needed. • We followed up with two suppliers in China that were audited by a third party in 2016 and verified that they had made the requested improvements. • Two suppliers in Indonesia and Japan were audited by a third party. Conflict minerals survey • We conducted conflict minerals surveys. • We asked 411 suppliers to complete the survey and received completed surveys from 388 of them (94%). FY2018 Action Items Epson established action items for the FY2018 based on performance with respect to the 2017 action items for key CSR themes and the reception by the general public. Principles of Corporate Key CSR Theme ESG FY2018 Action Item Categories Behavior Creating new products Connect cyberspace and the real world toward creating a new connected Pursuing customer satisfaction Main and services with age of people, things and information, and provide the value of our efficient, leading technology business compact and precision technologies to the real world in every business Business operations As the importance of smart technologies and the environmental Main aligned with global performance grow increasingly important, Epson, as a real world social trends business manufacturing company, will continue to create smart products that contribute to the environment and demonstrate unrivaled performance Productivity Maintain high-quality, high-efficiency productivity by leveraging Epson’s Main Main Main improvement utilizing unique IT, sensing, and automation technologies in manufacturing ICT Products Continue to provide high-quality, cost-competitive products that other business business business competitiveness companies cannot easily imitate, and do so in a timely manner through improvements in operation efficiency and personal productivity Strategic marketing Optimize regional sales organizations, improve planning quality with a market-driven (market-in) approach, and transform the brand image Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 20 Principles of Corporate Key CSR Theme ESG FY2018 Action Item Categories Behavior Product quality and Visiting customers directly to gather and analyze information about their Pursuing customer communications Social wants and needs, closely examining customer wants by analyzing customer inquiries, using the findings to shape future products and services, and improving quality and customer satisfaction satisfaction Consumer health and Continue strengthening our prevention activities safety Social • Standardize product safety risk assessments • Improve the product safety education curriculum Effective use of energy Carry out SBT-compliant actions to reduce CO2 emissions, and publish the Preserving the natural environment Environmental and resources results (scopes 1, 2, and 3: Reduce total CO2 emissions) Reduce CO2 emissions (Draft a plan for introducing renewable energy) Climate change and Carry out SBT-compliant actions to reduce CO2 emissions, and publish the Environmental global warming results (scopes 1, 2, and 3: Reduce total CO2 emissions) Reduce CO2 emissions (Draft a plan for introducing renewable energy) Contributing to the Carry out SBT-compliant actions to reduce CO2 emissions, and publish the Environmental environment through results (set scope 3 emissions intensity targets and reduce emissions) products and services Promoting Diversity Measures to increase the number of women in management positions Fostering diverse values and teamwork Social • Formally introduce a new promotion test system & telecommuting system • Execute new training plans for managers (Foster an internal culture) • Plan measures to promote the retention of women under 30 Execute plans to achieve the female hiring target • Expand support for women interested in pursuing careers in science and engineering Maintaining and increasing employment of persons with disabilities • Develop new job opportunities in the Tokyo region, etc. • Act to increase the percentage of employees with disabilities in subsidiaries (Develop job opportunities) • Build a system for gathering global information on the employment of persons with disabilities Human resources Recruiting, hiring, and retaining talent in a shrinking labor pool development, hiring, Social • Continue large-scale hiring in Japan (approx. 550, Group consolidated) and retention • Explore actions (training, etc.) to stimulate older employees Build infrastructure for managing human resources information (a talent management system) and develop human resource appointment, placement and training policies through personnel reviews Training programs and assessing their results • Continuously improve, expand, and enhance training for executive management candidates (e.g., transfer future leaders overseas and have candidates participate in exchanges with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and others outside our industry) • Begin assistance manager training Review 360-degree surveys and employee motivation surveys, explore future actions, and establish a direction Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 21 Principles of Corporate Key CSR Theme ESG FY2018 Action Item Categories Behavior Respecting human Communicating and enforcing “The Policies regarding Human Rights and Creating a safe, healthy, and fair rights Social Labor Standards” • Continue to communicate during training of CEOs of our overseas affiliates & training to prepare personnel for overseas assignments • Continue to provide anti-harassment training for personnel at each work environment in which human echelon Continue responding to and monitoring personal data protection requirements rights are respected Follow up on self-check questionnaires • Explore means to control future global human rights risk based on questionnaire results Compliance Begin Group compliance activities by introducing a compliance program Ensuring effective Governance Explore a global whistleblower system governance and Compliance awareness program compliance • Put in place a model system • Prepare a global employee code of conduct Strengthening Information security measures Ensuring the Governance information security • Establish a global security monitoring and response system security of people, • Assess cyber security measures and formulate a response plan • Check the customer information security situation of new business assets, and partners information Strengthen product security Supply chain Asking key suppliers to observe the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct Working with management Social Supplier questionnaires and feedback on results business partners Supplier on-site verification and corrective action for mutual benefit Conflict minerals survey Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 22 Relation to SDGs Epson’s Initiatives and Their Relationship to Our SDGs As stated in its Management Philosophy, Epson seeks to become an indispensable company, an ambition that Epson considers to be consistent with the realization of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. In 2017, as part of this effort, Epson created “Key CSR Themes,” a materiality matrix that identifies important initiatives for addressing social issues. Epson examined the relationship between its initiatives and the 169 targets of the 17 SDGs to identify the SDGs that intersect with Epson’s initiatives. ● Key CSR Themes and Sustainable Development Goals There are 169 targets (1.1 to 17.19) under the SDGs. The ﬁgures in the table below indicate the targets that Epson is addressing with its initiatives (as of September 2018). Key CSR Themes ESG Creating new products and services with advanced technology Business operations aligned 3.6 4.1 6.3 7.3 8.2 9.4 11.6 12.2 13.2 15.1 Main business with global social trends Productivity improvement 3.9 4.2 6.4 7.a 8.4 9.c 12.4 15.4 utilizing ICT 4.3 6.6 12.5 Product competitiveness 4.4 In this section we have listed only the numbers for representative SDG 4.5 targets that Epson believes it can impact based on an assessment of Strategic marketing linkages with our business operations. Eﬀective use of energy and 7.2 13.2 resources 7.3 Environment Climate change and global 12.2 7.3 13.2 warming 12.4 Contributing to the environment 6.3 12.2 15.1 15.2 through products and services 3.9 6.4 7.3 9.4 11.6 12.4 13.2 15.4 6.6 12.5 15.5 5.1 8.5 Respect for human rights 4.7 8.7 10.3 5.5 8.8 Diversity 4.7 5.5 8.5 10.2 Human resources development, 4.4 8.8 10.2 12.a hiring, and retention 4.7 Social 8.5 Supply chain management 5.2 10.2 12.4 13.1 16.4 8.7 8.8 10.3 12.6 16.5 Product quality and 12.8 16.6 communications 16.8 Consumer health and safety 12.4 16.4 Governance Compliance 16.5 Information security 16.4 Epson’ s initiatives Epson confirmed that its initiatives support the achievement of the 13 SDGs below. (Please note that this matrix was mapped out in March 2018 and is subject to change depending on future business developments.) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 23 Epson believes that the growth strategies it has outlined in the Epson 25 Corporate Vision will help to achieve the SDGs. Specifically, we will solve social issues and help to realize a sustainable society by driving innovations in four areas and executing environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) initiatives that support the realization of the Management Philosophy. ● Value Creation Story Epson aims to achieve 13 SDGs (as of 3/2018) Achieving the Goals of the Management Philosophy 25 Epson’ s Growth E pso n Type of Capital Value Creation Financial Expansion of the oﬃce Total asets ￥ 1,033.3 billion Epson’ s market A (R&I) Rating DNA Growth Strategy Increase oﬃce productivity and lower environmental (The four areas of innovation) ● Inkjet printers impacts Manufacturing ● Oﬃce papermaking Balance of property, plant and Inkjet Support telecommuting, systems ● Projectors Indispensable equipment, and intangible assets innovation 3, ￥319.9 billion SOHO, and other decentralized work arrangements ● Scanners company Smart technologies Expansion of Intellectual Visual Increase commercial and industrial the commercial The top 100 global patent innovation productivity, reduce energy consumption, and industrial lower environmental impacts, and reduce applicants the labor load markets Global No. 7 ● Commercial and Wearables Create outstanding visual industrial printers Human innovation experiences and a natural visual communications ● High-brightness projectors The environment environment ● Robots Total employees 76,391 Robotics Reinforcement innovation Provide enrichment and delight in everything from of the consumer Exceeding Social and sports to everyday life market relationship Eﬃcient, Compact, customer Microdevices ● Wearable products expectations Epson Group companies and Precision Technologies Shift the work of people to 87 (including Seiko Epson Corp.) ● Smart eyewear （16 companies in Japan and 71 overseas） Supporting the four areas of innovation Performance areas that are more creative and add higher value ● Inkjet printers Exceed Your Vision Natural Help to build smart social FY2025 ﬁnancial objectives Limited natural resources Governance infrastructure using the IoT (e.g., energy & materials) Revenue ROS*2 ￥ 1,700 billion 12% FY2017 ﬁnancial results ESG initiatives in support of Business profit*1 ROE*3 Revenue Environment Social ￥ 1,102.1billion Epson’s Management Philosophy ￥ 200 billion 15% * Assumed exchange rates: JPY115/ USD Business profit*1 & JPY125/ EUR ￥ 74.7billion Social issues *1 Business proﬁt is very similar to operating income under Japanese accounting standards (J-GAAP), aﬀecting Epson both conceptually and numerically. Epson began using business proﬁt as an indicator after adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). *2 Return on sales *3 Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent company Commitment to the SDGs Epson is using its original efficient, compact, and precision technologies and initiatives as vehicles to drive innovations that will enrich the world and make it a better place. Our goals are the same as those of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations. Epson is creating new value by looking hard at solutions to social issues, understanding the expectations that society has of us, and then providing products and services that far exceed those expectations. We at Epson are committed to the development of sustainable societies through the four areas of innovation identified in the Epson 25 Corporate Vision. Minoru Usui President Seiko Epson Corporation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 24 Communication with Outside Experts Lecture on SDGs In June 2018, Seiko Epson hosted a lecture on sustainable development goals (SDGs) for directors and members of the executive management team. Ayako Sonoda, president of Sustainability Consulting company Cre-en, was invited to speak on the topic of how innovation and SDGs are shaping the future. She talked about what led the UN to adopt the SDGs and about expectations for private enterprise. Message from Ms. Sonoda to Epson SDGs represent a business opportunity. The world is looking to companies to integrate SDGs into their operations and drive groundbreaking innovations. National and local government are moving forward on action to achieve SDGs, and Nagano prefecture has been selected as a leader in sustainable socio-economic systems for the future. Epson, with its headquarters in Nagano prefecture, will be expected to work even more closely with the community. I want to see Epson establish a vision of the future and a blueprint for building that future by 2030, the target year for the SDGs. Comments from Seiko Epson President Minoru Usui Epson’s stated mission in Management Philosophy is to become an indispensable company, a company that moves forward to achieve dreams and aspirations that it shares with society. The importance of the SDGs is widely recognized, but we have to ensure that our initiatives are truly aligned with current trends and that they are actually meeting the world’s expectations. What are Sustainable Development Goals? “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” was adopted in 2015 at the UN Sustainable Development Summit, which was attended by more than 150 world leaders. This agenda is a plan of action for people, planet, and prosperity that includes a declaration and a set of 17 goals and 169 targets for sustainable development. See the link below for SDG details. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 25 United Nations Global Compact Epson Participates in the United Nations Global Compact Epson officially joined the United Nations Global Compact on July 16, 2004, when a Letter of Commitment signed by the president of Seiko Epson was sent to and accepted by the Secretary-General of the UN. The letter expressed Seiko Epson’s commitment to the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. As a member of society, Epson takes an uncompromising approach to socially responsible corporate conduct in areas such as compliance, human rights, environmental action, workforce diversity, and supply chain management. We take these and other social issues seriously and are working toward solutions. We aspire to make Epson an indispensable company through the practice of ethical corporate conduct and by playing a central role in realizing a better world through the products and services we provide. Epson’s corporate activities Management Philosophy Principles of Corporate Behavior Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. United Nations Global Compact Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the eﬀective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 26 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Approach Approach Epson’s CS and quality policies and organizations are designed to achieve customer satisfaction, one of the core commitments included in Epson’s Management Philosophy. Quality Policy Epson seeks to provide products and services that earn customer satisfaction with an all-hands commitment to the quality policy below. Quality Policy 1. We will solve problems by directly observing all of our operations and processes. 2. We will quickly complete the Plan, Do, Check & Act (PDCA) cycle in all situations. 3. We will thoroughly analyze any failures, and establish procedures based on that analysis, so that mistakes are never repeated. 4. We will proactively consider our customers’ satisfaction so they will genuinely prefer purchasing Epson products and feel confident using them. 5. We will seize the opportunity presented by customer comments and complaints to inform our decisions when designing new products. 6. We will readily report even negative information. 7. W  e will foster a climate in which attention is paid to even the most commonplace events. Vision for Mid-Range CS & Quality Initiatives Epson implements CS & quality programs in line with its Mid-Range CS & Quality Action Policy, which is based on its Quality Policy and that stipulates its vision for creating products and services that please customers and earn their trust. Objective We seek to achieve the goals of the Epson 25 Corporate Vision by raising the quality of work in all operations, demonstrating teamwork and collective strength, and providing products and services that exceed customer expectations. 1. Ours is a customer-centric process in which we listen to customer expectations and react by designing our products and services to accurately reflect them. 2. We continuously improve the quality of our operations in response to changes in society and customers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 27 ● CS & Quality Vision (Creating Customer Value) Collect feedback Customer information/ Create value resources Deliver Customers Create Products/ services Customer value Produce Deliver value Share value Quality Assurance Program Organization Epson carries out actions to assure quality across the Epson Group. A Quality Assurance Council and project teams solve shared issues and serious problems. In addition, we manage our quality assurance programs by periodically assessing and reviewing the state of quality and the progress of actions, reporting the results to the president, and formulating and implementing policies for further improvement. ● Quality Assurance Program Organization Seiko Epson President Instructions & reports General administrative manager in charge of quality assurance Instructions & reports Collaboration, instructions & reports Head of quality assurance supervisory department Assessments & reports Operations division Epson Group manufacturing Epson Group sales companies companies SEC quality assurance supervisory department Chief operating oﬃcer President President Quality Assurance Council/ committees/ project teams Head of quality assurance Head of quality assurance Head of quality assurance Solve important common issues Manufacturing companies managed by the operations division Collaboration Collaboration Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 28 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Epson undertakes various activities to provide our customers with satisfaction that exceeds their expectations through our products, services, production and sales. This is a representative example of Epson’s activities. Epson seeks to meet the expectations of customers from the product design stage. As part of this effort, our design engineers personally visit customers to listen first-hand to their thoughts and needs. They also visit information centers to gather and analyze information on the types of problems customers may be having. Resolving Tank Refill Issues Epson’s high-capacity ink tank printers, first introduced in Indonesia in 2010, were being sold, by 2017, in some 150 markets, both emerging and developed. These printers have earned loyal support from customers who want to print in high volume at low cost. However, we learned by interviewing customers and talking with sales companies that users wanted better protection against ink stains and spills when refilling the tanks. Issue 1 Ink could spill, splash, and stain users’ hands when users removed a protective seal under the bottle cap and tipped the bottle. Action We eliminated the protective seal and replacing it with an airtight bottle cap and a slotted valve near the tip of the nozzle to prevent ink from splashing and dripping. Issue 2 The bottle had to be squeezed about 50 times in the roughly two minutes it took to refill a tank. Action Ink bottles and printer ink tanks were redesigned to enable easy filling of each color. Users simply have to insert a bottle nozzle into an ink tank and wait about 40 seconds for the tank to fill. Filling automatically stops when a tank is full. Issue 3 Filling a tank with the wrong color of ink Ink tank Action The ink bottles have a tip that is uniquely keyed for each color and can only be inserted in a tank of the same color. Ink bottles act like a key that fits only into the keyhole of the correct ink tank Ink bottle Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 29 Product Service and Support that Keeps Businesses Running Users of business printer can find their work interrupted if their printer breaks down or if it runs out of consumables. To avoid such work interruptions, sales company Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT) began in 2016 offering business inkjet printer users a package that includes regular on-site service. This is the first service of its kind in Taiwan’s office printing industry. Support staff members with thorough product knowledge visit customer sites to inspect and maintain their printers. They also let customers know when they can expect to run out of ink based on print use patterns. This service has sharply reduced printer breakdowns and ensures stable print quality. And since ETT is able to deliver ink before it runs out, work interruptions are far less frequent. These regular site visits are also an important opportunity to get feedback directly from users. Epson, whose products are used by customers around the world, is increasing customer satisfaction by having local sales companies provide service and support that meets local needs. Incorporating the Voice of the Customer: Quality Control Improvement in Manufacturing Processes The role of manufacturing processes is to create products that accurately reflect the voice of the customer captured in product plans and designs. In manufacturing processes, we build products that meet specified quality requirements. We specify a lot of quality controls for product components and processes. Quality control engineers are sent to manufacturing sites worldwide to introduce quality improvement activities so that we can strictly manage required controls at the sites and assure quality. We collaborate with local engineers to solve problems logically, develop the talents Improvement in collaboration with an overseas affiliate of manufacturing professionals, and improve quality at plants around the world. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 30 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Universal Design Approach to Universal Design Epson recognizes the importance of universal design. This is reflected in “Principles of Corporate Behavior,” our corporate code of conduct, which declares that we will “adhere to universal design standards that maximize product usability and give our customers something they will value and enjoy.” We at Epson feel that universal design is part of our corporate responsibility. We employ universal design principles to design products and services that can be used to the greatest extent by everyone, regardless of their age, gender, nationality, ability or disability. By taking the utmost care from the development stage to creating designs that are easy to use, we can make them accessible to the widest possible audience. Universal Design within Epson Internal Guidelines Epson’s Printing Solutions Operations Division has prepared two sets of written guidelines that describe universal design and color universal design features that must be incorporated into our products and services to help ensure the widest possible product accessibility. We make sure that our products reflect universal design principles by using a process to verify that universal design elements are incorporated in each step of the product commercialization process, from planning and design to manufacturing. Internal Monitor Program Epson invites employees and members of their families to participate in a monitor program. We ask registered monitors to evaluate our products as customers in order to identify ways to improve product usability. In FY2017, we had 572 registered monitors evaluate and rate eight pre-release products, including printers, projectors, and wearable products. Epson observed how the monitors used the products while the monitors evaluated the products based on usability (e.g., visibility and ease of operation). Some of Epson’s Universal Design Features Adjustable Control Panel (Inkjet Multifunction Printers) The control panel on Epson’s WorkForce Enterprise inkjet multifunction printers can be adjusted to the user’s eye level to make it easier to see and use. Customers told us that control panels on some products can be hard to see and use for little people and people in wheelchairs. We made our control panel adjustable so that users of all sizes can set it at an angle that is easiest for them to see and use. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 31 Automatic Keystone Correction for Quick Set-Up (Business Projectors) Projectors produce vertically or horizontally distorted (“keystone”) images when they are set up at an oblique angle to the screen for some reason. These keystone effects need to be corrected by pressing a button. Epson’s EB-1795F business projector has one-touch image position and adjustment features that enable even novice users to effortlessly align images so that they sharp and clear. By eliminating troublesome and time-consuming set-up, we have enabled anyone to smoothly prepare a projector for business meetings. Easy-to-Follow Video Manuals In 2013, Epson began uploading PCand smartphone-accessible video manuals to YouTube™ to provide Epson printer users with easy-to-understand guides for using their products. First-time users of a product, even if they are used to operating earlier Epson printers or printers from other companies, can get lost even after reading the manual because of difficulty in intuiting or imaging new operating procedures. Providing them with a video-based simulated experience can enable them to smoothly operate their actual product and facilitate understanding of instructions in the manual. * The video above was provided using the service of YouTube™. YouTube™ is a trademark of Google Inc. Color Universal Design We are also employing color universal design*1 principles to create products, manuals, and software that are easy to use for people with various forms of color vision deficiency or color blindness. *1  esigns that use color in a way that enables information to be clearly conveyed to the widest possible audience, including people who see color differently (such as people with D congenital color blindness, cataracts, or glaucoma). Improving Visibility with Color Universal Design Epson business printers are equipped with a color universal design function*2 hat adds underlines or textures to text that requires emphasis and that converts the colors in graphs to corresponding patterns to make them easier to distinguish for people who see color differently. *2 This technology was developed based on Epson’s own criteria and does not guarantee visual accessibility to all. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 32 Colors on Control Panel LCDs, LED Lamps, and Buttons Large Format Printers Blue LEDs are used for power buttons, and high-brightness orange LEDs are used for warning lamps. Universal design principles are also followed for colors used for onscreen instructions. Business Inkjet Printers Epson revised the colors used for control panel buttons and lamps to ensure visual accessibility for the greatest number of people, regardless of type of color blindness. Interactive Projectors A color palette for people with partial color blindness is available for the Drawing toolbar in Whiteboard mode. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 33 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Sales/ Service & Support Epson wants customers to be able to identify products that meet their needs. We always look to provide accurate, readily understandable product information and quality after-sales service so that customers can use our products with peace-of-mind. After-Sales Service for Epson PCs Epson Direct Corporation’s support policy reads as follows: “Every second counts. Never make customers wait. Earn customer satisfaction and ongoing loyalty.” Our customers’ work does not wait when their PC fails. Obviously a strong quality program is essential for preventing PC failures in the first place, but when failures do occur, minimizing customer downtime becomes the top priority. We provide a one-day guarantee on repairs, during both the standard warranty period and for the extended pick-up warranty. If an Epson PC should fail during the coverage period, Epson Direct will repair it and return it the next day, weekends included. Service Personnel Skills Competition Every year, Epson Sales Japan holds a skills competition for customer engineers (CE), who provide after-sales service for Epson products in the field. The 2017 skills competition was held at Seiko Epson’s Hirooka Office, where 20 CEs from around Japan who were selected based on a screening test competed to be the top inkjet customer engineer. In an elimination round, the CEs were asked to repair a PX-M7070FX Smart Charge A3 multifunction printer. They were graded on the speed and accuracy of their work. In the championship round, the six remaining CEs were given the task of repairing an LX10000F high-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printer. They were graded on the accuracy of the repairs performed, their ability to explain operations and make recommendations according to customer needs, and their ability to report repairs made in a way that was easy for customers to understand. The competition, which is also attended by design engineering and quality assurance personnel, is also used to identify areas that could be improved in the future to enable Epson to provide even better products and services. Shoji Abe, The winner of the skills competition In the 2017 competition, Shoji Abe from the Rokko Service Center won the competition as a result of his accuracy in every task. Through the skills competition, Epson Sales Japan Corporation continues to work to improve the repair skills and the quality of CE interactions with customers, so that they can appreciate the benefits of inkjet technology and good service. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 34 Epson Square Shinjuku The refurbished Epson Square Shinjuku opened in Tokyo in April 2016. It presents Epson’s extensive lineup of products springing from the Epson 25 Corporate Vision comprising innovations in the four areas of inkjet, visual communications, wearables and robotics, with business printers, projectors, large-format printers, PCs, image scanners and so on for businesses. Epson Square is a great place for customers who are looking to purchase an Epson product to try the latest products, and for our distributors to hold important business meetings. We demonstrate products that suit various customer applications and uses, holding regular, hands-on product workshops so that our customers can gain a fuller understanding of their functions and features. Epson Square Shinjuku In order for us to provide an ideal environment for visitors to explore our products, we ask them to make a reservation in advance and let us know what issues they hope to solve. Photo Seminars EpSITE*1 holds a wide range of appealing and useful seminars designed to share the fun of printing and displaying photos. There are free lectures that anyone can drop in on, no registration required. These lectures teach basic knowledge on digital printing and introduce simple and convenient ways of using printers. In practical skills courses, each participant works with one machine. Courses cover a wide range of material, from printing basics to hands-on courses in products like the Practical skills course using the SureColor P600 SC-PX5VII (overseas model name: SureColor P600). Also offered are workshops. Their curriculum includes seminars in which professionals from different business fields teach advanced techniques. (Practical skills courses and workshops are available by reservation and require a fee.) The aim of these photo seminars is to help participants pick up the knowledge and skills they need to enjoy digital printing and have a better appreciation for photography. *1 E  pSITE, a facility dedicated to photography and managed by Epson, is equipped with a photo gallery, rental photo lab, and facilities for hosting a variety of events, including photo seminars and photo exhibits. Epson New Photo Forum The Epson New Photo Forum is a photography event that conveys the enjoyment of printing photos, including basic knowledge of inkjet printing, how to print correctly, and techniques for finishing photos as works of art. The latest inkjet printers are displayed at the event venue, as well as the following presentations. • Printing seminars for making art photos. • An exhibition of prints of photos provided by customers. • An exhibition of printed works using a variety of print paper and different manufacturer’s cameras. Epson New Photo Forum Epson New Photo Forum 2017 had been held as follows. <East Japan/ Tokyo> Date: 23.Sep, 30.Sep, 7.Oct <West Japan/ Osaka> Date: 21.Oct Participants enjoy an event where professional photographers offer critiques of customer’s photos. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 35 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Activities to Improve Quality Activities to Improve Quality Epson conducts activities to improve the quality of its products, services, manufacturing and sales in order to provide quality that exceeds customer expectations and earns their trust. Supplier Quality Assurance Epson internally manufactures key components such as printheads for inkjet printers. At the same time, our suppliers also provide us with many of the parts needed for manufacturing. Therefore, our quality assurance programs go beyond the Epson Group. We share our approach to quality with our suppliers and work with them to improve quality. For example, we stipulate our basic quality assurance policies and requirements in quality assurance standards, verify the quality of parts by visiting suppliers, and give them advice about ways to improve. In addition, we hold meetings with suppliers and our own people who are A meeting of people in charge of supplier QC in charge of supplier quality control at our operations divisions to improve quality assurance programs. Global Sharing of Service & Support Information Epson has built service and support organizations around the world so that our customers can use our products and services with confidence. We hold an annual Epson Group Services and Support Conference that is attended by people in charge of these functions at our overseas regional sales headquarters and some sales companies. The purpose of the meeting is to improve the quality of our service and support. At the meeting, we share technical information about service and support, as well as about the use of our products and services by customers. We also review actions and discuss issues to formulate long-term strategies. The results of the meeting are used in our Group companies Epson Group Services and Support Meeting around the world. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 36 Improvement of Employee Quality Control Skills Training Epson provides quality control training to all employees so that they can help improve quality. Manufacturing personnel, engineers, and office workers separately receive training for the basics of QC first. After that, they receive systematic training to learn the skills required to fulfill their duties and participate in E-kaizen programs (see below). In addition, we train and certify QC trainers at overseas production sites and certify trainers so that our overseas employees can receive the same level of training as our employees in Japan. Epson aims to develop people who are able to identify and address the root causes of problems so that we can produce and sell products and services that exceed customer expectations. ● Quality Control Training Program ● Standard QC Courses for All Employees (FY2017, Japan) Primary Intermediate Advanced Course People trained % trained QC-A course (Manufacturing) QC Introduction 414 90% Common QC introduction QC-B course (Engineering) QC-ABC 266 80% course QC-C course (Administration) ● Licensed Quality Control Training Trainers Small Professional Problem-solving type QC story course Number of Production Target-achievement type QC story course Region Sites with Licensed Licensed Trainers*1 Trainers Why-Why analysis course Southeast Asia 7 companies 89 group/ Team course Reliability specialty course China 8 companies 71 Accelerated test, Sampling test Weibull analysis of ﬁeld data *1 Number of licensed trainers as of March 31, 2018 Quality Engineering practice course (Robustness evaluation, Parameter design, etc.) * QC-ABC courses shall be selected one or more. Kaizen Activities The entire Epson Group participates in continuous improvement activities. Called “E-Kaizen” at Epson, these activities are used by both teams and individuals to solve problems. Epson holds an annual Worldwide Team Presentations conference at which the best teams from each of four blocs (Japan, China, Southeast Asia, and Europe/ America) present the results of their kaizen activities. The teams’ accomplishments are judged, and the ones that report the most outstanding accomplishments are recognized with awards. In addition to sharing kaizen Worldwide Team Presentations conference held in Japan presentations within each bloc, Epson reports best activities in the company newsletter and on the company intranet to motivate others to learn and make their own improvements. The 2017 Worldwide Team Presentations conference was held in October, at which four teams from two Japanese companies, three teams from three Southeast Asian companies, five teams from two Chinese companies and one team from a European company presented their Kaizen results. A team named Inaugurator from Tianjin Epson Co., Ltd. came away with the top prize, the President’s Award, for their development of an automatic ink cartridge vacuum The members of the President’s Award-winning packing machine. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 37 Activities to Raise Awareness November is CS & Quality Month across the Epson Group worldwide. During the month, we review and improve our business processes from a customer satisfaction and quality standpoint. In 2017, we took the month as an opportunity to study the basics of quality management systems (QMS) in conjunction with the latest ISO 9001 revision. We also took time to analyze qualitative improvements in work and revisit the purpose and meaning of processes, systems, and rules. In addition, about 1,000 of our employees participated in an event during CS & Quality Month that gave them an opportunity to hear customer feedback. We use events like this to help shape our products and services to the needs of our customers. CS & Quality Month poster Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 38 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Product Safety Intiatives Strict, Unified Global Standards for Customer Security, Safety and Satisfaction Epson has established unified Epson Group regulations governing quality assurance and product safety management to help ensure that it offers the same product quality to customers around the world. Our product safety and environmental compliance requirements are set forth in the Epson Quality Standard (EQS), a set of unified standards implemented across the entire Epson Group. EQS specifies independent controls that we widely implement to meet or exceed legal and regulatory requirements in each country. Epson painstakingly evaluates product safety in every area and from all angles to prevent product incidents and provide our customers with safe, secure products. Process for Rapidly Responding to Product Incidents If there is an incident involving a product, an Epson sales company or market support organization immediately issues a preliminary report using the Epson Group’s Quality Crisis Management (QCM) system. Departments are notified of the incident via the QCM system, and ● Epson Product Incident Response Process the quality assurance department of the operations division or Product incident occurs The QCM system directly delivers news and reports on product affiliated company rapidly responds by analyzing the cause and Inquiry incidents via IT system Sales companies and that occur anywhere in planning countermeasures. The chief executive and affected market support departments the world to corporate headquarters, departments, including those at corporate Head Office, exchange Entry into QCM system operations divisions, and the chief executive based on signiﬁcance. information whenever an incident occurs and, putting the needs of QCM system the customers first, announce the incident to the public, provide Delivery Delivery Delivery Division/ Aﬃliate market support, and furnish outside organizations with the reports Chief executive quality assurance Corporate HQ Sales company department and notices required by all applicable laws and regulations. Quality Assurance Service & Support Report Cause analysis assessment Legal Affairs Legal Affairs and approval Countermeasure planning Public Relations Public Relations Reporting decision Other related depts. Other related depts. Issue reports, share information, respond Reports Appropriate release of information & notiﬁcations & market support Outside agencies Customers Analyses to Prevent Product Incidents Electronic components procured for use in Epson products, and especially those that are crucial in terms of safety, are evaluated and analyzed to judge their quality, safety and reliability. Epson uses analytic techniques learned and honed over the years to analyze in-market safety incidents and determine root cause. The lessons learned are shared throughout the Epson Group to prevent recurrence of similar incidents. Epson has set up a combustion laboratory that enables it to conduct tests that cannot be performed in ordinary laboratories, such as tests that use Burning test at combustion laboratory flames or could cause parts or products to ignite, emit smoke, or rupture. In this lab Epson analyzes the causes of incidents and researches combustion-resistant structures and materials. We use the findings from these and other tests and studies to develop standards for creating safe, secure products, therefore seeking to prevent product-related incidents. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 39 Safety Evaluations on Substances Released by Products Products can sometimes release trace amounts of chemical substances during use. Epson goes beyond simply evaluating releases of controlled substances specified under the requirements for environmental labels such as Japan’s Eco Mark and Germany’s Blue Angel*1, and also evaluates the level and safety of substances for which the Japanese Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry has issued indoor concentration guideline values*2. An in-house laboratory enables us to swiftly feed the findings from these evaluations back into our products. Our chemical emission laboratory acquired ISO/IEC17025 certification in April 2013. Epson seeks to deliver safe, secure printers, projectors, and other products by verifying that releases from these products meet Epson’s strict, independent standards that exceed the rigorousness of the Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry’s indoor concentration Measurement of substances released by guideline values. products *1 Blue Angel, introduced in Germany in 1978, is the world’s first environmental label. *2 Indoor concentration guideline values are the levels of airborne chemical substances that are considered to be unlikely to have harmful personal health effects even if persons take in throughout life the substances at the indicated concentrations. Product Information Security Initiatives Once reserved for laser, business inkjet, and other office printers, network connectivity is now routinely provided with home inkjet printers and other consumer devices, which can be accessed via wireless LANs, smartphones, tablets, and other Wi-Ficapable equipment. Network connectivity is a great convenience, but it also exposes users to security risks, such as cyberattacks that could lead to the destruction of data or the theft of confidential information by persons or organizations who exploit network device software vulnerabilities*3. To ensure the security of its products, Epson evaluates the vulnerability of embedded software, printer drivers, and other software based on information security requirements included in the Epson Quality Standard (EQS). Requirements for web services such as Epson Email Print were also included in the EQS, in 2012. *3 S  oftware vulnerabilities are system flaws or design problems that hackers or other cyber-criminals can use to hijack a computer, network, or other information system or to steal or alter confidential information. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 40 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Environmental Vision 2050 Environmental Vision 2050 In 2008, Epson established Environmental Vision 2050, a statement of our environmental goals out to the year 2050. We began working on initiatives to achieve these goals, but the landscape has changed significantly over the ensuing ten years. Externally, global efforts to achieve sustainability are accelerating, with the United Nations adopting Sustainable Development Goals (SDG*1) and the Paris Agreement*2 charting a course toward a low-carbon society. In line with this, enterprises are being encouraged to change the way they behave to satisfy the new norms and goals. Internally, Epson has been repositioning itself to take better advantage of its strengths. We have divested ourselves of the smallto-mid size liquid crystal display and optical businesses and have been accelerating a shifting away from consumer segments and toward the office, commercial, and industrial segments in search of growth. The impact on the environment and to the needs of society from within these segments are much different from those of the consumer segment. These internal and external changes have forced us to reconsider our long-term policies and revise our environmental vision. *1 International goals for a sustainable society adopted at the U.N. Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015, aimed at global issues such as climate change, poverty, and human rights. There are 17 sustainable development goals with 169 targets. *2 International framework to combat the problem of climate change. The central aim of the agreement is to keep a rise in global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Environmental Vision 2050 Epson's vision is to become an indispensable company that uses its eﬃcient, compact and precision technologies to achieve sustainability in a circular economy. Actions ● Reduce the environmental impacts of our manufacturing processes, products and services. ● Advance the frontiers of industry and establish recycling systems through open and unique innovation. ● Contribute to international environmental initiatives. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 41 Environmental Vision 2050 and Mid-Range Actions (Backcasting*1) Approach for Achieving Our Vision by 2050 Global action is needed to achieve sustainability, as the contribution that any one company can make by reducing the environmental impacts of its business activities is limited. Environmental Vision 2050 articulates actions for creating synergies with business partners based on our technologies, products, and services and for allowing us to play a part in creating a better world. To achieve Environmental Vision 2050, we have been setting mid-term milestone targets, while steadily working to bridge the gap needed to reach them. The Epson 25 Corporate Vision, a statement of how we want the company to be in 2025, specifies goals that we arrived at by backcasting from our 2050 goals. We will use our efficient, compact and precision technologies in tandem with various initiatives to improve the environment performance of our products and business activities and to reduce environmental impacts across the value chain. By offering products and services that enable new business processes, we aim to provide outstanding customer value in both economic and environmental terms. *1 A planning technique in which a desired outcome or goal is envisioned and planned before the scenario for achieving the outcome or goal is devised. Contribution to global environmental sustainability Environmental ing Vision 2050 c ast B ack Epson 25 Reduce environmental impacts with products & services SE15 ・Reduce the environmental impacts of our manufacturing processes, products and services. Action 2010 ・Advance the frontiers of industry and establish Action07 recycling systems through open and unique innovation. ・Contribute to international environmental initiatives. 1998 2006 2010 2015 2025 Relationship to SDGs Epson is declaring its intent to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs through its environmental and other CSR initiatives. The SDGs are the world’s agenda for sustainable development. There are 17 goals, such as ending poverty and hunger, ensuring peace, justice, and gender equality, and environmental and resource sustainability for future generations. All UN member states have committed to achieving these goals by 2030. Epson’s Environmental Vision 2050 is aligned with the SDGs. We will continue to honestly address customer and societal challenges and will create unique environmental value through our business activities to help achieve the SDGs and a sustainable future. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 42 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment 2025 Goals Epson 25 Corporate Vision Environmental Statement Contribute to the development of a sustainable society by leveraging eﬃcient, compact and precision technologies to reduce the environmental impact of products and services across their life cycles. Epson will continue to drive improvements in the basic environmental performance of its products in addition to reducing the environmental impact of their manufacture, transportation and sales. Epson also contributes to broader environmental conservation by reducing the environmental impact of customer work processes through its unique products and to the sustainable development of its customers’ business and society in general. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 43 Environmental Performance --Epson Group Environmental Performance (FY2017) FY2017 Targets FY2017 Results Printing Creating new products -W  e released a blazingly fast yet energy-efficient office and services with leading inkjet multifunction printer equipped with newly developed Creation of environmentally conscious products and services technology. PrecisionCore lineheads. Contributing to the environment -T  he PaperLab A-8000, a dry-process office papermaking through products and services. system that mitigates environmental impacts and solves other social issues, was awarded the Japan Industrial Technology Prize in recognition of its originality. Visual We launched the EV-100 and EV-105, accent lighting projectors with a long-lasting laser-light source. Wearable Expand the number of Eco Eco Mark products accounted for 78% of total watch sales Mark watches. Introduced new GPS solar, solar radio wave and mechanical watches. -W  e launched the TRUME brand of analog watches that leverage our unique strengths and original technologies to push the blending of design and functionality to a high level. Robotics Develop compact industrial We launched the T series of compact SCARA robots featuring robots a built-in controller and batteryless motor unit. Aim of activity: Release to market products and services that reduce users’ environmental impacts and highlight their benefits to revolutionize customer behavior and business. Create compelling, customer-satisfying products that have a low environmental impact across their life cycles by reducing their size, weight, and power consumption while increasing their recyclability and service life. Global warming Greenhouse gas emissions Reduced by 22% prevention Reduce per unit of sales 20% (Ref: 40% reduction in emission volumes compared with vs. FY2006 FY2006) Substance Reduce PRTR*1 substance Reduced by 60% management emissions to FY2006 emission level or less Reduce total VOC*2 emissions Reduced by 52% to FY2006 emission level or less Production Zero emissions Reduce waste emissions to Reduced by 18% FY2006 emission level or less Preservation of Reduce water usage 55% vs. Reduced by 52% water resources FY2006 (Ref: improved unit sales volumes year-over-year) Pollution and Zero legal violations and Regulatory violations: one (exceeded sewer discharge limit)*3 waste risk government warnings Administrative penalties: two (equipment compliance management Zero impact on production violations)*3 through risk avoidance Zero impact on production through risk avoidance Aim of activity: Leverage quality improvement programs to reduce total costs and achieve production processes that are highly efficient and have low environmental impact. *1 Pollutant Release and Transfer Register *2 Volatile organic compounds *3 Please refer to page 72 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 44 Mid-range targets and policies Establish mid-range environmental targets (scopes 1 + 2, scope 3) and apply aimed at SBT*3 certification for SBT*4 certification. Have a third party verify scopes 1 and 2 performance data, and have a thirdparty verify scope 3 data and update related guidelines. Disclose data for scopes 1, 2, and 3 GHG protocols. Producing capacity We began inkjet printer production at a new factory in the Philippines with highly (Check environmental impact) efficient, state-of-the-art operations and improved space productivity. A mega Initiatives solar power generation system with a maximum capacity of approximately 3,000 kW was installed on the roof of this factory. We began operation at a new factory in Aomori to increase production capacity of superfine alloy powders that are used for a wide variety of high-performance parts. We are building a new inkjet print head factory in Nagano Prefecture, Japan, that will triple our PrecisionCore print chip production capacity. The factory is scheduled for completion in 2018. Collection of environmental data Environmental data for FY2017 was collected from 57 Epson Group companies worldwide (representing 97% of revenue) *4 International initiatives to check that long-term targets for greenhouse gas emissions are in line with the 2°C limit set by the Paris Agreement. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 45 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Life Cycle Thinking Epson defines an environmentally-conscious product as one for which environmental impacts are considered from product conception to mission completion; that is, at every phase of the life cycle, from design and manufacturing to transport, usage and recycling. Through the creation of eco-considerate products, we are cooperating with customers and business partners to expand our environmental impact mitigation efforts beyond Epson’s doors. Deliver Use Recycle Create & Reuse Choose Think Think Choose Create Design products thinking of the Use environmentally conscious Produce with a minimum of entire life cycle materials materials and energy, prevent unnecessary emissions Design for Environment Management of Chemical Production (Please refer to page 47.) Substances in Products (Please refer to page 67.) (Please refer to page 64.) Paper Products Procurement (Please refer to page 143.) Deliver Use Recycle & Reuse Transport products efficiently Eco-performance as customer Reuse resorces value Transport Products and Services that Reduce Product Recycling (Please refer to page 71.) Environmental Impacts (Please refer to page 74.) (Please refer to page 49.) Product Environmental Information (Please refer to page 61.) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 46 Design for Environment The environmental impacts of a product across its life cycle, from cradle to grave, are largely determined at the planning and design-engineering stages. Epson takes a life-cycle thinking approach in efforts to minimize customers’ environmental impacts by (1) providing products that change the way they work and live, and (2) providing products that offer Think Think environmental performance as a basic feature. We set concrete targets for environmental specifications that should be achieved at the product planning stage. And, we have introduced a design-for-environment (DfE) process in which we evaluate how well we did in and after the design stage. Primary Environmental Performance Features Below are some of the representative environmental performance features that we evaluate as part of our DfE process. Energy Energy We explore various hardware and software approaches to save energy. These can include anything from Conservation Energy Conservation developing energy-efficient technologies to implementing low-power product control systems. We strive to Conservation realize low-power products by setting and attaining concrete numeric targets several years out for each model. Epson sets concrete size and weight targets for products, since reducing these helps to significantly mitigate Resource Resource environmental impacts, not only because fewer materials are consumed but also because products can be Conservation Resource Conservation transported and warehoused more efficiently. We also make every effort to design products so as to Conservation minimize wastes on the customer’s end. We do this by, for example, minimizing the amount of packaging used for products and consumables or by providing new printing functions that eliminate unnecessary prints. We design our products to be easy to recycle after use. Specifically, we try to achieve a recyclable rate*1 of Recyclability Recyclability 75% or better as estimated from product engineering drawings. Recyclability *1  ecyclable rate: Recyclable materials as a percentage of total product weight, excluding materials used as reducing agents in blast furnaces or as fuel R sources. Epson standards specify substances that are prohibited from inclusion in products and substances whose Substance Substance inclusion must be controlled. Information on these substances is gathered in a database to help ensure Safety Substance Safety safety in all processes, from design and procurement to volume production. Safety Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 47 Design-for-Environment Framework Epson prepares internal specifications, provides evaluation tools, and develops and commercializes products in line with work standards that set forth rules and procedures. The materialization of the environmental specifications is reviewed at each step of the product’s commercialization before it is finally sold. ● Eco-conscious Product Commercialization Flow (Example for the Printer Business) Business direction Customer needs Market trends Epson Our customers Life cycle thinking Mid-range roadmap Prototype, Eco-conscious products assessment, Volume Product planning Design procurement production Sales Product environmental performance information Mid-range environmental strategy Standards: -EQS Setting of environmental -Green purchasing standard for production materials speciﬁcation targets Assessment:-Product safety (environmental) evaluation -Product assessment Design for achieving environmental speciﬁcations -Life cycle assessment Final feasibility evaluation of Evaluation of environmental speciﬁcations (drawings) environmental speciﬁcations Evaluation of chemical content in procured parts Evaluation of environmental speciﬁcations (prototypes) and materials Standards • EQS (Epson Quality Standard) Includes internal standards for safety and environmental requirements that all Epson Group products and parts must meet in their design, production and procurement • Green purchasing standard for production materials  Basic opinion on “Product Chemical Content Guarantees,” and written standards covering specific criteria and application, for use when purchasing production materials Evaluation • Product safety (environmental) evaluation Compliance check • Product assessment  Checklists and evaluation sheets for evaluating the feasibility of individual environmental specifications during the drawing stage and experimental manufacturing stage • Life cycle assessment (LCA)  Tools for quantifying environmental impacts (global warming impacts) in a product’s life cycle and for efficiently and accurately identifying areas whose design should be improved Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 48 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Products and Services that Reduce Environmental Impacts The impact that one company can have on the achievement of a sustainable society is limited, but Epson is looking to make an impact and make the world a better place through products and services that Achievement of a sustainable support customers’ sustainability efforts and through collaborative action society Engaging with local communities and partners. partners and communities As a manufacturer, Epson has always asked itself what it can do to Epson achieve a sustainable society and has worked for many years to increase actions the energy efficiency of its production processes and products, improve Epson Customers resource efficiency, and eliminate harmful and hazardous substances. contributions To make a greater contribution, we seek to drive work process innovations by minimizing the environmental impacts incurred by our customers when using Epson products and by raising operational efficiency and productivity. Achieving this will mean taking on new challenges to offer value existing technologies cannot provide. Epson’s answer is to use our original technologies to provide products and services offer this value to our customers worldwide. Minimizing Customer Environmental Impacts We sell products and services that transform the way our customers work. In so doing, we are minimizing their environmental impacts while also raising their operational efficiency and productivity. • Our innovative products and services make our customers’ jobs and lives easier and more enjoyable while also shrinking their environmental footprints. • Our products and services enable new business processes and offer outstanding economic and environmental value. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 49 Office/ Government Shrinking the Environmental Footprint of Offices with a Combination of Performance & Efficiency With built-in PrecisionCore lineheads, the WF-C20590 is a high-speed multi-function inkjet capable of print speeds up to 100 ppm (pages per minute)*1. That’s double the output of the typical office laser printer. Enabled by Epson’s inkjet technologies, high-speed linehead multi-function printers (MFPs) take the combination of print performance and energy efficiency to the next level. WorkForce Enterprise WF-C20590 WF-C17590 *1 For single-sided A4 sheets. WF-C17590: 75 ppm Ideas for the Office Businesses are more sensitive than ever to environmental issues. How Power is Consumed at the Oﬃce*2 Many try to save energy by adjusting their thermostat settings or Others adopting LED lighting. What they may overlook is that printers and MFPs account for about 10% of total power consumed in a typical 3% office. Printers & MFPs We see an opportunity to help them further cut their energy use and 10 % PC costs. Epson inkjet printers draw very little power when printing Central air because ink droplets are ejected by the action of piezoelectric 13 % conditioning elements that contract under only a tiny applied voltage. In contrast, 45 % laser printers require heat-and a lot of electricity-to fuse toner to paper. LED lighting 29 % *2 Epson research based on data from commissioned survey conducted in March 2018 by SOMPO Risk Management & Health Care Inc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 50 Power Consumed per Page The graph below shows the estimated energy consumed per page. The figures, which are based on typical electricity consumption (TEC*1) values provided by ENERGY STAR®, may be used as a guide to compare products running at different speeds. The graph indicates the superior energy efficiency of Epson’s WF-C20590, which uses only about 1/8th the energy of a typical A3 color laser office MFPs. *1 Typical weekly electricity consumption (when cycling through the active, sleep, and off states for five days, and between the sleep and off states for two days) Power consumption per page (Wh/ page) (WF-20590 versus average values for typical office laser printers *2 ) 0.80 Average WF-20590 0.70 0.4 Wh/ page 0.05 Wh/ page 0.60 0.50 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10 Approx. 1/8 *2 0.00 A B C D E F G H I J Epson Competitive color MFP top 10 models *2 Comparative simulation of power consumption per page. Ten of the leading (in terms of unit shipments) A3 color MFPs with outputs of at least 45 ppm were selected, and their average per-page electricity consumption was compared. (Source for 2017 unit shipments: IDC’s Worldwide Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker 2017Q4.) Our per page calculations are based on the TEC values posted on energystar.gov as of February 2018. User Comment Increasing efficiency and reducing energy costs We at Plan International, a children’s aid organization that is active in over 70 countries, have replaced most of our laser printers with Epson inkjet printers. We use Epson’s high-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printers for high-volume print jobs in order to maximize speed, quality, and efficiency. Lower energy costs are an added benefit, as are a cooler office environment and better indoor air quality, since inkjets do not heat up a room. We are extremely satisfied with the excellent output and superior printing performance of Epson’s printers, as well as their environmental Plan International Germany CEO performance, as sustainability is crucial in environmentally conscious Germany. Maike Röttger Eco Features • High-speed linehead multi-function printers enabled by Epson’s inkjet technologies take the combination of print performance and energy efficiency to the next level. • Epson’s WF-C20590 demonstrate superior energy efficiency, using only about 1/8th*2 the energy of a typical A3 color laser office MFPs. WorkForce Enterprise Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 51 Adding New Value to Paper Contributes to a Recycling Society The PaperLab A-8000, the world’s first dry-process office papermaking system*1, makes new paper from old right on-site. Epson’s unique dry fiber technology represents a breakthrough in paper recycling. It enables scrap paper to be reused not only in new paper production but also in the production of a variety of other pulp-based products. *1 Based on a November 2016 Epson study of the office paper recycling market 1st EcoPro Awards Minister’s Prize, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry PaperLab A-8000 Dry-process office papermaking system Preservation of Water Resources An ordinary paper recycling process uses about a cup of water to produce a single A4 sized sheet of paper. In contrast, the A-8000 uses only a small fraction of this to maintain humidity within the system, thus helping to conserve precious water resources. Effective Use of Forest Resources Paper is produced from wood taken from the forests, and while efforts have been made to conserve this resource by producing cardboard from recycled paper, the A-8000 produces new copy paper from used documents right in the office. Also, any paper produced by the A-8000 may be marked with the eco-label established by the 3R Promotion Forum Japan. Awareness-Raising The A-8000 reproduces paper on the spot—a fresh surprise that can raise the environmental awareness of your staff and spawn further environmental action. Children who have had the opportunity to see paper recycled come away with insights and greater concern for the environment, as well as a desire to solve environmental issues with science. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 52 Internal Case Study Epson uses the A-8000 extensively to recycle and reproduce paper used on its own sites. In 2018, this recycled paper was used to produce all orientation training materials for new employees. It is being used for calendars and employee business cards. This paper is also used for notebooks and memo pads, and we plan to further expand uses in the near future. The production of paper and paper-based goods has expanded the range of job opportunities for the staff of Epson Mizube Corp., a special subsidiary that supports the employment of persons with disabilities and is involved in these activities. Calendars made using recycled paper Epson also uses a machine that employs dry fiber technology to upcycle recovered paper into wasteink pads for inkjet printers and sound absorbing materials for the A-8000. Waste ink pads for inkjet printers (maintenance box) User Comment Beyond direct benefits: raise children’s awareness of the environment The city government of Shiojiri decided to install a PaperLab after examining the potential environmental, security, and job creation benefits. We saw that we could promote environmental conservation through local recycling of used paper without stressing water resources. We saw that we could strengthen security by destroying sensitive information on-site. And we saw that we could develop employment opportunities for persons with disabilities. I personally feel that the biggest benefit is that the PaperLab can inspire children. For a resource-poor country like Japan, the development of high-productivity industries is important for the national identity. So, I think it is critical to instill in children a Toshiyuki Oguchi Mayor sense of awe and excitement about technology and learning. Shiojiri, Nagano A tangible benefit of installing PaperLab is its productivity: We are producing, on average, 18,000 new sheets of paper per month from locally recovered paper and use them to make application forms etc. This has enabled us to reduce the amount of waste paper transported off-site for disposal by 20%. Eco Features PaperLab A-8000 is an office papermaking system that recycles paper using a dry process. • The dry fiber technology used by the A-8000 represents a breakthrough in paper recycling that contributes to the conservation of water resources. • “Paper to paper” recycling, where fresh sheets of copy paper are produced from used paper generated on-site, is an effective way to conserve forests. PaperLab A-8000 • The ability to recycle at the office reduces the volume of paper that must be transported to off-site recyclers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 53 Textiles/ Garments Driving production Process Innovations with Digital Textile Printers Epson’s digital textile printers faithfully reproduce prints in vivid colors and wonderful detail—and they do so with outstanding throughput and minimal environmental impact. Inkjet Digital Textile Printer © Victoria and Albert Museum, London Monna Lisa Evo Tre*1 *1 A digital textile printer developed with Group company, Fratelli Robustelli S.r.l. Streamlined Manufacturing Process Epson’s inkjet digital textile printers expand your design possibilities while minimizing your use of energy, water, materials, and time compared to conventional processes. Digital textile printing involves the use of printing systems to print out digital data to direct to fabric. It is different from traditional analog printing in which dedicated plates are pressed directly onto the fabric. Digital printing has the following characteristics: 1. Faithful reproduction of fine gradations and subtle color tones 2. S  uitable for small lot production runs at low cost and high speed, without the need for the plates that are indispensable for analog printing 3. Minimize the environmental impact in comparison with analog printing • Little less of dyeing material • No need for water for plate washing Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 54 ● Comparison of Analog and Digital Textile Printing Processes Color separation, tracing Dye matching, dye making Manufacture of mass Plate washing and storage Disposal of unnecessary dye Plate washing and storage Disposal of unnecessary dye 1.5 2 months Analog textile Original design Plate making Sample printing Mass printing Post-processing Image layout ● Requires large quantities of energy production dyes ● Complex work process ● Large quantities of waste Pre-processing Original design Sample printing Post-processing 3 days 2 weeks Digital textile Image layout Mass printing ● Low energy consumption ● Simple work process ● Low waste Efficient Inventory Management Digital textile printing minimizes inventory losses associated with materials, partly-finished products, and finished products, from production through distribution and sale. Eco Features • Since the digital textile printing process is shorter and does not require plates, it uses less energy and water than a traditional analog process, and wastes far less ink. • Ideal for small-lot production. Minimizes inventory losses from manufacturing through to sales. • Digital textile printer inks have acquired Eco Passport certification, indicating that they meet Monna Lisa Evo Tre international safety standard for chemical substances of textiles. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 55 An Inkjet Workflow for Brightly Colored Garments with Fineness of Detail There is a growing market for the printing of original images on T-shirts, polo shirts, tote bags and other cotton products. We are answering the needs of this market with advanced inkjet printing technology that renders images in vivid colors and intricate, faithful detail with low environmental impacts. Garment Printer SureColor SC-F2100 Transforming the Garment Printing Workflow Traditional silk-screen printing requires extensive preparation, including the production of screens and the mixing of ink, as well as maintenance. For photos and other multicolored prints with gradations, the print process is long, and the longer the process, the more energy, water, materials, and other resources are used. Digital prints produced with a SureColor SC-F2100 print digital data from a PC directly onto T-shirts and other garments. So, not only is there no need for screens or plates but images and photos can be reproduced with smooth gradations and in full color. The SureColor SC-F2100 shortens the garment printing workflow. Moreover, the inkjet process saves resources and is more environmentally conscious than analog processes because there are no films, screens, or plates to produce, wash, or store. Silk screen printing Create a Create Create screens Printing Dry ink Finished Store design films for each color each color screens Direct-to-Garment printing  For light color T-shirts Create a Remove lints Directly Dry ink Finished design and smoothen print surface  For dark color T-shirts Create a PreDry liquid Directly Dry ink Finished NOTE: Heat press sold separately. design treatment print Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 56 Infant-safe Prints on Textiles The UltraChrome DG inks and pretreatment liquid used in Epson’s garment printers are Eco Passport*1 certified, indicating that they meet international safety standard for textiles. Under this standard, even printed textiles that directly contact the skin of infants and toddlers are safe. *1  co Passport by Oeko-Tex ® is a system by which textile chemical suppliers demonstrate that their products E can be used in sustainable textile production. Eco Features • Streamlined garment printing workflow compared to silk-screen printing. • Saves resources because no plates or screens are used, unlike traditional printing processes that require a separate film and screen for each color. No washing required, since there are no screens. • UltraChrome DG ink and pretreatment liquid are certified of Eco Passport. SureColor SC-F2100 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 57 Environmentally Conscious Products We provide eco-conscious products. Our efforts to reduce environmental impacts are yielding products that increase production process and product energy efficiency, raise resource efficiency, and eliminate the use of harmful and hazardous substances. • Compact, lightweight, energy-efficient Epson products that are designed for long life and easy recyclability have a lower environmental impact across their life cycles. • Epson produces attractive products engineered for easy maintenance and chemical safety. In the following article, a life cycle icon is used to clearly communicate the stage of the product life cycles in which Epson has achieved significant reductions in environmental impacts. Saving Space and Energy at Home Compact and lightweight design offers the customer more freedom when it comes to installation location and reduces the environmental impact. Choose Create Deliver XP-8500 Use Global Warming Impacts Across Product Life Cycle (CO2 Equivalent) 60 kg-CO2 ● Energy Saving Design Sleep mode Approx. 18% （W） 49 kg-CO2 reduction 1.8 Approx. 67% reduction over 5 years Disposition 0.6 Use Distribution XP-750 XP-8500 Production (2012) (2017) * 240V ● Compact & Lightweight Design Raw Material Approx. 10% smaller, 7% lighter Volume： 18,751,590 m ㎥ Volume： 16,849,720 m ㎥ Weight ： 7.3 kg Weight ： 6.8 kg EP-805A series EP-880A series (known as the XP-750) (known as the XP-8500) XP-750 XP-8500 * A life Cycle Assessment was used to calculate the global warming impacts of the product at each phase of its assume 3-year life cycle and express this as a CO2 equivalent. The life cycle includes material & product manufacturing, distribution, use by customer, and disposal/recycling of end-of-life products. Calculated assuming five A4-size color documents per day, per month (with 20 working days a month). Comparisons in Japan specification between the EP-880A (known as the XP-8500) and its conventional 2012 model. The unit indicator by the Japan Ship Technology Research Association is used for calculating emissions during sea transport. Global warming impacts will vary according to the customer’s printer usage conditions. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 58 Eco Features • Compact and lightweight design contributes resource saving. 〇 Approx. 10% smaller and approx. 7% lighter main unit*1 • Energy saving 〇 Sleep mode’s energy consumption is less than 1W 〇 Approx. 67% less energy in sleep mode*1 *1 Compared with 2012 model XP-750 Compact SCARA Robots Epson’s industrial robots have led the industry for over 30 years thanks to their innovativeness and reliability. And Epson has maintained the top share of the global market for SCARA robots for seven consecutive years*1. T series have a built-in controller and batteryless motors. SCARA robot arms move horizontally and can perform simple tasks that are currently done by hand, such as loading and unloading electronic components and small automotive parts from test equipment. SCARA robots can also help you replace single-axis robots. Choose Create Deliver Use T3/ T6 * The T6 has doubled the payload capacity (6 kg) of the T3. *1 Market share based on revenue of industrial SCARA robots, 2011-2017. (Source: Fuji Keizai “2012-2018 Worldwide Robot Market and Future Outlook”) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 59 Space-Saving and Simple Cabling Epson integrated all the compact, lightweight controller components into the robot arm so that customers do not need a separate controller box or a space in which to install it. In addition, you no longer have to route long cables to the controller, which simplifies initial setup and redeployment. * Weights indicated in the above pictures do not include cables. Epson LS3 SCARA robot and RC90 contoroller The T3 has a built-in contoroller Saving Energy and Resources The T3 is 30% more energy-efficient than conventional SCARA robots. And it runs on 100 V, so it can be used in facilities where a large power supply is not available. You do not need to replace batteries because the T3 records the back-up status of its motors by using a simple mechanical system with the latest motor technologies. Power Comparison Between a T3 and Conventional SCARA Robot LS3 1.00 kVA AC 100 V 200 V-240 V Battery T3 0.66 kVA 30％ less 100 V-240 V Less Battery Replacement Cycle Power LS3 Every 1.5 years Consumption * Replaced four times with overhaul of six to seven years 0.66 kVA T3 Never (reduces downtime) Eco Features • Compact all-in-one SCARA robots increase productivity and save space by automating simple tasks and replacing single-axis robots. 〇 Equipped with a built-in controller to save space 〇 Run on AC 100 V, using 30% less power than comparable Epson robot systems*1 〇 No batteries required for the motor unit, thus reducing resource use, maintenance, and factory downtime *1 Compared with an Epson LS3 SCARA robot Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 60 Product Environmental Information Epson is taking steps to comply with the labeling requirements in major countries around the world. Compliance with Environmental Labels An environmental label is a tool for making environmental declarations and providing other information about a product’s environmental features or performance. The requirements for environmental labels are prescribed by various groups, including the International Standards Organization (ISO). The ISO defines the three types of environmental labels described below. TypeⅠ Type Ⅰ Indicates that the product has met the criteria set by a certified third-party organization. Type Ⅱ A “self-declaration” label that indicates a company volunteers environmental information about its products. Type Ⅱ (Epson’s ecology profiles and eco labels fall under the Type II category.) Indicates that the environmental effects of a product throughout its life cycle from raw material procurement through manufacturing, distribution, use, disposal and recycling are analyzed using LCA methodology and Type Ⅲ Type Ⅲ that the results of such analyses are published as quantitative data. The accuracy and reliability of the claimed data must be verified before being made public. • Eco Labels Acquired in Different Product Categories Substance Substance Type I Safety Safety Country/ Region U.S. Germany Sweden China Taiwan South Korea Singapore Thailand Japan Blue China Environmental Green EcoGreen Thai Green Eco Eco Label EPEAT® TCO Angel Labelling Mark Label Label Label Mark Inkjet Printers ● ● ● ● ● ● ● (incl. MFPs) Page Printers ● ● ● ● (Laser & LED) SIDM Printers ● ● ● ● POS Printers Label Printers Scanners ● ● ● ● ● Ink/ Toner ● (Toner (Toner ● Cartridges (Ink cartridge) cartridge) cartridge) Paper ● Projectors ● ● ● ● Label Works PCs (incl. monitors) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 61 Type II Type III Other Country/ Region Europe Japan Worldwide Japan Japan/ U.S./ EU China Worldwide THE ECO Epson Type II Energy Eco Label DECLARATION PC Green Label Environmental Eco-Leaf ENERGY STAR® *1 Conservation ECO PASSPORT Labelling Program Certification Inkjet Printers ● ● ● ● ● ● (incl. MFPs) (Textile, garment) Page Printers ● ● ● (Laser & LED) SIDM Printers ● ● ● ● POS Printers ● ● ● Label Printers ● ● ● Scanners ● ● ● ● Ink/ Toner Cartridges Paper Projectors ● ● ● Label Works ● PCs ● ● (incl. monitors) *1 T  he ENERGY STAR® Program is also being implemented by EFTA, Switzerland, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Taiwan. Third-party certification became a requirement in North America from January 2011. For more on environmental labeling and environmental information on Epson products, please contact the Epson sales company in the country or region in which you live. Epson’s Type II Environmental Labelling Program Our program is used to provide environmental information about products that is both transparent and reliable, in accordance with the ISO 14021 (JIS Q 14021) standard. We have implemented programs for both eco labels and ecology profiles. Eco Labels The Epson Group started preparing to use eco labels from December 2009 to communicate the environmental features of its products and services to customers in a simple and straightforward way. The labels are displayed on communication tools such as brochures, product catalogs, and individual product boxes. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 62 Epson Ecology Profiles The environmental attributes of Epson brand products are published in the form of an “ecology profile.” For finished products such as printers and scanners, the environmental attributes of the product as a whole, including but not limited to accompanying packaging material, supplies, and consumables, are published in the format specified by ECMA-370*1. For electronic devices we use our own format to provide quantitative data regarding substances included in these products. *1  CMA-370 specified requirements for environmental declarations established by the international standards organization ECMA International. “The Eco Declaration” is often abbreviE ated as “TED.” Safety Data Sheets for Printer Consumables To enable customers to safely and properly use Epson products, including consumable printer supplies (ink cartridges, toner cartridges, ribbon cartridges, etc.), Epson provides Safety Data Sheets (SDS), which describe a product’s chemical content as well as how to operate, handle, and store the product. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 63 Products Epson gives preference to lower-impact alternatives when selecting the components and raw materials that make up its products. Management of Chemical Substances in Products Increasing international restrictions on substances used in products, notably the RoHS Directive and REACH regulation in Europe, have made it essential to closely control the type and quantity of materials used. Epson systematically controls product substance content at the purchasing, production, and shipping stages to ensure compliance with these restrictions. • Instruct suppliers to comply with the requirements stated in the Epson Group Green Purchasing Standard for Production Materials*1. • E xclude substances that are subject to legal, regulatory, or other restrictions, and obtain information about substances contained in parts and materials. • Confirm that no restricted substances are present in parts and materials before producing products. (Analyze parts and materials using x-ray fluorescence (XRF) spectrometer.) • Confirm that restricted substances have not been used in products before they are shipped. *1  written standard that sets forth requirements for the building and maintenance of a substance control system by suppliers who provide parts and materials used in Epson products. A The standard also defines requirements relating to the elimination or exclusion of legally restricted substances and requirements for providing information on substances present in parts and materials. Examples of Management of Chemical Substances in Products Legal and Regulatory Compliance More and more nations are regulating chemicals. We investigate regulations and chemical hazards as early as possible, analyze the information we obtain, and then supply products accordingly. --Measures for Meeting the RoHS Directive*2 Epson has made compatibility with the European RoHS directive a standard feature of its entire lineup of products throughout the world, regardless of whether a particular product is bound for the European market or not. Phthalate esters (DEHP, BBP, DBP, and DIBP) will be added to the list of restricted substances in July 2019. Epson began looking into alternatives to these substances in 2009 and by March 2014 had eliminated them from all but a few industrial products and products in inventory. *2 T  he European RoHS Directive restricts the use of the following six hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyl (PBB), and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 64 --Actions for REACH Compliance Epson has stayed compliant with the requirements of REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) legislation in Europe. Under REACH, companies that manufacture or import chemical substances must register them in a central database. If a product contains harmful substances (such as substances of very high concern), the company must disclose the substances, notify government authorities, and search for alternatives. Moving forward, we will continue to use our substance content framework to thoroughly and efficiently meet our legal and societal obligations, as well as the needs of our customers. We make information on the chemicals used in ink available to customers in the form of safety data sheets (SDS) published in 23 European languages. --Response to GHS *1 The United Nations declared in 2003 that a unified set of rules was needed worldwide on the hazards and appropriate handling of chemicals for consumers and dealers. Different nations have enshrined these rules as law and made them obligatory at different times. Epson has responded to the rules as they apply to affected ink cartridges, toner cartridges, and ribbon cartridges. By 2020, about 100 countries and regions will require GHS compliance. *1  HS (the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals) provides a unified, worldwide set of rules on harmful chemical substances. It harmonizes G classification standards and labels for the hazards associated with individual chemicals and the way safety data sheets are written. Providing Ink for All Types of Printed Matter We provide inks with safe chemical properties as required for products made with inkjet technology (labels, stickers, fabric, etc.). --The Highest Level of Textile Product Safety Eco Passport *2 certification Epson’s textile printer inks*3 have acquired Eco Passport certification, indicating that they meet international safety standards for chemical substances used in textile production. Even printed textiles that directly contact the skin of infants and toddlers are safe. *2 E  co Passport by Oeko-Tex® is a system by which textile chemical suppliers demonstrate that their products can be used in sustainable textile production. *3 UltraChrome DS inks for textile printers, UltraChrome DG inks and dedicated fabric processing agents for garment printers, digital textile printer inks. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 65 Switching to Safer Materials (e.g. Eliminating Harmful Substances) Epson standards specify substances that are prohibited from inclusion in products, and substances whose inclusion must be controlled. Information on these substances is collected and managed in a database. This database is used to ensure safety in all processes, from design and procurement to volume production. Epson is proactive in eliminating from its products substances that could adversely affect the environment or human health. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 66 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Production The main focus is on global warming prevention, the elimination of emissions, and the control of chemical substances. Global Warming Prevention Epson’s initiatives to mitigate global warming revolve around reducing CO2 emissions by conserving energy, and reducing global emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) other than CO2. In FY2017, we made progress on our initiatives toward reaching our 20% per unit of sales reduction targets for GHG as compared with FY2006, and achieved our group-wide reduction targets for the year. Further, emission volumes were about 40% lower than levels recorded in FY2006. ● Greenhouse Gas Emissions 22% Reduction (Kt-CO2e) Per unit of consolidated sales (t-CO2e/ 100 million yen) CO2 emissions per unit of sales 69 70 1,200 (compared to FY2006) 60 1,000 979 55 56 54 51 50 50 800 40 557 557 571 592 600 544 30 Scope 2 (overseas) 400 20 Scope 2 (Japan) 10 200 Scope 1 (overseas) Scope 1 (Japan) 0 0 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) * CO2 conversion factor of greenhouse gas emissions Electricity: The data for Japan has been adjusted based on electric utility conversion factors (for calculating the greenhouse gas emissions of speciﬁed emitters). For overseas data, we used the emissions factors for each country contained in CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion available from the International Energy Agency (IEA). Fuel: The factors announced by the IPCC in 2006 were used for both domestic and overseas data. GHGs other than CO2: Equivalents were calculated based on 100-year GWP values in the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. * Past data was revised for changes in emission factors and the targeted substances for greenhouse gases based on GHG protocols. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 67 Substance Management Epson uses its “E-Chem” chemical data management system to centrally track information on chemical substances used at Epson sites around the world. We are engaged in ongoing efforts to reduce the quantities of chemicals used and to moderate emissions of pollutant release and transfer register (PRTR) substances and volatile organic compounds (VOC). Using FY2006 emissions as a benchmark, all Epson business units managed and met their FY2017 targets for reducing emissions. In addition, we are building trust relationships by making our substance data available and by creating opportunities to exchange opinions with members of the local community. 60% ● PRTR Substance Emissions Reduction Emissions (tons) PRTR substance emission 20 (compared to FY2006) 15 14.4 10.4 10 8.8 6.9 6.6 5.7 5 Emissions overseas Emissions in Japan 0 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 （FY） 52% ● VOC Emissions Reduction Emissions (tons) VOC emission 400 387 (compared to FY2006) 300 192 192 197 200 184 184 Emissions overseas 100 Emissions in Japan 0 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) * FY2016 emissions diﬀer from those in Sustainability Report 2017 due to recalculation. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 68 Zero Emissions Epson’s zero emissions program began with an effort to recycle 100% of our waste products. In 2003 all Group companies in Japan and overseas production sites met their material recycling targets. We have been shifting towards resource conservation initiatives, which seek to reduce the resource inputs into production processes. In FY2017 we employed control metrics benchmarked against FY2006 emissions, and we met our Group reduction target. 18% ● Annual Waste Emissions Reduction (K tons) Wastes emission 50 (compared to FY2006) 42 40 34 Waste (overseas) 30 31 Waste (Japan) 30 27 28 Recycled (overseas) 20 10 Recycled (Japan) 0 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) * FY2013 emissions diﬀer from those in Sustainability Report 2017 due to recalculation. ● Zero Emissions Programs Recycling Resource Conservation Reduction Closed-loop of inputs Waste materials recycling Shift Closed-loop Resource recycling Resource Factory Non inputs Factory inputs closed-loop Non recycling closed-loop Recycled in-house recycling Recycled in-house Products Recycled externally Products Recycled externally Definition of “recycling” Definition of “resource conservation” • Recycling 100% of waste materials • Reduction of resource inputs • Maximum of 50 g of burnable waste per person • Reduction of wastes by using recycled resources per day Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 69 Preservation of Water Resources To ensure the sustainable use of water resources, Epson is committed to using water in a way that does not pollute or over extend this resource, while promoting water recycling. We work actively to increase the recycling rate of factory wastewater and comply with stricter water quality regulations. Moreover, we are implementing energy-efficient water treatment facilities. Thus, we seek to reduce the overall impact of production processes. Addressing Water Related Risk Aqueduct, a project of the World Resources Institute (WRI), is one of the global standards we used to assess water related risk faced by Epson production sites. We found that none of our sites are in a region where the overall water risk is considered to be extremely high based on the physical availability of water resources, water quality risk, and regulatory and reputational risk. Going forward, we plan to incorporate the use of tools such as the WWF’s Water Risk Filter into our water risk assessments. We made progress in FY2017 against our target of a 55% reduction in water usage compared to FY2016. However, we fell short of the target due to increased consumption associated with the startup of new production sites for inkjet printers and metal powder. Nevertheless, per-unit-sale results have improved with revenue growth. 52% ● Annual Water Usage Reduction (K m³) Per unit of consolidated sales (K ㎥ / 100 million yen) Water usage 1.22 20,000 1.2 (compared to FY2006) 17,319 1.0 15,000 0.73 0.77 0.76 0.71 0.8 0.70 10,000 0.6 7,906 8,324 7,360 7,577 7,717 Overseas 0.4 5,000 Japan 0.2 0 (FY) 0 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ● Annual Water Recycling (K m³) （％） 4,000 3,892 30 Recycling Rate 22 3,000 21 19 19 18 20 17 2,000 1,566 1,504 1,526 1,441 1,344 10 1,000 Recycled 0 0 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 70 Transport Epson is reducing CO2 emissions by increasing the efficiency of product, part, and waste transportation. We are making products smaller (which increases shipping efficiency), rethinking our logistics centers, innovating the loading and packing processes (to boost loading efficiency), and reconsidering shipment departure and arrival frequencies and number of trips. After a fire at a supplier’s facility in 2017, the need to minimize the resulting delays in part shipments forced us to increase our reliance on air transport, which rose 15% year-over-year. ● CO 2 Emissions from Distribution (Kt-CO2e) 300 225 200 195 167 100 0 2015 2016 2017 (FY) * Scope 3 Category 4 data based on GHG protocols: calculations for upstream transportation and distribution Environmental Risk Management Any environmental pollution resulting from Epson’s business activities could have a serious impact on residents of the surrounding area, as well as for the rest of the region or country. We follow Group-wide standards for pollution control and ensure that all members are well acquainted with the ideas and laws of environmental risk management. Each promotion unit uses ISO 14001 to identify and assess the risk of failing to meet standards or of experiencing environmental complaints or incidents in an ongoing effort to continuously mitigate those risks. While Epson incurred regulatory violations and administrative penalties in FY2017 , these incidents were quickly reported and corrective actions such as improvements to equipment are being completed. None of these had any significant impact on the environment, nor did they result in any large fines (fines in excess of US$10,000), claims, or accidents. Classification Description Legal/ regulatory violations Volume of grease flushed into sewer exceeded discharge limit. Violations of installation controls on VOC treatment equipment. (fine) Administrative penalties Violations of installation controls on warning equipment for high concentrations of flammable gases in a storage vault for hazardous materials -waste products. (fine) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 71 Soil and Groundwater Remediation Epson is pumping and treating groundwater contaminated by chlorinated organic solvents at several sites in Japan, including at its Head Office. In addition, we have barriers in place to prevent further contamination. In addition, treated wastewater discharged into sewers is monitored to ensure that it remains within 1/1000th of the discharge standard (0.1 mg/liter). Site Groundwater Data and Remediation Methods Groundwater trichloroethylene concentration trend (annual average in wells with highest concentration at each site) (mg/L) Site FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Remediation Head Office 15 17 17 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Shiojiri 0.22 0.21 0.31 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Fujimi 0.043 0.025 0.014 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Suwa-Minami 0.050 0.045 0.041 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Reference: Trichloroethylene standards Environmental quality standard for groundwater under Japan’s Basic Environmental Law: 0.01 mg/L max. Groundwater remediation standard under Japan’s Water Quality Pollution Control Act: 0.01 mg/L max. Groundwater standard under Japan’s Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law: 0.01 mg/L max. Drainage Management Epson’s Chitose Plant is located upstream from Lake Utonai, which has been designated as a national wildlife protection area and a Ramsar Site. Wastewater generated in manufacturing processes is detoxified and then discharged into sewers. To prevent leaked chemicals and other substances from leaking offsite, rainwater is collected in a retention basin to monitor the pH and oil levels before flowing into Lake Chitose and Lake Utonai via the Bibigawa River. All chemicals, waste materials, and wastewater treatment systems are located indoors to prevent them from leaking off the site. Waste Management Epson’s internal policy specifies that wastes must be processed in the country in which they originate. We do not directly import or export any wastes, including hazardous wastes specified under the Basel Convention. However, we employ subcontractors who satisfy the requirements of the Basel Convention to process fluorescent lamps, etc., that originate in countries and regions where it is difficult to process them domestically. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 72 Business Site Information Global environmental data, Epson Group business site and company environmental data, and information on ISO 14001 certification are available on the following websites. Global Environmental Data https://global.epson.com/SR/environment/production/global_data.html Epson Group Business Site and Company Environmental Data (Japanese) https://www.epson.jp/SR/environment/production/individual_data.htm ISO 14001 Certification List https://global.epson.com/SR/environment/production/iso14001.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 73 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Product Recycling To expand the resource reuse and recycling loop, work with customers, communities, and others in the industry to collect and recycle end-of-life products in countries around the world. Epson’s Global Collection and Recycling Systems ● Worldwide Product and Cartridge Recycling Programs Regions where we recycle ﬁnished products Regions where we recycle cartridges Canada China Europe U.S. Japan South Korea Taiwan India Singapore Peru Brazil South Africa Chile Australia Argentina New Zealand Collection Trends for Products and Cartridges ● Finished Products Collected (cumulative through fiscal year) (K tons) 201 200 150 100 50 0 2001 2005 2010 2017 (FY) * Collected either voluntarily or as mandated by local law * Sum of amount actually collected and amount expected to be collected ● Cartridges Collected (cumulative through fiscal year) (K tons) 50 50 40 30 20 10 0 2001 2005 2010 2017 (FY) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 74 Summary of Activities in Each Region Europe Finished Products The European WEEE (waste electrical and electronic equipment) directive has been effective since 2005, and has been reflected in national legislation. To comply with the European WEEE directive, Epson is building recycling systems in each country. Moreover, Epson implements environmentally-conscious design in response to the WEEE directive 2012, that requires manufacturers to increase recyclability of products. Epson also acts quickly to comply with similar legislation that is expected to be adopted in EMEA*1 nations that are not EU member states. *1 Europe, the Middle East and Africa Cartridges Epson Europe B.V. (EEB) is building a collection and recycling system for cartridges while monitoring customer needs and legislative trends. In 2013, EEB rebuilt the system to provide customers with more collection options and to increase recycling efficiency. • Postal Collections Customers request empty pre-printed envelopes, and return filled envelopes via post for consumer inkjet and LabelWorks cartridges. Customers simply request and attach a return label, and return up to ten cartridges in a package. • Epson Express Center Customers return consumer inkjet, laser printer, and LabelWorks cartridges to the nearest Epson Express Center. • Box Collections After customers go online and sign up to the program they receive a collection box for large format printer and laser printer (more than 10) cartridges. When the box is full, it will be collected by the recycling company. Americas Finished Products In Canada and the United States, some states are seeking to introduce laws requiring manufacturers to collect and recycle products. In the U.S., Epson America, Inc. (EAI) has run a voluntary take back program since 2002. In addition to the recycling program, EAI and the National Cristina Foundation have joined together with the goal of helping those who are facing economic challenges or have disabilities gain access to the technology of today. In Brazil, the National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS) was launched in 2010, requiring the electronics industry to implement reverse logistics. Epson do Brasil Industria e Comercio, Ltda. (EDB) implemented a Collection Program for disposing of used products and consumables. The Collection Program operates throughout Brazil, with more than 100 collection points countrywide. Products and supplies collected are sent to an approved recycler who disassembles and then sends the item to recycling and/or co-processing*2 as required. *2 Use of waste to replace new resources and fossil fuels. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 75 Cartridges In the U.S. and Canada, EAI has created a mail-based recycling program for ink cartridges. In the U.S., customers can return toner cartridges by attaching an electronic return label printed from a website. Asia Finished Products In India, Epson India Pvt. Ltd. works on promoting recycling program by making an original logo under the India e-waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011 Directives. In Taiwan, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. complies with the Resource Recycling Act. Original logo In South Korea, Epson Korea Co., Ltd. (EKL) is a member of KERC (Korea Electronics Recycling Cooperative) and complies with the Act on the Resource Circulation of Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Vehicles. Cartridges In Taiwan, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. set up a system in 2001 using a toll-free number and a website to accept collection requests directly from customers to facilitate on the-spot collection. In Singapore in 2012, Epson Singapore Pte. Ltd. joined with Canon Inc. to cooperate with the Singapore National Environment Agency and National Library Board to begin promoting The Homecoming Project to collect ink and toner cartridges. Under the program, consumers can deposit ink and toner cartridges from any manufacturer in collection boxes installed in 21 branches of the national library. Oceania Finished Products Epson Australia Pty. Limited. (EAL) is a founding member of the TechCollect Program. The program is one of three government approved co-regulatory arrangements for implementation of the Federal Government’s Product Stewardship Act 2011, which began in 2012. Cartridges EAL participates in the Cartridges 4 Planet Ark program. EAL is a founding member of this promotion to recycle ink cartridges and toner cartridges. The aim of the program is to prevent cartridges from entering the waste stream and thereby reduce the potential environmental impact arising from the end of life disposal of cartridges. Japan Finished Products Since 2003 Japan has legally required producers to collect and recycle unwanted computers from individuals and as businesses. In 1999, Epson launched a voluntary program to collect and recycle other Epson-brand waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) also, such as printers, scanners, and projectors, from businesses ahead of the enforcement of applicable laws. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 76 Cartridges Epson has built various cartridge collection schemes while monitoring customer needs. In addition to being good for the environment, Epson’s cartridge recycling program provides employment to persons with disabilities at Epson Mizube Corporation, a special subsidiary to support the employment of disabled individuals within the Epson Group. • Take-Back Service Epson has set up a collection service for customers who consume large numbers of cartridges. As part of this service Epson makes donations to OISCA*1 and NACS-J*2, organizations that work on environmentally sustainable development. *1 The Organization for Industrial Spiritual and Cultural Advancement-International. *2 The Nature Conservation Society of Japan. • Bellmark Program Epson has participated in the Bellmark program since 2005. In addition to reducing wastes and helping to preserve the environment, the Bellmark program supports participating schools by awarding them points for ink cartridges collected. Schools use these points to purchase educational materials and equipment. • Cartridge Collection Program at Epson Sites in Japan Epson began collecting used ink cartridges at Epson Group sites in Japan in 2011 in order to expand aid to the Bellmark program. Collection boxes have been installed at every Epson business site to collect cartridges from employees, business partners, and members of the community. The collected cartridges are recycled and Bellmark points are granted based on the number of cartridges collected. The points are then donated to the Bellmark Educational Support Foundation, local schools, or schools that were damaged by natural disasters. • Ink Cartridge Satogaeri (Homecoming) Project Printer manufacturers in Japan joined forces in 2008 to form the Ink Cartridge Satogaeri (Homecoming) Project, a program that uses approximately 3,600 post offices and local governments across Japan to collect used ink cartridges. The project has donated to environmental protection organizations, allowing customers to indirectly participate in social contribution activities. Collection box • Joint Environmental Program In April 2012, Epson and Catalina Marketing Corporation launched an environmental program where used ink cartridges from coupon printers are collected and refilled. Under the program, Epson collects used ink cartridges from nearly 30,000 inkjet coupon printers installed in retail stores across Japan. Epson then refurbishes and refills the cartridges for reuse at the stores. Except for the label, almost all parts of the cartridge are reused and product quality is managed just as it is for new cartridges. Eco Benefits* 3 Life cycle environmental impacts per cartridge reduced by 56% CO2 emissions reduced by 39.5 tons per year *3 Calculated under Epson’s test conditions. Compared with when users dispose of new ink cartridges after use. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 77 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Eco Community We are working to achieve new socially and economically sustainable practices through environmental community action centered on products and services. Eco Corporate Citizenship Please refer to page 149 of “Environmental Conservation.” Eco Technology Introduction of corporate citizenship programs that leverage Epson’s technologies. Release of a Simple Tool for Measuring PFCs Perfluorocarbons and some other gases used in semiconductor and LCD fabrication have extremely high global warming potential—a level that is about 10,000 times greater than that of CO2. But measuring PFC gases was difficult until 2000, when Epson independently developed a simple method for measuring PFCs*1 that enables easy and accurate measurement using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). This method enabled Epson to sharply reduce PFC gas. Epson patented the simple method for measuring PFCs but grants a free license, subject to certain conditions, to others. This method is now being used by numerous enterprises to reduce PFC gas. *1 Formerly called the “Epson Method” Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 78 Eco Community Epson wants its employees to remain mindful of the environment while on the job. We feel it is important for them to consider how their conduct, both at work and at home, affects the environment and we want them to take the initiative in coming up with solutions. Toward that end, Epson provides environmental education and promotes correct understanding of ecological practices. Epson also contributes to broader environmental preservation by sharing its knowledge and experience with outside organizations. In-House Environmental Education ● Environmental Education System (Japan) ● FY2017 Environmental Education (Japan) General Participants Training Management Mid-level employees employees Training (Certification Recipients)*2 e-Learning Basic Environmental Training II Basic Environmental Training II (2017 Edition) 16,991 General Training for Training for ISO 14001: 2015 environmental auditor training 444 (697) new managers new education By rank employees XRF Meister 7 (23) Training for employees to be transferred overseas XRF measurement & acceptability judging 31 (62) ISO14001 environmental auditor training *2 This is the number of persons who took Basic Environmental Training II during the period it was offered (June 2017 to March 2018). Other figures show the number of certified XRF* Meister 1 XRF measurement/ persons as of the end of March 2018. XRF Meister includes overseas affiliates. Professional training certiﬁcation acceptability judgment training training Professionnal Energy Star® measurement technician training skills Pollution control oﬃcer training Emissions control oﬃcer training Hazardous materials management training Awareness Internal notices, Environmental Awareness Month, events (best practices presentations), lectures, Websites, local clean-up projects, etc. Mandatory e-learning for all employees in Japan *1 X-ray Fluorescence Analysis Teaching Environment Protection to Elementary Schoolers (China) Epson Wuxi Co., Ltd. (EWL) is involved in environmental preservation in and around the city of Wuxi, China, where it is located. In September 2017, the company joined forces with the safety supervisory and environmental protection agency of Xinwu District and Taibo Experimental Elementary School to teach environmental protection to a group of 83 students and teachers who gathered at the Liang Hong National Wetland Park, in Wuxi. After presenting them with an overview of the Epson Group and its initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts, EWL presented them with 100 books about environmental protection. After touring the park, the participants played a trash sorting game to educate them about the importance of reducing environmental pollution and of conserving resources through recycling. Green Talent Program (Taiwan) To foster a new generation of leaders who can help create a sustainable society, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. has, since 2011, been conducting an environmental education program for university and graduate school students called the Green Talent Program. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 79 Eco Communication Introduction of communications on environmental topics. EcoPro Exhibition (Japan) Epson exhibited at EcoPro 2017, Japan’s largest environmental exhibition, held at Tokyo Big Sight in the beginning of December 2017. Epson has exhibited at every EcoPro show since it began in 1999, making 2017 the 19th time the company has participated. The Epson booth highlighted some of the company’s products and initiatives to reduce environmental impacts in the office. It demonstrated an office papermaking system that makes new paper from old, underscored the energy-saving features of highspeed linehead inkjet multifunction printers, and drew attention to the amount of resources that can be saved by using highcapacity ink tank systems. Office Papermaking System We demonstrated paper recycling and displayed some samples of notebooks, sketchbooks, business cards, and leaflets made on paper that was recycled using the PaperLab A-8000. High-Speed Linehead Inkjet Multifunction Printers A thermography camera was used to visually demonstrate the difference in the amount of heat radiated by a laser printer and an Epson inkjet printer, the latter of which does not use heat in the printing process and thus uses only minimal power. Corporate Initiatives Epson provided information about a nature photography contest that it sponsors, about key CSR themes, and about the safety and reliability of inks used in inkjet digital textile printing. Epson also shared photos and information about parts manufactured from used paper that was recycled using a system equipped with Epson’s dry fiber technology. Because textile printing was one of the focal points, Epson prepared numerous print samples on various materials that visitors could see and touch to give them a sense of how applications for inkjet printing are expanding beyond paper and into clothing and accessories. Environmental Communication Guidelines Epson’s Global Environmental Communication Guidelines, established in 2008, provides rules for environment-related communications. The guidelines are used throughout the Epson Group to help ensure that the information we release about our environmental programs and environmental performance is correct and easy to understand. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 80 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Biodiversity Conservation Approach to Biodiversity We both benefit from and affect biodiversity in myriad ways. Epson believes that preserving biodiversity is also vital to maintaining our business activities and our employees’ lifestyles. Basically, we look to preserve biodiversity throughout our business activities and to raise employee awareness of its importance. ● Epson and Biodiversity Epson Business Employee Activities Lifestyles Direct and indirect eﬀects Underground Ecosystem Services*1 Resources Impact of extracting Biodiversity resources and processing them into raw materials *1 Beneﬁts from ecosystems We are steadily mitigating the impact of five factors that cause biodiversity loss with initiatives in global warming prevention, resource recycling and conservation, and substance management. Factor Relationship to Epson Theme Main Initiatives Prevention of global Energy-saving product designs Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions warming Production and transport measures Land alterations accompanying Land use underground resource mining Reduced-resource products and Resource recycling recycling Introduced along with imports of Non-native species Resource saving Reduced resource inputs raw materials, parts, etc. Waster recycling Overconsumption Cunsumption of timber resources Release of chemicals into the Reduced inclusion in products Substance Pollution environment due to insufficient and use during manufacturing of management control hazardous substances Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 81 Conservation of Wild Birds in Taiwan The Pinglin district, the famous tea-growing region in the north of Taiwan, is the natural habitat of the Taiwan blue magpie, a unique bird of Taiwan. The district is part of the Feitsui Dam water preserve, but in recent years, large-scale tea cultivators in this region have become over-reliant on agrochemicals. These agrochemicals are contaminating the land and water and are threatening the survival of local wildlife. To protect the Taiwan blue magpie, which is registered as a species of least concern on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species (Ver. 3.1), some local tea growers have been focusing on organic cultivation. However, these organic growers, who cannot use any agrochemicals and who have to pick the leaves entirely by hand, have seen their harvests cut nearly in half. Currently only about 10% of the tea gardens in Pinglin are organic. In 2017, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT), along with a number of major companies, became active as a corporate sponsor in a program to help preserve the habitat of the Taiwan blue magpie. As part of the program, 70 ETT employees and family members dress up in the traditional costumes of tea leave pickers and go out to organic tea gardens three times a year to help harvest the leaves, which must be picked entirely by hand. The organic tea gardens are home to butterflies and other insects, but the participants were most excited by the discovery of several Taiwan blue magpies. Under a three-year plan, ETT will help support ecosystem preservation and sustainable organic tea production as it looks to raise employee awareness of environmental issues. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 82 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Environmental Management As stated in its Management Philosophy, Epson’s business is anchored in a commitment to sustainability. Epson carries out environmental programs under uniform standards and goals in every country and region of the world. Our basic environmental stance is set forth in Epson Principles of Corporate Behavior and in the Environmental Policy. In recent years our customers, along with society in general, have become interested in reducing their environmental impacts. The desire to deliver reduced environmental impact products and services that surprise and delight our customers is embodied in the “Exceed Your Vision” tagline. Environmental Policy (Please refer to page 163 of “Appendices”) Environmental Management System Business units within the Epson Group establish their own ● Promotion System for Environmental Activities environmental action plans based on the Epson 25 Corporate President Vision, and carry out the activities using an Environmental Management System (EMS). We conduct internal audits to check General administrative manager in charge of environmental aﬀairs performance against the plans and take corrective action against General manager of the environmental Environmental aﬀairs nonconformances. aﬀairs supervisory department supervisory department Committee We operate our EMS in compliance with the international ISO Project teams & 14001 international standard, and we implement a planning and subcommittees control cycle to effect continuous improvement. Epson’s main Business Units global manufacturing, sales, and service sites are pursuing Operations divisions integrated business process and environmental management Global Epson Group initiatives as required by ISO 14001 (2015), and are renewing their companies Manufacturing companies certifications. All financially consolidated companies in the global Epson Group have environmental programs and, in the FY2017, environmental data was gathered from 57 of those companies (representing 97% of revenue). External Recognition Environmental Awards Year Award Recipient Conferred by Blue PROPER rating P.T. Epson Batam Ministry of Environment and (Indonesia’s Program for Pollution Control, P.T. Indonesia Epson Industry Forestry, Indonesia 2017 Evaluation, and Rating) JAPAN OEKO-TEX® AWARD 2017 the OEKOSeiko Epson Corp. OEKO-TEX® TEX® Association prize Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 83 Commitment to People Our People Human Resources Development Approach Epson develops and trains its human resources in line with a Human Resources Development Policy established in 1996 that designates talented people as a precious management resource. We assist employees so that they can achieve their dreams of self-fulfillment, and we develop people who connect and support all the companies in the Epson Group. We provide training so that our people understand their roles and what is expected of them as members of the Epson team. Training enables them to work and communicate effectively, solve problems and achieve goals, and experience personal and professional growth. Seiko Epson requires that employees complete a course in management practices before being appointed to a management position. This course prepares them to meet the requirements as a manager by ensuring that they understand their role in terms of both business and actions. On the business end, they learn the skills they need to understand strategic business objectives and respond rapidly and nimbly to internal and external changes in the business environment. On the action end, they learn the skills they need to support the growth and development of the people who report to them by putting organizations and individuals in a position to succeed. In addition, we provide training for new employees, group training for each grade, and various open-type training to develop people who will fulfill roles as future middle managers step-by-step. Human Resources Development Policy (Please refer to page 164 of “Appendices”) ● Outline of Personnel System for Middle Management Realization Management Philosophy Employee Business axis Conduct axis Principles of Realization Motivation Incentives Realization of Epson 25 Corporate of Management Philosophy Remuneration Position for success Behavior Personnel requirements Salary system Org. mgmt. based Application of skills HR mgmt. on role Org. design Licensing Leader candidates Evaluation system Role definitions Training Role evaluation Placement HR database Management of objectives Practicing Off-the-Job Training on the Job A feature of human resource development at Epson is that we provide ● Training System (Japan) level-based group training at every juncture along the career path, from Future Leader Job/LvlSpeciﬁc Group-Wide Specialist Global OnSite entry level jobs through management, and give employees a chance to Director Director training put into practice on the job the knowledge they acquire. GES/ GIS COO F1 Site development support GM GM training Overseas transfers F2 Compliance Basic business skills Specialist job training Manager After completing group training, new hires undergo a one-year practicum. Human skills Management Problem solving skills practices Senior Other employees who complete other group trainings undergo a threeStaﬀ F3 Senior staﬀ training month practicum. During the practicum, employees prepare action plans C-Level C-level training based on what they learned and put these plans into action on the job under New Hire New hire the supervision of their supervisors, thus enhancing their ability to use the * F1/ F2/ F3: Future leader training knowledge and skills they learned during training, in their actual jobs. Epson has used a management by objectives systems for more than 30 years. All employees of every grade are subject to the systems, and managers and their subordinates work together to set objectives that they can both agree on. Progress toward the objectives is periodically reviewed, end results are evaluated, and new, higher objectives are set. The management by objectives system is itself an on-the-job human resource training system. It is a win-win development cycle in which individual growth leads to the growth of the organization and the company. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 84 Training Initiatives Global Leadership Training In addition to a course in management practices for managers and employees who will be transferred overseas, Epson provides training (F1, F2, and F3 course) to selected employees. In the F1 course, director candidates learn the skills needed to be a top executive. The F2 course is used to prepare middle managers to take the reins of a business or division. In the F3 course participants learn the basics of business through simulated exercises. Through these courses, Epson develops future leaders across the group. The Global Incubation Seminar (GIS) The Global Incubation Seminar (GIS) is a program for developing global leaders who will be a driving force in the Epson Group. At the seminar, we share Epson’s vision and values with up-and-coming leaders from around the world, and empower them to put these into practice in their own organizations. Since 1999, the first year of the program, more than 350 people have participated in GIS training, and nearly all the chief executives of Epson’s overseas companies are graduates of the program. The FY2017 GIS was held at the Seiko Epson Head Office for five days, from February 26, 2018. A total of 25 individuals took part, including personnel from 19 overseas affiliates. Participants develop a deeper understanding of the business vision and strategies by directly hearing from and speaking to members of the executive management team. They also discuss issues among themselves to help them think through what they can do as leaders to make Epson an indispensable company. They then draft and commit to executing concrete plans. By offering this training on a continuing basis, we hope to develop diverse global talent who will drive Epson to new heights in the future. One Participant’s Impressions of GIS 2017 My biggest takeaway is networking and learning from our executive team and those from our sister companies. To make Epson a stronger company, we need to bear in mind everything we learned, committed to, and communicated at GIS 2017 no matter how busy we are in our daily responsibilities. I would like to communicate Epson expectations and the Epson Vision to my team. Ramsey Tera (Right) Ramsey Tera Director, Prod. Control & Materials (Left) S eiko Epson Corporation President Epson Portland Inc. Minoru Usui I was impressed with the presentations from executive management and discussions with other participants. I think that it is incumbent on the GIS participants to take the initiative to share Epson values and the lessons about value that we learned about to align everyone across the Epson Group, and especially members of management, in the same direction. Yuan Xue Senior Manager, Market Support Department (Right) Yuan Xue Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (Left) S eiko Epson Corporation President Minoru Usui Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 85 Global Executive Seminar In May 2017, Epson launched the inaugural Global Executive Seminar (GES) to further strengthen executive management at overseas affiliates. The seminar is designed to develop leaders who are capable of devising strategies and analyzing issues, leaders who can help guide us toward Epson’s long-term goals, understand the roles that they and their companies should play, and identify changes to make in a business environment with limited future visibility. The seminar starts with a three-day group training session (session 1) and is followed by a year-long period during which participants apply lessons in actual practice, after which they gather to report the results over two-days (session 2). Session 2 of GES 2017-18 was held at the corporate headquarters from May 28-29, 2018, with seven trainees, including five from overseas Epson Group companies. The participants each gave a presentation on the management issues they tackled over the past year. The seminar concluded with them promising further growth and development in the future. Then, for the next three days, beginning on May 30, we held session 1 of GES 2018-19 with a new group of six leaders from Epson’s overseas affiliates and three from our Japan operations. These nine people are scheduled to return for the second session of GES 2018-19 next year. Through programs like these, we are laying a more robust business foundation for responding to change and executing strategies. Training for New Employees in Japan Epson considers the first year of employment to be a training period during which new employees learn about the Epson approach to work. For the first three weeks, new employees in Epson Group companies in Japan gather at the Head Office for group training, where they learn the following: • Conduct expected of them as Epson employees • The mindset and attitude necessary for practicing “monozukuri” or the art and science of manufacturing, which is the foundation of Epson’s efficient, compact and precision technologies Training to think about customer satisfaction • The importance of working cooperatively as a team Training ranges from lectures on the Epson Code of Conduct to hands-on training in manufacturing. New employees learn the importance and enjoyment of working in teams, through group activities that take place throughout the training period. After they complete group training, new employees are sent to the department where they have been assigned. There they learn their job through on-the-job training under a mentor. Mentors are usually selected from among young employees with three to five years of experience. They produce training plans tailored to the individuals they will be mentoring and, for a full year, provide them with the support they will need to stand on their own. Mentors themselves are expected to grow through this experience. At the end of the first year, the new employees gather again for follow-up group training, where they can observe how they and others have grown and developed. To further solidify the foundation they have built as a business professional, they review the previous year and consider action plans for the next year and beyond to achieve further growth and expand their contributions to the company. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 86 Lifetime Career Support Epson continuously implements initiatives aimed at being an organization that promotes personnel development. We provide support towards building motivating and challenging careers that encourage growth. To help our employees set their own mediumand long-term career goals and take actions toward achieving them, we have been offering Lifetime Career Support (LTCS) since FY2016. The LTCS provides ageand grade-specific training, which gives employees an opportunity to independently plan their own career path. FY2017 Training Results LTCS50 training (for all employees age 50) 460 people LTCS40 training (for all employees age 40) 256 people Creating Value That Exceeds Customer Expectations and the Monozukuri Juku Epson’s Monozukuri Juku, or Manufacturing School, aims to enhance the customer value we create. To this end, we teach our personnel basic technology and skills and have them experience monozukuri (the art and science of manufacturing) by performing specific manufacturing tasks step by step. This helps them tackle jobs from different angles. To give a specific example, employees learn the basics of component processing technology (molding and pressing). Once they learn these, employees have the skills to make the various parts that go into a product. Employees also learn by mastering essential skills for making production lines more efficient (e.g., automating lines or operating them with fewer staff). In addition, we contribute to the community and society by giving practical training for new employees of local businesses, offering corporate experiences to junior and senior high school students, and providing instruction for technical skill trainings. We also send experts abroad to take part in official development assistance for building technical skill evaluation systems at the request of the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 87 Mechatronics Training for Building, Maintaining, and Enhancing Automated Lines Factory productivity improvement initiatives are nothing new at Epson. Earlier examples included the introduction of simple and systematic tools to production processes. More recently, however, we are facing great changes in the manufacturing environment. As wages have risen rapidly and workers prefer non-manufacturing jobs, it is not always easy to recruit the necessary labor. Earlier improvements were based on the assumption there would be plenty of inexpensive labor. Our business is not likely to survive if we just try to repeat such improvements. Therefore, we are making a strong push to build production lines that rely on human labor as little as possible but are still capable of stable production. Training engineers at an overseas affiliate (Philippines) Monozukuri Juku holds about 100 trainings of various types each year to develop the engineers who keep production lines running. Trainings impart machining skills like mechanical drafting and measuring required to build equipment. The organization prepares such curricula as mechatronics basic technologies, where engineers who promote manpower-saving and automation technology get training in basic technologies like compressed air and electrical control as well as assembling and adjusting simple devices. Other courses include FA robot training, image processing training, and mechatronics practical training, which are designed to teach practical technologies and Mechatronics practical training skills. Thus, we are offering employees an opportunity and place to learn. Monozukuri Juku trains machine tool and maintenance engineers in Japan but also sends staff to teach at overseas affiliates that serve as our major manufacturing sites. There, we develop leaders in production and machine tool maintenance at overseas affiliates, by giving courses based on our training program in Japan. Developing Young Technicians through National Skills Competition As a manufacturing company, Epson uses training for WorldSkills competitions to develop “groundbreaker technicians”*1 who have acquired essential manufacturing knowledge and skills at an early age. As a rule, individuals are allowed to take part in WorldSkills trainings just once. The purpose of the short-term intensive trainings is to help participants learn technical skills at the all-Japan level. Every year we send 10-15 individuals to the National Skills Competition associated with WorldSkills to compete in seven selected occupational categories that are applicable to our employees’ work: Instrument making, Press tool making, Mechatronics, Industrial electronics, Web Everyday training design, IT network systems administration, and Watch repair. New employees sent to Monozukuri Juku as WorldSkills trainees experience monozukuri (the art and science of manufacturing) in such forms as filing and sawing. They also learn basic knowledge about machinery, electricity, and other general topics in each occupational category. In conjunction with everyday occupationspecific training, there are training camps three times a year. Participants lodge together, run a 40-km road race, join group discussions, set targets, and the like. All of this helps to build a sense of solidarity as a team. The 55th National Skills Competition of Japan 2017 To recreate the feel of the national competition, we also hold joint training events with other companies that take part in WorldSkills. Additionally, our employees actively pursue such national qualifications as machining technician, electronic device assembly technician, web design technician, and watch repair technician. After participants finish WorldSkills trainings, they get practical training to help them build the basic skills learned there into skills they can use to make products. Each participant then joins an operations division. The units they join often praise these employees for performing beyond expectations. *1 Technicians with the ability to break from precedent to create innovative technologies and systems. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 88 Epson Employees Win Awards at WorldSkills Abu Dhabi 2017 Epson employees won awards, in Plastic Die Engineering and Web Design and Development at the 44th WorldSkills Competition held in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates, from October 14-19, 2017. This marked the first time since the 2009 Calgary, Canada, competition that Epson was represented at the event, and the first time since 2007 that an Epson employee won an award (an employee won a gold medal in Polymechanics and Automation at the event in Shizuoka, Japan). Epson has participated in the National Skills Competition since 1971 to train the next generation. Young technicians train intensely under the guidance of veteran employees to acquire top-level skills in Japan in a short period of time. They hone their skills in friendly competition toward a common goal, building teamwork and the ability to act independently in the process. After completing WorldSkills training, they contribute to Epson’s operations with their newly acquired skills, mental toughness, and attitude toward work. They are often praised for performing beyond expectations by their organizations. Epson will continue to use competitive events like WorldSkills to pass down skills, provide motivation, and develop people with world-class skills. Prize winners: Plastic Die Engineering • Bronze Hayato Miyasaka (right) Web Design and Development • Medallion for Excellence Azusa Sano FY2017 Workforce Composition and Training Data ● Main Online Courses (Japan) ● Training by Employee Level Training Who People Percent CourseTitle Course Title Trainees Trainees Trained Trained Fundamentals of Security Export Control (2017) 14,092 New employee orientation New hires 293 100% Import/Export Control (Export Edition, 2017) 13,968 C-level employee training New C-level staﬀ 236 93.4% Epson’s Compliance（2017） 18,821 Senior staﬀ training New senior staﬀ 266 93.3% Basic Information Security（2017） 18,658 Section manager training New section managers 138 97.2% Basic Environmental Traning II（2017） 16,991 General manager training New general manager 33 92.7% Introduction to Procurement 2017 (Subcontract Act) 15,302 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 31, 2018. * Employees who have not received training are scheduled to do so in FY2018. J-SOX (2017) 17,770 Basics of quality management system 14,971 Preventative measures for the spread of contagious diseases at workplaces 15,780 * The number of persons completing the course by March 31, 2018. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 89 Commitment to People Our People Promotion of Diversity Diversity Policy Respect for diversity is a cornerstone of Epson’s Management Philosophy, and our personnel policies reflect it. Diversity is the inclusion of individuals of different genders, national origins, religions, regions, educations, social statuses, and sexual orientations, regardless of whether these traits are innate or acquired, visible, or invisible. Epson’s true customers are end users the world over. In order to enrich their lives, we have to understand them and meet their needs. To achieve this, our own diversity is important. We believe that only with a diverse workforce of people who have respect for one another and who know and practice what is important can we create customer value. In order to deliver results that surprise and delight our customers, Epson promotes female managerial staff and foreign nationals, fostering a corporate culture that enables diverse personnel to display their abilities to the full. Masayuki Kawana Director and Executive Officer, General Administrative Manager of the Human Resources Division and CSR Management Office Global Talent Epson has sites around the world to accurately identify and swiftly and ● Employee Numbers by Region (as of March 31, 2018) flexibly meet the changing needs of customers at different times and Asia/ Oceania 67.1％ in different regions. The Epson Group currently employs about 76,000 Japan 25.4% people. Ｔｏｔａ ｌ 76,391 The Americas 4.5％ Epson is vertically integrated, which means we have control over the Europe 3.0％ “create, produce, and sell” value chain. A high-performing, diverse workforce is essential for achieving vertical integration, making it vital for our operations divisions in Japan and Epson Group companies overseas to be on the same page in terms of business vision and policies. That is why we have a variety of international programs to promote communication and interaction among people at various levels within our operations divisions, Head Office, and other internal organizations. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 90 Examples of Our Initiatives Sending Young Staff Members Overseas Epson actively sends young staff members from Japan to Epson’s overseas sites for professional development as part of its trainee program. ● Number of Employees Assigned to Overseas Training Programs FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 8 20 34 38 29 28 Employees Sent to Japan for Training Epson actively accepts interns from overseas sites to stay in Japan for a period of three months to one year. We provide educational programs that give them an opportunity to learn skills and techniques not available in their home countries and helps them enhance their understanding of business processes. In FY2017, we accepted 39 technical interns and trainees, and since 1988, we have welcomed a total of 1,700 Group employees. The photo on the right shows technical interns inspecting parts manufactured with dies they made themselves. Global Meetings Epson holds a variety of meetings and seminars for representatives from our global sites. Some are function specific, for areas such as legal affairs, finance and accounting, safety, and the environment. Others are for global projects involving matters such as IT systems and the adoption of IFRS. Still others, such as sales meetings, are held to discuss a range of topics and to share information and opinions globally. Advancement of Women in the Workplace Seiko Epson has had some success in empowering women-who actually stay with the company longer than men, on averageby creating conditions that allow them to better balance family with work. These conditions include, for example, the ability to take leaves of absence or to work a shorter day, as well as financial assistance to help cover babysitter expenses. However, there is still a gender gap when it comes to promotion to management and other leadership positions in Japan. Seiko Epson recognizes this as an issue and is taking additional action to support the advancement of more women in the workplace. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 91 Examples of Actions Taken Plans for Promoting Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace • We will recruit new graduates, with a goal of securing a hiring class composed of at least 25% women • We will expand and enhance a variety of policies and measures to enable women to shape their long-term careers at Epson. (For example, we will help build an internal network of female employees and encourage them to participate in management and leadership training seminars.) • We will explore telecommuting and other more flexible ways of working. Eruboshi Seiko Epson has earned the highest (Grade 3) Eruboshi certification*1 from the Japanese government in recognition of our excellence in promoting the advancement of women in the workplace. *1 T  o be eligible to receive Grade 3 certification a company must satisfy all the criteria in five areas: recruitment, continued employment, working hours, percentage of women in managerial positions, and diversity of career courses The Platinum Kurumin Seiko Epson is creating conditions that allow employees to balance their careers with their personal lives. In recognition of our efforts to implement policies that will benefit the next generation, the Japanese government awarded Seiko Epson Platinum Kurumin certification. Nadeshiko Brand In 2017, the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry, working in collaboration with the Tokyo Stock Exchange, selected Seiko Epson for inclusion to the list of Nadeshiko Brands, an honor bestowed on companies that demonstrate excellence in encouraging the empowerment of women in the workplace. Seiko Epson was recognized for implementing higher quality initiatives to empower women in order to produce greater business success. Family Tours Seiko Epson conducts family tours every August. Children of employees visit the company, see our products, make fans using paper printed from an Epson printer, assemble watches, use the employee cafeteria, and participate in other events that show them what Epson is like. Childcare Space and Babysitter A childcare space was set up in company housing adjacent to an Epson site. Employees can hire a babysitter to look after their children at company expense. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 92 Female Empowerment Project Seiko Epson launched a dedicated project to promote the empowerment of women in the workplace in order to create a climate of support for both male and female employees who want to advance their careers. The members of the project team are knowledgeable internal professionals who are exploring seven topics. They are also working to achieve an action plan as required by the Act on the Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. The Seven Topics Career design, career counseling, work-life balance support (childrearing), work-life balance (family caregiving), internal networking, hiring and retention, and internal/external PR. ● Organization President Project Owner (General Administrative Manager, HR Division) Work Subcommittee Corporate Strategy (management & labor) Council General Manager & Leaders (HR Department) Administrative Oﬃce (HR Department) Work-life balance support General Aﬀairs Depts. Career design Networking Hiring & retention (child-rearing) of plants & oﬃces Group companies Work-life balance support Career counseling Internal/ external PR (family caregiving) * Report project progress of 7 topics to the project owner once every two months. Targets We are aiming to have female employees account for 5% (40 people) of management positions and 7% (350 people) of leadership roles (equivalent to assistant manager) by FY2022. Dialog Between Executive Management and Female Employees Seiko Epson will continue to hold meetings between members of the executive management team and female employees. These meetings are designed to create a mutual support environment and help women network with female managers, with manager candidates, and with other employees who share similar concerns at around age 30. Members of executive management who participate in these meetings learn first-hand about the needs of women in the workplace, such as the ability to telecommute during the childrearing years and availability of a temporary day care space in emergencies. These talks lead the development of actual trials and the creation of new programs. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 93 Telecommuting and Dependent Care Seiko Epson has introduced a system that gives time-constrained employees the opportunity to work from home so that they can provide care to children and other sick or ill family members. The telecommuting program can be used flexibly on an hourly, half-day, or per-day basis, up to a set maximum number of hours per month. For example, parents can leave work during regular working hours as needed to participate in school events. Or, when their child gets sick, they can work a certain minimum number of hours while their children are sleeping. Whereas parents previously may have had to take paid leave for these situations, they now can work more flexibly around them. Telecommuters: 38 for childcare and 1 for family care (as of April 2018) ● Main Programs Introduced (Japan) 1980 ・ Eliminated gender pay gap (1983) ・ Main childbirth & childcare programs 1990 Parental leave (1991) Shortened workday (1992) 2000 At-home childcare service (2005) Medical leave okayed for paid parental leave (2007) Medical leave okayed for half-days for expanded range of reasons (renamed wellbeing leave) (2009) Certification as a company with policies to benefit the next generation Acquisition of the“Kurumin”next-generation accreditation mark, the ﬁrst company to do so in Nagano prefecture (2007) (Ongoing certiﬁcation in 2009 & 2012) Free at-home childcare service (2015) Acquisition of the Grade 3 (the highest grade) Eruboshi certiﬁcation (2016) Acquisition of Platinum Kurumin (2016) Telecommuting system for dependent care (2018) Support for Managers To deepen understanding of the need for diversity (including the participation and advancement of women) to maximize the power of the organization, every year Seiko Epson invites outside lecturers to talk about why diversity matters. Attendance is mandatory for all members of middle and upper management. Bosses, out of an excess of caution, tend to avoid assigning potentially career-enhancing work to women and other employees whose time availability may be limited. For this reason, we have incorporated content in manager training courses to help ensure that all employees are given equal opportunity and are motivated. To further change the mind-set of management, we will introduce diversity management training on a trial basis in the FY2018. This training program will incorporate content that teaches managers to recognize unconscious bias and effectively use female employees. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 94 Evaluation System The criteria for evaluating employees who work a full day and employees who work shorter hours are identical. This was done to ensure a level playing field when it comes to advancement and promotions. Employees are evaluated based on their achievements with respect to goals that are considered to be achievable within their respective workdays. In addition, to be eligible for promotion exams, employees must write a dissertation and pass a written test in the same year. Since a considerable amount of time is needed to write the dissertation and prepare for the written test, employees who have limited free time faced additional challenges. Another stumbling block was that employees who qualify to take the test must do so (and pass) within a three-year period, after which eligibility expired, so those taking maternity leave could end up losing eligibility. To remove these obstacles and make it easier for time-constrained employees to take tests for promotion, we changed the system, in April 2018. We eliminated the expiration period and made it so that employees could maintain eligibility even if they pass only certain test subjects over a multi-year period. Future Initiatives Seiko Epson will roll out further actions to expand the career advancement possibilities for women in the future. ● Roadmap 1990 2000 2015～ Launch of the Female Empowerment Project Greater diversity to achieve business strategies Advancement of women in the workplace Equal opportunity employment & work-life balance support Top management commitment Work reform Support for managers Career design for women Telecommuting Work-life balance support (shorter working hours & babysitter service) Introduction & expansion of a work-life balance support system Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 95 Employing and Supporting Persons with Disabilities Epson employs a large number of persons with disabilities. For this reason we accommodate special needs in a variety of ways. For example, we provide easy-access restrooms, parking spaces, and other facilities. We also provide services such as sign language interpretation for in-house training and interviews, and special shortened working hours for dialysis treatment. Two special subsidiaries in Japan, Epson Mizube Corp. and Epson Swan, Ltd., have made special provisions to accommodate employees with disabilities and allow them to make the most of their talents, and they are now expanding job opportunities for disabled employees. ● Employees with Disabilities (Japan) ● Type of Disability (Japan) （%） Mental disorders 2.5 20 (7%) 2.6 2.48 （Ｔａｒｇｅｔ） 2.43 2.4 Limb 71 2.24 2.27 Developmental 2.2 2.13 2.11 2.14 102 (36%) 1.99 1.94 1.95 2.00 Total 2.0 284 1.8 Physical Legally required percentage 162 (57%) Hearing 34 1.6 Other physical 8 Vision 6 1.4 Internal organ 2 Cardiovascular 22 1.2 Kidney 19 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 (FY) * The data is current as of June 1, 2017. * Figures for each fiscal year were as of June 1 of that year. Epson Mizube Corp. Epson Mizube Corporation was founded in 1983 as a special subsidiary of Seiko Epson. It began with a workforce of 15 people, 11 of whom had disabilities, and has expanded steadily since then. Epson Mizube’s wide range of services include assembly, inspection, cleaning, and packaging of various electronic and precision devices; printing, copying, and bookbinding; catalog mailing; document digitization; dust suit cleaning; building cleaning; and sorting and dismantling used ink cartridges. The company employs 129 persons with disabilities at nine sites (as of the end of March 2018). Facilities cleaning services were launched in 2008, and have since grown to a crew of 44 employees who provide services to 7 sites (as of March 31, 2018). The cleaning crews contribute to maintaining pleasant working environments. In 2017, we installed an upcycling model line in the PaperLab. This has expanded employment opportunities for persons with disabilities and promotes environmental impact reduction by using the PaperLab and DFP to turn used paper into business cards and notebook paper. Board assembly Sorting used ink cartridges Cleaning company facilities Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 96 Awarded Director’s Prize for Effort Excellence by a Worker with Disability In recognition for this long-term service as an exemplary worker, Masashi Mukaiyama of Epson Mizube Corporation received the Director’s Prize for Effort by a Person with Disability. Mukaiyama is a shining example for all employees. “I want to thank my colleagues and my family for this award was made possible through their support. This award encourages me to further polish my skills, challenge myself to more advanced work, and broaden the scope of my work horizons,” stated Mukaiyama. Mukaiyama also earned Gold Prize in the electronic circuit assembly competition at the 2012 Japan National Abilympics. Taking Part in the Abilympics Many of Epson’s employees with disabilities have amazing skills that are invaluable to the company. The FY2017 Japan National Abilympics featured the most Epson representatives ever (4 employees: product packing Masaya Hirabayashi; facility cleaning Mizuho Yosoi; electronic device assembly Shoichi Yokouchi; office assistant Misaki Kamijo). Masaya Hirabayashi and Mizuho Yosoi earned silver and Shoichi Yokouchi earned bronze. Through their efforts, these employees serve as positive examples for workers with disabilities. Epson Swan, Ltd. Epson Swan Ltd. started operating in March 2002, when it was established as a special subsidiary of Tohoku Epson Corporation in Sakata, Yamagata Prefecture. It was the first certified special subsidiary in Yamagata Prefecture. It is presently a special subsidiary of Seiko Epson Corporation. Located in the grounds of Tohoku Epson, 20 people with disabilities (as of April 1, 2018) clean dust suits and provide building cleaning services within the company. In addition to employee and leisure support, we also focus on professional development. In FY2017, we won the Prize for Effort in the facilities cleaning category at the Japan National Abilympics In addition, Epson Swan communicates both internally and externally by publishing its magazine Smile via its intranet and as hardcopy four times a year. A total of 34 issues have been released, counting the most recent published in March 2017. Selecting Senior Executives Epson identifies the roles and requirements for key posts within the Group, prepares succession plans, and selects the best people for these positions, without regard to consideration such as age, gender, and nationality. A system is in place to select the best people for key posts that open up. Epson Group companies outside Japan identify certain ranks at which they look for candidates to fill future top-level management positions. They then compile basic information about everyone at those ranks. Seiko Epson consults with Epson Group companies to identify the top talent among these candidates, gathers information about their management and other capabilities via 360-degree evaluations, and explores future career paths and development plans for them. As a result of these initiatives, Epson now has home-grown talent in leadership positions at its overseas affiliates. The CEO of Epson’s regional head office in the US is an American who has responsibility for all administrative and business operations at Epson companies in North, Central, and South America. In Europe, all local affiliates controlled by the regional head office are headed by locals. In addition, a number of Epson sales and manufacturing affiliates around the globe have recruited or promoted locals to run their operations. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 97 Workforce Composition and Service Period ● Workforce Composition ● Workforce Composition Male/ Female Ratio Mgmt. Diversity*1 Junior Mgmt. Ratio*2 Male/ Female Ratio Mgmt. Diversity*1 Junior Mgmt. Ratio*2 Women 16% Women 3% Women 6% Women 16% Women 3% Women 6% Men 84% Men 97% Men 94% Men 84% Men 97% Men 94% * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20, 2018. *1 for manager Section * Data higher and Corporation Seiko Epson employees as of March 20, 2018. *2 *1 Team leader Section manager and higher *2 Team leader We are aiming to have female employees account for 5% (40 people) of We are aimingpositions management to have female and 7% employees (350 people) account for 5% (40 of leadership people) roles of (equivalent management positions to assistant manager) by FY2022. and 7% (350 people) of leadership roles (equivalent to assistant manager) by FY2022. ● Length of Employment ● Length of Employment (Unit: Year) (Unit: Year) Total Men Women Total Men Women 19.5 19.0 22.1 19.5 19.0 22.1 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20, 2018. * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20, 2018. ● Turnover Rate ● Turnover Rate FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 3.6％ 2.9％ 2.9％ 3.1％ 3.6％ 2.9％ 2.9％ 3.1％ * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20, 2018 (Include retired worker) * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20, 2018 (Include retired worker) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 98 Commitment to People Our People Respecting Human Rights Zero Tolerance Epson is serious about keeping all forms of discrimination and unfair practices out of its operations around the world. This stance is reflected in our participation in the United Nations Global Compact since 2004. In 2005 we documented policies that outline Epson’s strong convictions in areas including respect for human rights, elimination of harassment, eradication of all forms of discrimination, respect for local culture and customs, prohibition of child and forced labor, and maintenance of positive labor relations. We have established services that employees can use to report or consult on abuses of any kind. These services include such things as a harassment hotline, employee counseling service, and Epson helpline. Epson also strives to prevent fraud and other forms of misconduct in a number of ways, including by periodically sharing information with all employees and by raising awareness with bulletins on the intranet. The Policies regarding Human Rights and Labor Standards (Please refer to page 166 of “Appendices”) Power Harassment Prevention Training Epson maintains a harassment hotline to respond to employees’ harassment concerns. Epson has been actively fostering the development of an organizational culture with zero tolerance for harassment. To achieve a fair and pleasant working environment, we provide anti-power harassment training seminars to Epson Group companies as a way to prevent and stamp out harassment. In FY2015, we carried out training for management (directors and administrative officers) and all managerial staff at Group companies in Japan, with 100% attendance. In FY2016, we expanded the training to middle management and personnel who are to be transferred overseas. More than 90% of those eligible attended the training in FY2017. The training has also been provided to personnel who are newly promoted to management and other leadership positions since FY2016. ● Power Harassment Prevention Training 2014 2015 2016 2017 People Trained Senior Power harassment prevention ● management training for senior management Basic harassment prevention training Power harassment prevention 1,303 people (100%) at 70 trainings Middle training for middle management at 27 sites in Japan management FY2017: 138 people (97%) New section manager training (training ongoing) Power harassment prevention 295 people (92%) at 29 trainings Overseas training for overseas assignees at 27 sites overseas assignees Power harassment prevention FY2016-17: 124 people (100%) training prior to assignment overseas at 8 trainings (training ongoing) Power harassment prevention 2,561 people (93%) at 131 trainings Junior training for junior management at 22 sites in Japan management FY2017: 266 people (93%) New senior staﬀ training (training ongoing) Provide basic harassment training for (Non-management employees) all Epson Group employees & information about reporting channels, etc. Current as of March 31, 2018 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 99 Human Rights Due Diligence Our company uses the vertical integration business model, and the majority of the products we sell are produced by our manufacturing subsidiaries. In addition, we sell our products across the globe through our subsidiary sales companies. Regarding identification of human rights risks throughout our business, our suppliers perform a CSR self-assessment questionnaire so that we can identify and understand risks in the supply chain. For our manufacturing and sales subsidiaries, it is said that human rights risks are high throughout Southeast Asia at production sites in general, so to confirm human rights risks in our overseas subsidiaries, we had all of our overseas subsidiaries, including sales companies, complete an Epson CSR self-assessment. The results allowed us to identify risks, and we instructed our overseas subsidiaries to take steps to mitigate these risks. The CSR self-assessment will be performed yearly, and we will encourage companies to understand where the issues are and to address them. CSR Self-Assessments by Overseas Epson Group Companies In the FY2017, Epson had its overseas group companies complete a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) to evaluate their performance with respect to CSR requirements. The purpose of the SAQ was to identify and address risks and potential threats in areas such as human rights. Epson created the SAQ based on the basic requirements of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). The SAQ consisted of 100 questions concerning things such as human rights, labor, safety and health, the environment, the management system, and ethics. Suppliers were asked to complete the same questionnaire as part of our socially responsible procurement program. ● Questionnaire Content Major Category Minor Category Examples Number of questions G: General 1 Freely chosen employment, young workers, working hours, wage A: Labor (human rights) and beneﬁts, humane treatment, non-discrimination, freedom of 28 association B: Health and safety Occupational safety, occupational injury and illness, dormitory & 22 canteen, etc. Environmental permits & reporting, pollution prevention & C: Environment resource reduction, hazardous materials, wastewater & solid 14 waste, air pollution, energy consumption & greenhouse gas emissions, etc. D: Management Company commitment, management accountability & responsibility, risk assessment & risk management, training, supplier 16 system responsibility, etc. Business integrity, intellectual property, fair business, advertising E: Ethics 12 & competition, responsible sourcing of minerals, privacy, etc. F: Additional items Export control, information security, product safety, business 7 (Epson original) continuity plan, etc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 100 ● SAQ Overview Items Details Survey period Dec. 6, 2017Jan. 31, 2018 Survey coverage 66 overseas Epson Group companies (20 manufacturing companies and 46 sales companies) Questionnaire Epson Group Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) Survey method Nov. 28 Group companies were asked to complete the SAQ at a global HR meeting Dec. 6 SAQs were sent to company presidents and administrative oﬃcers Jan. 31 Administrative oﬃcers summarized and submitted completed SAQs Collection SAQs were collected from 66 overseas Epson Group companies (regional head oﬃces in Europe and the U.S. summarized answers from Epson sales companies in their territories) Reporting of results Mar. 14 The results were reported at a meeting of Epson Group company presidents. • The Head Oﬃce supervisory department checked answers and identiﬁed issues. • Companies were provided with feedback and asked to take corrective action, where needed. Corrective action Apr.Companies began taking corrective action Status check Dec. 2018 The status of corrective action will be checked by having companies complete another SAQ. ● Rankings Based on SAQ Scores Risk rank Assessed points Explanation It basically meets the requirements of the Epson Supplier Code Low risk 86-100 pts. of Conduct. Is able to independently correct weaknesses. It does not meet all the requirements of the Epson Supplier Code Medium risk 66-85 pts. of Conduct but is able to independently correct weaknesses. 65 pts. It needs to be monitored based on an improvement plan to meet High risk or less the requirements of the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct. ● SAQ Results Manufacturing Sales companies and Total companies other affiliates Risk rank Total score Number of ％ Number of ％ Number of ％ companies companies companies Low risk 86-100 pts. 16 80% 32 70% 48 73% Medium risk 66-85 pts. 4 20% 11 24% 15 23% High risk 65 pts. or less 0 0% 3 6% 3 4% Total 20 100% 46 100% 66 100% Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 101 Summary • No serious compliance or ethics problems were found at any overseas Group companies as a result of the SAQ. • In part because this was the first such SAQ, not all affiliates understood the intent of the questions, so the Head Office will provide further explanation and education. • Some affiliates did not fully understand the Epson Group’s basic policies, rules, and guidelines, so the Head Office will act to improve understanding. • A fairly large number of affiliates had not communicated the Epson Group’s basic policies, rules, and guidelines to their employees or had not established their own objectives or action plans (in the areas of labor, safety and health, the environment, and suppliers). The Head Office will provide instruction and support to these affiliates and promote action across the Epson Group. --High Risk Companies (3 companies) Situation Action Two of the companies did not understand some of the Visit the companies to explain the questions to the people in questions well enough to answer appropriately. charge and to check the situation on site. One company that recently joined the Epson Group was not The Head Office will establish a communication policy, adequately apprised of Epson’s policies and management explain requirements, and provide support. requirements. The Head Office and the companies deemed high-risk will draft and execute plans to address issues to bring them up to the middle-risk or low-risk levels by March 31, 2019. Security Personnel Trained in Human Rights Seiko Epson outsources security operations to security companies and asks them to train those employees in human rights policies or procedures. In FY2017 we conducted a CSR self-assessment questionnaire to confirm that thoses suppliers, as well as other suppliers of indirect materials, provided human rights training to those people. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 102 Commitment to People Our People Fostering a Better Workplace Equal Gender Opportunity Initiatives Seiko Epson, an early advocate of equal opportunity employment in Japan, abolished gender-based difference in pay in 1983. In addition, we aim to provide equal gender opportunity at the time of childbirth and childcare. The results of our initiatives show up in the numbers, such as the duration of service and the rate at which mothers return to work after taking childcare leave. Moreover, nearly 100% of employees take parental leave. In fact, as of March 20, 2018, women stay with Epson longer than men on average (22.1 years for women versus 19.0 years for men). ● Childcare Leave Trends ● Caregiver Leave Trends Childcare Leave Employees Caregiver Employees using FY using parental FY caregiver reduced Total*1 Women Ratio of women Men*3 Leave hours granted leave*2 reduced hours 2017 2 2 2017 64 44 98% 20 (14) 170 2016 2 2016 60 42 100% 18 (16) 2015 6 2015 52 40 98% 12 (11) 2014 4 2014 67 49 100% 18 (13) 2013 4 2013 71 66 98% 5 ( 4) 2012 1 2012 80 66 100% 14 (12) 2011 2 2011 66 55 98% 11 (10) * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 31, 2018. 31, 2018. *1 Including individuals who took well-being leave. *2 Number of individuals granted childcare leave/ eligible individuals. (Individuals who have had a child and are eligible for childcare leave) *3 Numbers in parentheses indicate employees who took special paid leave. Epson’s Wellbeing Leave Program Seiko Epson introduced a special paid leave program in March 1998 that allows employees who do not use all their annual paid vacation days during the year to stockpile the remainder, up to 60 days, in a separate account. They have the option of using special paid leave days in the event of personal injury or illness, or to care for children or family members, or to participate in school events for their children in elementary and middle school. Work-Life Balance Initiatives Recognizing the importance of the well-being and development of our children, Epson encourages employees to balance their careers with their personal lives. We enforce an eight-hour no overtime workday at least once per week at our sites in Japan, and an increasing number of sites have a day each year when parents can bring their children to work. To create an environment suitable for both male and female employees who want to pursue a career, we are working to support childcare. From October 2005, we have offered subsidies for babysitting services. We have gradually increased the subsidy, and currently we pay the full amount for up to 16 hours. Company housing next to the workplace is made available as childcare space to maintain the privacy of employees’ homes. From April 2018, we introduced a telecommuting system for employees on childcare leave or caregiver leave. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 103 Responding to Employee Caregiver Needs With advancing population aging, the number of people requiring care is on the rise. Consequently, the number of employees acting as caregivers for their families is also on the rise. Aiming to eliminate turnover due to caregiver needs, Epson provides the following types of support to caregivers. • Launched a website related to caregiving to provide information related to in-house programs and nursing care insurance systems. • Conducting nursing care preparation seminars to equip employees with the knowledge that will enable them to respond calmly to sudden nursing care needs. • Enable the use of the following programs to support balance between work and caregiving. ● Caregiving Program Name Overview Caregiver leave May take up to 1 year and 6 months per applicable family member Caregiver reduced hours Available for up to 3 years from start of use Caregiver overtime exemption Exempt employees from overtime exceeding nominal hours Restricts employee overtime to less than 24 hours per month or Caregiver overtime restriction 150 hours per year Caregiver night shift restriction Restricts night shift assignments for employee Caregiver telecommuting program Enables telecommuting up to limited time speciﬁc for each work shift Caregiver leave Allows employee to take 5 days/year for 1 applicable family member or 10 days/year for 2 applicable family members as caregiver leave (unpaid) Certification as an “Eruboshi” Company On July 11, 2016, the Japanese Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare granted Seiko Epson the top “Eruboshi” mark in recognition of its efforts as a good company to promote the active participation and advancement of women in the workplace. The Ministry established the Eruboshi mark in February 2016 based on the newly enacted Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. Companies that draw up and submit an action plan and meet certain standards are eligible to receive the mark if they have demonstrated successful efforts to promote the advancement of women. Companies that apply for the mark are graded on five criteria and awarded one of three levels of certification depending on how many of the criteria they satisfy. Seiko Epson, which met all five criteria, was certified to receive the Grade 3 Eruboshi mark*1. Seiko Epson launched a project to step up its initiatives related to women’s advancement. Through such programs as setting up discussions between female employees and management and establishing a new mechanism that enable people to continue working while they provide care for elderly relatives, the company intends not only to help women continue working, but also to provide an environment where women who want careers can advance into leadership roles. *1 The criteria are recruitment, continued employment, working hours, percentage of women in managerial positions, and diversity of career courses. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 104 Certification as a Kurumin and Platinum Kurumin Company As a result of Epson’s efforts to establish a friendly workplace environment, we were awarded use of the so-called Kurumin symbol from 2007 and the Platinum Kurumin symbol in 2016. Use of these symbols is awarded by the Japanese Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare to companies that implement policies that support the parenting of their employees in accordance with the Act on Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Named Nadeshiko Brand for FY2017 Since FY2012, the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry working in collaboration with the Tokyo Stock Exchange names companies serving as examples of enterprises that encourage women’s success as Nadeshiko Brands. Nadeshiko Brands are promoted to investors focused on mediumto long-term corporate value growth as appealing listed companies that encourage women’s success. This encourages investment in Nadeshiko Brands, which in turn accelerates the initiatives of these companies. In FY2017, which marks the 6th year of the Nadeshiko Brand listing, Epson was praised for implementing initiatives that encourage more advanced success for women with the goal of producing operational results. Our selection to the list of Nadeshiko Brands FY2017 was based on a recognition of our various efforts. We established a Women’s Advancement Project as an initiative to promote advancement by a diverse range of personnel. We implement various policies related to both career support and work-life balance and provide leadership training for advancement into managerial roles. We were also recognized for our employee networking support. Monitoring and Controlling Working Hours Epson specifies its work goals and work culture. Our goal is for all employees to maintain and improve their physical and mental health while working efficiently in a vital, rewarding work environment, without excessive labor demands. In this way, the company will develop in perpetuity, raising its corporate value and ensuring a win-win relationship with its employees. Epson is fully compliant with labor laws. One of the ways we ensure compliance is by following an operations manual for managing working hours. We have also implemented time management initiatives and monitoring systems across the organization in Japan. Epson has programs to build awareness among employees of the importance of regulating working hours appropriately, and we are fully committed to maintaining a well-balanced working environment. Work Reform Actions From FY2017, we have been taking comprehensive work reform actions. The goals are to revise our approach to work and seek to improve the productivity of executives, managerial staff, and general staff in their respective positions, thereby achieving an appropriate work-life balance and a state in which our diverse employees can work with enthusiasm to realize the Epson 25 Corporate Vision. The program is called “WILL BE” and we will reorganize work. * Work-Life Balance, Innovation, Liveliness, Enjoy Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 105 ● General Work Reform Actions Top management commitment and Improving input and encouragement of employee awareness increasing output Organizing working Increasing work environment productivity ● Key measures ● Key measures Visualize working hours Transfer and hire personnel to Establish and enforce an eightreinforce businesses hour workday Use IT tools such as Skype for Encourage workers to take conferences scheduled leaves Establish rules for meetings, e-mail, and telephones General work reform actions Encourage and Implementing health enable diversity management ● Key measures ● Key measures Promotion of diversity Maintaining Mental and Physical Work-life balance initiatives Wellbeing Work Reform Targets We have set the following work reform targets: Annual Total Working Hours per Employee FY2016 Result: 2,001 hours FY2017 Target: 1,970 hours Result: 1,971 hours FY2018 Target: 1,905 hours Number of Paid Leave Used FY2016 Result: 12.6 days (use rate of 63.0%) FY2017 Target: 13.3 days (66.5%) Result: 14.0 days (70%) We will aim for increasing the use rate in an effort to reduce annual total working hours in FY2018. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 106 Wages Epson’s wage standards are compliant with the local labor regulations in the countries where we operate. Our standards provide for things such as suitable wages, allowances, and extraordinary pay. In Japan, for staff members among non-management employees, we have introduced a qualified grade-based system wherein compensation is determined by the employee’s job and competencies. For senior staff members, we have a system wherein the compensation is determined by their job, which is given based on their competencies, and the level of roles they are fulfilling. We have a role-based grade system for managers wherein compensation is determined by the size of the person’s role. The wage system does not discriminate by gender. Outside Japan, we have established and we follow rules that are in compliance with all local wage-related regulations governing things such as minimum wages, legal benefits, and overtime. We provide employees, who are paid directly, with pay slips on a certain date for each predetermined pay period. In countries and regions where employees may legally be subjected to financial penalties for disciplinary reasons, Epson does not prohibit such penalties but allows them as one option, provided that disciplinary procedures and financial penalties do not overstep legal bounds or have an unreasonable effect on the employee’s living standard. These are articulated in internal regulations, and employees are apprised of them in advance. Labor-Management Relations As a union shop, Seiko Epson requires all regular employees, ● Main Employee Welfare and Benefits Systems (Japan) except those in management or in certain other managementCategory Description of System related positions, to join the labor union.*1 Childcare Childcare leave, shorter work hours for parents, home care service Caregiving Caregiver leave, shorter work hours for caregivers A labor-management council forms the basis of the laborRetirement benefits (defined contribution pension plan, Retirement corporate defined benefit pension plan), asset-building pension scheme, etc. management relationship. Held regularly and as needed, this Personal injury or illness leave, in-house therapy (massages), council is where management explains important management Wellness special paid leave, payment of additional amount to defray costs of injury, illness and child-rearing, subsidies for matters to labor union representatives and where the two sides general medical checkups Subsidies for passing national exams, work-related discuss proposed changes to employment conditions. In addition Training correspondence courses, etc. Company housing, property accumulation savings to the labor-management council, Seiko Epson has formed laborHousing incentives, home financing, etc. management committees to discuss and solve issues related to Commuting Commuting expenses (commuter passes, gasoline costs, highway tolls, etc.) things such as working styles, family support, and benefits and Insurance Group life insurance, corporate group insurance wages. Other Employee cafeterias, employee event subsidies, etc. *1 Rate of joining the labor union among all regular employees: 85.5% Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 107 Commitment to People Our People Occupational Safety and Health Approach to Occupational Safety and Health Epson believes that providing and maintaining a safe and healthy ● Basic Concept of NESP work environment and promoting physical and mental wellness are the foundation of a healthy company. Accordingly, we have Self-suﬃcient promotion unit activities Group-wide activities instituted occupational safety and health programs around the Deploy unique activities world so that Epson’s employees and partners can enjoy working Horizontally deploy Organization preventative measures as a team in the knowledge that they are safe and secure. for accidents that activities occurred in the past and that are similar The core component of this effort is the New Epson Safety & Health Conduct safety patrols Program (NESP), established in FY2000. Covering safety, health, to keep workplaces fire/ disaster prevention, and facilities, this original Epson program staying safe is based on an occupational safety and health management system (OSHMS) that conforms to International Labour Organization (ILO) guidelines. Since that program came into effect, we have enforced the Basic NESP Policy and manage our workplaces with the idea that every workplace is responsible for maintaining its own safety. Basic NESP Policy (Please refer to page 165 of “Appendices”) Epson amended the Management Philosophy in 2017 to reflect our commitment to making Epson an indispensable company and the world a better place. As part of these efforts, we ensure that all legal, regulatory, and internal requirements are observed at all sites around the world. We also endeavor to provide safe, secure, healthy workplaces to maintain and promote the mental and physical wellbeing of our people. Understanding that safety, security, and health are lifelines of the company, we are working together under the leadership of management to eliminate occupational accidents, injuries, and illnesses. Motonori Okumura Managing Executive Officer, Corporate R&D Division General Administrative Manager, and Overall Safety and Health Controller (As of September 2018) Occupational Accidents The frequency and severity of occupational accidents in the Epson Group are far lower than those of the national average. We had no serious occupational accidents (accidents resulting in fatalities or permanent disabilities) in the FY2017. ● Occupational Injury Accident Frequency (Japan) ● Occupational Injury Accident Seriousness (Japan) Manufacturing industry average 1.2 0.12 1.06 1.06 1.15 0.10 1.0 0.10 Manufacturing 1.00 1.02 industry average 0.94 0.8 0.08 0.09 Electrical equipment manufacturing industry average 0.08 0.06 0.6 0.54 0.51 0.06 0.07 0.45 0.39 0.41 0.41 Electrical equipment manufacturing 0.4 Seiko Epson Corporation 0.04 industry average 0.03 0.05 0.02 0.2 0.25 0.30 0.02 Epson Group 0.21 0.01 0.01 0.18 0.17 0.17 0.001 0.002 0.002 0.0073 0.002 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Occupational injury accident frequency: the number of injury accidents Occupational injury accident seriousness: the number of injury accidents per million work hours, where an injury accident is an incident that causes per 1000 work hours, where an injury accident is an incident that causes a a worker to miss one or more days of work worker to miss one or more days of work Occupational injury Number of injury accidents Occupational injury Number of working days missed accident frequency 1,000,000 accident seriousness 1,000 Total working hours Total working hours Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 108 Occupational Safety and Health Initiatives Global Sharing of Information on Safety and Health Epson seeks to improve its safety and health programs around the world by holding regular meetings at our production sites in Japan and overseas to share information and discuss issues at different management echelons. At the executive management level, the chief operating officers and presidents of Epson companies and sites in Japan and overseas separately gather twice a year for meetings of the General Safety and Health Controllers Committee to update one another about actions being taken and discuss issues to identify opportunities for improvement. At the operational level, managers and health and safety personnel also meet regularly to share information. In Japan, they meet every other month to discuss important topics and issues. Overseas, in China and Southeast Asia, representatives from each manufacturing November 2017 meeting for Epson’s manufacturing affiliates in China affiliate meet regularly to get on the same page with respect to shared issues, discuss key actions to ensure compliance with applicable local legal and regulatory requirements, and drive improvement. Supplier Safety Management To reduce the risk of procurement delays and interruptions due to occupational accidents and fires at suppliers’ facilities, Epson manages suppliers based on a supplier safety management manual that specifies Epson’s rules. In accordance with the manual, we ask suppliers to review their safety management systems using a prescribed checklist. After assessing the results of their self-review, we conclude a business agreement with suppliers who meet the criteria. If we identify an issue in a supplier, we perform an on-site check, discuss corrective actions with the supplier, and conclude a business agreement if we determine that the situation will be improved. All of our new suppliers have performed this self-review. Raising Employee Awareness with Safety News Epson analyzes all occupational injuries and accidents in the Epson Group, identifies causes, and makes plans for preventing similar incidents. Occupational accidents are reported in the form of Safety News bulletins that describe accident causes, countermeasures, and actions that all sites are to take to prevent similar accidents in the future. These reports are placed on the intranet and discussed with employees. Professional Development through Safety and Health Training Epson considers safety and health training vital for protecting employees. The training curriculum is tailored to the position, roles, and responsibilities of employees. Training for non-management employees focuses on practical techniques such as risk assessment and hazard prediction. Training for managers and supervisors focuses on management for safety work place. All Group companies use the same training curriculum. In the FY2017, we offered an online safety and health course that was taken by 17,692 employees (92% of the workforce). We also offered a basic education course for managers and supervisors overseas that was taken by 568 employees in the China territory and 211 in the Southeast Asia territory. June 2017 NESP leader training (Japan) October 2017 basic education course for managers and supervisors (Thailand) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 109 Maintaining Mental and Physical Wellbeing Maintaining and improving employee health is a key objective of the New Epson Safety & Health Program (NESP). In Japan, every five years since FY2001 we have instituted a mid-range plan on health. In April 2016 we established our new mid-range plan, Health Action 2020. The basic ideals of Health Action 2020 are to “emphasize safety and improve the working environment” while “fostering employee and workplace independence and autonomy.” Initiatives take place in three focus areas: workplace, physical, and mental health. Outside Japan, we are working continuously to improve employee health management in ways that fit the situation at each Group company. Occupational health and safety laws vary by country and region, so each overseas affiliate manages employee health based on local law. ● Health Action 2020: Three Key Areas and Actions Health and safety obligations ･ Overwork prevention Creation of a pleasant workplace ･ Workplace harassment preventon ･ Teamwork & energy ･ Encourage individual skills Workplace health W Physical health Mental health Weight E E Eat P Exercise Prevention Self care Prevention We Step activities T S Take a step forward Treatment Smoke Prevention, education, -free early detection/ treatment, recurrence prevention W: Weight control E: Exercise Appropriate S: Smoke-free eﬀorts Training, assignment, T: Treatment/ checkup consultation support E: Eating smart P: Prevention/ promotion Recognized for Health Management Excellence for Two Consecutive Years In February 2018, Seiko Epson in Japan was recognized for the second consecutive year under the Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (White 500), in the large enterprise category. In its second year, the program, which is jointly administered by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, honors enterprises who work with insurers to promote good health and productivity. Seiko Epson satisfied the criteria for all 21 evaluation items, which including, for example, publicly declaring a health policy, setting concrete targets (plans) for promoting health and preventing overwork, and a program for promoting a balance between the treatment of illness and work. Epson believes that providing and maintaining a safe and healthy work environment and promoting physical and mental wellness are the foundation of a healthy company. Accordingly, we endeavor so that Epson’s employees and partners throughout the world can enjoy working as a team in the knowledge that they are safe and secure. In Japan, every five years since 2001 we have established a mid-range plan on health. Under the current plan, which we introduced in 2016, the company and its health insurance union are emphasizing action to address workplace health, physical health, and mental health. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 110 Mental Health Initiatives Seiko Epson and its group companies in Japan cite mental health as a key area and have introduced initiatives that are focused on prevention and on fostering strong personal relationships in a vibrant workplace culture. Training We have offered ongoing mental health training since 2000. We give group training for new employees, mid-level employees, and others in senior staff positions. Certain online courses have been designed for all employees. Also, employees gather together to read out loud from a mental health textbook. One example of training is “Around 35: Mental Health for the Prime of Your Career.” This course is for employees who are around 35, an age at which their role in the company tends to change and when there tend to be important events in their personal lives. The course helps them to better understand themselves, deal with stress, and maintain their own personal mental health. Between the FY2012 and 2017, 1,973 employees have taken this course, which has been run a total of 161 times. Consultation System Our business sites have health management offices, where medical professionals (occupational physicians, nurses, and clinical psychologists) offer employees advice on mental and physical health issues. Industrial counselors are on duty in our employee counseling offices. They provide all types of advice as well as career counseling to help employees achieve self-realization and chart their careers. Stress Checks Since 2004, all employees undergo an occupational stress evaluation when they take their annual physical examination. Medical professionals and industrial counselors follow up with employees found to be highly stressed. The primary purpose is to help employees manage their stress. This evaluation facilitates early detection and early treatment of mental health issues. From December 2015 amendments to Japan’s Industrial Safety and Health Act require certain employers to offer stress checks to employees. In response, we revised the content of our evaluation to meet the new legal requirements and enacted a Group standard for the stress check system, which is overseen by the safety and health committees of domestic Group companies and sites. Seiko Epson began implementing stress checks in line with this standard in 2016. In 2017, stress checks were conducted at all Group companies and sites in Japan. The results were analyzed and each department received a report of its own results. Recurrence Prevention Employees whose mental health troubles have caused them to take time off from their jobs can benefit from our back-towork program. Since FY2007, the program has helped smooth the transition back to the workplace and avoid recurring troubles. Depending on their situation, employees may meet with medical professionals and industrial counselors, working with them as a team to plot their approach. Moreover, the employee’s primary care physician, workplace manager, and human resources department work together closely to provide better support. In FY2016 we updated the back-to-work program and extended the maximum length of leaves of absence due to personal injury or illness from 18 months to 30 months so that employees can focus on recovery and recuperation. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 111 Passive Smoking Initiative Seiko Epson wants to provide a clean, smoke-free working environment for all and has been instituting policies to protect employees from risks associated with both active and passive smoking. All smoking areas at our sites in Japan were moved outdoors by the end of the FY2016. In April 2017, we began phasing out smoking during working hours at all Group companies in Japan. In April 2018, we completely banned all smoking during working hours. We have been helping employees to quit smoking by offering professional counseling and subsidies that cover outpatient medical treatment. Emerging Infectious Diseases Prevention Epson considers infectious diseases to be a serious global business risk. To eliminate disease-related plant closures, we have been taking action since 2009 to ensure that our people are alert to infectious diseases and that they practice measures to prevent their spread in the workplace. In 2017, we stepped up our inspection and improvement programs at our overseas manufacturing companies to prevent the spread of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria, and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). Epson Group companies around the world maintain their own business continuity plans (BCP) to control risks associated with emerging infectious diseases. These BCP are tailored to their specific needs and serve not only to protect their employees but to minimize harm and ensure the continuity of business operations. Standard Life-saving Training Seiko Epson provides first aid training in Group companies in Japan to prepare personnel to provide effective first aid and care in a medical emergency involving cardiopulmonary arrest. Executives and other personnel have been given hands-on training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and the use of automated external defibrillators (AED). As of the end of March 2018, approximately 11,500 employees (63%) had received training. Fire and Disaster Prevention Epson is committed to fire safety and disaster management. Our independent fire brigades help to protect lives and property. Epson Disaster Prevention Day falls on the last work day of each August. We hold fire and disaster drills and practice extinguishing small fires to help minimize damage in the event of a wide-scale disaster. The actions both increase our preparedness and heighten employee awareness. Formation of Independent Fire Brigades Epson has had independent fire brigades in place for 63 years. The first brigade was formed in 1955, with 15 employees dedicated to protecting their factory from fire. As our business has grown, so has the number of fire brigades. There are now approximately 900 employee firefighters active at business sites in Japan and at facilities around the world. Fire brigades train year-round to protect life and company property. Members of the Group’s first independent fire brigade (1955) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 112 Purpose and Significance of Independent Fire Brigade Initiatives • Regular training teaches members about firefighting techniques and skills and raises their safety awareness so they can take immediate and proper action in an emergency. This is part of company safety education. • Initiatives help employees take the lead during fire or natural disasters. Members help to ensure personal safety (relief work) and minimize damage to facilities and equipment (initial fire-fighting). • Employees who learn about safety and firefighting techniques and skills become key members of the workplace to instruct others there. They model fire/ disaster prevention and safety for all employees, which raise workplace awareness of the same. • Initiatives to fight fire enhance communication. Fire brigades are a good place to foster friendships between members from different departments, develop character, and cultivate human resources. Fire Brigade Competitions Epson has held a fire brigade competition annually in September for the past 31 years. The competition gives brigade members a chance to demonstrate the skills they sharpen through training. President Minoru Usui and other corporate officers were on hand to watch the 750 participants compete this year, in what was the largest competition to date. A total of 43 teams participated, including 16 from overseas Epson Group companies. After finishing their events, winning team members expressed joy while others shed tears of disappointment. The high level of fire safety awareness was evident from the Members of a ladies’ indoor fire hydrant team changing places while maintaining the trajecseriousness with which the teams competed, showing that the spirit under which the tory of the water brigades were first formed is alive and well. Epson has large production lines in Japan and at sites around the world. A fire at any one of them could have a devastating impact, interrupting the supply of products and business continuity. This makes it essential to maintain and sharpen the ability of our fire brigades to fight fires in the early stages. The entire Epson Group will continue to improve our fire and disaster prevention and management programs. A men’s small pump team in action Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 113 Commitment to Governance Organizational Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Epson strives to continuously strengthen corporate governance to ensure transparent, fair, timely and decisive decision-making so as to achieve the goals declared in the Management Philosophy, to promote sustainable growth, and to increase corporate value over the long-term. Toward this end, we have appointed multiple outside directors. We have also established a Director Nomination Committee and a Director Compensation Committee to serve as discretional advisory bodies for the Board of Directors. Epson will continue to enhance the effectiveness of its corporate governance by further improving the supervisory function of the Board of Directors and by enhancing discussions at board meetings, as well as by speeding up decision-making in management as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. Principles of Corporate Governance 1. Respect the rights of shareholders, and secure equality. 2. K  eeping the interests of shareholders, customers, communities, business partners, employees and other stakeholders in mind, work in an appropriately cooperative manner with them. 3. Disclose company information as appropriate and ensure transparency. 4. Directors, Executive Officers, and Special Audit & Supervisory Officers shall be aware of their fiduciary responsibilities and shall fulfill the roles and responsibilities expected of them. 5. Epson shall engage in constructive dialogue with shareholders. Corporate Governance Structure Seiko Epson (“the Company”) has established itself as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee with the aim of strengthening the supervision and monitoring of management and of speeding up decision-making by separating the management supervision and execution of operations. The main corporate management bodies and their aims are described below. Board of Directors The Board of Directors, with a mandate from shareholders, is responsible for realizing efficient and effective corporate governance, through which the Company will accomplish its social mission, sustain growth, and maximize corporate value over the medium and long terms. To fulfill its responsibilities, the Board of Directors supervises general operations to ensure that operations are fair and transparent. The Board of Directors also makes decisions on important business affairs of the Company, such as decisions on the formulation of important business matters, such as the establishment of management plans and business plans and decision on investment projects that exceed a certain fixed amount of money. The Board of Directors is composed of 12 directors, including five Outside Directors. Meetings of the Board of Directors are, as a rule, held once per month and as needed. The Board of Directors makes decisions on basic business policies, important business affairs, and other matters that the Board of Directors is responsible for deciding as provided for in internal regulations. Business affairs that the Board of Directors is not responsible for deciding are delegated to executive management, and the board monitors these. The Company is speeding up business decision-making as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. To increase the agility of business, the scope of business affairs delegated by the Board of Directors to executive management has been expanded, so that the Board of Directors focuses only on the most important measures. The Company has further improved the supervisory function of the Board of Directors by specifying in the Corporate Governance Policy that at least one third of the members of the board should be Outside Directors. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 114 Audit & Supervisory Committee The Audit & Supervisory Committee, with a mandate from shareholders, is responsible for independently and objectively auditing and monitoring the execution of Director duties and for ensuring the sound and sustained growth of the Company. The Audit & Supervisory Committee establishes criteria for properly evaluating potential External Financial Auditors. After selecting External Financial Auditors, the Audit & Supervisory Committee verifies whether External Financial Auditors possess the necessary independence and expertise. In addition, the Audit & Supervisory Committee conducts audits in cooperation with internal audit departments and Financial Auditors. The Audit & Supervisory Committee is composed of four Audit & Supervisory Committee members, three of whom are Outside Directors. It is chaired by a full-time member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee. Meetings are generally held once per month and as needed. Compliance Committee The Compliance Committee hears and discusses important matters concerning the Company’s compliance program in order to supervise whether the compliance program is being properly implemented along the executive line. It reports its findings and offers opinions to the Board of Directors. As an advisory body to the Board of Directors, the Compliance Committee is composed of Outside Directors and Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee members. It is chaired by the full-time member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee, and meetings are held once every six months and as needed. A Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) is chosen by the Board of Directors to oversee and monitor the execution of all compliance operations. The CCO periodically reports the state of compliance affairs to the Compliance Committee. Director Nomination Committee & Director Compensation Committee A Director Nomination Committee and a Director Compensation Committee, in which Outside Directors make significant contributions, serve as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. The purpose of these committees is to ensure the transparency and objectivity of selections for Director, Executive Officer, and Special Audit & Supervisory Officer, as well as their compensation. Outside Directors comprise the majority of both committees, which also include the Representative Director/ President and the Director in charge of human resources. Directors who are full-time members of the Audit & Supervisory Committee can attend meetings of either Committee as observers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 115 Corporate Strategy Council The Corporate Strategy Council is an advisory body to the President. It was created to help ensure that the right decisions are made based on the advice and views of executive management. Meetings of the Corporate Strategy Council are held to discuss important matters that affect the entire Epson Group and matters brought up before the Board of Directors. The Corporate Strategy Council is composed of Directors, Executive Officers, and Special Audit & Supervisory Officers. Policies and Procedures for Determining Compensation of Officers With an aim to ensure transparency and objectivity, compensation of officers is determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors or Audit & Supervisory Committee after going through a fair, transparent, and rigorous reporting by the Director Compensation Committee in which Outside Directors make significant contributions. Policies: (Compensation for Officers who have executive duties) 1. C ompensation shall be incentive to improve business performance in order to increase corporate value in both the near and long terms. 2. Compensation shall be sufficient to secure qualified persons both from within the Company and from outside. 3. C ompensation shall be commensurate with the business performance so that they can demonstrate their management capabilities to the fullest during their terms of offices. (Compensation for Officers who do not have executive duties) 1. The composition of compensation shall guarantee independence so that these Officers can suitably demonstrate their general management supervisory function, etc. 2. Compensation shall be sufficient to secure qualified persons both from within the Company and from outside. Procedures: Officer compensation shall consist of the following components: basic compensation, bonuses, and stock compensation. 1. Basic compensation Monetary compensation that is paid monthly in an amount decided by taking into account all factors such as the Officer’s position and responsibilities. 2. B onuses Monetary compensation that is paid once per year in an amount decided in accordance with considerations such as the levels of achievement with respect to annual operating performance targets, etc. 3. S tock compensation Stock-based compensation system wherein Company shares are delivered using a trust scheme, based on share delivery points awarded in accordance with considerations such as the levels of achievement with respect to the mid-to long-term operating performance targets. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 116 Compensation to Directors (Fiscal year ended March 2018) (Millions of yen) Fixed Number of Variable compensation compensation Category individuals Total (Persons) Stock Base compensation Bonuses compensation Directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee 8 239 9 89 35 373 Members (2) (28) (-) (-) (-) (28) (of which, Outside Directors) Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee 4 81 81 Members (3) (48) (48) (of which, Outside Directors) Total 12 321 9 89 35 454 Notes 1. The base compensation for Directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee Members (excluding Outside Directors) consists of fixed compensation and variable compensation. Of which, variable compensation refers to the monetary compensation that reflects the results of annual performance evaluations based on criteria set according to their respective roles. 2. The Company has introduced an officers’ shareholding association system to link compensation more closely to shareholders’ value. A portion of the base compensation is discretionally allotted for the acquisition of the Company’s shares. 3. Upon the resolution at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of June 28, 2016, the maximum base compensation was set to at 62 million yen per month for Directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee Members (including 10 million yen per month for Outside Directors) and at 20 million yen for Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee Members. 4. Upon the resolution at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of June 27, 2018, the amount above includes bonuses to be paid to Directors in the amount of 89 million yen (amount to be paid to five Directors excluding Outside Directors and Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee Members). 5. The Company introduced a performance-linked stock compensation plan (stock compensation) by employing a framework referred to as the officer compensation BIP (Board Incentive Plan) trust, for the purpose of showing its commitment to promoting sustainable growth and increasing its medium to long-term corporate value, in addition to strengthening the sense of sharing common interests with its shareholders. 6. The number of individuals above includes one Director who is not Audit & Supervisory Committee Member who retired at the conclusion of the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 28, 2017. 7. Stock options are not granted. Policy and Independence Criteria for Appointing Directors Policy for Appointing Directors 1. Officers must be impartial and possess high integrity and ethical standards. 2. O  utside Directors must satisfy criteria concerning the independence of Outside Directors in order to guarantee their independence. The Board of Directors established “Criteria for Independence of Outside Directors.” Procedures for Appointing Directors 1. After passing a fair, transparent, and rigorous screening and reporting by the Director Nomination Committee, Executive Director candidates and Executive Officers are selected by the Board of Directors in addition to the foregoing policy and on nomination criteria, such as broadness of insight, extensiveness of experience, sense of mission, sense of responsibility, leadership, and the ability to drive change. 2. The Director Nomination Committee screens Non-Executive Director candidates and Special Audit & Supervisory Officers in a fair, transparent, and rigorous screening in line with the foregoing policy and on the basis of nomination criteria, including but not limited to broadness of insight, extensiveness of experience, sense of mission, sense of responsibility, management knowledge and specialized knowledge. The Director Nomination Committee reports its opinions to the Board of Directors, which finalizes the selections. The consent of the Audit & Supervisory Committee is required for nominating Director candidates who are Audit & Supervisory Committee Members and for appointing Special Audit & Supervisory Officers Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 117 Criteria for Independence of Outside Directors The Company has established the criteria below to objectively determine whether potential Outside Directors are independent. 1. A person is not independent if: 1. The person considers the Company to be a major business partner*1, or has served as an executive*2 within the past five years in an entity for which the Company is a major business partner; 2. T  he person is a major business partner*3 of the Company or has served as an executive within the past five years in an entity that is a major business partner of the Company. 3. The person is a business consultant, certified public accountant, or lawyer who has received a large sum of money or other forms of compensation*4 (other than remuneration as an officer) from the Company or has, within the past three years, performed duties equivalent to those of an executive as an employee of a corporation or group, such as a union, that has received a large sum of money or other forms of compensation from the Company; 4. T  he person is a major shareholder*5 of the Company or has, within the past five years, been an executive or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of an entity that is a major shareholder of the Company; 5. The person is an executive or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of an entity in which the Company is currently a major shareholder; 6. T  he person is a major lender*6 to the Company or has been an executive of a major lender to the Company within the past five years; 7. The person has been employed by an auditing firm that has conducted a legal accounting audit of the Company within the past five years; 8. The person has been employed by a leading managing underwriter of the Company within the past five years; 9. The person has received a large donation*7 from the Company or, within the past three years, has performed duties equivalent to those of an executive as an employee of a corporation or a group, such as a union, that has received a large donation from the Company; 10. The person came from an entity that employs someone from the Company as an Outside Director; or 11. A  spouse or relative within the second degree of kinship of a person having the interests listed in (1) through (9) above. 2. E  ven if any of the foregoing criteria apply to a potential Outside Director, the Company can elect that person as an Outside Director if that person satisfies the requirements for Outside Directors set forth in the Companies Act, and the Company deems the person suitable as an Outside Director of the Company in light of his or her personality, knowledge, experience, or other qualifications upon explaining and announcing the reasons thereof. Notes *1 A person (usually a supplier) considers the Company to be a major business partner if 2% or more of its consolidated net sales (consolidated revenue) has come from the Company in any fiscal year within the past three years. *2 “Executive” means an executive officer, executive director or operating officer, or an employee occupying a senior management position of department manager or higher. *3 A person (usually a buyer) is a major business partner if 2% or more of the Company’s consolidated revenue has come from that partner in any fiscal year within the past three years. *4 “A large sum of money or other forms of compensation” means an average annual amount for the past three years that is: I. n o less than 10 million yen for an individual; or II. no less than 2% of the annual revenues in any fiscal year for a group. *5 “Major shareholder” means a shareholder who directly or indirectly holds 10% or more of the voting rights. *6 “A major lender” means a financial institution or other major creditor that is indispensable for the Company’s financing and on which the Company depends to the extent that it is irreplaceable in any fiscal year within the past three years. *7 “Large donation” means a donation whose annual average amount for the past three years exceeds either: I . 10 million yen or II. 30% of the annual expense of the group, whichever is higher. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 118 Reason for Appointed as Outside Directors, and Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors Attendance at Name Reason for Appointment meetings of the Board of Directors Hideaki Omiya Mr. Omiya has served as a Chairman of the Board of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, 12 / 13 meetings Ltd. and has a wealth of experience and insight as a corporate manager and (92.3%) engineer. He has monitored corporate management by expressing opinions actively including findings and proposals regarding overall managerial issues from a perspective of a corporate manager well-versed in the global corporate management in the heavy industry, a difference business field. We have appointed him as an independent Outside Director with the expectation that he will monitor corporate management appropriately aimed at achieving sustainable growth and improving the Company’s corporate value over the medium-to long-term. Mari Matsunaga Ms. Matsunaga has created new business models and has a wealth of experience 13 / 13 meetings and considerable insight through her involvement in the management of multiple (100%) companies as Outside Officers. She has monitored corporate management by expressing actively opinions including findings and proposals regarding managerial issues from the viewpoints of collaboration with external parties and human resources strategy, etc. We have appointed her as an independent Outside Director with the expectation that she will monitor corporate management appropriately aimed at achieving sustainable growth and improving the Company’s corporate value over the mediumto long-term. Michihiro Nara Mr. Nara has a high level of expertise as an attorney. He has considerable 13 / 13 meetings insight and experiences through his involvement in the management of multiple (100%) companies as an independent outside officer and achievements as an Outside Director who is Audit & Supervisory Committee Member of the Company. We have appointed him as an Outside Director who is Audit & Supervisory Committee Member with the expectation that he will appropriately supervise and contribute to the soundness of the Company’s management aimed at achieving sustainable growth and improving the Company’s corporate value over the mediumto longterm. Chikami Tsubaki Ms. Tsubaki has a high level of expertise as a certified public accountant. She 13 / 13 meetings has a considerable insight and experiences through her involvement in the (100%) management of multiple companies as an independent outside officer, and achievements as an Outside Director who is Audit & Supervisory Committee Member of the Company. We have appointed her as an Outside Director who is Audit & Supervisory Committee Member with the expectation that she will appropriately supervise and contribute to the soundness of the Company’s management aimed at achieving sustainable growth and improving the Company’s corporate value over the mediumto long-term. Yoshio Shirai Mr. Shirai has served as Directors at Toyota Motor Corporation, Hino Motors, 13 / 13 meetings Ltd. and Toyota Tsusho Corporation, and has considerable insight and a wealth (100%) of experience as a corporate manager, and achievements as an Outside Director who is Audit & Supervisory Committee Member of the Company. We have appointed him as an Outside Director who is Audit & Supervisory Committee Member with the expectation that he will appropriately supervise and contribute to the soundness of the Company’s management aimed at achieving sustainable growth and improving the Company’s corporate value over the mediumto longterm. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 119 Policy of Training of Officers Training of Internal Directors, Full-Time Audit & Supervisory Committee Members, Executive Officers, and Special Audit & Supervisory Officers Training shall be provided to new appointees so that they acquire the knowledge, including about corporate governance that they will need as officers of a publicly listed company. The Company will invite businesspeople, lawyers, and other outside professionals to provide ongoing management, compliance, and other training to these officers after they assume their posts. They shall also seek to acquire the knowledge they need to fulfill their individual roles and responsibilities, and toward that end will undergo training appropriate for their roles at outside institutions. Training of Outside Directors The Company will explain Epson’s businesses, strategies and the like to new appointees. To enable them to deepen their understanding of Epson’s businesses, strategies, and the like after they assume their posts, Epson will provide ongoing learning opportunities. Epson will, for example, have the heads of the various businesses explain their operations, take the Outside Directors on tours of Epson’s various offices and sites, and support their efforts to acquire the knowledge they will need to execute their roles and responsibilities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 120 Actions to Ensure Board Effectiveness Seiko Epson seeks to continuously enhance the effectiveness of its board of directors pursuant to its Corporate Governance Policy. Toward this end, Seiko Epson has been analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of its board of directors every year since FY2015 based on a self-evaluation questionnaire that all board members were asked to complete. Evaluation Process FY2016 FY2017 (evaluation of the 2016 ﬁscal year) Summary of evaluation results released 2017 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Analyze & evaluate results (Mar.-May), Conduct a questionnaire (Feb.-Mar.) release results (Jun.) Implement improvements (July) All directors evaluate and comment on their own We analyze and release a summary of questionnaire The board further increases its eﬀectiveness performance and on that of the board as a whole. results in a Corporate Governance Report. by addressing selected issues. Concrete Actions Questionnaire Topics Results of board effectiveness evaluations Implementation of improvements 1. Board functioning Areas where the board is eﬀective The board ensured its eﬀectiveness Are the Management Philosophy and ● Discussion regarding the direction and by providing strategic direction on direction clear? strategies of the company were selected issues, appointing owners to Are discussions free, dynamic, and exhaustive because the board was able address those issues, and monitoring constructive? to focus more tightly on important progress. It also input results to business issues. further increase the quality of next ● The board exercises its supervisory year’ s board eﬀectiveness evaluation. 2. Board composition and process function by promoting free, vigorous, Do advisory bodies to the board (the constructive dialog from many different Director Nomination Committee, Actions to improve board angles. Director Compensation Committee, eﬀectiveness ● Decisions were made quickly and and Compliance Committee) decisively on the executive line due to the ● Promoted more constructive function eﬀectively? articulation of effective strategies and dialog to, among other things, policies and the delegation of authority. validate the strategic direction of 3. Board operations the company Areas where improvement is needed Are outside directors provided with ● Provided materials and informasuﬃcient information? ● Enhancement of director discussions tion well in advance of meetings Are handouts and other materials ● Efficiency of board administrative to help ensure dynamic appropriate in terms of organization operations discussions and quality? FY2018 Evaluation Results (Results Released in June 2018 for the 2017 Fiscal Year) In FY2018, to make the evaluation more objective, we asked an independent firm to evaluate and provide feedback about each step in the process, from creating the questionnaire to analyzing and evaluating the answers. Evaluation (1) Board composition, functioning, and operation topics (2) The function of the Audit & Supervisory Committee (3) The function and operation of advisory bodies to the board (4) Management team evaluation, compensation, and succession planning (5) Dialog with shareholders (6) Other Summary The board of directors as a whole was found to be functioning effectively, as was the case in fiscal 2016. of results The board is of an appropriate size and diversity, the members engage in constructive debate and exchange of ideas under the fair and efficient operation of the chairman of the board, and authority is delegated appropriately by the board to the management team. At the same time, it was noted that there are opportunities to further enhance board effectiveness by, for example, strengthening policies and systems for better mirroring the opinions expressed in constructive dialog with shareholders and by reinforcing the risk management in respect of the business strategy. We will strive to further improve the effectiveness of the board by addressing these opportunities going forward. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 121 Commitment to Governance Organizational Governance Internal Control System Epson’s Management Philosophy outlines the vital business principles to which the global Epson Group is committed, while Epson’s Principles of Corporate Behavior describes the conduct required to live up to these principles. Epson takes actions to steadily improve internal control across the entire Epson Group. Group Governance The Epson Group is managed based on the concept: global consolidated responsibility of product-based divisions; and global responsibility of the Head Office supervisory functions. The head of the business operations divisions take the responsibility for the business execution systems of subsidiaries, and the head of Head Office supervisory sections take the responsibility for Group-level corporate functions. With this system, Epson strives to streamline operations throughout the Epson Group, including subsidiaries. Compliance and Risk Management Seiko Epson has transitioned to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee after receiving approval for the move at its June 2016 general shareholders’meeting. The company revised the composition of its Compliance Committee and the role of its Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) in conjunction with this change. Under the current organization, the Compliance Committee, which acts as an advisory body to the Board of Directors and is chaired by a Full-Time Audit & Supervisory Committee Member, discusses important compliance activities, reports and proposes compliance affairs to the Board of Directors, and supervises business affairs. The CCO supervises and monitors the execution of all compliance operations, and periodically reports the state of compliance affairs to the Compliance Committee. In addition, a compliance control department and a risk management department 1) monitor compliance in general, making corrections and adjustments as necessary, and 2) take action to mitigate risks by regularly monitoring risks and overseeing risk management activities. Meanwhile, the Corporate Strategy Council, an advisory body to the president, strives to ensure the effectiveness of compliance and risk management by deliberating important matters related to compliance and risk management from various angles. When major risks become apparent, the president leads the entire company in mounting a swift initial response in line with the Company’s prescribed crisis management program. The president periodically reports the state of compliance affairs and important risk management affairs to the Board of Directors and, when needed, takes measures to respond to issues. Epson is committed to maintaining effective whistleblower systems and has installed internal and external compliance hotlines and other advisory and support services to facilitate the reporting of potential compliance issues. We have also provided reporting channels for use by our business partners, to quickly catch any potential compliance problems that could go undetected internally. Counseling and Support Services Epson Helplines Harassment counseling Counseling related to overwork and long working hours Counseling for persons with disabilities Insider trading advisory service Antitrust (antimonopoly) advisory service Corruption (bribery) regulations advisory service Employee counseling Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 122 Internal Audits Epson’s internal audit departments audit a total of 103 business units around the world, including operations divisions in Japan, 56 overseas subsidiaries, and 14 domestic subsidiaries. Audits are used to check compliance and the effectiveness and efficiency of their risk management, internal controls, and management methods. If issues are found, the Audit Office helps minimize business risks by conducting a follow-up audit to check the status of improvements. To ensure effective Group governance, the Office also centrally oversees internal audits conducted by auditors at regional headquarters in Europe, the Americas, China, and Southeast Asia. Business units come up for audit once every three years based on the Audit Office’s mid-range audit plan. In the FY2017, the Audit Office performed 33 operational audits and 26 information system audits of Epson business units, and provided them with advice on correcting 187 items that required improvements. Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Every year, we audit internal controls to ensure the reliability of financial reporting (J-SOX). The Epson Group uses an autonomous distributed implementation system in which operations divisions and subsidiaries subject to external audits conduct a self-assessment on the design and operation of their internal controls, while the J-SOX Compliance Department ensures the validity of the assessment results. Operations divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates not subject to external audits are required to independently assess their internal controls and make such improvements as are necessary. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 123 Commitment to Governance Organizational Governance Initiatives of Internal Control International Trade Initiatives Epson is a multinational corporation with production centers, sales centers, customers, and business partners around the world. Smooth international trade operations are essential for delivering Epson products and services to customers in a timely manner. Meanwhile, we must observe numerous conventions and frameworks governing international trade that have been put in place to maintain international peace and security. To maintain compliance with these and to ensure smooth trade, Epson has established comprehensive systems and processes that have enabled Group companies to earn certification from the relevant authorities for compliance with international trade programs. (See the table below.) ● Certifications Program Company Program overview (certifying agency) Special general bulk The program grants a blanket license to export certain items (or Seiko Epson export license provide certain information) to certain destinations without an individual Corporation (Ministry of Economy, application if an export control system is found to be in place. Trade and Industry) Authorized exporter The program enables certified parties to get export permission even if Seiko Epson (Ministry of Finance, goods are not brought into a bonded facility, etc., if an export security Corporation Tokyo Customs) control and compliance system is found to be in place. Authorized importer The program enables certified parties to separate import declarations Seiko Epson (Ministry of Finance, from tax declarations and accept goods before filing a tax declaration if Corporation Tokyo Customs) an import security control and compliance system is found to be in place. Epson America Inc. Customs-Trade Partnership Against The program is designed to strengthen security of goods imported to the Epson Portland Inc. Terrorism (C-TPAT) US and security of import channels to the US. (US Customs) Certificate of AEO Exporter Certificate of AEO Importer Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 124 Compliance Program Epson has a comprehensive program for instilling compliance awareness. In addition to a training course that presents employees with a broad overview of essential legal issues, we also provide compliance training that focuses on certain targeted subjects, such as copyright laws and antitrust laws. Compliance issues are also built into the training curriculums for new employees, persons recently promoted to senior staff positions, and managers. For the executive management team we brought in an outside expert to give a seminar on antitrust issues. Overseas affiliates have their own local compliance rules and compliance training programs. Compliance Month October has been Compliance Month throughout the Epson Group since 2009. We use this month as an opportunity to remind ourselves of the importance of compliance in achieving the Management Philosophy and to communicate Epson’s compliance policies as an organization. The Compliance Month activities are designed to raise awareness of compliance based on the Management Philosophy and Principles of Corporate Behavior. A variety of actions are taken during the month. For example, Epson’s Chief Compliance Officer and the heads of Epson divisions and subsidiary companies issue compliance messages. A special article on compliance is published in the company newsletter. Action is taken to communicate and promote understanding of the Principles of Corporate Behavior, and personnel receive compliance training. After Compliance Month ends, we look to improve the activities for the next year by conducting a survey to find out what kind of actions were taken by each organization and about any compliance concerns people may have in Epson. We also ask for opinions and suggestions about activities. Survey responses are totaled and analyzed, and used for future activities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 125 Business Continuity Management Epson has a solid business continuity management program in place. For many years we have taken action to prevent and manage disasters, but the program really got started in 2006, when we formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) for what was then our liquid crystal displays business. If a disaster or some other event impacts business at an Epson Group production site, our first priority is to ensure the safety of our employees. Next, we take steps to ensure continuity of the product supply so as not to inconvenience our customers. In order to provide a steady supply of products, particularly consumables and core components such as quartz and semiconductor devices, print heads, and small liquid crystal panels, we Tabletop exercise for earthquake have preparations in place that allow us to limit damage, secure repair parts, switch to alternative producers, and restore operations in line with established procedures. We conduct exercises to check our procedures and ensure their effectiveness. Mission-critical IT systems and critical data that are essential for business continuity are consolidated in a robust data center, and backups are at the ready in the event of a disaster. We have secured multiple distribution routes to enable us to immediately switch to alternative routes in response to any disruption in international shipping and transport. In addition, our finance, accounting, public relations, and other key corporate functions have established BCPs so that business can continue in emergencies. Checking the restoration procedure of the production line in a clean room Meanwhile, we ask the companies that make up our supply chain to strengthen their BCPs, and we check to see how established those BCPs are. We analyze the items we purchase, and we develop multiple sources for those that are most important. When we cannot secure multiple sources, we keep an inventory of goods on hand or try other means to ensure continuous production in the event that something should happen to a supplier. Every business and site in the Epson Group will continue to refine its BCP to ensure that it has the resilience to withstand threats to business continuity going forward. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 126 Tax Compliance Policy Epson seeks to fulfill its corporate social responsibility by paying appropriate taxes in compliance with the tax laws in the countries and regions where it operates. In accordance with this basic policy on taxes, we are taking the actions below to maintain and improve tax compliance. 1. Tax governance • The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing tax risk, and Epson’s Chief Financial Officer is the responsible official of Group tax affairs. The group that is in charge of tax affairs reports and manages taxes is under the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer. • Epson considers tax risk to be an important risk, and regularly reports such risks to the board of directors and the Corporate Strategy Council, which is composed of directors of the company. • Employees are trained in the tax-related regulations and business process standards that Epson has established to ensure that it properly fulfills its tax obligations. We conduct periodic internal tax audits and report the findings to top management and to the Audit & Supervisory Committee. 2. Monitoring tax affairs • We appropriately respond in a timely manner to changes in local tax systems and taxation trends through regular reporting among the group that is in charge of tax affairs and Epson’s local subsidiaries. • We enlist the support of tax accounting firms and other external experts for advice on taxes and for tax support in each country and region. 3. Tax planning and Tax avoidance • Around the globe, we strive to effectively use preferential taxation systems where possible in our normal business activities to ensure a suitable tax burden. • We do not transfer value created to low tax jurisdictions, and do not use tax structures intended for tax avoidance without the spirit of the law. 4. Dealing with uncertainty • Tax risk uncertainty is expected to increase as countries and regions around the globe strengthen their tax reporting obligations, tax audits, and tax enforcement. Epson controls tax risks by identifying situations that could potentially pose serious tax risks. 5. Transfer pricing taxation • Epson complies with local tax laws and OECD guidelines to control transfer pricing tax risks. We have established transfer pricing guidelines for the Epson Group to help ensure appropriate transfer pricing transactions. In line with these transfer pricing guidelines, we control the profitability range of our global subsidiaries to ensure that transactions are made at arm’s length. • We use an advance pricing arrangement (APA) for transactions with subsidiaries in high-risk countries. 6. Anti-tax haven rules (also known as Japanese Controlled Foreign Company rules, or “CFC”) • Epson sets up foreign subsidiaries to carry out its ordinary business activities, but does not do so in “tax haven” jurisdictions to avoid taxes. When anti-tax haven rules apply, Epson properly files and pays taxes. 7. Relationships with tax authorities • Epson strives to work in good faith with tax authorities and to maintain and improve good tax corporate governance. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 127 Commitment to Governance Organizational Governance Security Epson, in a code of conduct called “Principles of Corporate Behavior,” states “We protect the safety and security of people and company assets, and we exercise strict care in the management of all information.” The company has put in place a system for ensuring the security of employees and visitors. Employees recognize the importance of security and follow good security practices. The company’s assets (financial, tangible, intellectual, brand, information, and other assets) are properly managed, and the assets of other parties are respected. Epson strictly controls personal data and confidential information to prevent leaks. Information Security Epson has set forth essential information security principles and rules in a Basic Information Security Policy. The company is building an information security governance framework and fostering a corporate culture that reflects the importance and principles of good information security practices. Basic Information Security Policy (Please refer to page 167 of “Appendices”) Epson’s various business units build and maintain their own information ● Information Security Organization security systems based on Group-wide rules. We assess the systems and Head Office President controls of each business unit, and we check whether information security Internal Audit Depts. risks are being managed effectively. Group-wide rules and policies established Group CISO*1 by Group companies were overhauled in April 2017 to remind employees about information that needs to be protected and to help ensure that the proper Information Security Supervising Dept. practices are being followed. The senior information security managers of the Information Security Council business units meet regularly to share knowledge and information and to track progress. Business Unit Business Unit Chief Executive CISO In addition, the Seiko Epson Printing Solutions Operations Division and IT Senior Info. Security Manager Division, along with Epson Avasys Corporation, have earned ISO Business Unit Information 27001-compliant Information Security Management System (ISMS) Security Dept. certification. They, along with the rest of the Epson Group, continuously seek Departments to improve the systematic management of information security. *1 Chief Information Security Oﬃcer In Japan, Epson has designated July as Information Security Awareness Month. Every year during the month, domestic Epson Group companies conduct special programs to educate employees about information security. In the FY2017 and 2016, we used Information Security Awareness Month to remind employees about the importance of information security. Middle managers were given special training, and all personnel, from top executives on down, were required to complete an online learning course about information security. In light of a recent increase in targeted attacks against businesses, Epson conducted drills to teach employees how to respond to a targeted e-mail attack. Epson conducts information security programs on a global basis. In the FY2017 the senior information security managers from Epson sites around the world continue meeting regularly to discuss common issues and to increase the information security preparedness of Group companies. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 128 Personal Data Protection Epson has sought to protect the personal data of customers and employees Group-wide, in order to keep the trust of customers and all the people who provide us with personal data and fulfill our corporate social responsibility. In particular, Products such as Epson’s Pulsense heart rate monitor and M-Tracer for golf come with online services. Since these services contain the personal data of users, Epson conducts annual evaluations such as risk analysis of personal data operations and IT environments based on internal standards of personal data protection, and Epson confirms that personal data is appropriately managed and protected. In addition, Epson Sales Japan Corporation and Epson Direct Corporation maintain PrivacyMark System certification by updating it every two years. In order to comply with the EU General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR), Epson has also completed revision of work rules/ framework, education for employees, and renovation of IT services. Intellectual Property Protection Epson protects the rights to its proprietary technologies so as to support the smooth and ongoing development of its existing businesses and the development and growth of new businesses. These actions ensure that our IP portfolio contributes to corporate earnings. We also respect the rights of others and implement measures to prevent infringement of those rights. Anti-Counterfeiting Measures around the World To protect the trusted Epson brand, we actively seek to seize counterfeit goods and other fraudulent articles that infringe the Epson trademark or our other intellectual property rights before they reach consumers. We have set up anti-counterfeiting centers around the world that are staffed by people who monitor Participating in an IP protection conference Educating customs officials and police about real the goods produced and sold by manufacturers organized by customs officials in China and counterfeit goods in the UAE and retailers, and especially e-commerce retailers. We fight counterfeiting in a number of ways. For example, we share information with the police and other enforcement authorities to increase raids on counterfeiters. We educate customs officials to better enable them to recognize counterfeits and block their import and export. We also work with e-commerce site operators to halt the sale of imitation goods that violate our rights. The actions we take stop the distribution of counterfeit goods and help reassure consumers that the goods they buy are genuine Epson brand products. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 129 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Approach Supply Chain CSR Vision Epson seeks to create customer value as guided by our Management Philosophy in order to win and maintain the trust of its stakeholders into the future and to contribute in an ongoing way to the development of society. Epson will fulfill its corporate social responsibility through actions designed to achieve its Management Philosophy. When suppliers take the same approach as Epson to human rights, labor conditions, the environment, compliance, ethics, quality, and information security, Epson can work together to solve society’s challenges and contribute to the making of a sustainable society. Each of these activities ties in to a Sustainable Development Goal (SDG), one of the United Nations’ international efforts to attain a sustainable society. Epson is contributing to reaching the SDGs by taking action throughout the supply chain. Major Action Items/ KPIs Epson sets and acts upon medium-range targets, major action items, and KPIs for achieving its supply chain CSR vision. Medium-Range Targets (achieve by 2020) Socially responsible procurement: Risk ranking of key suppliers shall be middle risk or better Conflict minerals: Procure minerals only from smelters certified by the RMI’s Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) Program. ● FY2018 Major Action Items FY2018 Major Action Items and KPIs 1 Understand Epson Supplier Code of Conduct (based on RBA) and get 100% compliance 2 100% implementation of SAQ to determine compliance status 3 Complete improvements on 100% of issues from SAQ/ on-site audits 4 100% implementation of conﬂict minerals survey Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 130 Supply Chain Management Epson considers suppliers to be important partners in its business activities. As such, our procurement is designed to develop mutually beneficial trusting relationships with our business partners based on the concepts of fairness, coexistence, transparency, and co-prosperity. Epson also believes its responsibility for products and services include not only ensuring high-quality products for the market but also that its entire supply chain upholds appropriate standards in respect to human rights, labor, and the environment. Therefore, we recognize the importance of taking CSR initiatives hand in hand with our suppliers. Ensuring that the products and services we provide our customers continue to be outstanding in every respect including quality, price, and eco-friendliness requires having suppliers we can trust. For that reason, we practice fair and transparent trade with our suppliers and build trusting relationships thereby. Epson believes that it is only with such partnerships that we can enjoy “harmonious development” supported by rapport with international and local communities. Currently, Epson deals with about 1,500 suppliers to procure product raw ● Procurement Area Distribution (by procurement value) materials, components, and services. Some 24% of the value of our procurement Japan 24％ comes from Japan and 76% from elsewhere. Outside Japan, most of our nonJapanese procurement comes from China, Asia and Oceania. Asia/ Oceania 46％ China 27％ Europe/ Americas 3％ Socially Responsible Procurement Policy Epson’s procurement initiatives are designed to develop mutually beneficial trusting relationships with our business partners around the world based on the concepts of fairness, coexistence, transparency, and co-prosperity. Epson sets a Basic Procurement Policy and Epson Group ● System of Codes of Conduct Concerning Procurement Initiatives Procurement Guidelines to ensure that suppliers Management Philosophy understand Epson’s Management Philosophy when we procure from them. We have also established the Epson Principles of Corporate Behavior Supplier Code of Conduct, which describes CSR requirements in respect to human rights, health and safety, Epson Group Basic Procurement Policy environmental conservation, ethics, and more. We expect our suppliers to comply with this code, which is based on Epson Group Policy the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct. on Conﬂict Minerals  asic Procurement Policy B Epson Group Epson Group (Please refer to page 168 of “Appendices”) Procurement Guidelines/ Code of Conduct for Epson Supplier Code Procurement Activities of Conduct Regulations and standards Detailed Supplier Conﬂict Minerals Evaluation Guideline Survey Guidelines Compliance requirements applying to Epson and its business partners Internal standards Epson has in addition arranged content that follows the Management Philosophy, Principles of Corporate Behavior, and Basic Procurement Policy into six items to form a supply chain strategy. The entire supply chain works together with these as their highest priority. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 131 Supply Chain Strategy 1. Provide products and services that create customer value • Ensure quality and delivery that put the customer first and a price that is competitive, and establishes a framework that can continually create products and services that delight customers around the world and win their trust 2. Work proactively for environmental conservation • Minimize adverse effects of manufacturing processes on society, the environment, and natural resources • Endeavor to reduce environmental burdens over the life cycle of products and services 3. Comply with laws and social norms and take actions based on high ethical standards • Establish and comply with national laws, internal rules, and corporate ethics • Practice fairness: keep your promises, do not lie, and do not hide anything • Persist in acting sincerely, eliminating all types of malfeasance including bribery, corruption, and extortion • Disclose information appropriately to ensure transparency, and be accountable to society 4. Respect for human rights • Eliminate all forms of discrimination based on race, gender, nationality, physical abilities, religion, and so on • Prohibit any type of inhumane treatment, including forced labor, slave labor, and child labor 5. Ensure safe, healthy, and fair working environments • Achieve a climate and working environment where safety and cleanliness are maintained and workers can work at peace and in health • Achieve a fair working environment with appropriate evaluations, work hours management, and payment of wages 6. Establish business continuity management (BCM) • Establish means to prevent occupational and industrial accidents and a framework so that business can promptly resume if there is an emergency Socially Responsible Procurement Promotion Framework The Epson Group works as a whole to practice socially responsible procurement and respond to conflict minerals so that we fulfill our social responsibility throughout the supply chain. The Sustainable Procurement Committee is a Group cross● Socially Responsible Procurement Promotion Framework organizational body made up of personnel from all Epson’s operations President divisions and from the procurement departments of Epson Group companies, with administrative oversight provided by the Seiko Epson Party responsible for supply chain management (SCM) (director in charge) Head Office department that supervises socially responsible procurement. The committee discusses targets and action plans, gets Socially responsible procurement them approved by the party responsible for supply chain management supervisory department (SCM), communicates them to the entire Group, and puts those targets Sustainable Procurement and action plans into effect. The party responsible for SCM periodically Committee reviews the progress of those initiatives. Divisions/ operations divisions Group sales, etc., companies Group manufacturing (Japan and abroad) companies Promotion unit Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 132 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Procurement Guidelines Procurement Guidelines/ Epson Supplier Code of Conduct Epson procures a wide variety of goods and services from outside sources so that we can provide our own customers with products and services. It is therefore essential that suppliers understand Epson’s Management Philosophy and support our procurement activities so that Epson lives up to the Management Philosophy. Epson established the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines in April 2005 to inform its suppliers about Epson’s procurement activities and to enlist suppliers’ cooperation in Epson’s CSR initiatives. Then, in April 2008, Epson established the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) (now the Responsible Business Alliance, or RBA) Code of Conduct. The Epson Group Procurement Guidelines reflect international imperatives. They are intended to help ensure that suppliers work with Epson as partners to meet quality (Q), cost (C), and delivery (D) obligations and maintain compliance with CSR requirements in areas such as human rights, labor, the environment, ethics, and health and safety. Ultimately, the guidelines are designed to enable us, together, to sustainably provide products that delight society. Version 3.4 of the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines was released in July 2017 following revision of the EICC (now RBA) Code of Conduct. Changes in our Guidelines reflect the EICC (RBA) Code of Conduct revisions and include ensuring that content is more concrete and detailed, and some expressions have been revised. Requirements Under Supplier Code of Conduct The Epson Supplier Code of Conduct, which is stipulated in detail within the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines, is based on the RBA Code of Conduct. It prescribes requirements in the areas of labor, health and safety, environmental conservation, management, and ethics, as well as seven additional requirements that Epson defines as important measures, including export control and ensuring security in the supply chain. We make sure that our suppliers practice thorough compliance with the Code of Conduct. Epson Supplier Code of Conduct A. Labor B. Health and Safety C. Environmental 1. Freely Chosen Employment 1. Occupational Safety 1. Environmental Permits and Reporting 2. Young Workers 2. Emergency Preparedness 2. Pollution Prevention and Resource Reduction 3. Working Hours 3. Occupational Injury and Illness 3. Hazardous Substances 4. Wages and Beneﬁts 4. Industrial Hygiene 4. Wastewater and Solid Waste 5. Humane Treatment 5. Physically Demanding Work 5. Air Emissions 6. Non-Discrimination 6. Machine Safeguarding 6. Substance Restrictions 7. Freedom of Association 7. Dormitory and Canteen 7. Storm Water Management 8. Health and Safety Communication 8. Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions D. Management Systems E. Ethics F. Additional Requirements 1. Company Commitment 1. Business Integrity 1. Export Control 2. Management Accountability 2. No Improper Advantage 2. Ensuring Security in Supply Chain and Responsibility 3. Disclosure of Information 3. Information Security 3. Legal and Customer Requirements 4. Intellectual Property 4. Product Safety 4. Risk Assessment and Risk Management 5. Fair Business, Advertising and Competition 5. Procedures for Using Trademarks and 5. Performance Objectives with 6. Protection of Identity and Non-Retaliation Company Names Implementation Plan and Measures 7. Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 6. Management of Consigned Assets 6. Training 8. Privacy 7. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) 7. Communication 9. Non-Retaliation 8. Employee Feedback and Participation 9. Audits and Assessments 10. Corrective Action Process 11. Documentation and Records 12. Supplier Responsibility Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 133 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Supply Chain CSR Initiatives Socially Responsible Procurement Program Under Epson’s socially responsible procurement program, suppliers are asked at supplier briefings to practice socially responsible procurement and complete an SAQ (Self Assessment Questionnaire) to assess their own observance of the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct. Answers are verified on-site and audits are performed to share issues and drive improvement. In addition to conducting periodic evaluations of all new and current suppliers, we apply a more detailed socially responsible procurement program to key suppliers, which we define as large suppliers, mission-critical parts suppliers, and sole-source suppliers. ● Socially Responsible Procurement Program Share vision Status Cooperation Share issues Improvement assessment check initiatives Brieﬁngs SAQ On-site veriﬁcation Evaluation Improvement FY2017 Action Items and Results Under Epson’s socially responsible procurement program, suppliers are asked at supplier briefings to practice socially responsible procurement and complete an SAQ to assess their own observance of the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct. Answers are verified on-site and audits are performed to share issues and drive improvement. ● FY2017 Results FY2017 Action Items FY2017 Results Ask key suppliers to observe the Epson ・ Conducted supplier brieﬁngs to ask them to observe the supplier code of conduct. supplier code of conduct Held a total of 11 in Japan, Indonesia, and China, our major production sites, with ・100% CSR activity request rate for key attendance by 453 companies suppliers Supplier surveys and results feedback ・ Analyzed FY2016 SAQ responses from production material suppliers (220 companies) ・100% SAQ completion rate for key suppliers and provided feedback ・ Requested SAQ from non-production material suppliers (logistics, construction, staﬃng companies, etc.), and received completed SAQ from all companies (50 tier 1 suppliers, 16 non-tier 1 suppliers) Supplier on-site veriﬁcation and requesting ・ Conducted a follow-up audit of two Chinese suppliers who had been received corrective action independent audit in FY2016 and conﬁrmed that all improvements were completed. ・On-site veriﬁcation of high-risk suppliers and ・ During FY2017, we newly conducted third-party audits for one supplier in Japan and improvement one in Indonesia. ・ Conducted on-site veriﬁcation of 23 direct materials suppliers surveyed in FY2016 with SAQ and judged to be high-risk to share issues and drive improvements Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 134 Communications with Suppliers Since FY2016, we have held socially responsible procurement briefings for suppliers to share information on Epson’s socially responsible procurement programs with suppliers. In FY2017, we held a total of eleven briefings in Japan, China, and Indonesia. Briefings were attended by 613 people from 453 suppliers to share the following information: 1. Epson’s CSR activities 2. Practicing CSR in the supply chain Suppliers briefing in Indonesia Detailed evaluation Improving accuracy of conflict mineral surveys Supplier BCP initiatives Establishment of compliance hotlines 3. Product substance control ● FY2017 Results of Supplier Briefings Japan China Indonesia Total No. of companies 237 113 103 453 No. of participants 244 208 161 613 CSR Evaluations and Improvement Activities Epson evaluates all suppliers, both direct materials suppliers and indirect materials suppliers such as logistics, construction, and staffing companies. Suppliers are evaluated from multiple angles on the basis of a supplier evaluation program. The program consists primarily of an indirect evaluation and a direct evaluation (periodic evaluation). The indirect evaluation is based on information from a credit investigation service. The direct evaluation is a self-check that suppliers do to evaluate their own QCD and other performance metrics. Epson Group Supplier Evaluation Program Indirect evaluation Information from a credit investigation service Evaluation items: Credit score, business history, capital composition, size, ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancing situation, management, etc. Direct evaluation (periodic evaluation) Self-evaluation of a supplier’ s own QCDEM Evaluation items: Quality control (Q), cost management (C), delivery management (D), environmental management (E), management (M) Green purchasing agreement (when standard is revised) Detailed evaluation Self-assessment of adherence to the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct Evaluation items: Human rights, labor, safety and health, environmental, management systems, ethics, and Epson’ s own items Evaluation of emergency response capabilities Self-assessment of ability to respond to a natural disaster, ﬁre, or other emergency Evaluation items: Management attitudes, risk countermeasures, emergency response capability, ability to restore operations after a disaster, supply continuity capability, ability to maintain procurement, inventory management situation, etc. Safety management evaluation Self-assessment of response to ﬁres and other emergency risks Evaluation items: Management of electrical hazards, hazardous materials, ﬁre prevention, etc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 135 Self-Assessments The Epson Group requires that suppliers to conduct self-assessments regarding their status of compliance with the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct. Based on those results, we work with suppliers to implement improvements. To facilitate assessments, we have established the Epson Group Detailed Supplier Evaluation Guideline as internal standards for conducting fair assessments and ensuring efficient and appropriate socially responsible procurement in the supply chain. ● SAQ Contents ● Risk Ranking by SAQ Section No. of questions Risk rank Assessed points Explanation G．General 1 It basically meets the requirements of the Epson A．Labor (human rights) 28 Low risk 86-100 pts. Supplier Code of Conduct. Is able to independently correct weaknesses. B．Health and safety 22 It does not meet all the requirements of the Epson C．Environment 14 Medium risk 66-85 pts. Supplier Code of Conduct but is able to independentD．Management system 16 ly correct weaknesses. E．Ethics 12 It needs to be monitored based on an improvement F．Additional items (Epson original) 7 65 pts. plan to meet the requirements of the Epson Supplier High risk or less Total 100 Code of Conduct. In FY2017, we conducted the following activities for key suppliers: 1. Six of the 66 indirect materials suppliers (logistics, construction, and ● FY2017 SAQ Evaluation Results staffing companies, etc.) that were surveyed with the SAQ were judged to High risk be high-risk based on the survey results. In FY2018, we will share issues with suppliers and drive improvements. Low risk 9％ Non-production 36％ material 55% suppliers 66 Midium risk 2. T wenty-three of the 274 direct materials suppliers surveyed in FY2016 were ● FY2016 SAQ Evaluation Results judged to be high-risk. Epson (or, in some cases, a third party auditor) High risk verified the situation at the sites of these high-risk suppliers (on-site verification), shared issues, and drove improvements to minimize risks. In Low risk 8％ FY2018, we will use SAQ to reconfirm the results of improvements. Production 32％ material 60% suppliers For key suppliers judged to be high-risk, we conducted on-site verification and 274 shared issues with suppliers to improve their state based on a corrective action plan so that their risk ranking shall be Midium risk or better by FY2020. Midium risk Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 136 Audits and Corrective Action In FY2017, an independent firm was hired to audit one supplier in Japan and one in Indonesia. We revisited the Japanese supplier after the audit to explain the content of the audit report and discuss an improvement plan. The supplier will implement improvements based on the plan while receiving support from Epson. In FY2016, two Chinese suppliers were independently audited. We conducted a follow-up audit upon completion of the planned improvements and confirmed that all improvements were completed. Both companies were asked to continue efforts to ensure socially responsible procurement. Third party audit at Japanese supplier Third party audit at Indonesian supplier Supplier BCP Initiative We have established Guidelines for Supply Chain BCP and are improving business continuity and resilience throughout the supply chain so that even if a disaster, accident, epidemic, or other event should cause disruption, we can fulfill our responsibility to customers by recovering and providing products and services within a target recovery time. The Epson supply chain BCP is divided into five categories. ● Supply Chain BCP Logistics BCP Supplier BCP Production Sales Planning BCP company BCP Supplier Production sites Sales sites Customers Procurement BCP Alternate procurement Inventory Epson is working with suppliers to ensure that they establish their own BCP systems so that the supply of parts to Epson is not disrupted. In FY2017, a fire that had occurred at an overseas supplier had an impact on our product shipments. From that experience, we launched special activities focused on promoting workplace safety inspections at supplier facilities. (Unit: companies) Items Details FY2016 FY2017 Self-check of emergency response capabilities BCP self-evaluation 436 319 by suppliers Questionnaire survey Self-check of safety management status by Safety self-evaluation 357 1,353 suppliers Inspections with focus on fire-prevention conducted by Epson safety specialists and On-site check Site safety inspection 399 sharing of prevention measures (mainly in China, Indonesia and the Philippines) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 137 Internal Education Worker Interview Training During on-site verification, we conduct worker interviews in addition to document reviews and site tours to better ascertain labor and human rights risks at supplier plants. Aimed at developing the skills to identify worker concerns and dissatisfaction within a limited amount of time, we invited outside instructors to conduct worker interview training for Epson employees responsible for on-site verification. Training curriculum includes instructor lectures as well as roleplaying conducted by the trainees to help learn interview techniques, procedures, and points of caution. At Epson, we position this training as required training for employees who implement on-site verification to improve the accuracy of verification. Socially Responsible Procurement Training at an Indonesian Affiliate Epson believes that it is vital to understand the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct (RBA compliant), SAQ, and other initiatives in addition to international CSR trends when promoting socially responsible procurement and, therefore, it provides socially responsible procurement education conducted by external instructors. In FY2017, we conducted training to procurement department members at our Indonesian affiliate on topics including CSR issues, RBA framework, and SAQ. Sustainable procurement training (Indonesian affiliate) Compliance & Procurement Initiatives We have committed ourselves to exercising high ethical ● Procurement Compliance Management System standards and a social conscience, and we have declared that we will conduct our procurement activities in strict compliance Procurement & compliance management renewal training with both the letter and spirit of laws and regulations in region (every 5 years, refresher course) in which we operate. As such, employee training is an Updated by Procurement & compliance important part of this commitment. management training Employees engaged in procurement All employees in Japan are required to take the Introduction to Introduction to Procurement Procurement (Ethics & Code of Conduct) and the Introduction online training course Regular employees to Procurement (Subcontract Act) online training courses. + contract employees Code of Conduct + temporary workers (All employees) Employees directly involved in procurement must successfully complete procurement and compliance management training * For all employees in Epson group companies in Japan based on an in-house certification system. Renewal training is also conducted every five years to ensure that employees learn the latest information and knowledge. Moving forward, we will expand the scope of these initiatives to include overseas Group companies as we further elevate the level of our compliance and procurement initiatives. FY2017 Training Results FY2015 Results FY2016 Results FY2017 Plan Results Procurement & compliance Plan 26 times 24 times 862 employees 29 times 1,008 employees management training Results 36 times 1,120 employees Procurement & compliance Plan 30 times management renewal 51 times 3,127 employees 55 times 1,603 employees Results 33 times 1,019 employees training Introduction to Procurement 14,759 employees 16,546 employees Results 15,301 employees online training course Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 138 Partnerships with External Organizations Epson is a member of the Global Compact Network Japan Supply Chain Subcommittee and a member of the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) CSR Committee. We partner with various industry corporations to help permeate and elevate socially responsible procurement. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 139 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Conflict Minerals Conflict Minerals Action Policy Epson’s procurement policies are designed to develop mutually beneficial trusting relationships with Epson’s business partners around the world based on the concepts of fairness, coexistence, transparency, and co-prosperity. Epson has thus committed itself to exercising high ethical standards and a social conscience, and Epson has declared that Epson will conduct its procurement activities in strict compliance with both the letter and spirit of laws and regulations in every country and region in which Epson operates. Epson considers the conflict minerals problem to be a major issue in terms of socially responsible procurement. Consequently, Epson does not use conflict minerals, as they are tied to human rights abuses, environmental destruction, and the funding of armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. Epson takes the actions below to exclude conflict minerals from Epson products. 1. Epson asks its suppliers to read and follow the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines and the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct. 2. Epson is not required to report to the US Securities and Exchange Commission the use of conflict minerals, as defined in the final rules of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”). However, Epson do survey its supply chain using a tool provided by the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI, formerly known as the CFSI), a group that is working with enterprises to promote responsible mineral procurement. 3. To ensure that minerals are procured only from smelters and refiners that have been found to be compliant with the Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) Program of the RMI, Epson asks smelters and refiners to obtain proof of compliance via the supply chain. Conflict Minerals Survey Program To conduct practical and appropriate surveys throughout Epson’s entire supply chain to check that Epson products are free from conflict minerals traced back to armed forces, Epson established the Epson Group Conflict Minerals Survey Guidelines as internal standards. These guidelines are based on Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Epson conducts surveys using the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) provided by the RMI to check for conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold), identify refiners on its supply chain, and confirms and assess the status of supplier initiatives related to conflict minerals. Epson then implements measures based on risk level. Epson also use socially responsible procurement supplier briefings and various other opportunities to promote understanding of Epson policies, request initiatives to improve survey accuracy, and share information on conflict minerals response trends. Epson will continue working with suppliers to eliminate conflict minerals that are tied to armed forces. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 140 Major Past Initiatives FY2012 Epson added a clause concerning responsible mineral procurement to the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct and began requesting cooperation from suppliers. FY2013 Epson set up a cross-organizational Conflict Minerals Review Committee made up of personnel from all Epson’s operations divisions and from the procurement departments of Epson Group companies. Organization and administrative oversight is provided by the Seiko Epson Head Office department that supervises socially responsible procurement. Under the direction of the Committee, Epson has switched from a passive to a proactive approach to conflict minerals surveys. Epson used CMRT forms to conduct conflict minerals surveys for all major products from each business segment. FY2014-FY2016 Expanded scope of procurement surveys to all production materials, collected survey responses from a total of 2,000 companies. At supplier briefings, Epson provided CMRT explanations and requested improvements to survey accuracy. Through response analysis and due diligence, Epson improved results, collection rate, and CFS rate each year. FY2017 Action Items and Results ● FY2017 Results FY2017 Action Items FY2017 Results Status of conﬂict minerals surveys ・Surveyed 411 companies and collected responses from 388 companies (collection rate of 94%) Targets: ・Review and consolidation of smelters resulted in reduction in number of identiﬁed smelters, but ・100% surveys conducted CFS as a % of identiﬁed smelters increased to 80%. ・100% surveys collected FY2017 FY2015 FY2016 Total Gold Tantalum Tin Tungsten No. of identified 298 314 312 146 41 79 46 smelters No. of CFS-certified 211 243 249 100 39 70 40 smelters CFS as a % of 71 ％ 77 ％ 80 ％ 68 ％ 95 ％ 89 ％ 87 ％ identified smelters Survey sheet 99 ％ 95 ％ 94 ％ recovery rate Partnerships with External Organizations Epson joined the Responsible Minerals Trade Working Group of the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) and is taking part in an industry collaboration to improve supply chain conflict minerals surveys. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 141 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Green Purchasing Green Purchasing Foreword Epson is working to promote green purchasing of both production materials and general supplies in order to fulfill its mission to create and offer eco-friendly products. Epson promotes green purchasing of production materials according to the following guidelines. 1. Basic stance 2. Standards governing operations 3. Basic survey (Guidelines for Surveying Controlled Chemical Substance Content in Products/ Survey response tool) 4. Additional survey (Explanation of chemical substances subject to elimination in products/ Survey response tool) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 142 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Paper Products Procurement Paper Products Procurement The illegal logging of forests is a very serious issue for those seeking to protect the environment on the global scale and practice sustainable forest management. Around the world, greater efforts are being made to ensure legality and sustainability during the procurement of wood products. Epson has a stated procurement policy that says, “In every region where we do business, we promote procurement initiatives compliant with each nation’s law, international rules and the spirit of the same, cleaving to a high sense of ethics and acting for the good of society.” In keeping with this policy, Epson encourages procurement of paper products with due consideration for the social, economic and environmental sustainability of forests. Thus Epson manages its entire supply chain from the immediate supplier all the way back to the forest to ensure the legality, sustainability and environmental safety of the paper products we procure. We ask that suppliers fully understand the intent and nature of these initiatives and then give us their support. Stance on Procurement of Paper Products Epson has established a procurement policy for paper, the major forest product we procure. Under this policy, which is designed for the social, economic and environmental sustainability of the forest, Epson practices the following procurement whose conformity to this policy can be checked. 1. We make effective use of used paper and other recycled pulp. 2. When virgin is used as a raw material in paper goods we procure, we confirm its • legality • sustainability • chemical safety • environmental management Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 143 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Approach Approach Epson is committed to harmonious coexistence with society through programs rooted in local communities throughout the world based on its commitment to being “an indispensable company, trusted throughout the world,” as stated in its Management Philosophy. Recognizing that companies are expected to be even more socially involved, each and every employee will continue to contribute to Epson’s standing as a good corporate citizen and facilitate mutually beneficial relationships. Epson’s contributions go beyond financial support. Epson emphasizes contributions involving the technologies and knowledge that underpin its business as a way to give something back to society. Going forward, Epson will continue to engage in corporate citizenship activities, including contributions involving manpower. Total Corporate Citizenship Expenditures in FY2017 (millions of yen) Type of Contribution Amount Cash contributions 352 Employee volunteering during paid working hours 38 In-kind giving: product or services donations 100 Others 121 Total 611 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 144 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Education for Young People Old Newspaper Recycling Class (Germany) Since 2008, Epson Deutschland GmbH (EDG) has cooperated with Deutsche UmweltAktion, a group that undertakes environmental education in primary and secondary schools, to offer classes on environmental protection for elementary school children in schools in Meerbusch, where EDG is located. The lesson held in June and September 2017 was based on the concept of “something new from something old.” In it, the children dissolved old newspapers and recycled them into cards to send to their friends. The children learned by actually recycling something, and the class served as an opportunity to think about the importance of the environment. Epson International Scholarship Foundation Students Visit the Toyoshina Plant (Japan) Epson’s foundations aim to promote education, academic research, and culture, and to contribute to the development of local communities. In August 2017, 13 international students from Asian countries on scholarships from the Epson International Scholarship Foundation visited Epson’s Toyoshina Plant in Azumino, Nagano, where the company develops its projectors. After experiencing interactive projector images and smart glasses, they were treated to the Fantas Aquarium, a digital aquarium specially set up in an area of the plant. Later, in the plant’s theater room, they got an even better appreciation for what Epson does by watching and listening to video images projected onto a big screen. Notebooks Donated to School for Underprivileged Children (India) Epson India Pvt. Ltd. (EPIL) believes in the importance of childhood education and focuses its corporate citizenship programs on underprivileged children. Over the past several years, EPIL has been distributing notebooks to public schools that serve underprivileged children primarily in the states of Karnataka, in southwest India where EPIL is located, and in the western state of Maharashtra. The number of recipient schools has been increasing by the year. Teachers say that the assistance Epson is providing is helping to improve the quality of lessons, improve the lives of children for whom things such as school materials may be out of reach, and even help children stay in school. The children are absolutely thrilled to have their own notebook that they can use in school to help them learn. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 145 Epson Information Science Vocational School (Japan) Our society is increasingly built around information. To meet the needs of changing times, we established the Epson Information Science Vocational School in 1989. Its purpose is to develop technical personnel who are trusted by the community and can make wide-ranging contributions to society. As of March 2018, more than 2,600 persons have graduated from the college. Most of the instructors are businesspeople or technical experts who have worked on the front lines of business. Even some of our own employees go out to the school to teach students. Classes are designed to ensure that students acquire technical skills they can put to practical use on the job. As a result of the school’s efforts, at least 95% of the students in each graduating class over the 28 years since the school first opened its doors have received informal employment offers before graduation. Students have their choice of three disciplines: Information Systems, Information and Electronic Systems, and Information Business. All three are recognized as Professional Post-Secondary Courses*1 by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT). A special class has also been set up to enable the top students to join Epson on school recommendation after graduation. *1 C  ourses recognized by MEXT have a curriculum designed to impart the latest practical skills and knowledge through close cooperation with enterprise and systematically seek to ensure the quality of more practical vocational training. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 146 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Culture and the Arts Culture and the Arts Supporting the Seiji Ozawa Matsumoto Festival Seiko Epson has been a special corporate sponsor of the annual Seiji Ozawa Matsumoto Festival (originally the Saito Kinen Festival Matsumoto) since its inception, in 1992. The festival, which runs from August through early September in Matsumoto, Japan, was organized to promote music and the arts among the nation’s youth. As part of the festival, sixth-graders from schools in Nagano Prefecture are invited to an event called “Concert for Children.” This concert is performed by young musicians to further the education and development of youth. This program can spark an interest in classical performances for children who have few opportunities to listen live orchestras. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 147 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Community Events Cancer Treatment Program with AMANC (Mexico) Since Jun 2017, Epson de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (EMSA) supports a project managed by AMANC, an association devoted to assisting children with cancer, by encouraging employees to collect PET*1 plastic materials, which is then donated to AMANC. Thanks to this initiative, EMSA has achieved the objectives of both helping children receive cancer treatment, and of helping to conserve the natural environment. The original idea came from Berenice Alvabera, a socially responsible Epson employee, who had already began coordinating a similar collection project among her Epson colleagues. EMSA has so far contributed with 320 kg of PET materials. *1 PET: Polyethylene terephthalate • Recycling and Helping Program 50 kg PET/ 12 US$ 1 meal in AMANC Center Food service 100 kg PET/ 24 US$ 3 daily transfers to AMANC Center and Hospital Transportation service 100 kg PET/ 24 US$ 2 nights in AMANC Center Hostel service 290 Days of Social Commitment (Germany) Epson Deutschland GmbH (EDG) has been running its “190 Days of Social Commitment” program since 2008. The program began when 190 EDG employees each took one day of paid leave at their own convenience to serve the community by volunteering their time at social welfare facilities or schools in the area around the Meerbusch office. EDG changed the name to “290 Days of Social Commitment” in FY2017 because the number of employees had increased to 290. As part of this program, 15 EDG volunteers earned community appreciation by painting benches and planting flowers in a garden of a care center for children. Movie Screening and Painting Contest (Taiwan) Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT) has held movie screenings at elementary schools throughout Taiwan starting in 2009. The purpose of the movie screening is to demonstrate Epson’s projector technology and to show children enjoyable films. ETT provides the projectors and movies used at the venues. So far, screenings have been held in about 2,900 locations, with a total of approximately 153,000 people participating. ETT has also held a painting contest since 2010 using the movie as the subject. Every year between 1,300 and 2,000 works are submitted by the children. They are judged by prominent journalists and artists, and outstanding works receive an award. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 148 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Environmental Conservation The 17th Recycling Event (U.S.) In April, Epson Portland Inc. (EPI) employees held a recycling event, the Energy Saving and Global Environment Month. 2018 marked the 17th time the event has been held, and the company took in unwanted electronic appliances and waste paper. A large number of people from the community also took part in an event to collect harmful household waste in cooperation with the local government, gathering more than 10 tons of waste such as old paint and used metal drums. The waste was transported from EPI to a waste processing plant where it was disposed of appropriately. Coral Reef Transplant Project (Indonesia) For the past three years, PT Epson Batam (PEB) has been assisting a coral reef transplant project on Abang Island. The project involves people from Indonesia’s fishing and tourist industries as well as government and NGOs who plant about 500 coral spawn every year. In 2017, the third year of the project, they created a coral garden that they expect to serve as a future snorkeling spot for scientists and visitors. Residents of Abang Island are hopeful that the project can improve the environment for fish and increase their numbers. PEB’s environmental conservation programs have earned community recognition for excellence and have garnered environmental awards sponsored by the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry for six consecutive years. Donations Tied to Used Cartridge Collection (Japan) Seiko Epson participates in various programs for donating to environmental bodies, environmental groups, and environmental causes. Amounts are tied to the number of used ink cartridges and toner cartridges collected. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 149 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Social Welfare “Fantas Aquarium” Using Projected Images (Japan) Since FY2015, Seiko Epson Corporation has been operated its Fantas Aquarium using projected images at hospitals and special-needs schools around Japan. From June to December 2017, the company held performances at 28 locations nationwide. Over 200 employees volunteered to take part during working hours with the full support of the company. Participants at the events were extremely positive. “This is the first time our child has taken such a deep interest in anything,” “Surrounded by images, I was overcome with a special feeling of relaxation,” and “The children were each in their own world, but they experienced a wonderful space shared with various people.” Participants enjoying the Fantas Aquarium experience different sensations. Epson will continue to provide the Fantas Aquarium experience in FY2018. Cooperation with a UNICEF-Sponsored Photo Exhibition (Germany) Epson Deutschland GmbH (EDG) cooperated in the UNICEF Photo of the Year 2017 by printing the photographs. UNICEF Photo of the Year 2017 is a photography contest held by UNICEF in Germany since 2000, featuring photographs by professionals on the theme of children around the world and their living environment. In FY2017, data for 1,500 photographs was submitted to the contest, and EDG cooperated by printing the photographs for the selection procedure. The award ceremony took place in the Germany Federal News Agency, and the award-winning works printed in special large format by EDG were exhibited at the venue. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 150 Commitment to Society Communication Approach Approach Communication serves as a vital bridge that connects Epson to its various stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, investors, governments, communities, NGOs and NPOs, media outlets, suppliers, students, and employees. Epson provides accurate, unbiased information to all stakeholders in accordance with the Epson Group Communications Regulation. In addition to upholding public order, decency, and morality and maintaining neutrality, Epson refrains from discrimination in any form, including but not limited to discrimination based on gender, age, national origin, ethnicity, race, religion, or social standing. Our communications respect the individual and cultural diversity and aim to earn the trust of people throughout the world. Epson practices both marketing communication (conveying the value of our brand, products, and services) and corporate communication (conveying the value of Epson itself). In both cases, as an open, progressive company, Epson communicates through the mass media and directly to stakeholders to ensure the timely delivery of information on our activities and initiatives, even if it is of a negative nature. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 151 Commitment to Society Communication Customers, Shareholders and Investors Customers Sharing the Voice of the Customer Harmony, the Epson Group’s internal newsletter in Japan, carries a regular feature that we use to relay messages from Epson product users and outside partners to Epson employees. Delivering the unfiltered voice of the customer to employees who have few opportunities to meet customers or with vendors and other partners is helping us to further sensitize our employees to customer value creation. In FY2017 we delivered messages from customers, dealers, and distributors who are using products such as high-brightness projectors, digital label presses, large-format inkjet printers for signage and displays, high-capacity ink tank printers, watches, industrial robots, etc. Shareholders and Investors Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting At Epson, we consider the general shareholders’ meeting to be a valuable opportunity for direct communication with our shareholders. In 2018, at the 76th Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting, Minoru Usui, the president of Seiko Epson, addressed our shareholders directly, reporting on events and highlights from FY2017 and explaining the direction in which we are headed to achieve the Epson 25 Corporate Vision. The 76th Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting Every year shareholders bring a range of opinions and questions to the general shareholders’ meeting, which Mr. Usui and the other directors openly address. To give visiting shareholders a more concrete idea of Epson’s strategic direction under Epson 25, we created a product exhibit to show the innovations we are driving in the four key domains (inkjet, visual, wearables, and robotics) along with our business activities. We shared our accomplishments achieved in line with the Epson 25 Phase 1 Mid-Range Business Plan (FY2016-2018). We also profiled Epson’s new products for FY2017 and shared some of the uses envisioned to convey the customer value that Epson products provide. Epson Selected as a Constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series for the 14th Consecutive Year Seiko Epson was selected by FTSE Russell, a part of the London Stock Exchange Group, as a constituent of one of the Responsible Investment (RI) indexes in the FTSE4Good series for the 14th consecutive year. The FTSE4Good Index Series is designed by FTSE Russell, a global index provider, to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE4Good Global Index, which was reviewed in June 2018, consists of 925 constituents, including 152 Japanese companies. (June 2018) As a good corporate citizen, Epson emphasizes social responsibility and seeks to help create a better world through environmental and other initiatives. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 152 Commitment to Society Communication Governments, Communities, NGOs/ NPOs Governments Maintaining Healthy Relationships with Government Agencies Epson is a multinational corporation with operations around the world. Epson aims to contribute to the soundness of society by building healthy, transparent relationships with political, governmental and supervisory authorities in every region where it operates and by avoiding improper relationships and other unfair activities. Political contributions are made in line with company regulations. Epson made no political contributions in the FY2017. Seiko Epson President Minoru Usui Completes Term as Head of the JBMIA The Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries Association (JBMIA) is dedicated to helping develop the Japanese economy and enhance office environments through the general development, improvement, and rationalization of the Japanese industry for business machines and information systems incidental to them. On May 24, the JBMIA held a general assembly meeting, executive board meeting, press conference, and award ceremony in Tokyo. At the general assembly and executive board meeting that followed, Mr. Yoshinori Yamashita, the president, executive officer, and CEO of Ricoh Company Ltd., was elected JBMIA president, succeeding Minoru Usui, the president of Seiko Epson, who completed his two-year term. Mr. Usui expressed his gratitude to various organizations and companies for their support during his term. Seiko Epson, which assumed the post of chairing company in 2016, has been emphasizing three issues: building a foundation for leading the response to diverse environmental regulations, strengthening cooperation with overseas groups to respond to environmental changes that affect global business, and creating a stronger, more attractive association. Thanks to the cooperation of a host of companies, we were able to smoothly run the Association, expand the domain, and strengthen the governance of the Association based on the policies of the JBMIA president. We believe that we have fully put our planned activities into practice. Seiko Epson, taking advantage of its experience as a former chairing company, will continue to contribute to the activities of the JBMIA as the vice chairing company. Communities Dialogue with Local Residents Every year, Seiko Epson and Epson Group companies in Japan organize events to exchange ideas with the local residents of the communities in which we operate. We strive to build a positive relationship of trust with the community by cultivating a deeper understanding of our environmental initiatives and risk management system. Dialogue meeting Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 153 Commitment to Society Communication Suppliers Procurement Policy Orientation In addition to its commitment to delivering quality products, Epson believes that maintaining human rights, labor standards and environmental conservation throughout its entire supply chain is an important part of its corporate responsibility. Epson therefore considers all suppliers as important business partners. Epson holds annual orientation meetings to brief suppliers about its procurement policies. At the orientations held in April 2018, we provided a general overview of our business situation and strategies, explained our initiatives and procurement policies, and asked for suppliers’ understanding and cooperation in improving quality, reducing costs, keeping strictly to appointed delivery dates, participating in CSR initiatives, promoting business continuity plan, and reducing environmental impacts. Our idea of a partnership with suppliers throughout our supply chain is a win-win FY2018 procurement policy orientation relationship in which Epson and its partners share a common set of values and cooperate with each another to meet and exceed customer expectations. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 154 Commitment to Society Communication Employees Improving Workplace Communication At Epson, we aim, as individuals and organizations, to cooperate with one another as we pursue challenging objectives and to maintain a state of free and constructive communication. To see where we are in meeting these objectives, we have been conducting employee surveys every year since 2005. The survey results are reported to the president and other top executives. Feedback is provided on the department level, and managers periodically review and analyze the state of their departments. They decide on measures to solve problems and issues with the goal of fostering a better culture and strengthening the organization. These measures are incorporated into action plans at the start of the new fiscal year. These actions are carried out throughout the year, the results are checked in the next survey, and additional actions are taken to maintain the good and improve the bad. ● Employee Survey Cycle Survey ● Conduct survey（November） Results ● Provide feedback ● Analyze company-wide trends ● Analyze division results Analysis （November March） Problems/ Issues & solutions ● Annual plan for each organization Consistent with objectives for Plan execution improving the culture and srengthening organization. （April November） ● Result of Employee Survey FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 % of engaged 87.1％ 90.7％ 89.9％ 92.1％ employees * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees. Participation 95.1%(FY2017) Labor Union Labor-management conferences are held to facilitate communication between managers and employees at Seiko Epson. Informal discussions are also held on the division and department level to provide a venue for bidirectional communication between employees and managers. Numerous committees, such as the safety and health committee and the working conditions committee, also provide opportunities to work together and deepen mutual understanding. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 155 Commitment to Society Communication Other Stakeholders Dialogue with the Media Epson Innovation Days in Beijing In April 2018, Epson (China) Co., Ltd. (ECC) held its fourth annual Epson Innovation Days (EID) event, for four days in Beijing. Targeting key stakeholders such as business partners and media, EID 2018 explained how Epson seeks to balance economic growth with environmental conservation, showcased the latest in Epson technologies and products, and explained Epson’s strategy to become an indispensable company both in China and the rest of the world. ECC believes in working with the media to communicate the latest information about the company to stakeholders throughout China. EID plays an essential role in this process, with the media day attended by 230 journalists from all over China. The journalists, many of which specialized in business and IT, were also given the opportunity to listen to strategy presentations by Minoru Usui and Akihiro Fukaishi, presidents of Seiko Epson and Epson China, to experience Epson products and technologies at first hand, and interview Epson management. Students and Educators Design Internships Twice every year, Epson offers internships for college students studying design who wish to learn under designers who are actually working in industry. Interns in the February 2018 program were given the task of coming up with designs that reflect trends among people in their 20s. The program was also designed to give the interns a unique chance to experience the art of manufacturing by assembling a wristwatch movement under the tutelage of a Contemporary Master Craftsman*1. Interns provided feedback on their experience, with some commenting that it was good to hear from working designers about their approach to design and about what it is like to work in a company. *1 A technician recognized by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare for outstanding skills. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 156 Other Monozukuri (Manufacturing) Museum The Monozukuri Museum within Seiko Epson’s Head Office is a space with exhibits of historically significant documents and milestone products that the company has developed, manufactured, and sold since its founding. The museum consists of a history area where exhibits illustrate Epson’s history and an experience area that mainly shows products from Epson’s four innovation areas: inkjet, visual communications, wearables, and robotics. Products on display in the history area show off Epson’s history of monozukuri and include the world’s first analog quartz watch along with the EP-101, the world’s first ultra-compact electronic printer from which the Epson brand got its name. In the experience area, visitors can experience products representative of each of the four innovation areas. They can, for example, enjoy 3D images created by smart glasses and projectors. 35SQ Astron, the world’s first analog quartz watch EP-101, the world’s first ultra-compact electronic BT-300 smart glasses with organic electrolumiprinter nescence Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 157 Appendices Management Philosophy Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 158 Appendices Principles of Corporate Behavior Issued September 2005 Revised April 2012 Revised October 2017 Epson will fulfil its social responsibility by aspiring to live up to the principles below based on “trust-based management,” a concept that underlies Epson’s Management Philosophy. We seek to create value that surprises and delights our customers and helps to make the world a better place. At the same time, we aim to be an indispensable company, a company that maintains the trust of all stakeholders (including customers, shareholders, investors, communities, business partners, NGOs, NPOs, and employees) and that exists for the world’s benefit. This signals our commitment as a company to observing these principles. It also serves as a declaration that all Epson personnel, including senior executives, managers, and employees, should be mindful of conducting themselves in line with these principles. --Principle 1: Pursuing customer satisfaction We think of our customers’ perspective at all times and continue to create trusted products and services that please our customers around the world. a) We will ensure that all products and services meet the required safety and environmental standards. b) We will listen to our customers, take all their expectations seriously, and give sincere consideration to their feedback. c) We will strive to deliver high value, quality products and services that meet or exceed the expectations of our customers. d) We will adhere to universal design standards that maximize product usability and give our customers something they will value and enjoy. e) We will consistently provide our customers with high customer value, socially beneficial, innovative, and affordable products and services through R&D and programs conducted from a customer perspective, such as improving manufacturing capabilities across the Epson Group. --Principle 2: Preserving the natural environment We integrate environmental considerations into our corporate activities and actively strive to meet high conservation standards when fulfilling our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. a) Harmony with the environment is one of the highest priorities of the Epson Group’s management. When conducting business activities, we will keep future generations in mind, and consider how they might best be sustained. b) We will strive to minimize environmental impacts in an integrated manner across the entire life cycle of our products and services, from manufacturing to transport, use, and disposal. c) We will participate in environmental preservation and restoration projects as a member of society. d) We will promote environmental awareness and provide information to our employees to enhance their understanding of environmental issues. --Principle 3: Fostering diverse values and teamwork We strengthen teamwork by recognizing the value of a diverse workforce and creating synergies between individuals and our organization. a) We will instill in our employees, and practice, the ideals of our Management Philosophy. b) We will put Epson in the best position by hiring a diverse workforce and utilizing their unique skills effectively. c) We will respect the individuality of employees and maintain relationships between the company and employees based on trust. d) We will develop our employees by creating systems that allow individuals to utilize their skills effectively. e) We will create a culture in which employees take pride in their work, work with confidence and actively promote teamwork. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 159 --Principle 4: Creating a safe, healthy, and fair work environment in which human rights are respected We respect basic human rights and create a cheerful, safe, healthy, and fair work environment that is free of discrimination. a) We will not tolerate any violation of human rights. b) We will not engage child labor or forced labor. c) We will promptly take corrective action against undesirable behavior including any harassment, violence, devaluation of the individual or any behavior resulting in loss of trust. d) We will eliminate any forms of discrimination against gender, nationality, religion, race and disability. e) We will support employees by facilitating a proper work-life balance. f) We will adhere to and maintain the proper health and safety standards at all sites around the world. g) We will implement programs that support the mental and physical wellbeing of our employees. h) We will establish practices that create a fair and open work environment and build a corporate culture that values individuals’ rights and that facilitates equal opportunities for all. --Principle 5: Ensuring effective governance and compliance We institute effective corporate governance and internal controls, and we observe laws, regulations, and other rules and maintain the highest ethics in all activities. a) We will establish and maintain an effective system which governs our corporate entities and internal controls to ensure that management is transparent, fair, agile, and decisive. b) We will implement systems of compliance to ensure that we observe and respect all applicable laws and regulations, internal rules, and business ethics. c) We will not tolerate any form of bribery, corruption, dishonest marketing, cartels, or insider trading. We will conduct all transactions in accordance with these principles, promoting fair and open competition in the marketplace. d) We will maintain a good, mutually cooperative relationship with governments and their administrative bodies. e) We will not involve ourselves in or have contact with any anti-social movement or group that promotes activities that are illegal or threatening to public order and safety. f) We will employ best practices in risk management to prevent risks from materializing and minimize impact in cases where they do materialize. --Principle 6: Ensuring the security of people, assets, and information We protect the safety and security of people and company assets, and we exercise strict care in the management of all information. a) We will establish and maintain systems to ensure the safety and security of Epson personnel, as well as visitors or contractors on our premises. b) We will carefully handle all group tangible and intangible assets (financial, intellectual, and those regarding infrastructure, brand, and proprietary information) and respect the assets of others. c) We will take reasonable and necessary precautions to protect the confidentiality of proprietary business information including the privacy of customers, employees and other stakeholders. d) We will only use our company assets (all forms stated above) for appropriate business purposes. Unauthorized use will not be tolerated. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 160 --Principle 7: Working with business partners for mutual benefit We seek to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers, sales channels, collaborators, and other business partners, whom we ask to live up to the highest standards of ethical conduct while respecting their autonomy and independence. a) Acts of bribery and collusion with business partners are strictly forbidden. We will engage in sound business practices and demand that our business partners adhere to a zero-tolerance policy regarding illegal and unethical business practices. b) We will hold our business partners to the same strict standards that Epson upholds, with regard to compliance with laws and maintenance of human rights, suitable labor conditions, the environment, ethics, quality, and information security. Epson will support improvements to any of these areas as needed. c) We will develop and maintain open relationships with our business partners and work with them to increase the competitiveness of the entire supply chain, based on mutual trust and for our mutual benefit. --Principle 8: Prospering with the Community We actively contribute to the communities in which we operate, as well as the international community, facilitating mutually beneficial relationships. a) We will respect the cultures and traditions of the countries and regions in which we operate. b) We will engage in open dialogue with the local and international community. We will also actively engage in activities that promote our standing as a good corporate citizen. c) We will nurture a culture in which our employees are encouraged to participate in volunteer programs and other activities that facilitate good corporate citizenship. We will establish the systems needed to support such efforts. --Principle 9: Initiating honest dialogue with our stakeholders We maintain open lines of communication with our stakeholders, thoughtfully considering their views and suggestions. a) We will respect other cultures and traditions while striving to engage in principled, ethical communication. b) We will communicate openly and honestly with our stakeholders, and will establish appropriate systems for the disclosure of information. c) We will utilize appropriate and useful tools to communicate information to our stakeholders. d) We will provide opportunities and establish appropriate systems to engage in dialogue with stakeholders. e) We will utilize the opinions and suggestions of our stakeholders as a vital resource for corporate management. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 161 Appendices Quality Policy 1. We will solve problems by directly observing all of our operations and processes. 2. We will quickly complete the Plan, Do, Check & Act (PDCA) cycle in all situations. 3. We will thoroughly analyze any failures, and establish procedures based on that analysis, so that mistakes are never repeated. 4. W  e will proactively consider our customers’ satisfaction so they will genuinely prefer purchasing Epson products and feel confident using them. 5. We will seize the opportunity presented by customer comments and complaints to inform our decisions when designing new products. 6. We will readily report even negative information. 7. We will foster a climate in which attention is paid to even the most commonplace events. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 162 Appendices Environmental Policy 1. Creating and providing earth-friendly products 2. Transforming all processes to reduce the burden on the environment 3. Recovering and recycling used products 4. Sharing of environmental information and contributing to regional and international preservation efforts 5. Continually improving the environmental management system Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 163 Appendices Human Resources Development Policy Our basic approach is to support employees who have aspirations for self-actualization, to connect all the companies in the Seiko Epson Group with people, and to nurture employees so that both corporate and individual objectives are met. The following is our policy for human resources development. 1. The Company positions human resources as an indispensable resource and aims to integrate employee aspirations for highlevel achievements with the highest interests of the Company. 2. HR development is a very important instrument for materializing the Management Philosophy and business plans. It is the key to forming a good management cycle. 3. Each level of employee therefore assumes the following roles. (a) Executives, as drivers of HR development, must serve as role toward fulfillment of Company philosophies. (b) M  anagement-level personnel must practice OJT systematically and continuously with a clear objective for the training. Nurturing of employees must be done principally on an individual basis in a comprehensive manner through the setting of detailed objectives, evaluation of results and acceptance of individual experiences of success. At the same time, management-level personnel must prepare their successors. (c) Employees should voluntarily pursue self-improvement. (d) Departments in charge of education must promote HR development through off-the-job training, as well as OJT. Established in 1996 Revised on October 1, 2006 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 164 Appendices Basic NESP Policy Epson believes that providing and maintaining a safe and healthy work environment and promoting physical and mental wellness are the foundation of a healthy company. Accordingly, we have established a basic NESP policy and shall take strategic actions to enable personnel at all Epson sites around the world to work with vibrancy as a team in the knowledge that they are safe and secure. NESP: New Epson Safety & Health Program (NESP is a progressive program that Epson has developed based on general occupational safety and health management system principles and organizations.) 1. Involving all personnel (employees, contractors, and other partners), implement the PDCA cycle for NESP activities and drive continuous improvements. 2. Investigate potential hazards (via risk assessments, etc.), and thoroughly analyze the causes of industrial incidents and occupational injury accidents. Develop measures based on these to prevent future incidents and accidents. 3. F oster a vital organizational culture where work and health are in harmonious balance by preventing work-related health problems and supporting employees’ own health monitoring and improvement efforts. 4. Periodically review the preparations you have in place for fires, earthquakes, floods, infectious diseases, and other natural disasters and the actions you have planned to save lives, prevent the spread of damage, and restore business operations. Conduct drills on an ongoing basis to verify preparation and action effectiveness, and implement further improvements. 5. Systematically train employees, and raise the level of safety and health awareness and management. 6. Observe occupational safety and health legal and regulatory requirements in your country and region, as well as internal regulations, standards, and policies. 7. Allocate appropriate management resources for safety and health programs, and continuously make effective improvements. Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on June 1, 2014 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 165 Appendices The Policies regarding Human Rights and Labor Standards A. Human Rights (1) We will respect fundamental human rights. We will not tolerate any violation of human rights. (2) We will take steps to prevent and eliminate any harassment such as sexual harassment, abuse of power in the workplace. (3) We will respect individual privacy. B. Discrimination (1) W  e will take steps to prevent and eliminate any discrimination on the basis of race, nationality, ethnic origin, creed, sex, gender, age, religion, disability and any other basis protected by the applicable law of any country or region in which we operate. (2) In respect of employment and occupation, we will not damage the equality of opportunity on the basis of any irrational reason that is not directly linked to legitimate business needs. (3) In any country or region in which we operate, we will respect their culture, custom and history identifying how these may vary, and behave in consideration of the differences. C. Employment and Labor Condition (1) W  e will not engage child labor or forced labor. We will never take a child as a laborer who is under the legal employment age as defined in the local law of any country or region in which we operate. (2) W e will secure the soundness of employment and labor, and we will comply with the local law of any country or region in which we operate. (3) W e will not dismiss employees based on irrational reasons without a direct relationship to legitimate business needs. (4) We will maintain fine industrial relations. (5) W e will observe the local laws, internal rules and policies regarding health and safety, and we will adhere to and maintain good working conditions and environment according to the proper health and safety standards. Established on September 26, 2005 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 166 Appendices Basic Information Security Policy Epson’s Basic Information Security Policy, established based on the company’s Management Philosophy and Principles of Corporate Behavior, describes our information security approach and requirements. Epson Group companies, their officers and their employees must recognize the importance of information security, exercise effective information security governance, and build information security into the corporate culture so that Epson continues to be a company that is trusted by its stakeholders. (Established April 1, 2007) It is therefore company policy to ensure that: 1. All information* used in business activities are recognized as important management assets, and information security activities are treated as a critical management concern. * Including customer and other personal information; confidential information relating to sales and marketing, products, technology, production, and know-how, and suppliers; and information systems that store and use such information. 2. A standard information security policy is established for worldwide operations, information security responsibility and management systems are identified, and a management system capable of protecting and controlling information assets is built. 3. Information security risks confronted in business activities are appropriately assessed and managed, to justify the trust placed in the company by stakeholders and to keep business. 4. Continuous training and education are provided to Epson Group companies, their officers and their employees so that security consciousness is integrated into the corporate culture. 5. A compliance program is developed and implemented to ensure compliance with laws, agreements and regulations related to information security management. 6. The information security management system is reviewed, maintained and improved on a continuing basis by Epson management. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 167 Appendices Basic Procurement Policy 1. We will build good partnerships with suppliers, based on mutual trust and principles of fairness, coexistence and co-prosperity. 2. Exercising high ethical standards and a social conscience, we will conduct our procurement activities in strict compliance with both the letter and spirit of laws and regulations, both national and international, in every region where we operate. 3. We will strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our procurement activities and will always seek stable and reasonable quality, price, and delivery from suppliers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2018 168 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa, Nagano 392-8502, Japan TEL: +81-266-52-3131 https://global.epson.com
