CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT JANUARY 1, 2017 DECEMBER 31, 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS 01 03 3-8 18 25 3 Message from Brent Saunders, Chairman and CEO 19 Managing Climate Change 4 Introduction 21 Waste Management and Recycling 6 Corporate Program and Reporting: Scope, Limitations and Processes 23 Water Management 7 Sustainability Structure and Reporting Relationships 24 Waste Water Discharge Indicators 8 Allergan and the “Precautionary Principle” 24 Air Emissions Indicators 24 Use of Mercurial Preservatives 25 Biodiversity 02 9 -17 04 26-38 10 2015 – 2020 Allergan Strategic Performance Goals & Results 11 EHS Regulatory Compliance 27 Keeping Employees and Contractors Safe 11 Management Systems 29 Employee Engagement and Development 12 Risk Assessment Process 30 Bioethics 12 Corrective Action Process 30 Corporate Statement on Animal Testing 13 Allergan’s EHS Audit Program 31 Access to Medicines – Our Social Contract 13 Compliance and Code of Conduct 32 Cost Burden and Health Outcomes 14 Sustainable Supply Chains 33 Product Quality 15 Impacts, Materiality, Risks and Opportunities 34 Patient Resources 16 Stakeholder Engagement and Collaborations 34 Physician Resources 17 Innovation 35 Philanthropy and Citizenship 37 Recognizing Excellence 38 Conclusion A MESSAGE FROM BRENT SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, CEO Allergan plc is a bold, global biopharmaceutical company. HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR 2017 We deliver innovative therapies that create long-term shared PERFORMANCE INCLUDE: value for our patients, our customers and our shareholders. We are driven by deep engagement with our stakeholders— • Abiding by our Social Contract with Patients, which patients, providers, payers, policymakers and the public—to includes our commitment to making treatments accessible understand their needs. and affordable, while maintaining high-standards of quality and safety As we innovate, we are mindful of our impact on communities— • Increasing our employee engagement as measured by our local, national, and global. Allergan is committed to protecting Good Observation rate, by more than 100%* the health, safety, and well–being of the people who put their • Reducing absolute greenhouse gas emission from our trust in our treatments and the communities in which we manufacturing/R&D operations by over 10%* operate. We strive to ensure that our contribution to science • Reducing our energy intensity from our manufacturing/R&D parallels our obligation to ensure safe workplaces, strong operations by more than 5%* communities and responsible business practices in everything • Reducing waste, and recycling more than 75% of our waste* we do: research and development, manufacturing and • Maintaining our employee injury/illness rate within top distribution. And we continue to work with our supply chain quartile of performance compared to our peers partners to improve corporate responsibility performance. • Engaging with 100 key suppliers regarding their Sustainability Performance In 2017, we continued our focus on corporate responsibility • Employees contributing more than 12,000 hours of their time initiatives, and maintained our commitment to having a positive for volunteer activities impact. In addition to adhering to the principles of our Social • Providing more than 10 million dollars in charitable Contract with Patients, we maintained some of the highest contributions through The Allergan Foundation corporate social responsibility standards in the industry. We *Compared to 2016 continue to increase employee engagement and reduce our environmental footprint. We are making significant progress toward reaching our goal of reducing our environmental We also continue to be recognized for these efforts, including impact by 20% by 2020 (from 2015). receiving the ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and being named to the Dow Jones Sustainability and FTSE4Good indices. Allergan has also made a commitment to follow the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We recognize that our focus on corporate responsibility will have an impact on our bottom line and our shareholder returns, and is also the right thing to do. More information about our commitment is provided throughout the Responsibility section of our website, our Proxy Statement and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Brent Saunders Chairman & CEO INTRODUCTION The positions and policies of Allergan plc and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Allergan”) on current corporate responsibility issues, including climate change, pharmaceuticals in the environment, water curtailment, biodiversity, bioethics, energy independence, governance and ethics, access to medicines, supply chain enhancements and community support, are presented in this report. Additional topics are covered in the Responsibility section of Allergan’s web site. 01 5-8 CORPORATE PROGRAM AND REPORTING: SCOPE, LIMITATIONS AND PROCESSES SCOPE PROCESSES DATA CAPTURE Allergan’s Corporate Responsibility programs include business AND VERIFICATION and economic, social and environmental topics as defined Environmental, Health and Safety data included in this by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and Allergan’s report is captured and managed through various information internal assessment of various internal and external risks. management systems such as ALL-EHS, SAP, and SharePoint. These programs encompass all parts of Allergan’s operations, ALL-EHS is Allergan’s sustainability data management system including research and development (R&D), production, and is the source for all data charts included in this report. marketing, sales, customer support, regulatory management, regional and country-specific management, joint venture and The data included in this report has been verified internally as third-party venture management, supplier management and part of our audit programs. ERM Certification & Verification product stewardship through the entire supply chain. Services (ERM CVS) was commissioned by Allergan to verify our 2017 consolidated global GHG inventory data as reported in Changes in the scope of what our programs covers occur when Section C8.2 and CC8.3 of our CDP disclosure. The verification Allergan acquires new products, processes, or businesses, time period is January 1, 2017 December 31, 2017 and covers when products are discontinued or divested, and when facilities emissions of C02, N20, CH4, SF6, PFCs, and HFCs from direct, or businesses are consolidated or divested, all of which have Scope 1 sources (fossil fuel combustion, refrigerants, processes, occurred many times in recent years. Programs, performance, company-owned vehicles) and indirect, Scope 2 sources and reporting are adjusted to account for these changes as (electricity) from Allergan’s operations. A verification statement they occur. 2015 data included in this report has been adjusted from ERM CVS along with a list of facilities included in Allergan’s to include data from certain companies that were acquired emissions profile can be found in Appendix A of this report. by Allergan during that timeframe (legacy Allergan, Inc., Forest Laboratories, Inc. and Warner Chilcott plc). All data in this report excludes data from operations that have been REPORTING CYCLES discontinued and/or divested, including the divestiture of Generally, reporting of environmental, health, and safety data is our generics business to Teva Pharmaceuticals International conducted internally on a monthly basis, with annual summary Limited in 2016. Data for our LifeCell and Zeltiq acquisitions, reports generated for the calendar year. Allergan operates on a completed in 2017, are excluded from the report. Data from calendar year basis. acquisitions that did not include facilities have been excluded as they do not have a significant impact our performance REPORT CONTACT and metrics. The quantitative data presented in our report Any questions respecting this report and the information and represents our R&D and manufacturing organizations unless data included herein can be directed to Allergan’s corporate otherwise stated. communications team by emailing. corporate.communications@allergan.com. Allergan has included both third-party validated and certified data and information in this report, as well as internal data which has not been third-party validated or certified. This report includes data and information respecting risks that Allergan does not believe are significant risks to our business, based on internal and external risk assessments, but that are required or recommended for reporting and analysis by various third-parties such as RobecoSAM, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI), FTSE4Good, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), UN Global Compact, and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. A reference index to the GRI Standards is included in Appendix B. 01 6 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE AND RELATIONSHIPS STRUCTURE Allergan’s VP of EHS and Engineering reports to Allergan’s Executive Leadership Team through our EVP, Global AND REPORTING Operations. The VP of EHS (reporting directly to the VP of EHS and Engineering) is responsible, in concert with the Director of Sustainability and Product Stewardship, for RELATIONSHIPS coordinating, collecting and developing the Corporate Responsibility Report. The VP EHS also manages the strategic and daily coordination of EHS and sustainability activities for Allergan. Each manufacturing and R&D facility has an EHS ALLERGAN EHS AND SUSTAINABILITY staff that manages environmental, health, and safety related STEERING COMMITTEE sustainability initiatives, as well as daily EHS activities. The sustainability initiatives and activities of Allergan’s commercial Allergan has established an Environmental, Health, and facilities are managed by local human resources and finance Safety (EHS) Steering Committee chaired by our EVP, Global representatives. Operations, with representation from the Operations, R&D, Legal, Human Resources, Finance, Communications, and EHS Economic and social sustainability initiatives and activities are groups. This Committee meets to set policy, direction and goals managed by various groups within Allergan, depending on the roles and metrics, and to evaluate performance against the goals and and responsibilities appropriate for such initiatives and activities. metrics established. Meetings are generally held biannually. 01 7 ALLERGAN AND THE “PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE” In support of United National Global Compact Precautionary Principles, Allergan considers the impacts of its actions through a rigorous risk assessment process. During development of new products, we follow a rigorous review process with multiple approval steps. During each of these steps we engage relevant stakeholders to ensure risks are identified and managed. 01 8 02 9 17 2015 – 2020 ALLERGAN STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE GOALS & RESULTS In our pursuit of continual improvement, we have established certain 20/20 goals to further reduce our sustainability impact compared to our 2015 baseline. These goals, and the progress that Allergan made on these goals in 2017, are as follows: OBJECTIVE 2020 GOAL ON TRACK 2017 RESULTS 1 Reduce our employee injury INJURIES AND rate by 10% every year from 2017 Injury/Illness Rate 2 of 0.28. Reduced by 33% compared to 2015. ILLNESS 2016 to 2020. Reduce energy and fuel ENERGY Absolute energy consumption flat compared to 2015. Reduced energy consumption by 20% compared REDUCTION intensity (GJ/sales) by 20% compared to 2015. to 2015. GHG Reduce greenhouse gas Reduced absolute Greenhouse gas emissions by 23 % compared to 2015. EMISSIONS emissions by 20% compared to Greenhouse gas emission intensity (Metric Tonnes/Sales) reduced by 38% REDUCTION 2015.3 compared to 2015. Absolute water consumption from operations located in extreme water Reduce water consumption in scarcity regions reduced by 15% compared to 2015. Absolute water WATER operations located in extreme consumption increased by 8% for all manufacturing / R&D locations. REDUCTION water scarcity risk regions by Reduced our water consumption intensity (m3/sales) from our 20% compared to 2015. manufacturing / R&D operations by over 14% compared to 2015. WASTE Reduce total waste generated Absolute total waste reduced by 19% compared to 2015. Reduced total REDUCTION by 20% compared to 2015. waste intensity (metric tonnes/sales) by 36% compared to 2015. ELIMINATE Eliminate waste to landfill from WASTE TO Landfill waste eliminated from 5 manufacturing operations. manufacturing operations. LANDFILL 1. Excludes 2017 acquisitions of LifeCell, and Zeltiq 2. Level 1 As defined by ASTM E2920 – 14: Standard Guide for Recording Occupational Injuries and Illnesses 3. Aligned with the Science Based Targets approach as endorsed by CDP, WWF, WRI and the UN Global Compact 02 10 EHS REGULATORY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS COMPLIANCE As described in the Sustainability Structure section, Allergan’s Executive Leadership Team is formally engaged with EHS issues through the Global EHS Steering Committee which is chaired Allergan did not receive any significant fines/penalties for EHS by our Executive VP, Global Operations and includes many regulatory compliance in 2017. We did receive five notices of functional leads (including HR, Quality, R&D, Finance, Supply violation and one fine for $500. Corrective and preventive actions Chain). The purpose is to establish and support the framework have been implemented to address the identified issues. for achieving excellence in the environmental, health, and safety (EHS) programs. Allergan has developed an internal EHS Management System (EHSMS). Our system is designed to conform with ISO 14001/ OHSAS 18001. Our EHSMS includes an overall EHS policy and defines key requirements that must be in place across the organization to reduce our impact. Allergan’s global EHS standards and associated guidelines set minimum standards across the organization, promote continuous improvement as well as provide guidance on implementation. These requirements address management issues such as responsibility, goals and objectives, performance monitoring, training, corrective/ preventive action (CAPA) tracking, auditing, communication, compliance, risk assessment, engagement with stakeholders and management review. They also address various technical areas such as incident management, emergency response, process safety, physical hazards, occupational health, environmental management and transportation. Training and consulting is provided to operating locations to ensure appropriate implementation of the requirements. Allergan sites conduct gap assessments based on ISO 14001 and 18001 and create action plans for improvement every other year. These ALLERGAN WESTPORT EMERGENCY RESPONSE: standards and self-assessments are implemented by sites and The 24/7 Westport Emergency Response Team (ERT) had a very audited against as part of our internal EHS audit program where productive year, having carried out extensive practical training on sites typically are audited about every three years. Allergan’s fire and rescue, chemical spill response and confined space rescue. electronic management information system (ALL EHS) collects They successfully responded to 13 unplanned events or alarms on EHS information in real time and provides notifications, metrics site this year including gas alarm activations, fire alarm activations, and water leak. Recently they also carried out a joint exercise with graphs, tables and reports. This system can be accessed by an the local fire service pictured above which challenged them both iPhone app or computer using single sign-on, which allows all physically and mentally to cope with real life conditions including employees and full-time contract employees easy access to input smoke and intense heat. information or obtain feedback. EHS PROGRAM STRUCTURE POLICY KEY STANDARDS GUIDELINES SITE SOPS REQUIREMENTS Written program Written program Written programs at Overall mission A list of EHS describing WHAT describing HOW site level describing statement programs necessary elements are to comply with how to comply signed by Senior at each site necessary to the standard with the standard Leadership comply with each requirements requirements key requirement 02 11 RISK ASSESSMENT PROCESS Proactively identifying potential workplace EHS risks is a critical Below are highlights of actions to address our top EHS risks: part of ensuring that Allergan provides a safe and healthful workplace for our employees and reduces its environmental • Process Safety: Mitigation of identified gaps risks. Our risk assessment process includes identification of • Fleet Safety: Development of Global Standard and high-level risks using a risk map, as well as identifying work area development of global driver screening and training programs and task specific risks. • Fork Lift: Completion of traffic surveys to reduce employee/ Powered Industrial Truck interaction, engineering controls for Our risk assessment process, facilitated by a web-based tool, is all critical risks, i.e. dock locks completed by our EHS team in consultation with engineering, • Electricity: Development of Global Standard and new management, and applicable employees. The risk assessment guideline with compilation of best practices process begins with an identification of all tasks associated with • Fall from Height: Mitigation of identified gaps a work activity, process, or the operation of equipment. After • Overexposure: Identification and implementation of task identification, the EHS risks for each task are identified and containment technologies and plans in development for evaluated based on frequency, likelihood of occurrence, and reducing reliance on respirators severity. Corrective actions are identified, and implemented to reduce the medium and high risks. GLOBAL EHS TOP RISKS 50 Catastrophic 5 1 1 Process Safety 20 2 Fleet Safety SEVERITY/IMPACT High 6 4 3 2 CRITICAL 3 Forklift 10 4 Electricity Medium 7 MAJOR 5 Travel 5 6 Fall from Height 7 Overexposure Low MINOR 0 Very unlikely Unlikely Likely Most Likely PROBABILITY/LIKELIHOOD CORRECTIVE ACTION PROCESS Allergan has established a robust process for identifying and identified from audits, inspections, near-miss events and other correcting hazards, facilitated by a corrective/preventive action potential EHS non-conformances. This process has allowed module within our EHSMS. The use of this module has allowed for development of more effective preventive actions and has for higher accountability for completion of corrective actions reduced the likelihood for reoccurrence of non-conformances. 2015 2016 2017 NUMBER OF RISK ASSESSMENTS 246 92 83 CORRECTIVE ACTIONS/PREVENTATIVE ACTIONS 1,600 2,600 4,978 (audits, incidents, risk assessments) 1. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 2. 2015 -2017 data excludes LifeCell and Zeltiq businesses acquired in 2017 02 12 ALLERGAN’S EHS AUDIT PROGRAM Allergan has a comprehensive program in place for conducting closure. The audit process promotes vertical standardization EHS audits of our internal operations and key supply chain from the corporate office to the worldwide network of plants as partners. The objective of the audit program is to identify well as horizontal standardization among various departments EHS risks and potential compliance gaps and to identify best within the business. practices to address these risks and gaps across our various locations and industry. An annual audit schedule is developed Through the EHS audit program, Allergan has been able to to identify the sites that will be included in the audit program minimize the EHS risks at our facilities and lower the risk during the year. Allergan manufacturing and R&D locations are of regulatory action resulting from non-compliance and audited at minimum once every 3 years. Corrective/Preventive community complaints against Allergan. action plans are developed for identified risks and tracked to COMPLIANCE AND CODE OF CONDUCT All Allergan employees are required to comply with Allergan’s Code of Conduct (the Code). All Allergan employees participate in training on the Code to ensure understanding and compliance with the requirements of the Code. This training includes instruction on ethical decision making and upholding laws and regulations. In addition, Allergan maintains a compliance program that conducts regular audits of the requirements under the Code, investigates potential violations of the Code and takes disciplinary action when necessary. Allergan also has a comprehensive compliance program in For each of these core areas, Allergan maintains detailed place to ensure ethical sales and marketing and promotional policies, procedures and training: practices. Allergan adheres to the principles defined within the Office of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance • Written standards and the Code of Conduct and has posted a Code of Conduct and Compliance Program • Training on, and communication of, our standards declaration on the Allergan.com web-site. Allergan adheres • Risk assessments, monitoring and reviews to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act and other • Anonymous reporting and communication by our colleagues global and local regulations. through the Allergan Integrity Action Line • Investigations of reports of non-compliance, followed by The Code outlines the core components of the Allergan appropriate corrective and disciplinary action compliance program. Corporate-wide online training is • Due diligence and screening of colleagues and business provided for the Code and other promotional areas and our partners, as allowed by law sales representatives receive detailed sales training. 02 13 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINS SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PROJECTS SUPPLIER AGREEMENTS We understand that our sustainability impact includes Allergan has supply agreements, quality agreements and/or not only Allergan’s operations, but also the activities of our purchase order terms and conditions with all of our suppliers, suppliers and other business partners. We have prioritized all of which include requirements that the supplier comply with the impact of our key direct suppliers by engaging them all laws and regulations applicable to the supply of the service and requesting that they provide data concerning their or material. sustainability programs and their sustainability metrics and performance for 2017. Nearly 100 direct suppliers, making up EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND COMPLIANCE more than 80% of our expenditure on direct material purchases, participated in this process in 2017. We intend to partner with As referenced in the Compliance and Code of Conduct section the suppliers that have the most impact on our footprint to above, employees are trained and are required to comply with identify significant reduction opportunities. Allergan’s Code of Conduct. We also continue to actively participate in the Pharmaceutical CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), a consortium of pharmaceutical IN SUPPLY CHAINS ACT OF 2010 companies who share a vision of better social, environmental, The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and economic outcomes in the communities where we buy. is intended to provide the public with information from The audit protocols of the PSCI include social components manufacturers regarding the activities that these manufacturers like human slavery and trafficking, child labor, ethics, engage in to monitor their supply chains to prevent human compensation, benefits and other human rights, governance trafficking and slavery. The disclosure of this information allows including ethics and human rights abuse management and businesses and consumers to make more informed decisions environmental management and performance. The PSCI regarding the products they choose to purchase and the audits will enhance our supplier review process and benefit our companies with whom they choose to conduct business. suppliers, our organization, and our stakeholders. Allergan is committed to conducting business only with SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS suppliers who adhere to the highest ethical standards and AND QUALIFICATION comply with laws and regulations applicable to their business. Prior to engaging a supplier, Allergan evaluates the supplier Allergan has undertaken actions to ensure that the services and through risk-based assessments. Such assessments may materials provided to Allergan meet this commitment. include questionnaires and audits of the supplier’s facilities. Allergan expects all potential suppliers to comply with all UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT federal, state, and local rules and regulations and to work to the Under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, two of Allergan’s highest ethical and quality standards. subsidiaries, Allergan Holding Limited and Allergan Limited, publish a Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (pdf) for SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE REVIEWS each financial year, describing what steps have been taken to Allergan is committed to continuous improvement in our supply address the risk of slavery or human trafficking occurring in our chain. We and our suppliers monitor business performance own operations or our supply chains. This statement can be through periodic evaluation and review of defined performance accessed at Allergan’s web site. targets and objectives. SUPPLIER AUDITS Allergan regularly audits key suppliers to confirm compliance with supplier performance and quality standards. Audits are performed by Allergan or third parties contracted by Allergan. 02 14 IMPACTS, MATERIALITY, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES We recently completed a comprehensive assessment to identify groups prioritized the topics based on importance to Allergan material corporate responsibility topics impacting Allergan. and our stakeholders. The topics are listed below according to The assessment process was facilitated by Ernst & Young their significance to Allergan and our stakeholders. We consider LLP. Thirty-six corporate responsibility topics were identified all the topics to be important elements of our corporate based on our review of industry practices, SASB, GRI, PSCI responsibility program. Within this report and on our website frameworks, and peer research. Leaders from key functional we describe how we are managing these issues. ALLERGAN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Brand management, Promotion, and Ethical Marketing Bribery and Corruption Animal Welfare Clinical Trial Management (ethics) Climate Change (Greenhouse Gases) Continuity of Supply Health Outcome Contribution Drug Safety SIGNIFICANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Hazardous Air Emissions Employee Health and Safety Land and Water Contamination Innovation Pharmaceuticals in Environment Intellectual Property Supply Chain Responsibility Labor Issues Waste Product Quality Pricing and Access to Medicines Drug Abuse (Opiods Abuse) Bioethics Energy Consumption Diversity Lobbying and Political Contributions Compensation and Social Benefits Philanthropy Competitive Practices Product end of life management Counterfeit Drugs and Product Security Product Packaging Governance Risk and Crisis Management Privacy and Data Protection Water Use Talent Acquisition and Retention Wellness and work/life balance SIGNIFICANCE TO BUSINESS SUCCESS Product And Patient Governance/Economic Social Environment 02 15 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND COLLABORATIONS Allergan’s view of who our stakeholders are is very broad We also collaborate with our business customers, which has and encompasses patients, doctors, employees, shareholders, allowed these customers to understand where Allergan is on upstream and downstream supply chain partners, regulators, the sustainability spectrum. governments, communities and non-governmental organizations. Our collaborations with non-governmental organizations We have numerous worldwide sustainability collaborations with (NGOs) include collaborations with the United Way, Carbon our stakeholders, including Allergan subsidiary’s commitment Disclosure Project, Newsweek Green Business Rankings, to the UN Global Compact principals. Allergan has shared our RobecoSAM-DJSI investor index, and FTSE4Good investor global best practices in water, energy and GHG management index. These collaborations have allowed Allergan to share and with our stakeholders. Regulatory collaborations with our receive best practices and benchmark our programs against stakeholders are extensive, and notably include a collaboration other best-in-class sustainable companies. with US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA ENERGY STAR®, where we have shared best practices from our operations and Community collaborations include direct community support supported the ENERGY STAR® philosophy. projects in Brazil, Costa Rica and Ireland, and contributions to The Allergan Foundation. 02 16 INNOVATION Allergan’s world-class research and development (R&D) Our ability to build bridges with our customers and with each program embodies our efforts to bring the best of medicine other – is key to our success. We embrace an Open Science to life. Scientists and researchers work closely with medical model. It defines the Company’s position as a magnet for specialists to transform novel compounds into new therapeutics game-changing ideas and innovation. A large percentage of that help improve quality of life. Our R&D programs today are our pipeline is sourced by partnering with biotech companies, focused on our core therapeutic areas including central nervous academia and other pharmaceutical companies globally. system (CNS), eye care, medical aesthetics and gastroenterology. Through this Open Science model, we drive strong R&D productivity by delivering innovative therapies to create longCurrently, in CNS, we are advancing programs to treat critical term shared value for Allergan, for customers and for patients. conditions such as major depressive disorder (MDD), migraine, Through our Open Science strategy, we have added product Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease. In Medical Aesthetics opportunities from the innovation ecosystem, including , Allergan is focused on researching and developing new Rapastinel, TrueTear, XEN Gel Stent, Cenicriviroc, Relamorelin, therapies for acne, psoriasis, fat reduction, alopecia and Ubrogepant/Atogepant and Esmya. All programs enter our facial volume. Allergan’s efforts in Eye Care are focused on best-in-class product development and commercialization advancing innovation in the treatment of dry eye diseases, organization to build a sustainable development portfolio that glaucoma and retinal conditions. Allergan’s development programs addresses unmet needs and aligns with our key therapeutic areas. in Gastroenterology are focused on advancing new treatments in ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, NASH, and diabetic gastroparesis. 02 17 03 18 25 MANAGING CLIMATE CHANGE Allergan has had a long history of addressing climate and Cincinnati, OH facilities were certified as ENERGY STAR® change through development and implementation of Plants. Certification as an ENERGY STAR® Plant recognizes energy conservation programs to reduce fuel and electricity facilities ranking in the top 25 percent of pharmaceutical plant consumption. Allergan has also been involved in many energy performance nationwide. Additionally, our Irvine, initiatives to strengthen these programs, including by CA campus had five office buildings receive ENERGY STAR® participating in USEPA’s Climate Wise, EPA’s ENERGY STAR® certification for top quartile energy performance. program, EPA’s Green Light Program, the Carbon Disclosure Project, California’s Climate Action Registry program, and The 2017 overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for Allergan the Climate Registry Program. Our R&D and manufacturing manufacturing and R&D operations are presented in the facilities have also site targets regarding energy consumption following graph. Scope 1 GHG emissions refer to the direct reductions and efficiency improvements. We have also focused GHG emissions resulting primarily from combustion processes. on increasing the use of carbon free and renewable energy. Scope 2 GHG emissions refer to GHG emissions resulting Six of our manufacturing operations are now sourcing their primarily from the consumption of purchased electricity. In electricity from 100% renewable sources and 37% of the total 2017, Allergan reduced absolute GHG emissions by 23% from electricity used at our manufacturing sites is sourced from R&D and manufacturing operations compared to baseline year renewable sources. 2015. GHG emissions intensity (normalized to sales) decreased by 38% in 2017 compared to 2015. Our leadership in energy conservation has been repeatedly recognized by the EPA’s ENERGY STAR® program. In 2017, we This reduction in GHG emissions was a result of our continued were again recognized an ENERGY STAR® Partner of Year – energy conservation projects, as well as the implementation of Sustained Excellence for the fourth year. In 2015, our Waco, TX, low carbon energy contracts. CLIMATE CHANGE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS1,2 90,000 7.00 SCOPE 1 -R&D/ Manufacturing GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS (MT CO2E) 80,000 Greenhouse Gas 6.00 Emissions (MTCO2E) 70,000 Direct from Fuel 35,203 Combustion 5.00 60,000 33,703 SCOPE 2 R&D 50,000 4.00 Manufacturing 35,088 Greenhouse Gas 40,000 Emissions (MTCO2E) 3.00 Indirect from Electrical 30,000 Consumption 2.00 20,000 50,997 43,190 31,521 TOTAL Greenhouse Gas Emissions per sales 1.00 (MTCO2E/$ million) 10,000 0.00 2015 2016 2017 1. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 2. 2015 -2017 data excludes LifeCell and Zeltiq businesses acquired in 2017 03 19 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Allergan has also adopted an Energy Treasure Hunt process as a best practice methodology in our energy program. Allergan has set an aggressive goal to reduce total energy An Energy Treasure Hunt is a twoto three-day event that consumption (both direct and indirect) by 20% by 2020, using engages employees in identifying low-cost energy savings 2015 as the baseline year. We achieved a 20% reduction in opportunities from behavioral, operational, and maintenance energy intensity (GJ/sales) in 2017 compared to 2015. Our actions. In 2017, we completed three Energy Treasure Hunts, absolute energy consumption was flat compared to 2015 bringing together site personnel with pharma industry peers, technology and equipment suppliers and GENIUS team leads Allergan continues to shape and rebuild our energy from other Allergan plants. Through these Energy Treasure management program to match our bold culture. Our energy Hunts, we identified more than 130 energy and water reduction program includes features like: projects, with an estimated annual reduction of over 16,000 Metrics Tonnes of CO2 and over $4,000,000 in savings. • An energy management governance structure, including a Global Energy Network for Improvement in Usage and Allergan also actively participates in and supports the Supply (GENIUS) Team and a Global Site Energy Management ENERGY STAR® Focus on Energy Efficiency in Pharmaceutical Steering Committee Manufacturing and Industrial Partnership program and various • Implementation of several organizational key performance ENERGY STAR® sponsored initiatives. We use these platforms to indicators and communication tools that leverage the global share lessons learned with peers. energy goal of a 20 percent reduction by 2020 (compared to 2015 ba) to keep our facilities and operations management Allergan qualified four buildings as an ENERGY STAR® Certified focused on our energy usage performance Building in 2017. • Increased communications and awareness about energy within Allergan • Implementation of a Utility Bill Management system to streamline bill payment and data management. • Benchmarking of Allergan’s manufacturing, R&D, office, and distribution center facilities • Implementation of high impact, easy to replicate reduction projects like LED lighting upgrades and chilled water optimization. CLIMATE CHANGE TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION1,2 1,323,448 1,317,614 1,327,363 1,400,000 120 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) 1,200,000 100 Total Energy 1,000,000 Consumption (GJ) 80 800,000 60 Total Energy per Sales 600,000 (GJ/Million Sales) 40 400,000 20 200,000 2015 2016 2017 1. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 2. 2015 -2017 data excludes LifeCell and Zeltiq businesses acquired in 2017 03 20 WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING HAZARDOUS WASTE TRENDS Allergan achieved a 49% reduction in hazardous waste generation in 2017 (compared to 2015). Several of Allergan’s locations have established green teams to identify and implement waste reduction opportunities. ALLERGAN CLONSHAUGH ENERGY TEAM Allergan’s Clonshaugh facility has implemented an Energy Team of dedicated volunteers that is a model for the rest of the company. The team posts energy use data, tips on Energy Boards (shown above) and signs near outlets and switches. They host an Energy Day, Energy Treasure Hunts which have yielded significant savings and a “Spy Program” to gauge program effectiveness. 95% of the site has participated in energy awareness training. This program, on its own, saves 2-3% of the site’s energy costs and associated GHG emissions. HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED1,2 1,000 0.08 900 0.07 800 HAZARDOUS WASTE (MT) 0.06 700 Hazardous Waste 0.05 (tonnes) 600 500 0.04 Hazardous Waste per Sales 400 0.03 (tonnes/million sales) 300 0.02 200 0.01 100 0.00 2015 2016 2017 1. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 2. 2015 -2017 data excludes LifeCell and Zeltiq businesses acquired in 2017 03 21 NONHAZARDOUS WASTE TRENDS In 2017, Allergan increased the amount of non-hazardous waste sent to landfill, compared to 2015. This has primarily been due to increased production. We have reduced the impact of increased production by improving production yields, minimizing packaging, and recycling. Several locations have eliminated waste going to landfill. In 2017, Allergan recycled 3,661 metric tonnes of waste, representing 75% of total non-hazardous waste generated. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE TO LANDFILL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE RECYCLED 1,200 0.09 5,000 90 0.08 4,500 80 1,000 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (MT) 4,000 0.07 70 WASTE RECYCLED (MT) 3,500 800 0.06 60 3,000 0.05 50 600 2,500 0.04 40 2,000 400 0.03 30 1,500 0.02 20 200 1,000 0.01 500 10 0 0.00 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Non-hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste per Sales Recycling (tonnes) Recycling Rate (%) (tonnes) (tonnes/million sales) Allergan’s Houston facility eliminated 5,414 lbs (2.7 tons) of waste by sending PPE and garments back to manufacturer for reuse in non-GMP purposes. 1. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 2. 2015 -2017 data excludes LifeCell and Zeltiq businesses acquired in 2017 03 22 WATER MANAGEMENT Water is an important resource for Allergan’s operations, primarily due to increases in production. Reclaimed water has especially because many of our ophthalmic products are also been used for irrigation purposes at the Irvine location for primarily composed of water. We have several operations in many years. severe drought (water risk) locations. Allergan is also working on reducing the impact of its Allergan has reduced water consumption through production manufacturing of pharmaceutical products on the environment. efficiency improvements and reduced reliance on waterWe have controls in place to prevent discharge of active related utilities to control production conditions at operating pharmaceutical ingredients from our operations. Further, we locations. Through energy efficiency improvements, reheat are members of PSCI. PSCI delivered a number of webinars and other heating requirements have been reduced, which and other resources to our supply chain partners to address has reduced the volumes of water required in steam, hot water management of pharmaceutical ingredients in the wastewater. and other ancillary systems used in production. Cooling tower cycles of efficiency have been increased through improved In the recent years, the growing threat of antimicrobial water treatment technology, reducing the amount of cooling resistance has prompted coordinated and concerted efforts tower blow down. We have upgraded boilers to more efficient to develop more sustainable antimicrobial development, systems, reducing the amount of blow down and reducing the management and use. Allergan has been an active participant losses associated with the distribution system from valves and in this process. We are a signatory on the Declaration by the steam traps. Pharmaceutical, Biotechnology and Diagnostics Industries on Combating Antimicrobial Resistance, and are 1 of 13 We achieved a 14% reduction in water withdrawal intensity pharmaceutical companies adopting the Roadmap for Progress (metric tonnes/sales) in 2017 compared to 2015. Our absolute on Combating AMR. water withdrawal during this same time frame increased by 8% WATER CONSUMPTION1,2 1,200,000 90 80 1,000,000 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) 70 800,000 60 50 600,000 40 400,000 30 20 200,000 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 Water (tonnes) Water per Sales (tonnes/million sales) 1. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 2. 2015 -2017 data excludes LifeCell and Zeltiq businesses acquired in 2017 03 23 WASTE WATER DISCHARGE INDICATORS Allergan regularly monitors wastewater discharge from our BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND operating locations to ensure compliance with regulatory Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), a measure of oxygen requirements. We have implemented various best management demand through biochemical processes in wastewater, has practices to prevent wastewater contamination, including secondary been reduced over the past few years due to wastewater containment, employee training, and operational controls. equalization and neutralization facilities at applicable manufacturing facilities. The improvement in materials use CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND efficiency has also helped to reduce the BOD levels. Allergan’s Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), a measure of oxygen facilities that monitor this measure are currently well below demanding chemicals in wastewater, has been reduced over permitted discharge levels. past few years due to wastewater equalization, neutralization and aeration facilities at applicable manufacturing facilities. TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS The improvement in materials use efficiency has also helped Total Suspended Solids (TSS) in wastewater discharges from to reduce the COD levels. Allergan’s facilities that monitor this Allergan facilities have been reduced over the past few years. measure are currently well below permitted discharge levels. The improvement in efficiency of material use has helped to reduce the TSS levels. Allergan’s facilities that monitor this parameter are currently well below permitted discharge levels. AIR EMISSIONS USE OF MERCURIAL INDICATORS PRESERVATIVES Allergan regularly monitors relevant permitted air emissions Allergan has reduced the use of mercurial preservatives from our operating locations to ensure compliance with (thimerosal, phenylmercuric acetate and phenylmercuric regulatory requirements. Our emissions are well within nitrate) in our products. Product reformulations, introduction applicable allowable limits established by local operating of new products not formulated with these preservatives, permits and regulations. and product attrition have accounted for this decline. We are continuing our efforts to reduce our use of these preservatives VOLATILE ORGANIC CARBON EMISSIONS and are targeting to entirely eliminate their use in all of our products by 2020. Our Volatile Organic Carbon emissions are well within applicable allowable limits established by local operating permits and regulations. NITROGEN OXIDE (NOX) EMISSIONS Allergan has negligible nitrogen oxide emissions from our facilities. These emissions are associated with fuel combustion regarding boiler operations primarily and are unregulated at most of the locations due to the low levels of these emissions. SULFUR OXIDE (SOX) EMISSIONS Allergan has negligible sulfur oxide emissions from our facilities. These emissions are primarily associated with fuel combustion for our steam boiler operations and are unregulated at most of the locations due to the low levels of these emissions. 03 24 BIODIVERSITY Allergan has facilities and offices located in major cities and Allergan has had extensive involvement in onsite activities to in rural locations. Allergan has established a position to preserve green space and encourage community preservation preserve biodiversity on an ongoing basis at our operations. of open green space, like our Lake Waco Wetlands Habitat Allergan endeavors to ensure that risks associated with land Preservation project in Waco, Texas; participation in a Newport use, operations, and impacts to biodiversity are identified and Back Bay Conservancy project in Irvine, California; and a mitigated; compliance with international, national and local rainforest preservation and local biodiversity preservation regulations and guidelines regarding biodiversity protection project in Westport, Ireland. and preservation. Open space and green areas are included in land use planning at our operations. Allergan agrees with the principles included in the UN Convention on Biodiversity and strives to meet these principles. Allergan also continues to evaluate our existing practices against current state-of-the-art practices. 03 25 04 26 38 KEEPING EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS SAFE In 2017, Allergan continued its top quartile safety performance, We have implemented several programs to proactively identify as measured by the number of injuries/illness requiring workplace hazards and reduce employee incidents. These treatment beyond first aid (TRIR), and had no serious injuries prevention programs include: or fatalities. In 2017, we achieved a TRIR rate of 0.37 incidents per 100 employees, a reduction of 21% (compared to 2015). • Increasing awareness around Critical Safety Risks, focusing on We also reduced the rate of level 1 incidents by 39% (compared 8 risks that can result in a serious incident or fatality: Process to 2015). We define level 1 incidents as injuries and illness Safety, Confined Space Entry, Fall Protection, Electrical Safety, that result in death, are life threatening, life altering, or so Hazardous Energy, Machine Guarding, Powered Industrial serious that they require immediate medical intervention for Trucks and Hazardous Atmosphere recovery (ASTM E2920 – 14: Standard Guide for Recording • Implementation of Human and Organizational Performance Occupational Injuries and Illnesses). We continue to focus our concepts and training safety efforts towards increasing employee and management • Encouraging employees to identify EHS risks and notify engagement. One process for facilitating this engagement is management for consideration through our Good our good observations program. We define good observations Observations program as safety observations that are communicated, documented, • Conducting weekly Leadership Inspections by management corrected and help prevent incidents from occurring. In • Issuing EHS Alerts to share information on significant 2017, we increased the Good Observation rate (number incidents of good observation per 100 employees) by 150% in our • Forming learning teams to develop a deeper understanding manufacturing/R&D locations (compared to 2015). Many of of systemic failures associated with serious incidents and near these good observations resulted in actions to reduce risk or miss events make improvements to processes. In 2017, we addressed more • Conducting detailed environmental, health and safety risk than 4,000 or these actions. Further, site leader inspections assessment of existing work-areas, as well as changes in increased by about 60 % (compared to 2015). processes or equipment We continue to focus our safety efforts towards increasing • Conducting Risk Maps for all manufacturing and R&D employee and management engagement. facilities to identify, communicate and prioritize risk reduction measures for the top risks identified LEADERSHIP AND ENGAGEMENT AT ALLERGAN1,2 Good Observations per 100 Employees TRIR Injury Rates 220 200 0.50 180 209 0.45 0.47 160 0.40 140 0.37 120 0.35 0.30 0.33 100 80 82 96 0.25 0.20 60 0.15 40 0.10 20 0.05 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Leadership Inspections per Year ASTM Injury Rates 1,200 1,100 1,000 1158 1134 0.50 0.46 900 0.45 800 0.40 700 711 0.35 0.28 600 0.30 500 0.25 400 300 0.20 0.15 0.10 200 0.10 100 0.05 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 1. Excluding recent acquisitions (LifeCell, Oculeve, ForSight, Zeltiq) 04 27 CRITICAL SAFETY RULES PROCESS SAFETY HAZARDOUS ENERGY When processing flammable solvents and/or (LOCK OUT TAG OUT combustible dusts do so only in appropriately Bring all forms of hazardous energy (electrical, rated areas with appropriately rated equipment. mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, thermal, Use required controls to prevent ignition such chemical, pressure) to a Zero Energy State so it no as conductive containers and bonding and/or longer presents a hazard and secure them with grounding straps to mitigate the potential for AUTHORIZED Locks and Tags before performing an ignition source. If a safety critical limit or activities such as maintenance or cleaning activities. alarm is reached do not proceed without consulting supervision or the procedure for an appropriate response. MACHINE GUARDING & INTERLOCKS Employees shall not tamper with, remove, bypass, or CONFINED SPACE ENTRY disable machine guarding or safety interlocks while operating equipment under normal conditions. Confined Spaces must be identified, written confined space entry procedures established, trained on and followed prior to entry. POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS (PITS) AND SUSPENDED LOADS FALL PROTECTION Employees are only allowed to operate PITs for which they are certified. Do not work on or under suspended Employees must use fall protection when exposed to loads. Ensure measures are in place to prevent trailers a fall hazard of six feet (2 meters) or more.y. from moving during trailer loading/unloading. ELECTRICAL SAFETY HAZARDOUS ATMOSPHERES Only appropriately trained and authorized personnel Identify all areas/operations with the potential for a are permitted to work on electrical equipment. Work hazardous atmosphere (potential for a SIF). on energized electrical equipment is prohibited Ensure mechanisms are in place to warn employees without appropriate PPE and training. if/when the hazardous atmosphere exists. Do not enter/immediately evacuate an area where the atmosphere is dangerous to life and health (i.e., Asphyxiant gases–Nitrogen, Toxic gases–Carbon, Cyanide etc.). ALLERGAN WACO CONTRACTOR SAFETY: Allergan Waco held a lunch and learn with key construction contractors, where training was provided on Critical Safety Rules and other site requirements. Our largest contractor is inviting EHS to their weekly staff meetings and maintains the Critical Safety Rule poster just inside the door as you enter the construction area. SAFETY WEEK – ALLERGAN GUARULHOS Allergan Guarulhos held a safety week with different activities focused on health, time organization, cellular phones, ergonomics and the environment. They also held group competitions performing different EHS related tasks and the top three groups received awards. The last day summarized the week and finished with a motivational talk. 04 28 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT FOCUSING ON INCLUSION BUILDING CAREERS The strength of our organization rests upon over 17,000 Allergan colleagues own their career with their manager as their diverse, talented and engaged global colleagues. We are partner. To support our colleagues, we have built tools to help committed to an inclusive workplace that fosters a diverse them determine their future career journey, what they need to mix of talent – where colleagues of all backgrounds can be do to get there and how to have open and honest discussions successful. Each colleague at Allergan is unique, can make with their manager for support along the way. Our goal is to a difference and has a voice that matters. We are proud that empower colleagues to explore different opportunities with more than half of our organization includes women and we curiosity, passion and a desire to challenge themselves. We are focused on their development and growth to continue have been successful in inspiring our colleagues through career strengthening our leadership pipeline. Our continued focus stories published internally and on LinkedIn. on bringing in the best diverse mix of talent will drive how we attract new Allergan colleagues. Career development has a close tie to performance management. Performance management is not a process but Each colleague’s voice influences how Allergan operates. We instead how we work together throughout the year to meet captured our colleague’s voices through informal feedback our goals and grow in our career. There are four components, discussions, and a more structured process in 2018 will help including setting goals, having regular check-ins throughout us understand how to make Allergan the best place to work on the year and then reflecting and being rewarded for strong a global scale. This will assist us in building meaningful action performance at the end of the year. We are also committed plans that will continue to drive engagement throughout the to providing competitive rewards for our colleagues’ strong organization. performance. Our compensation programs are market-driven, reward our colleagues for superior performance and align with BUILDING LEADERS shareholder value creation. Our lean and efficient structure encourages responsibility Talent planning builds upon our people processes by enabling and accountability that enables each one of us to make an leaders to assess and openly discuss performance and potential individual and collective difference with the opportunity to be of talent, determine successors for key positions and create and noticed and recognized for accomplishments. All colleagues at implement developmental actions. Allergan are leaders and depending on where they are/aspire to be in their career journey, the leadership skills needed will vary. To support their continuous growth and development, we created and launched Allergan specific leadership skills for which our learning programs align. We take a holistic approach to learning, which includes online and in-person training, development experiences and on the job learning. 04 29 BIOETHICS Allergan is committed to strong bioethical practices. Work with biological agents, organisms, and toxins. The same standards biological agents, organisms, and toxins is done in the safest apply at all Allergan facilities. Allergan continues to evaluate manner possible. Allergan is committed to minimizing the risks existing practices against current and state of the art practices. associated with work involving biological agents, organisms, and toxins and these risks are managed to the highest practical Allergan meets Center for Disease Control (CDC) requirements level. Allergan adheres to strict compliance with international and is licensed by the CDC to manage select agents and toxins. and national regulations and guidelines regarding design and Allergan follows the Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical operation of these types of facilities. Allergan also ensures Laboratories requirements for all aspects of the work conducted consistency between our various groups and sites using in these areas. CORPORATE STATEMENT ON ANIMAL TESTING The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other Allergan shares the pharmaceutical industry’s goal of reducing worldwide health regulatory agencies currently require or eliminating animal testing wherever possible and is all pharmaceutical manufacturers to protect patients and committed to the “3Rs” principles of refinement, reduction and consumers by establishing product quality, safety and eventual replacement of laboratory animals in product testing. effectiveness through approved and validated testing methods, In this regard, Allergan has developed and gained regulatory which may include animal testing. approvals of a cell-based potency assay to replace an animalbased assay for use in the ongoing manufacturing of BOTOX®. When animal work is necessary it is designed to ensure the highest standards of animal welfare and undergoes ethical review, approval and oversight from an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. 04 30 ACCESS TO MEDICINES – OUR SOCIAL CONTRACT Allergan is committed to innovation, access and responsible and paying rebates. The current pricing environment is highly pricing ideals. This commitment is translated into four competitive with large payers making decisions that may limit principals that are a part of our Social Contract with Patients. patient access to our medicines in favor of a competitor based on the latter’s willingness to pay more rebates. In order to Principle 1: Invest & Innovate ensure that patients and physicians have access to a full array Principle 2: Access & Pricing of medical options, we believe that these intermediaries should Principle 3: Quality & Safety have open access to formularies whenever possible. We commit Principle 4: Education to these responsible pricing ideals for our branded therapeutics. • We will price our products in a way that is commensurate with, 1. INVEST & INNOVATE or lower than, the value they create by mitigating or avoiding the Our social contract begins where there is a patient with an need for other treatment modalities or providing better quality of unmet need. As we identify needs in our areas of expertise, life to those patients without other treatment options. we are committed to risking billions of dollars to develop life• We will enhance access to patients enhancing innovations. We will do so in the U.S. and around • We will work with policy makers and payers to facilitate better the world. And, we use our Open Science model to access access to our medicines. promising inventions that exist outside of Allergan. That • We will not engage in price gouging actions or predatory pricing. means rewarding the scientists, start-up companies, academic • We will limit price increases. Where we increase price on our institutions, investors and partners for the work they have put branded therapeutic medicines, we will take price increases into the original invention, which becomes part of the cost of no more than once per year and, when we do, they will be developing life enhancing innovations. limited to single-digit percentage increases. Our expectation is that the overall cost of our drugs, net of rebates and That investment doesn’t stop when a drug is first approved by a discounts, will not increase by more than low-to-mid single regulator. For many treatments, we invest more money in R&D digits percentages per year, slightly above the current annual after regulatory approval than we do before the first regulatory rate of inflation. approval. For example, while our product Vraylar was recently • We will not engage in the practice of taking major price approved to treat bipolar mania and schizophrenia, we continue increases without corresponding cost increases as our to make major investments to study Vraylar for other mental products near patent expiration. While we have participated health conditions where it may help people – these include in this industry practice in the past, we will stop this practice major depressive disorder, bipolar depression and negative going forward. Where new regulatory requirements impose symptoms of schizophrenia. There is no guarantee that any of added costs, we will seek to reflect those costs in our pricing. those studies will yield new approved treatment options for patients. That is the risk we take when we invest hundreds of • We commit to providing an aggregate view of the net impact millions of dollars to develop medicines. But for us, it is still a of price on our business at least annually. risk worth taking. As important, it is our responsibility as part of the social contract with people who are hoping for a better, 3. QUALITY & SAFETY healthier life. We commit to intensely monitoring the safety of our medicines, before they are approved by regulators and afterward. We 2. ACCESS & PRICING commit to promptly reporting and acting on new safety data We commit to making these branded therapeutic treatments so that patients can trust our medicines. We also commit to accessible and affordable to patients while also ensuring that maintaining high standards of quality for each of our products. we can continue to meet our ‘invest and innovate’ obligations And, we commit to maintaining a continuous supply of our outlined in Principle 1. medicines by investing to expand manufacturing capacity of our products, either directly or through our manufacturing partners. Providing our treatments to patients is not a straightforward exercise. We have to go through many decision makers and 4. EDUCATION intermediaries to make sure that our products are available to We are committed to appropriately educating physicians about the patients who need them. That means government payers, our medicines so that they can be used in the right patients for the regulators, private insurers, and pharmacy benefit managers right conditions. This is an ongoing effort and one that we take to name a few. We commit to working with decision makers pride in doing well because outcomes matter to everyone; patients and intermediaries to make our products accessible to all and their advocates, physicians, payers and policy makers. people who need them. This often includes giving discounts 04 31 COST BURDEN AND HEALTH OUTCOMES Allergan conducts research to understand the impact of VBC with payers and providers will increasingly become a our products on patient care in our disease areas of focus. differentiator within the industry. The Global Health Economics and Outcomes Research (GHEOR) organization leads the effort to define the value of The majority of evidence generation at Allergan occurs in the our products through the understanding of humanistic and areas of Clinical Development and the Chief Medical Office economic outcomes. Specifically, humanistic outcomes seek to (including GHEOR, Medical Affairs and Global Patient Safety & understand the impact of a product or disease from a patient, Epidemiology). Allergan’s investment in these areas ensures caregiver perspective whereas economic outcomes seek to that there is an understanding of the value of our products and understand the economic implications of a treatment or disease their appropriate use. in terms of processes and costs. This process is extensive and covers all Allergan products as early as the development stage GHEOR works cross-functionally and globally with colleagues and throughout the products life-cycle. The purpose of Allergan across Allergan’s key therapeutic areas to generate the evidence strategy is to conduct research to understand the impact of needed to communicate, defend, and continually enhance our products on patient care in our disease areas of focus. The the value of Allergan products. This involves projects related defined strategies are evaluated several times a year to ensure to central nervous system, eye care, medical aesthetics and that the necessary data is generated and if additional research dermatology, gastroenterology, women’s health, urology needs to be undertaken to support the clinical, humanistic and and anti-infective therapeutic categories. Clinical trials and economic benefits of Allergan products. Part of this review is post treatment follow on studies are included at the following conducted with a group of global experts from various countries website: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/. These are being where Allergan makes its products available to ensure that our efforts continually updated with the latest information. take into account country specific needs and treatment paradigms. One key area of focus includes the development and assessment of patient reported outcomes in order to understand the impact of the disease or a drug on patient’s lives. In addition, our GHEOR team, conducts economic analyses and develops models to understand cost, and health resource implications of Allergan products. The use of real world evidence informs Allergan’s understanding of the effectiveness of approved products as well as cost-offsets and system efficiencies of a drug which may not appear in clinical trials. Allergan uses this research in our interactions with regulatory agencies such as the FDA and Ministries of Health, as well as payers and reimbursement decision makers worldwide. Internationally, this research is valuable for Health Technology Assessments conducted by agencies such as National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, Scottish Medicines Consortium, Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, and Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health to ensure they receive accurate information on the value of Allergan products based on their requirements and unique country needs. In the US, this research is incorporated into Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy Dossiers available to payers in the form of an unsolicited request for use in formulary decision making as well as peer reviewed publications that articulate the value our products provide. In addition, this research helps inform, support, and ultimately evaluate the effectiveness of Value Based Contracts (VBC). As the U.S. healthcare system increasingly moves away from volume and towards value, having a strong research group to both inform and evaluate 04 32 PRODUCT QUALITY The quality of a particular drug, biologic or medical device is Once a product leaves the manufacturing plant, QA measures integral to the safety of the patient who uses it, and to that end, remain equally vigilant. The performance and quality of our we manufacture our products to the highest global regulatory products are continuously monitored once they are made standards. We use state-of-the-art technologies to ensure our available to patients and involve routine dialogue with products are of the highest quality and therefore suitable for physicians who use the products and the pharmacists who safe medical use, and have a global network in place to maintain dispense them. However, counterfeit drugs manufactured this standard around the world. But our focus on quality and sold around the world pose great challenges to federal is ongoing, it is never static. Instead, we make continuous agencies such as the FDA and Customs and Border Protection improvements to our manufacturing and production processes under the Department of Homeland Security. Unfortunately, and exceed all regulatory guidance that governs the medical the unscrupulous and illegal attempt by some individuals or products in the United States and elsewhere in the world. On companies to market products that are not clinically tested the whole, what drives our quality assurance (QA) program is a for safety or efficacy, lack regulatory approval (and therefore reflection of our safety-first culture – all measures undertaken unsuitable for medical use) at the expense of patients’ safety by our QA program aim to result in a safe and beneficial for purely financial gains is something that affects every experience for the patient. pharmaceutical and medical device company. We are not immune to this risk. To that end, Allergan is working in full The Allergan QA program focuses on the complete life cycle collaboration with theFDA, CDC and the Federal Bureau of of our products, meaning that quality is evaluated from the Investigation to combat counterfeiting so when patients ask for product’s initial use in clinical trials through to its use in our products, they can be assured they are receiving authentic physicians’ practices. The QA measures undertaken for our Allergan treatments that have been properly tested and drugs and biologics complement the processes we use to deemed safe for use. ensure the quality of our medical devices. For our pharmaceutical products and biologics, the QA program begins with our product ingredients, includes the manufacturing and sterilization stage, and continues through use of the product by patient. Our particular methods of sterilization include both aseptic manufacturing, and terminal sterilization incorporating state of the art controls and the industry’s highest standards. Aseptic manufacturing requires precise attention at every step of the process to prevent even the slightest contamination of a product. Due to the precise nature of aseptic manufacturing, the process is governed by many different guidelines around the world, and although the standards in each country are different, we generally adhere to the most stringent ones. Once our products are assembled post sterilization, they are subjected to a significant series of quality testing for each “batch” of product to assure and validate the quality of each batch. Our products are also subjected to a comprehensive stability program that tests the product throughout its shelflife, over several years. Additionally, a specific risk analysis is developed for every product in advance of its entry into the market to ensure a patient’s experience with the treatment will be reliable, effective and most importantly, safe throughout the product’s life cycle. 04 33 PATIENT RESOURCES PHYSICIAN RESOURCES At Allergan, we believe the best of medicine is realized when We work diligently to make sure we are providing the tools patients have the information they need to make well-informed and channels to keep the conversation as dynamic and direct decisions regarding their treatment options. Information can as possible. Underlying our commitment is a drive to help be found throughout our Web site about our products and the medical specialists improve patient outcomes. We pursue this conditions they treat, along with helpful links to additional goal through ongoing training about our products, hand-on patient education and support resources. workshops by experts to stimulate scientific exchange and sharing of best practices, and support for medical education The Allergan Patient Assistance Program provides certain and ongoing studies. products to patients in the United States who are unable to afford the cost of their medication and who meet other The ALLERGAN ACADEMY™ education programs, for example, eligibility requirements. The website below provides Patient offer a forum for peer-to-peer discussion and a comprehensive Assistance program information for our various products. curriculum in-person and via the Web for plastic surgeons to https://www.allergan.com/responsibility/patient-resources/ learn more about our breast aesthetic portfolio. The ALLERGAN patient-assistance-programs ACADEMY™ education programs also facilitate the Allergan Physician Certification Program, which grants surgeons access to the NATRELLE™ Collection of saline and silicone gel-filled breast implants upon completion. 04 34 PHILANTHROPY AND CITIZENSHIP The Allergan Foundation (TAF), a private foundation that is A sample of the programs and organizations that were funded separate from Allergan plc and its subsidiaries but to which are as follows: Allergan plc and its subsidiaries is the sole contributor, supports charitable organizations and programs having a • The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention educates bold impact on communities where Allergan employees live primary care physicians on suicide prevention with an online, and work. Charitable grants are focused on support in four self-paced program that provides education and guidance, philanthropic areas: the arts, civic programs, education, and aimed at improving the care of patients at risk for suicide as health and human services. As part of The Allergan Foundation’s well as increasing the physicians’ general understanding of commitment to health and human services, TAF also supports the causes and impact of suicide selected initiatives, known as “Focus Grants,” to improve • Angel Faces’ flagship program provides therapeutic/ patient diagnosis, treatment, care, and quality of life, or to educational retreats for adolescent girls and young women otherwise promote access to quality health care. whose lives have been severely impacted by disfiguring burn/ trauma injuries Priority 1 of TAF is to support, national and international health • The International Council of Ophthalmology (ICO) and human services efforts through donations and grants as Foundation’s Teaching the Teachers Initiative reaches 10,000 – well as through collaborations with health organizations to 15,000 ophthalmic educators based in regions around the world promote well-being and help address unmet medical needs. • Our grant to Spring Branch Community Health Center These efforts are focused worldwide and not strictly based on covered the cost of Clinical Breast Exams for 200 uninsured Allergan internal operational areas. women in need of a mammogram in a county with a high rate (43 per 100,000) for detecting late-stage breast cancer Priority 2 of TAF is to support post-graduate fellowship programs through donations and grants through collaborations For both TAF and the Allergan International Foundation (AIF) with universities and health organizations. These efforts are (described further below), grants are awarded to charitable focused nationally and not strictly based on Allergan internal organizations with high-quality programs and services, operational areas. well-defined goals, a commitment to maximizing available resources, and a reputation for meeting objectives and Priority 3 of TAF is to support local arts, education, community, reporting measured results. The objectives and programs of and health programs through donations and grants. These any requesting organization must be clearly defined and the efforts are engaged in all local and regional areas where program objectives must be achievable. Allergan conducts research, manufactures and conducts commercial business. The Allergan Foundation will consider awarding grants for programs that: At Allergan, the focus on cutting-edge science, sound business practices and a global perspective contribute to the Company’s • Promote education, research, and awareness in Allergan’s goal – to make a bold impact on the health and well-being of core therapeutic areas including Medical Aesthetics, Eye Care, people around the world. At The Allergan Foundation, we mirror Central Nervous System and Gastroenterology. this perspective through the funding of programs and services • Improve the quality of health care and patient access to care benefiting communities and improving lives in the areas where • Enhance and strengthen the communities where Allergan has Allergan’s employees live and work. In 2017, because of the a facility or employees by contributing to the arts, education, ongoing commitment of Allergan and its employees around and other civic and community causes the world, we supported 410 organizations with more than $9.23 million in funding, extending the reach of The Allergan Foundation’s philanthropic commitment even further. GRANT LIMITATIONS Grants are not made to support or fund: The Allergan Foundation receives hundreds of Focus and Community Grant applications each year, and thoughtful • Organizations that are not 501(c)(3) publicly supported charities consideration is given to each request. Grants are primarily • Individual or family requests for scholarships, fellowship awarded for health and human service programs; however, assistance, or other types of support organizations supporting education, the arts, and community • Refugee or religious-based activities for the purpose of are also supported in the cities and counties where Allergan furthering religious doctrine employees live and work. Special attention is always given • Fraternal, labor, or political organizations to the work of organizations that connect resources with • Organizations that discriminate on the basis of race, religion, underserved, vulnerable populations. creed, gender, or national origin 04 35 • Matching gifts • University administrative, management, or indirect fees “WE CARE” GRANTS • Golf tournaments, athletic events, league or team The Allergan Foundation also evaluates requests for funding sponsorships, school-affiliated orchestra, band, choir, student to organizations in which employees of Allergan take a strong trips, or tours interest through their personal donations of time. With its • Private schools K-12 “We Care” program, The Allergan Foundation considers • Fundraising activities or advertising sponsorships financial grants to such organizations annually, based on • Activities that propagandize, influence legislation and/or applications submitted by a US-based employee of Allergan. elections; promote voter registration; political candidates, “We Care” grants are usually made in amounts ranging from political campaigns or engaged in political activities; litigation $500 to $1,500. • Institutions limiting their services to persons of a single religious sect or denomination • Promotional exhibits, surveys, or consumer interest groups PRODUCT DONATIONS • Endowments, capital, or building campaigns At the end of 2017, Allergan, Inc contributed $10 million to • Contingencies, deficits, or debt reduction The Allergan Foundation, bringing TAF’s assets to more than • Charities or funds solely directed by a single physician or $37 million and allowing TAF to continue supporting a broad medical practice group base of important work. Focused intently on a spirit to improve lives and elevate communities and on behalf of TAF’s Board Grants generally are not approved for: of Directors, we are grateful for this opportunity, and we are proud to stand with the organizations and individuals making a • Organizations that collect funds for redistribution to other difference in the world. nonprofit groups • Regular, ongoing operating support • Agencies, projects or programs primarily financed by government sources ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The objectives and programs of the requesting organization must be clearly defined and reasonably capable of achievement. The financial status of the requesting organization and its sources of income must also meet applicable legal requirements, including proof of tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3), as a public charity described in sections 509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, and status as a nonprofit organization under applicable state law. In assessing potential grant recipients, The Allergan Foundation considers the extent of the public benefit provided by the requesting organization. An effective governing board, efficient management, and strong community support are also among the criteria considered. The Allergan Foundation evaluates the impact to the community and the intended recipients of the donation or grant and its intended purpose. Grants are competitively compared, even if the minimum grant requirements are met, in order to determine which requests are going to have the greatest impact. Outcomes are measured periodically against the request proposals to determine how successfully the intended purpose is achieved. Allergan’s reputation is measured qualitatively through periodic and random surveys with local community efforts in order to gage the effectiveness of participation and improving the selection process. The Allergan Foundation reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to reject any request even when the requesting organization meets The Allergan Foundation’s grant guidelines. 04 36 The Allergan Foundation is led by Brent Saunders, The Allergan International Foundation (AIF) continued the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Allergan plc, global extension of The Allergan Foundation’s philanthropic and Chairman of the Board of TAF. Joining him on the Board efforts to providing a lasting and positive impact on are: Alex Kelly, EVP, Chief Communications Officer, Allergan communities around the world. AIF distributed approximately plc, and President of the Board of TAF; Ed Davis, SVP & Chief $800,000 in support of a broad range of initiatives that bring Audit Executive, Allergan plc, and Chief Financial Officer aid and relief to underserved communities. Sharing The of TAF; Kira Schwartz, SVP, M&A, Licensing and Alliance Allergan Foundation’s considerable philanthropic concern with Management, Allergan plc, and General Counsel and Secretary the global community, one-third of the AIF funding benefits of TAF; Jonathon Kellerman, EVP & Global Chief Compliance programs in Ireland while more than $500,000 supported Officer, Allergan plc; Karen Ling, EVP & Chief Human Resources programs around the world. Officer, Allergan plc; Lei Meng, VP, Marketing Analytics and Business Development & Licensing Commercial Assessments, AIF is active in the same four philanthropic areas: the arts, civic Allergan plc; and Susan Stone, Executive Director, Alliance programs, education and health and human services, in which Advocacy, Allergan plc. Additionally, serving on the Allergan it promotes access and improvements to quality health care, Foundation Board of Directors since 2011 is Mr. Gavin S. diagnosis and treatment, education, research, quality of life, Herbert, Founder of Allergan, Inc. A pioneer and visionary and disease awareness. in the field of health care, Mr. Herbert brings with him an unparalleled wealth of knowledge and insight, and provides Organizations that AIF is proud to be supporting include: strong support for our work in philanthropic decision-making. Operation Smile, Project Harar, SeeAbility, and Bipolar UK, The Allergan Foundation is grateful for his active involvement among others. AIF continually looks to expand its philanthropic and appreciates Mr. Herbert’s continued service to the efforts into each country where Allergan plc has an office and broader community. employees to support worthy causes in those areas. RECOGNIZING EXCELLENCE Allergan has a bold corporate culture, with a tradition of excellence, hard work, and a dedication to improving quality of life. We seek to encourage innovation, personal and career growth, and a sense of meaning that goes far beyond our walls, and those employees who believe that an idea can change the world. 04 37 CONCLUSION As Allergan continues its sustainability journey, we celebrate our successes and focus on further improving our performance. 2018 is another opportunity for Allergan to further integrate our sustainability program across our organization and establish a strong platform for achieving our vision for 2020. 04 38 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY TABLE 1,2,3,4 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR SAFETY MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 Serious Occupational Injury and Illness Incident Frequency Rate (Incidents/200,000 hours)4 0.46 0.10 0.28 Occupational Injury and Illness Incident Frequency Rate (Incidents/200,000 hours) 0.47 0.33 0.37 Days Away Case Rate (Incidents/200,000 hours) 0.26 0.11 0.16 Employee Engagement (Good Observations/200,000 hours) 82 96 209 WASTE MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 Hazardous Waste (tonnes) 935 771 480 Hazardous Waste per Sales (tonnes/million sales) 0.07 0.05 0.03 Non-Hazardous Waste (tonnes) 813 1,141 940 Non Hazardous Waste per Sales (tonnes/million sales) 0.06 0.08 0.06 Recycling (tonnes) 4,531 4,631 3,651 Recycling Rate (%) 83 75 75 ENERGY MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 Electrical Energy (GJ) 687,571 684,102 652, 076 Electrical Energy per Sales (GJ/million sales) 54 47 41 Fuel Consumption (GJ) 635,877 633,512 675,287 Fuel per Sales (GJ/million sales) 50 43 42 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 1,323,448 1,317,614 1,327,363 WATER MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 Water (M3) 1,012,012 1,077,592 1,093, 890 Water per Sales (M3 million sales) 80 74 69 COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 Notices of Violation 1 2 5 EHS Compliance Penalties/Fines ($) $0 $0 $500 Remediation Settlements ($) $0 $0 $0 Significant Spills 0 0 0 CARBON MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCCO2E) Direct from Fuel Combusion (R&D/Manufacturing) 35,203 33,703 35,088 Scope 2 Grenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) Indirect from Electrical Consumption (R&D/ 50,997 43,190 31,521 Manufacturing) Market Based Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) Total (R&D Manufacturing) 86,200 76,893 31,521 Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Sales (MTCO2E/$million) (R&D / Manufacturing) 6.8 5.3 4.2 Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) emission from all activities (verified by ERM CVS) 85,405 85,464 88.190 Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) emission from all activities (verified by ERM CVS) Market Based 62,403 50,279 46,800 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Supply Chain (tonnes) 250,000 250,000 250,000 Renewable Energy (% of Electricity from Renwable Sources) 20 33 37 RISK ASSESSMENT/CORRECTIVE ACTION MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 Number of EHS Risk Assessments 246 92 83 Number of EHS Related Corrective/Preventative Actions 1,600 2,600 4,978 DIVERSITY 2015 2016 2017 Board Diversity (Women %) 17 25 25 Gender Diversity (% Female) 52 52 52 SALES ($000S) 12,688,100 14,570,000 15,940,700 HEAD COUNT 16,325 16,500 17,800 1. Data only for Manufacturing and R&D operations unless otherwise noted 2. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 3. 2015 -2017 data excludes LifeCell and Zeltiq businesses acquired in 2017 4. As defined by ASTM E2920 – 14: Standard Guide for Recording Occupational Injuries and Illnesses. Independent Assurance Statement to Allergan plc ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc. (ERM CVS) was engaged by Allergan plc (Allergan) to provide assurance in relation to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data for the calendar year 2017. Engagement Summary Whether the consolidated corporate data for calendar year 2017 for the following indicators are, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the reporting criteria: o Total absolute Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions from on-site fossil fuel combustion; emissions from Scope: on-site and fleet vehicles; and emissions from refrigerant gases in stationary HVAC equipment and air conditioning systems in fleet vehicles (metric tonnes CO2e) o Total absolute Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions (location-based and market-based) from purchased electricity and steam (metric tonnes CO2e) Allergan’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Management Plan, based on the World Resources Institute and the World Reporting Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) GHG Protocol; and Criteria: International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-1, Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals Assurance International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3:2006: Specification with guidance for the validation Standard: and verification of greenhouse gas assertions Assurance level: Reasonable assurance Allergan is responsible for preparing the GHG emissions data. Respective responsibilities: ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. Our opinion The limitations of our engagement In ERM CVS’s opinion the following GHG emissions for the calendar year 2017 are fairly presented, in all material respects, The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent in accordance with the reporting criteria: uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is Scope 1 Emissions: 88,190 tonnes CO2-e important to understand our assurance conclusions in this Scope 2 Emissions (location-based): 76,124 tonnes CO2-e context. Scope 2 Emissions (market-based): 46,800 tonnes CO2-e The findings presented here are not intended to be used as advice or as the basis for any decisions, including, without Our assurance activities limitation, financial or investment decisions. We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a Based on the work outlined above, we have provided Allergan basis for our assurance conclusions. management with a separate, confidential report detailing our A team of GHG and assurance specialists performed the assessment of Allergan’s GHG emissions data for the calendar following activities: year 2017. • Interviews with relevant Allergan staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including data collection and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the GHG emissions data; • A visit to Allergan’s Manufacturing/R&D facility in Irvine, California, to review evidence for the activity data underlying the GHG emissions; Jennifer Iansen-Rogers, Partner • An analytical review of the consolidated year end activity 10 May 2018 data submitted by all sites underlying the GHG emissions; ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc. • A review of the calculations of the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from the underlying activity data www.ermcvs.com undertaken by Allergan, including a review of the Email: post@ermcvs.com conversion factors and emission factors used. Declaration of Independence: ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group and an accredited Certification Body. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Allergan in any respect. APPENDIX A – ALLERGAN FACILITIES INCLUDED IN THE GHG INVENTORY NO. FACILITY NAME/EMISSION SOURCE FACILITY TYPE LOCATION 1 Irvine Manufacturing/R&D Irvine, CA 2 Waco Manufacturing/R&D Waco, TX 3 San Jose Manufacturing/R&D San Jose, CA 4 Brazil Manufacturing/R&D Guarulhos, SP Brazil 5 Costa Rica Manufacturing/R&D La Aurora de Heredia, Costa Rica 6 Pringy Manufacturing/R&D Pringy, France 7 Westport Manufacturing/R&D Westport, Ireland 8 Fall River Manufacturing/R&D Fall River, MA 9 Cincinnati Manufacturing/R&D Cincinnati, OH 10 Clonshaugh Manufacturing/R&D Dublin, Ireland 11 Liege Manufacturing/R&D Liege, Belgium 12 Houston Manufacturing/R&D Houston, TX 13 Liverpool Manufacturing/R&D Liverpool, UK 14 Weiterstadt Office Weiterstadt, Germany 15 North Brunswick Office North Brunswick, NJ 16 Pleasanton Office Pleasanton, CA 17 Sunrise Office Sunrise, FL 18 Branchburg Office Branchburg, NJ 19 Bridgewater Office Bridgewater, NJ 20 Dublin Office Dublin, CA 21 Livermore Office Livermore, CA 22 Galway Office Galway, Ireland 23 Menlo Park Office Menlo Park, CA 24 San Francisco Gateway Office San Francisco, CA 25 Sunrise Office Sunrise, FL 26 Rockaway Office Rockaway, NJ 27 Jersey City Office Jersey City, NJ 28 Bridgewater Office Bridgewater, NJ 29 Madison Office Madison, NJ 30 Morristown Office Morristown, NJ 31 Parsippany Office Parsippany, NJ 32 New York Office New York, NY 33 Austin Office Austin, TX 34 Reston Office Reston, VA 35 Canada Office Markham, ON 36 Mexico Office Mexico City, Mexico 37 Argentina Office Buenos Aires, Argentina 38 Chile Office Santiago, Chile 39 Columbia Office Santafe de Bogotá, Columbia 40 Brazil Office Sao Paulo, Brazil 41 Brazil Office Berrini, Sao Paulo, Brazil 42 Australia Office Gordon, Austrailia 43 China Office Beijing, China NO. FACILITY NAME/EMISSION SOURCE FACILITY TYPE LOCATION 44 China Office Shanghai, China 45 China Office Chengdu, China 46 China Office Guangzhou, China 47 Hong Kong Office Taikoo Shing, Island East, Hong Kong 48 India Office Bangalore (Kasturba), India 49 India Office Bangalore (Lavelle), India 50 India Office Kolkata, India 51 Indonesia Office Jakarta, Indonesia 52 Japan Office Tokyo, Japan 53 Korea Office Seoul, Korea 54 Philippines Office Pasig City, Philippines 55 Malaysia Office Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 56 Singapore Office Singapore APPENDIX B – GRI STANDARD REFERENCE TABLE GRI PAGE GRI STANDARD TITLE DISCLOSURE TITLE ALERGAN REFERENCE DISCLOSURE # # GRI 102-1 General Disclosures Name of the organization Corporate Responsibility Report 1 GRI 102-2 General Disclosures Activities, brands, products, and services Form 10-K 10 GRI 102-3 General Disclosures Location of headquarters Form 10-K 4 GRI 102-4 General Disclosures Location of operations Form 10-K 15, 45 GRI 102-5 General Disclosures Ownership and legal form 2018 Proxy Statement 99 GRI 102-6 General Disclosures Markets Served Form 10-K 12 GRI 102-7 General Disclosures Scale of the Organization Form 10-K 11, 22 GRI 102-8 General Disclosures Information on employees and other workers Form 10-K 22 GRI 102-9 General Disclosures Supply chain Form 10-K 15 Significant changes to the organization and its GRI 102-10 General Disclosures Form 10-K 5 supply chain GRI 102-11 General Disclosures Precautionary Principle or Approach Corporate Responsibility Report 8 GRI 102-12 General Disclosures External initiatives Corporate Responsibility Report 16 GRI 102-13 General Disclosures Membership of associations 2018 Proxy Statement 39 Corporate Responsibility Report, GRI 102-14 General Disclosures Statement from senior decision maker 3 2018 Proxy Statement GRI 102-15 General Disclosures Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Form 10-K 17 Values, principles, standards, and norms of GRI 102-16 General Disclosures Allergan Website behavior GRI 102-17 General Disclosures Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Allergan Website, 2018 Proxy Statement 27 GRI 102-18 General Disclosures Governance structure Allergan Website Executive-level responsibility for economic, GRI 102-20 General Disclosures Corporate Responsibility Report 7 environmental, and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, GRI 102-21 General Disclosures Corporate Responsibility Report 16 environmental, and social topics Composition of the highest governance body and GRI 102-22 General Disclosures Allergan Website its committees Composition of the highest governance body and GRI 102-23 General Disclosures Allergan Website its committees Nominating and selecting the highest GRI 102-24 General Disclosures Allergan Website, 2018 Proxy Statement 27 governance body Role of highest governance body in setting GRI 102-26 General Disclosures 2018 Proxy Statement 27 purpose, values, and strategy GRI 102-27 General Disclosures Collective knowledge of highest governance body 2018 Proxy Statement 27 Evaluating the highest governance body's GRI 102-28 General Disclosures 2018 Proxy Statement 27 performance GRI PAGE GRI STANDARD TITLE DISCLOSURE TITLE ALERGAN REFERENCE DISCLOSURE # # Identifying and managing economic, GRI 102-29 General Disclosures Corporate Responsibility Report 15 environmental, and social impacts GRI 102-30 General Disclosures Effectiveness of risk management processes 2018 Proxy Statement 28 GRI 102-31 General Disclosures Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Responsibility Report 15 GRI 102-32 General Disclosures Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Corporate Responsibility Report 7 GRI 102-35 General Disclosures Remuneration policies 2018 Proxy Statement 69 GRI 102-36 General Disclosures Process for determining remuneration 2018 Proxy Statement 69 GRI 102-38 General Disclosures Annual total compensation ratio 2018 Proxy Statement 71 GRI 102-39 General Disclosures Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 2018 Proxy Statement 73 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI 102-40 General Disclosures List of stakeholder groups Allergan website Patient Resources & Physician Resources GRI 102-42 General Disclosures Identifying and selecting stakeholders Corporate Responsibility Report 16 GRI 102-43 General Disclosures Approach to stakeholder engagement Corporate Responsibility Report 16 GRI 102-44 General Disclosures Key topics and concerns raised Corporate Responsibility Report 16 GRI 102-45 General Disclosures Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Form 10-K 39 GRI 102-46 General Disclosures Defining report content and topic boundaries Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-47 General Disclosures List of material topics Corporate Responsibility Report 15 GRI 102-48 General Disclosures Restatements of information Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-49 General Disclosures Changes in reporting Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-50 General Disclosures Reporting period Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-51 General Disclosures Date of most recent report Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-52 General Disclosures Reporting cycle Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-53 General Disclosures Contact point for questions regarding the report Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-54 General Disclosures Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-55 General Disclosures GRI content index Corporate Responsibility Report 45 GRI 102-56 General Disclosures External assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Management GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility Report 6 Approach Management GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility Report 9-38 Approach GRI PAGE GRI STANDARD TITLE DISCLOSURE TITLE ALERGAN REFERENCE DISCLOSURE # # Management GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility Report 9-38 Approach GRI 201-1 Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed Form 10-K Financial implications and other risks and GRI 201-2 Economic Performance Form 10-K 21 opportunities due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and other GRI 201-3 Economic Performance Form 10-K 171 retirement plans Communication and training about anti-corruption GRI 205-2 Anti-corruption Allergan Website Code of Conduct policies and procedres GRI 302-1 Energy Energy consumption within the organization Corporate Responsibility Report 19 GRI 302-3 Energy Energy intensity Corporate Responsibility Report 19 GRI 302-4 Energy Reduction of energy consumption Corporate Responsibility Report 19 GRI 303-1 Water Water withdrawal by source Corporate Responsibility Report 23 GRI 305-1 Emissions Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 19 GRI 305-2 Emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 19 GRI 305-3 Emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 40 GRI 305-4 Emissions GHG emissions intensity Corporate Responsibility Report 19 GRI 305-5 Emissions Reduction of GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other GRI 305-7 Emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 24 significant air emissions GRI 306-3 Effluents and Waste Significant spills Corporate Responsibility Report 40 Environmental Non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI 307-1 Corporate Responsibility Report 40 Compliance regulations Supplier Environmental New suppliers that were screened using GRI 308-1 Corporate Responsibility Report 14 Assessment environmental criteria Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Occupational Health GRI 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Corporate Responsibility Report 27 and Safety of work-related fatalities Programs for upgrading employee skills and GRI 404-2 Training and Education Corporate Responsibility Report 29 transition assistance programs GRI 415-1 Public Policy Political contributions Allergan Website Political Contributions Requirements for product and service GRI 417-1 Marketing and Labeling Allergan Website information labeling CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
