Annual Report 2018 Year Ended March 31, 2018 Protecting the World’s Vision Santen’s Values Santen’s Values 1 1. Santen’s original interpretation of a passage from chapter 22 of Zhongyong (The Doctrine of the Mean) by Confucius, meaning “exploring the secrets and mechanisms of nature in order to contribute to people’s health.” We think carefully about what is essential, decide clearly what we should do, and act quickly. Mission Statement By focusing on ophthalmology, Santen develops unique scientific knowledge and organizational capabilities that contribute to the well-being of patients, their loved ones and consequently to society. Ophthalmology is our singular focus. Santen has conducted business activities as a specialized pharmaceutical company since its foundation in 1890. With Santen’s Values as our starting point, we build upon a foundation of scientific knowledge and organizational capabilities nurtured for nearly 130 years. We will continue to contribute to ophthalmic treatments, working primarily for the benefit of patients and their loved ones. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 1 Santen has been conducting business activities based on its strengths: a thoro In order to fulfill the wishes and expectations of pat Santen will continue to contribute to the Our Str Thorough Sales and marketing activities attuned to the needs of each region customer focus A product lineup cov of ophthalmic diso ugh customer focus and specialized expertise in the field of ophthalmology. ients and medical professionals toward eye care, development of ophthalmic treatment. Wishes and expectations for eye care received by Santen at the 36th World Ophthalmology Congress (WOC2018) engths Specialized expertise Product development harnessing advanced technical capabilities in the field of and expertise as well as partnerships with external institutions ophthalmology ering a wide range rders treatments Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 3 page 6 CEO Message CONTENTS 1 Santen’s Values 6 CEO Message 8 COO Message 10 Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) 14 Topics/Facts and Figures 18 Ophthalmic Treatment around the World 22 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 28 Research and Development 8 30 Japan Business page 32 Asia Business 1 33 EMEA Business COO Message 34 Corporate Governance 34 Corporate Governance 42 Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Corporate Officers 44 Financial Information and Corporate Information 44 Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data 46 Financial Statements 52 History 54 Corporate Information/Stock Information 1. Europe, the Middle East and Africa page 22 Corporate Social The following are registered trademarks of Santen’s alliance partners: Cravit and Tarivid (Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited); Detantol (Eisai R&D Management Co., Ltd.); Livostin (Johnson & Johnson); Rescula (Sucampo Pharma, LLC); Responsibility (CSR) Eylea (Bayer); Alesion (Boehringer Ingelheim) 4 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 (Integrated) Information Provided Information contained in this report is selected Editorial Policy in order of importance from both aspects of value creation for Santen and the impact on From fiscal 2017, the Santen Group has adopted a policy to integrate stakeholders. its former Annual Report and CSR Report into an integrated report that provides a view of overall business activities based on Santen’s Applicable Scope Values. The integrated report is edited with the intention to provide Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and customers and society with an understanding of Company values and consolidated subsidiaries includes comprehensive coverage of financial information as well as non-financial information such as management strategies, review of operations and CSR activities. Santen has streamlined content and Reporting Period simplified descriptions to allow for easier understanding by a wide Fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) range of stakeholders, starting with shareholders and investors. Certain information is updated after April 1, 2018. Reference Guidelines ・International Integrated Reporting Council, The International Integrated Reporting More detailed information is disclosed through the Framework following media. ・Global Reporting Initiative, The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Corporate Website ・Ministry of the Environment, Santen presents detailed financial and non-financial information on its Environmental Reporting Guidelines corporate website in order to foster a deeper understanding of its business activities as a specialized pharmaceutical company. Moreover, Santen is Note on Accounting Standards also working to enhance the disclosure of useful information on eye health The Santen Group has adopted International for the general public and information on ophthalmic treatments for medical Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from professionals. fiscal 2014, for the purpose of enhancing the international comparability of its financial http://www.santen.com information. Figures for fiscal 2013 have been restated to conform to IFRS for comparison and analysis purposes. IR Website (“Investors & Media” on Santen’s Corporate Website) Caution Concerning ForwardSanten’s IR website provides detailed information for shareholders and Looking Statements investors. The website issues timely disclosures of the most recent This annual report contains forward-looking materials related to IR including performance reports, data books, financial statements regarding the Company’s plans, result meeting presentations, securities reports and annual shareholders strategies and results for the future. All meeting notices, as well as videos from financial result meetings. Santen forward-looking statements are based on is also planning improvements to information for individual investors on the judgments derived from the information available to the Company at the time of website. publication. Certain risks and uncertainties http://www.santen.com/en/ir could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from any projections presented in this report. These risks and uncertainties CSR Website (“CSR” on Santen’s Corporate Website) include, but are not limited to, adverse economic conditions, delays in new products Santen’s CSR website provides more detailed information on CSR activities launch, currency exchange rate, legislative and based on Santen’s Values. The website introduces unique initiatives regulatory developments. conducted through Santen businesses, as well as initiatives related to the CSR concepts of fair business, human rights, labour, occupational health and safety, environment, good corporate citizen, and stakeholder engagement. The CSR website also presents information related to the environment, as well as employment and human resources. http://www.santen.com/en/csr Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 5 CEO Message Under our new management structure, we will fulfill our responsibilities as a specialized ophthalmic company, with the aim of contributing further to ophthalmic treatment around the world. Contributing Further to Ophthalmic Treatment under Our New Management Structure Accelerating Business Based on the treatment needs of each country and region. Santen’s Santen’s Values Mission Statement based on our Values clearly states that we must concentrate our efforts on a carefully chosen field On April 1, 2018, Santen adopted a new management of specialization and contribute to the well-being of patients structure. Shigeo Taniuchi was appointed as President and and their loved ones. It articulates “for whom” and “for Chief Operating Officer, and I was appointed as Chairman what purpose” Santen exists as a company. By sharing this and Chief Executive Officer. This opens a new chapter for philosophy with employees around the world, I am confident Santen. We are determined to implement a wide range of that the entire Company will be able to demonstrate its additional reforms, with a view to contributing further to strengths to the fullest extent possible. I have attached great ophthalmic treatment and achieving sustainable growth. importance to Santen’s Values, both as a basis for making Meanwhile, although the management structure has management decisions and as a foundation for communichanged, Santen’s Values will remain the bedrock of the cating with employees. Company. Santen’s Values are embodied in the phrase Santen is working on priorities such as developing prod“Tenki ni sanyo suru,” which literally means “exploring the ucts that meet the needs of medical professionals, offering secrets and mechanisms of nature in order to contribute to a product lineup that covers a wide range of therapeutic people’s health.” We interpret this to mean “We think carecategories, and providing detailed support for a multitude of fully about what is essential, decide clearly what we should customer needs that vary with each country and region. By do, and act quickly.” In fact, the Company’s name “Santen” conducting business activities based on Santen’s Values, we is derived from this phrase. Guided by Santen’s Values, we have successfully built up Santen as we know it today—a have concentrated management resources on ophthalmolcompany whose strengths lie in its customer focus and ogy and have delivered products and services attuned to specialization in ophthalmology. Enhancing QOL for Patients around the World Turning our attention to ophthalmic patients and treatments, we face a range of issues in the world today. These include a worldwide increase in the number of patients driven by population aging as well as the emergence of new diagnostic and treatment technologies. Further, the number of patients in emerging countries is growing while a disparity in access to healthcare also exists. Considering the critical importance of vision in daily life, people who develop eye diseases can often experience a significant decline in their Quality of Life (QOL). Santen must fulfill its mission to contribute to the development of ophthalmic treatments through its business activities. I believe that fulfilling this mission is what we stand for, and why we are here. Santen has also embraced challenges such as initiatives unique to a specialized ophthalmic company and activities October 2018 Akira Kurokawa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 6 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 to fulfill its responsibilities as a top ophthalmic manufacturer. which is developing a glaucoma treatment device (DE-128), For example, we are working to develop an environment that and establishing a joint venture with Chongqing Kerui enables as many patients as possible to receive essential Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. in China. We also proacophthalmic treatment. Specific initiatives include the develtively pursued joint research with the RIKEN national institute opment and provision of a glaucoma treatment continuation and Singapore Eye Research Institute (SERI). Through these program package in Japan, research in dry eye and support business development initiatives, we have extended the for raising awareness of this condition, and assistance for range of our products and services and pushed ahead with the education and training of ophthalmologists in emerging the development of new treatment options. This business countries. model leverages our strengths as a specialized ophthalmic In addition, we are expanding opportunities to contribute company. to ophthalmic treatment by building up our presence as a Under our new management team, we will continue to specialized ophthalmic company, and forming partnerships implement a virtuous cycle of creation and innovation as we with external institutions that possess advanced technotake full advantage of Santen’s strengths and unique charlogical capabilities and expertise, among other measures. acteristics, with the aim of contributing further to ophthalmic During the previous medium-term management plan, we treatment. took actions such as taking over ophthalmic products from Further Information P.1 Santen’s Values Merck & Co., Inc., acquiring U.S.-based InnFocus, Inc., P.18 Ophthalmic Treatment around the World Seeking to Enhance Corporate Value Aiming to Fulfill CSR by Contributing Enhance Corporate Governance to Ophthalmic Treatment In order to achieve sustainable growth, Santen is working Santen positions social contributions through its business to enhance and strengthen corporate governance. Under activities as the central focus of its CSR activities. We our corporate governance, we believe that it is essential believe that it is crucial to contribute to the QOL of not only to have systems in place, but also to implement ophthalmic patients through Santen’s products and services, measures to ensure that those systems function effectively. support widespread adoption and development of ophthalFor example, the Outside Directors and Outside Corporate mic treatments around the world, and implement measures Auditors must make decisions promptly and appropriately to improve access to medicines. Moreover, in July 2018, as well as provide management oversight. To ensure they Santen received marketing authorization in Europe for a can perform these duties, it is imperative for Santen to treatment of severe vernal keratoconjunctivitis as an orphan share information and foster interactive communication medicinal product. I believe that Santen has a responsibility with the Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors to develop such orphan medicinal products precisely so they may properly grasp and monitor Santen’s business because we are a specialized ophthalmic company. environment, management and business execution In October 2017, Santen systems, as well as strategies as a matter of course. In announced its participation in addition, we are emphasizing stronger compliance systhe United Nations (UN) Global tems to fulfill our social mission of providing appropriate Compact. We have augmented products and services to patients around the world. We our activity guidelines with the UN will also continue to push ahead with activities to keep Global Compact’s Ten Principles pace with the globalization of our business operations. in the four fields of human rights, Further Information P.22 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) labor, environment and anti-corP.34 Corporate Governance ruption as we redouble our efforts to develop a sustainable society. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 7 COO Message We will steadily execute strategies to become a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” and achieve continued, sustainable growth. Executing the Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) Accelerating Global Development contributing to better QOL for patients around the world. At the same time, we will also build the path forward for I joined Santen in 1996 as a medical representative (MR). sustainable growth beyond 2020. Subsequently I became involved in creating medium-term To realize the vision for 2020, the most important point management plans in the corporate planning division, is to grasp the diverse customer needs firmly and provide took part in business development, and gained experience the best products and services to meet their expectations. in the Asia division setting up the Company’s business In my experience to date, I have felt clear differences in in China. Recently, as Head of Santen EMEA, I led the the status of ophthalmic treatment and healthcare in each business expansion associated with the transfer of ophcountry and region, with variation in patient and ophthalthalmic products acquired from Merck & Co., Inc. and built mologist needs. For example, in Japan there is a demand an overall management framework for the region. During for medical institutions to coordinate to provide a high this time, my work allowed me to directly experience the level of medical care efficiently regardless of the size of the Company’s transition into a global organization. institution. This drives demand for the latest treatment and In June 2018, the Company announced MTP2020, scientific information for providing optimal prescriptions the final stage in our journey to realize our long-term tailored to the patient’s situation. In China, ophthalmology strategic vision toward 2020 of becoming a “Specialized is a field making progress within medicine. While there is Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence.” an emphasis on powerful therapeutic effect and reliable Through MTP2020, we will realize our vision for 2020 by quality, economic factors also give rise to a large demand for low-cost pharmaceuticals. In Europe, strong evidence is required for the efficacy of products, and in the case of ophthalmic solutions, there is a strong demand for products not containing preservatives. Another feature of the European market is the large number of countries with a relatively high ratio of self-medication products. Furthermore, each country and region has diverse regulations and trading practices, such as application and approval processes for products in development, pharmaceutical manufacturing and quality assurance guidelines, and processes for recording product sales. In this way, we will accelerate our global development while responding accurately to the different needs of customers and requirements for conducting business in different areas. October 2018 Shigeo Taniuchi President and Chief Operating Officer Head of Asia Division President & CEO of Santen Inc. 8 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 The Challenge of Creating New Value Diversity Makes Things Interesting We are strongly determined to contribute to the As the Head of Santen EMEA, I experienced time and development of ophthalmic treatment. To do this, we again how diversity makes things interesting in working believe it is important to take up the challenge of creating with employees from various countries and regions. I have new value by leveraging the Company’s accumulated often found that even if two people have different values, strengths to respond to the expectations of patients and working along the same fundamental principles toward a ophthalmologists, while aggressively incorporating new common goal while communicating can generate wondertreatment methods and technologies. For example, we ful ideas that I would never have thought of alone. It is by are developing differentiated, high value-added products bringing diverse human resources together that we can such as DE-117, a next generation glaucoma treatment create products and services that meet diverse customer following on from our key product Tapros, and DE-128 needs. Furthermore, I have also experienced the thrill of (MicroShunt), a device for glaucoma treatment. Other how this process can change relationship dynamics and important challenges are ensuring that glaucoma patients forge a single team bound together by trust. Fully levercontinue their treatment and avoid any mistakes in aging synergetic effects generated by human resource ophthalmic solution usage, particularly since treatment diversity enables the entire Company to come together periods can be long and involve multiple pharmaceuticals to realize a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a in combination. Santen will take further steps to support Global Presence” while refining our strengths to achieve treatment continuation and to make products easy to sustainable growth in 2020 and beyond. distinguish, as well as provide new, customer-focused Further Information P.10 Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) therapeutic options. Looking ahead, we will evolve beyond the provision of information about individual products as we start to provide overall solutions covering prevention, diagnosis, EMEA North treatment and follow-up. At the same time, we will 651 America leverage the expertise in business activities that we have Japan 232 acquired in each region to provide products and services Asia 2,015 that surpass conventional approaches. From a global business strategy perspective, we will 907 deploy our strengths in Japan and EMEA across regional boundaries with a view to capturing growth opportunities in Asia. We will leverage the strong trust relationships and Number of Employees by Region (As of March 31, 2018) unrivalled presence we have built with customers in Japan, as well as the organizational capabilities we have cultivated in Europe, which has a powerful influence over global standards and regulation policies. We will also leverage the networks we have developed with global academia to realize overall growth for the Santen Group that surpasses that of the market, and to contribute to global ophthalmic treatment. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 9 Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) We announced our new Medium-Term Plan to become a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” and achieve continued, sustainable growth. We formulated the Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) covering The number of patients worldwide requiring treatment the period from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2020 to realize for glaucoma, retinal disorders, dry eye and other ophSanten’s long-term strategic vision of becoming a thalmological conditions is expected to grow, along with “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global the progressive aging of populations and evolution of new Presence” by 2020, while constructing a path for diagnostic and therapeutic technologies. Santen is comsustainable growth beyond 2020. To achieve MTP2020, mitted to fulfilling its responsibilities as a global company it is vital to increase customer satisfaction, profitability and specialized in ophthalmology by contributing to patients’ organizational strength. QOL through the provision of products and services of the highest quality that best satisfy actual medical needs. By contributing to the QOL of patients worldwide, Santen will Fundamental realize its long-term strategic vision through 2020 to become a Policy “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” while constructing a path for sustainable growth beyond 2020. Increase Strategic Increase customer Increase organizational Goals satisfaction profitability strength (1) Grow faster than the market through progress in global business strategy Key (2) Enhance the product pipeline and develop new treatment options Strategies (3) Raise the strength and efficiency of business framework as well as boost human resource and organizational capabilities Revenue Growth Core OP Ratio ROE Financial Targets ≥6% ≥21% ≥11% (CAGR) (MTP average) (MTP average) 10 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Under our global business strategy, which is one of the greater contribution to ophthalmic care across each plan’s key strategies, we will contribute to ophthalmic care region. We aim to grow Santen group in all regions faster and further accelerate business growth in the existing than the local markets we serve and are particularly regional markets of Japan, Asia and EMEA, while also targeting Asian markets with their high growth potential. steadily preparing to enter the U.S. market. Our preparations in the U.S. will continue with the aim In Japan, Santen has dominant strength in ophthalmic of supplying products to meet customer needs and markets based on sales and production capabilities generating a positive net contribution to earnings rapidly developed. Under the previous plan, we established a from 2021 onwards. Based on continuous business presence and developed our position in Europe, which development, we will work to build a long-term presence has a major influence worldwide in academia as well as in the U.S. market, which drives innovation in life sciences. standard-setting and regulatory policies. Under MTP2020, we aim to translate such strength and experience into organizational capabilities so that we can make an even Concepts of Our Global Business Strategy EMEA Asia Japan U.S. Accelerate growth in Asia supported by experience and knowledge gained in To make preparations for the prompt Existing Japan and EMEA. Such actions contribute to growth of Santen group that achievement of profit contribution in Regions exceeds market growth. the next stage following MTP2020 EMEA Asia Japan • Global Influencer • Growing market • Business model supports high • Collaborate with academia and KOLs • High potential, large populations market share, know-how • Regulatory understanding/skill • Sales and manufacturing network • Manufacturing, quality assurance • Human resources capability Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 11 Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) Financial Strategy Basic View enhancing productivity, such as investments into In seeking to establish competitive superiority in manufacturing sites and information systems that the field of ophthalmology, Santen aims to enhance will expand the foundations of our global businessits profitability in tandem with maximizing its cash es, especially to strengthen product supply and generation capability as well as shareholder value. cost competitiveness. Our basic policy is to maintain the right balance Shareholder Returns between securing sufficient internal reserves to implement growth strategies and returning profits Our basic policy ensures management places to shareholders. At the same time, we pursue an greatest importance on shareholder returns. optimal capital structure for the Company in terms We return profits to shareholders primarily through of capital efficiency, financial soundness and other dividend payments, in tandem with repurchasing factors. Santen is working to enhance ROE (return treasury shares as a supplemental measure, taking on equity attributable to owners of the company) by into consideration a comprehensive range of factors, optimizing the aforementioned elements of profitabilincluding the mediumto long-term business ity, financial soundness and shareholder returns. environment, funding requirements, internal reserves We will allocate resources from internal reserves available, and capital structure. to R&D, business development, capital expendiUnder the previous medium-term management tures and other areas to drive future growth. Giving plan for fiscal 2014-2017, we raised the interim top priority to enhancing the product pipeline, we dividend twice and conducted one share buyback. will dynamically execute investments to a greater Under the MTP2020 plan, we will also consider ways extent than before. In addition, we will continue of delivering enhanced stability and sustainability of to deploy capital expenditures for the purpose of returns for Santen’s long-term shareholders. Maximize cash generation to implement effective investments in future growth and stable stockholder return Conduct active and effective investments in future growth • Enhance pipeline • Pursue new treatment technologies / innovation • Accelerate development of business globally • Make capital investment to support future growth Optimize profit and capital ratios • Strengthen global management framework • Optimize global tax and cash management • Balance investment in future growth and financial soundness Continue stable and sustainable shareholder return • Implement stable and sustainable dividends 12 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Strengthening Talent and Organizational Capabilities At Santen, we realize that human resources capabilities over the medium and long term through and organizational strength are critical factors reinforcement activities based on Santen’s in realizing sustained growth. We are especially Values while also cultivating leadership through a focused on enhancing our ability to promote our systematic approach. In Japan, we are using job global business development by cultivating the grade-based training and other HR initiatives to leadership talent to support sustained growth and support growth by strengthening our pool of talent strengthening organizational capabilities. over time. Aiming to develop human resources capable of Going forward, by accelerating these initiatives pursuing truly customer-focused value creation, and utilizing the strengths we have cultivated as we have formulated the Santen Leadership a specialized ophthalmology company, we aim Competencies (SLC) framework as the basis for to achieve the MTP2020 goals and make further our expectations for personnel based on Santen’s contributions to ophthalmic care by promoting the Values. The HR system underpinning our global creation of truly customer-focused value based on development is based on the SLC framework. We helping individual employees to gain specialized aim to strengthen our global HR and organizational expertise. Santen’s Values Mission Statement Santen Leadership Competencies (SLC) Expected behaviors of Santen Group employees based on Santen’s Values With a mindset and and encourage to carry out from a perspective outline what should oneself as well as objectives to unique to Santen be done others the end • Customer-Focused • Strategic Planning • Change Leadership • Drive for Achievement Value Creation • Collaboration beyond • Integrity and Trust Boundaries • Expertise Application • HR and Organizational Development Reinforcement of human resources and organizational capabilities based on Santen’s Values and SLC Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 13 Topics Formulation of Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) June 2018 Santen is working to achieve its long-term strategic vision toward 2020 of becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” by building a path to sustained growth in 2020 and beyond, and contribute further to patient QOL around the world. Further Information P.10 Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) Expanding Availability of the Easy-to-Use Dimple Bottle July 2017 The Dimple Bottle, designed by Santen to ensure appropriate use of medications, is a container for dispensing medical eye drops that has been widely praised by patients for its ease of use. Launched in 2002, the bottle design won a Good Design Award in 2008. In July 2017, we commenced production at our Noto Plant of ophthalmology products transferred from Merck & Co., Inc., and began supplying these products for Japan in the Dimple Bottle. Going forward, we plan to expand product supply to EMEA and Asia. Expansion and Enhancement of World Glaucoma Week Activities March 2018 The World Glaucoma Association and the World Glaucoma Patients Association play leading roles in performing various activities around the world for one week in March designated as the World Glaucoma Week, aiming to spread public awareness of glaucoma. The Santen Group cosponsors worldwide activities for raising awareness of glaucoma. In 2018, Santen intensified these worldwide activities and undertook initiatives to spread awareness for glaucoma inside the company along with implementing next steps. • Japan: Glaucoma awareness program involving the “Light Up in Green” campaign held at 96 landmarks and suchlike around Japan and distribution of posters to pharmacists • Korea: Glaucoma awareness campaign utilizing posters for medical facilities and leaflets for patients • The Philippines: Support for in-hospital education on glaucoma by the glaucoma society at 15 “Light Up in Green” at Okayama Castle facilities • Thailand: Support for provisions of testing materials for the glaucoma society • Finland: Support for public education programs on glaucoma offered in Tampere Participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) October 2017 Santen intends to support and practice the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anticorruption, which are in line with Santen’s Values and Santen Code of Practice, in pursuit of a sustainable society. Further Information P.22 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 14 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Facts and Figures Revenue Composition by Category Number of Countries/Regions for Business Development Medical Devices Others Over-theCounter (OTC) 60 Pharmaceuticals Prescription Revenue Pharmaceuticals for Fiscal 2017 ¥224.9 Over billion Annual Production Volume of Customer Satisfaction Share in the Ophthalmic Solutions Percentage of ophthalmologists rating Santen Prescription Ophthalmic either first or second Pharmaceutical Market1 Approx. 400 (%) 100 Japan/Korea Japan China Korea #1 China million bottles Ophthalmic solutions packaged in single-dose disposable containers are aggregated by counting 10 single-dose containers as 1 bottle. All other ophthalmic solutions are counted based on the actual number of bottles. 0 Santen calculations based on external data #2 Collaborating with external institutions Exploring new technologies to achieve to accelerate business development and creation and innovation product development Masayo Takahashi, M.D., Ph.D. of RIKEN, a national research and development agency; Shigeo Taniuchi, President and COO 1. Source: Copyright © 2018 IQVIA. Santen analysis based on JPM, MIDAS 2017. Reprinted with permission. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 15 Facts and Figures Financial Data 9L]LU\L*VYL6WLYH[PUN7YVÄ[*VYL6WLYH[PUN7YVÄ[4HYNPUHUK6]LYZLHZ:HSLZ[V9L]LU\L (¥ Billion) (%) 237.0 Strong 224.9 performance across the board saw revenue rise 195.3 199.1 13.0% year on year to ¥224.9 billion, an all-time high. 161.8 31.9 29.5 27.4 27.0 24.2 22.1 Increases in 19.9 20.2 20.3 selling, general 22.9 and administrative, and R&D expenses were absorbed by the growth in 43.1 45.4 48.0 revenue, and 39.1 39.7 core operating profit hit an all-time high. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (forecast) (FY) Revenue *VYLVWLYH[PUNWYVÄ[ *VYLVWLYH[PUNWYVÄ[THYNPU Overseas sales to revenue Further Information P.44 Eleven-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data Core Basis Indicators :HU[LUKPZJSVZLZÄUHUJPHSPUMVYTH[PVUVUHJVYLIHZPZ[VIL[[LYL_WYLZZP[ZYLJ\YYPUNI\ZPULZZ performance. Financial information on a core basis excludes certain gains and expenses from IFRS results on a reported (full) basis. Non-Financial Data CO2 Emissions Waste Emissions and Recycling Resources (t-CO2) (t-CO2/billion yen) （t） 33,210 34,650 33,108 33,371 31,840 Santen reduced 3,213 3,219 3,274 2,910 Santen recycled the amount of 2,702 2,814 97% of waste CO2 emissions 2,630 emitted in fiscal 2,501 2,338 per unit of 2,142 2017. 223 revenue by 34% 214 compared to 163 166 fiscal 2013. 148 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) CO2 emissions (Japan) CO2 emissions (Overseas) CO2 emissions per unit of revenue Waste emissions Recycling resources Scope of aggregation: All operational bases in Japan, Tampere Plant, and Suzhou Plant Scope of aggregation: Shiga Product Supply Center, Noto Plant, Nara 9LZLHYJOHUK+L]LSVWTLU[*LU[LY:OPTVZOPUQV6MÄJL Tampere Plant, and Suzhou Plant 16 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 R&D Expenses and R&D Expenses to Revenue ROE (¥ Billion) (%) (%) 24.4 25.0 22.8 R&D expenses 22.6 1 Santen is increased in line working to 20.0 with steady maintain and 17.5 progress on the enhance ROE by development 13.0 optimizing capital pipeline. 10.3 efficiency. 11.4 12.0 10.8 10.2 10.8 10.5 8.4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (forecast) (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (forecast) (FY) R&D expenses R&D expenses to revenue 1. ROE increased due to the temporary gains associated with the transfer of Santen’s anti-rheumatic pharmaceutical business. Excluding this factor, core ROE was 12.4%. 2 EPS Dividend per Share3 and Dividend Payout Ratio (¥) (¥) (%) 128.99 49.1 EPS increased due 37.8 30.0 34.6 Santen has 4 to the temporary 19.4 positioned the gains associated with stable return of 86.73 the transfer of 25 26 26 26 profits to 75.21 Santen’s 22 shareholders as 58.18 52.96 anti-rheumatic a key pharmaceutical management business. Excluding priority. this factor, core EPS was ¥70.48. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (forecast) (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (forecast) (FY) 2. EPS is calculated under the assumption that the share split conducted on April 1, 2015 Dividend per share Dividend payout ratio [VVRLMMLJ[H[[OLILNPUUPUNVMÄZJHS +P]PKLUKWLYZOHYLOHZILLUYL[YVZWLJ[P]LS`HKQ\Z[LK[VYLÅLJ[[OLPTWHJ[VMHZOHYLZWSP[ conducted on the effective date of April 1, 2015. 4. The dividend payout ratio decreased due to the temporary drop in gains associated with the transfer of Santen’s anti-rheumatic pharmaceutical business. Excluding this factor, the core dividend payout ratio was 35.5%. Total Water Usage Number of Employees (thousand m3) (thousand m3/billion yen) 519 552 545 Santen reduced 3,667 3,805 The number of 516 489 water usage per 3,463 employees 3,230 unit of revenue 3,072 outside Japan by 27% has increased in 2.7 2.8 compared to line with the 3.3 3.2 2.4 fiscal 2013. development of the Asia and EMEA businesses. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Industrial water Tap water Well water Water usage per unit of revenue Japan Asia EMEA North America Scope of aggregation: Shiga Product Supply Center, Noto Plant, Nara 9LZLHYJOHUK+L]LSVWTLU[*LU[LY:OPTVZOPUQV6MÄJL Tampere Plant, and Suzhou Plant Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 17 Ophthalmic treatment around the world Overview of Ophthalmic Treatment around the World The number of patients around the world who suffer visual impairment is estimated at 253 million1 and the number of ophthalmic patients is expected to increase as populations age. As a specialized pharmaceutical company in the field of ophthalmology, Santen will contribute to ophthalmic treatment around the world. 1. Source: Lancet Glob Health. 2017 Sep; 5(9): e888–97. World Population Suffering from Visual Impairment 253 million people • Around 253 million people around the world are estimated to suffer from visual impairment, of whom approximately 36 million are estimated to be blind. • Visual impairment has various causes, but it is thought that over 75% of cases could be prevented if treatment were made available.1 • We consider one of our missions as a pharmaceutical company to be our efforts to provide treatments to patients in places that cannot receive adequate pharmaceuticals or medical care due to issues such as poverty and less developed medical systems. Further Information P.22 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) CSR Website http://www.santen.com/en/csr Average Annual Growth Rate of the Global Prescription Ophthalmic Pharmaceutical Market 6% (2013-2020) Global Prescription Ophthalmic Pharmaceutical Market2 ($ Billion) 30 15 0 2013 2016 2020 (CY) • The prescription ophthalmology segment is growing at a faster rate than the overall pharmaceutical market which has an annual average growth rate of 2%.3 • Due to a global population aging trend, the number of patients is expected to expand. • 81% of people with visual impairment are aged 50 or over.1 2. Source: Santen analysis 3. Source: 2018 and Beyond: Outlook and Turning Points. IQVIA, Mar. 2018 18 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Ophthalmic treatment around the world Global Prescription Ophthalmic Segments by Disorder (2016) Retinal Others Disorders 29% 33% Dry Eye Glaucoma 15% 23% Share by monetary value • Retinal disorders, glaucoma, and dry eye make up approximately 70% of the global ophthalmics market. • There are different healthcare systems and levels of care around the world. Further, the ophthalmic segments are broken down differently and each region has its own treatment issues. • Glaucoma, one of Santen’s focus areas, accounts for around 1/4 of the segment, with the number of patients projected to reach 90.6 million by 2020.4 4. Source: Market Scope, Santen analysis Various Ophthalmic Disorders and Santen’s Coverage Retinal Disorders Glaucoma Dry Eye Ocular Infections Allergy Cataract • There are various ophthalmic disorders, and Santen provides products to meet a wide range of needs as a specialized pharmaceutical company in the field of ophthalmology. • Different prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals are sold in each country and region. Santen has a particularly broad lineup in Japan with products numbering about 70. Further Information P.28 Research and Development P.32 Asia Business P.30 Japan Business P.33 EMEA Business Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 19 Ophthalmic treatment around the world Santen’s Initiatives to Meet Different Needs in Each Region and Country With different the prescription ophthalmology segment disorders, healthcare systems and levels of care around the world, the various markets differ from one another in terms of therapeutic needs. Santen responds carefully to the specific conditions in each region to contribute to ophthalmic patients globally. Further Information P.30 Japan Business P.32 Asia Business P.33 EMEA Business Italy China Dry Eye 2% Others Retinal 15% Ocular Disorders Others Infections Allergy 6% 28% 31% 29% Ocular Infections Allergy 3% Dry Eye 17% Glaucoma Glaucoma 7% 29% Retinal Disorders 17% Shares by monetary 16% value at all countries Italy has a high level of healthcare and represents a In China, the most populated country in the world, large market that is among the top 10 in the world ocular infections and dry eye are the largest and the top 5 in Europe in terms of value. Retinal segments. Santen’s core products in China are Cravit disorders and glaucoma represent the largest segfor ocular infections and Hyalein for dry eye. In China, ments, while dry eye is markedly smaller with no dry hospitals and clinics are classified by infrastructure, eye treatments provided insurance reimbursement. function and role they provide. Santen supplies Santen has made inroads, starting with the launch of products mainly to those with the highest grade of 3 ophthalmic products acquired from U.S.-based Merck as well as grade 2 facilities. In 2016, we established a & Co., Inc. in May 2014, and is marketing several joint venture in Chongqing with the goal of supplying products centered on glaucoma treatment. With prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals that fulfill sharp growth in sales, the Santen’s market share has standards for high quality at an appropriate price to increased to 6%. even more patients, including at community-based grade 1 facilities. Currently, we are constructing a plant capable of manufacturing products to the Santen’s high quality standards. Message Great expectations for Santen to meet the eye health needs of people worldwide Vision is our most precious sense. Age-related diseases of the eye are increasing exponentially around the world and, given a normal lifespan, will affect every person. The huge increase in people aged over 60 worldwide will present a huge challenge to healthcare services and our future quality of life. The demand for better, more efficient treatments will be the greatest issue facing ophthalmic healthcare in the next few decades. We hope that Santen continues to deliver and develop leading treatments in ophthalmology. This includes treatments for diseases which increase with age, like glaucoma, macular degeneration and ocular surface disease, and also those for disorders that are becoming increasingly common, like myopia. We are pleased that as a specialized company in ophthalmology, Santen is continuing to be very courageous and innovative in new areas, including novel devices which have the potential to change and improve Professor Sir Peng Tee Khaw, Ph.D. the lives of people around the world. FRCS FRCP FRCOphth FRCPath FRSB FCOptom Hon DSc FARVO FMedSci Director, UK National Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre Moorfields Eye Hospital and UCL Institute of Ophthalmology Research and Development Moorfields Eye Hospital Eyes and Vision Programme, UCL Partners Academic Health Science Centre 20 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Korea Japan Others Others 15% Ocular Infections 4% 16% Allergy 8% Dry Eye Glaucoma 40% Allergy 12% 32% Ocular Infections 9% Retinal Disorders 10% Retinal Dry Eye Disorders Glaucoma 13% 23% 18% Korea has a very similar ophthalmic treatment Among prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, glaucoma environment to Japan in terms of population aging treatments are the largest segment. Glaucoma is the leading and healthcare development. Santen is the unrivalled cause2 of vision loss in Japan, and one of the main issues leader in glaucoma with a share of approximately in treatment is the large number of patients who stop their 40% and has provided products to meet various treatment because their symptoms are not recognized. In 2017, patient needs. In the dry eye field, Santen has conthe Company started supplying packages to promote higher tributed to treatments for many people by developing treatment continuation rates by providing patients and their and launching products to meet local needs. In fiscal families with the necessary information that is helping promote 2017, we achieved a 24% year-on-year increase in treatment continuation. These were found to have a significant sales and grew to become the top ranking1 company impact at institutions where trials took place. Looking ahead, for market share and customer satisfaction among we will provide solutions that meet the needs of patients and Korea’s prescription ophthalmic providers. ophthalmology overall, including for prevention, diagnosis, 1. Santen calculations based on external data treatment and follow-up. The company has a 46% share of this prescription ophthalmic pharmaceutical market. 2. Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare 2017 Scientific Research Report Message Finding the path of innovation in a bright journey for patients Experiencing both rapid economic development and population aging, China is also a country with one of the most serious issues relating to blindness and visual impairment. Ophthalmologists have worked tremendously hard over the past decades to improve this situation. Gratifyingly, the development of ophthalmology in China has reached leading levels globally in many respects, including the production of cutting-edge research and academic publications, as well as an increased number of patients receiving treatment. Undoubtedly, these remarkable achievements are supported by many pharmaceutical companies including Santen in particular. Santen products offer excellent performance in many aspects. Although the incidence of infection has decreased in recent years, we still face huge challenges particularly in impoverished and remote areas, but increasingly wide use of Cravit and Tarivid is alleviating this issue. Meanwhile, Tapros Yao Ke, M.D. effectively reduces intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients. And, the symptoms of patients President of the Chinese Ophthalmological with dry eye are greatly eased after the use of Hyalein. To some degree, the contributions of these Society, outstanding pharmaceutical companies speed up the progress of ophthalmology in China. Going Professor and Chief of the Eye Institute of forward, I expect Santen to further strengthen its commitment to contributing to ophthalmology in Zhejiang University and Eye Center of the China, and we are all looking forward to building a prosperous blueprint for the future of ophthalSecond Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine mology together with Santen. Source: Copyright © 2018 IQVIA. Santen analysis based on JPM, MIDAS 2017. Reprinted with permission. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 21 CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Based on Santen’s Values, Santen’s CSR activities aim to improve the QOL for patients and contribute to ophthalmic treatment around the world. Contribute to the Achievement of a Sustainable Efforts to Achieve Sustainable Development Society through Business Activities Goals (SDGs) Since its founding in 1890, Santen has contributed to Santen will continue to contribute to society through its society through improving the QOL of patients around business of providing valuable products and services the world by conducting business activities which provide while striving as a specialized company in the field of valuable products and services as a specialized company ophthalmology to improve access to pharmaceuticals. We in the field of ophthalmology, based on Santen’s Values. will contribute to the achievement of the SDGs adopted In other words, social contribution through our business by the United Nations, such as Goal 3, to “Ensure healthy activities is at the center of our CSR efforts. lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.” To further enhance our CSR activities as the Santen Group, we believe that it is most important that all our employees, including those with a wide variety of diverse histories and cultural backgrounds, have a deep understanding of Santen’s Values and conduct business activities with the highest ethical standards in accordance with not only laws and regulations but also international norms. As the globalization of our business continues to accelerate, we will work to share Santen’s Values across the whole group and with our business partners toward realizing a sustainable society, ensure compliance, and seriously and continuously address issues such as global warming and human rights abuses. Participating in the United Nations Global Compact In October 2017, we announced that Santen had newly joined the UN Global Compact. Santen intends to support and practice the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Masamichi Sato in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and Senior Corporate Officer Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) anti-corruption, which are in Head of CSR & Internal Control Division line with Santen’s Values and the Santen Code of Practice, in pursuit of a sustainable society. 22 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 CSR at Santen Group • Guided by Santen’s Values – “Tenki ni sanyo suru”1, Santen Group strives to continue our contribution to society through improving QOL of patients around the world by conducting business activities which provide valuable CSR products and services. Basic Policy • In a highly ethical manner, we conduct business activities in compliance with applicable laws and international norms, and fulfill our social responsibilities, together with our business partners. 1. Santen’s original interpretation of a passage from chapter 22 of Zhongyong (The Doctrine of the Mean) by Confucius, meaning “exploring the secrets and mechanisms of nature in order to contribute to people’s health.” Conceptual diagram • Comply with laws, regulations, and fair business practices Fair Business applicable to the countries and territories where we conduct business activities, and work against corruption in all its forms. Fair • Respect and protect the human rights of all people, Business Human Rights including patients and employees. Labour, Labour, • Secure the rights and safety of people engaged in our Human Occupational Occupational business, promote their better health, and maintain and Rights Health & Safety Health & Safety improve their workplace environments. Santen’s Values • Work on preventing environmental pollution, reducing Contribute to the QOL of Environment environmental loads, and utilizing resources effectively. patients and consequently to society • Strive to protect and preserve the planet in a sustainable manner. • Act as a good corporate citizen to develop medical care Good Good Corporate and welfare in the ophthalmic field through our business, Environment Corporate and to build trust relationships with related communities Business Citizen Citizen and contribute to their development. Activities Stakeholder • Actively disclose information about our business activities and have meaningful dialogues, to understand the Stakeholder Engagement Engagement expectations of stakeholders and reflect them in our efforts. Further Information CSR Website http://www.santen.com/en/csr Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 23 CSR Activities Examples of Santen’s Unique Initiatives through Business Santen will continue to contribute to society by providing valuable products and services. R&D to Fulfill Unmet Medical Needs Stable Supply of Ophthalmic Solutions Santen will promote R&D focused mainly on keratoconjunctival disorders, which lack sufficient treatment Santen has established a global globally, as well as glaucoma, retinal and uveal disorsupply system comprising our four ders, which can cause blindness. We are also working production bases located worldwide: hard to develop new treatment options in the area of the Noto Plant (Japan), the Shiga refractive disorders. Plant (Japan), the Suzhou Plant (China), and the Tampere Plant Initiatives on Pharmaceuticals for (Finland), thereby stably supplying Orphan Diseases high quality ophthalmic solutions. In July 2018, we obtained marketing authorization Meticulous Attention to Quality from the European Commission for DE-076C (product name: Verkazia), an orphan medicinal product for Santen maintains safety, efficacy treatment of severe vernal keratoconjunctivitis. and homogeneity in the manufacturing process in our main area of New Treatment Options for Glaucoma ophthalmic solutions by insisting on water with high purity equivalent to Santen is working on the development of new treatthat used in injections, high purity ment options, such as pharmaceutical treatments for air equivalent to that used in surgical glaucoma with a new mechanism of action and devices environments, and the training and used in glaucoma implant surgery. development of people to conduct Further Information P.28 Research and Development our rigorous quality management. Research and Development Product Supply Quality Compliance Prevention of Medical Mistakes To prevent confusion between different ophthalmic solutions, Santen is working to make improvements including clearly identifiable packaging and information labels on containers. For example, for ophthalmic solutions available in various concentrations with the same active ingredients, we provide highly visible information about the concentration on the shrink label covering the solution container as well as on the top of the cap. Examples of labeling for ophthalmic solutions available in various concentrations with the same active ingredients (Side and top surface labels) 24 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 201 Production Site for Improving Raising Disease Awareness Access to Pharmaceuticals We will continue to broadly disseminate information aimed at raising disTo provide many more patients ease awareness and encouraging correct recognition and understanding in China with quality prescription of ophthalmic disorders. Through these efforts, we strive to increase QOL ophthalmic pharmaceuticals at for as many patients as possible with early identification and treatment. appropriate prices, in August 2016, Santen founded Chongqing Glaucoma Treatment Continuation Program Santen Kerui Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (China). This joint venture with To prevent blindness due to glaucoma, an almost symptomless disease Chongqing Kerui Pharmaceutical for which many patients discontinue their medical treatment, Santen (Group) Co., Ltd. is currently conprovides medical institutions with support packages that encourage structing a manufacturing plant. We patients to continue their medical treatment. The 11 sites that led aim to contribute to better access implementation of these packages in 2016 demonstrated an average to pharmaceuticals for patients who treatment compliance rates increase from approximately 50% to 90%. have been unable to obtain or afford such medicines. Support for Academic Associations and Joint Sponsorship of Seminars Santen supports academic associations in Japan and overseas, such as the World Ophthalmology Congress (WOC), the Asia-Pacific Academy of Ophthalmology (APAO), and the Japanese Ophthalmological Society, and hold joint seminars with those academic associations in which we provide medical professionals with information about the latest research and treatment trends in the field of ophthalmology. A drawing of the completed plant Further Information P.30 Japan Business P.32 Asia Business P.33 EMEA Business Sales and Marketing Measures against Counterfeit Medicines and Obtaining Information for Other Quality Compliance Measures Pharmacovigilance Santen is promoting measures to ensure traceability1 and Good Santen has established internal procedures to ensure Distribution Practice (GDP), aiming to guarantee reliability, such as that safety information such as side effects that has ensuring pharmaceutical product quality during storage and transporbeen obtained from external sources such as medical tation, managing products appropriately, and taking measures against professionals and patients is reported quickly and counterfeits. In Japan, by the end of March 2021 we will display accurately to the department in charge of safety barcodes on product boxes and transportation packaging indicating management, and shared with the relevant departments not only product codes, but also serial numbers and expiration dates. in Santen. We have also built a system for pharma1. Traceability: The ability to track and identify the distribution channels for covigilance globally to ensure safety and reliability. pharmaceutical products from manufacture to consumption. Further Information CSR Website http://www.santen.com/en/csr Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 25 CSR Activities Social Responsibility with a High Standard of Ethics Santen will carry out its social responsibilities together with suppliers, observing laws and regulations as well as international norms. social position, etc. We respect individual personalities Fair Business and do not engage in sexual, moral or any other kind of harassment in the workplace.” Initiatives to Prevent Corruption We have established a Research Ethics Committee to deliberate on our R&D activities and ensure they are The Santen Code of Practice, which sets out how individethically appropriate, including protection of participant ual employees are to conduct themselves clearly prohibits privacy, scientific validity and content appropriateness. The bribery and other such activities as follows: “We do not committee also ensures that participants’ human rights are engage in any conduct regarded as bribery or corruption, respected and protected. whether directly or through a third party, that would violate the applicable laws and regulations of the relevant country, including those applicable to other countries.” We conduct regular training to promote employee understanding about Labour, Occupational Health & Safety prevention of corruption in all its forms, including extortion, bribery, and conflict of interest. There were no incidences Promoting Diversity of corruption in the Santen Group in fiscal 2017. Santen is working to build an organization that enables emSupplier Management ployees with different professional and cultural backgrounds to maximize their abilities, regardless of change in life-stage, In addition to monitoring ourselves, we also require supgender, nationality or presence of disability, with full respect pliers to ensure they meet their social responsibilities such for the diverse values of our employees, and to develop as compliance with laws, ethical behavior, environmental human resources who are able to do this. We also provide preservation, and employee health and safety, and we our employees with equal opportunities for compensation check up on the status of their initiatives. In fiscal 2017, without discrimination. we found no issues after conducting checks of 20 major The ratio of women in the Santen Group is currently around suppliers including pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers 40%. The ratio of female managers in Japan was 10.0% as and outsourced manufacturers. of March 31, 2018, up 4.1 percentage points compared with five years ago. Number of Employees by Region Human Rights 4,000 North America 6% Initiatives on Respecting Human Rights Overseas Overseas 1,790 EMEA In accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human 1,125 17% Japan Rights, the ILO Conventions, the UN Guiding Principles on 2,000 53% Asia Business and Human Rights, other international norms, 24% and the spirit behind them, Santen believes in the imporJapan Japan tance of respecting the rights of each of its employees and 1,925 2,015 acting with the highest ethical standards, and is working Breakdown for Fiscal 2017 to strengthen awareness of these issues through training. 0 FY2012 FY2017 In October 2017, we joined the United Nations Global Compact and declared our commitment to support and respect for human rights protection, and commitment not Health and Safety Management to be complicit in any manner of human rights abuses. The Santen Code of Practice firmly declares, “We do We implement a health and safety management system not engage in discrimination against or harassment of aiming to achieve zero occupational accidents. In fiscal individuals based on their nationality, race, skin color, 2017, there were zero deaths from workplace accidents religion, creed, sexual orientation, age, education, family across all regions (including contract and temporary background, place of birth, disability, health problems, employees). 26 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 201 Environment Good Corporate Citizen Environmental Management Initiatives as a Good Corporate Citizen Santen has implemented an environmental management In addition to enhancing welfare and medical advancements systems aimed at realizing a low-carbon, recycling society in the ophthalmic field through our business, Santen is also and we are working to reduce our emissions of greenworking to build trust with the communities associated with the house gas (CO2) and waste, as well as our water usage ophthalmic field and contribute to development, in accordance and so forth. We also conduct regular internal audits. In with Santen’s Values. Rules set the target for the annual total fiscal 2017, the Group had no environmental accidents amount of donations at 1% or more of core operating profit, that impact the local community, soil, groundwater, or and the upper limit at about 2%. Along with providing grants other aspects. There was no deviation of laws, ordinances, to research institutions such as universities and academic etc. that required reporting to the authorities. associations, mainly in the field of ophthalmology, we also make ongoing donations to organizations involved in activities to raise Climate Change Countermeasures disease awareness and prevent loss of vision. The volume of greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions in fiscal Support for Improving Access to Healthcare in 2017 in terms of emissions per unit of revenue on a Developing Countries consolidated basis was 148 tons per billion yen, down 51% from fiscal 2012. Our Scope 31 emissions in Japan Santen supports the activities of the ICO Foundation2, for fiscal 2017 per unit of revenue on a non-consolidated which is working to solve a shortage of ophthalmologists basis were 948 tons per billion yen, down 3.7% from in developing countries where healthcare can be difficult to previous year. access. We also provide free pharmaceuticals, intraocular 1. CO2 emissions across the supply chain including factors such as purchase of raw lenses, and other supplies to organizations working to materials, product distribution, and employee transportation. promote ophthalmic treatment in developing countries. 2. International Council of Ophthalmology Foundation Reducing Our Environmental Impact Supporting Sports for the Visually Impaired Final waste disposal volume in fiscal 2017 per unit of revenue on a consolidated basis was 0.28 tons per billion Santen supports sports for people with visual impairment yen, down 63% from fiscal 2012. in order to increase understanding of ophthalmic disorders and to foster an awareness of patient perspectives Conservation of Water Resources and Biodiversity through employee volunteering and other means. In Japan, Santen has partnered with the NPO Japan Water usage in fiscal 2017 in terms of usage per unit of Blind Football Association in activities which allow revenue on a consolidated basis was 2.4 thousand m3 per visually-impaired children who have few opportunities billion yen, a decrease of 49% from fiscal 2012. We also to exercise to engage in sports, as well as supporting engaged in forest protection activities that help to preserve diversity education programs for elementary and junior biodiversity. high school students. Per Unit of Consolidated Revenue FY2012 FY2017 Rate of change CO2 emissions (ton/billion yen) 299 148 ‒51% Volume of waste for final disposal (ton/billion yen) 0.76 0.28 ‒63% Water usage 4.7 2.4 ‒49% (thousand m3/billion yen) Santen Blind Soccer Kids Camp 2017 in Kansai, Japan (July 2017) Further Information CSR Website http://www.santen.com/en/csr Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 27 R&D Research and Development Santen is pursuing development of products to satisfy unmet medical needs in ophthalmology worldwide. R&D Strategy As a pharmaceutical company specialized in ophthalgies mology, Santen wishes to preserve vision for patients by nolo De ch vic addressing unmet needs and by developing products that Te e have significant positive impact on the QOL of patients. By s Digit al focusing on the QOL of our patients we intend to address Glaucoma the needs of other important stakeholders such as, ophthalmologists, care givers and healthcare providers. Therefore our Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020) is focused Drug Delive arkers Keratoconjunctival Retinal and on enhancing our product pipeline and developing Disorders Uveal new treatment options. Alongside conventional drug Disorders development, we have started to tackle challenging new Biom technologies to optimize treatment outcomes using a ry Refractive is/ “Network Product Development1” approach. Good examDisorders Sy os ples of this include the creation of a new formulation in st gn partnership with Singapore Eye Research Institute (SERI), em s ia D DE-127 for myopia patients, and the development of DE128 (MicroShunt) for glaucoma patients. We feel products Pha rmaceuticals like these will address unmet needs on a worldwide basis. In order to improve the outcomes of clinical research and improve patient care we are conducting translational 1. An approach of proactive use of compounds and technologies from outside the company in product development research2 to identify biomarkers3 and eventually develop 2. Multi-disciplinary research that links basic research, clinical research, and diagnostics. In addition, we are working to create presermedical care and utilizes such findings for effective and efficient practical vative-free formulations of existing drugs while developing applications to contribute to healthcare advancement 3. Indicators that objectively measure and evaluate biometric information to drug-delivery systems4 and better containers as a way identify medical states including the onset or severity of disease of making these treatments more convenient and less 4. Formulation technologies engineered to deliver the right amount of drug to burdensome for our patients. the right target at the right time 28 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 201 2018 Pipeline of Prescription Pharmaceuticals (Clinical Development) Glaucoma Dev. Code/ Phase NDA Approved Generic Name Indication Original / Licensor Region Dev. Name 1 2 3 Filed U.S. Glaucoma Omidenepag Co-development DE-117 isopropyl Ocular with Ube Industries Japan November 2017 hypertension Asia U.S. Phase 2b Glaucoma DE-126 Sepetaprost Ocular ONO hypertension PHARMACEUTICAL Japan Phase 2b U.S. Phase 2/3 DE-128 ― Glaucoma Original MicroShunt Europe DE-130A Glaucoma Latanoprost Ocular Original Europe Catioprost hypertension Keratoconjunctival Disorders Merck Sharp & DE-089 Diquafosol sodium Dry eye Dohme Corp. China October 2017 (U.S.) Epinastine Allergic Nippon DE-114A hydrochloride conjunctivitis Boehringer Japan Ingelheim U.S. DE-076B Ciclosporin Severe keratitis Original Cyclokat with dry eye Asia Launched, December 2017 DE-076C Ciclosporin Vernal Original Europe July 2018 Verkazia keratoconjunctivitis Retinal and Uveal Disorders U.S. Japan DE-109 Sirolimus Uveitis Original Europe Asia April 2015 Wet age-related DE-122 Carotuximab macular TRACON U.S. Phase2a degeneration Refractive Disorders Singapore Health DE-127 Atropine sulfate Myopia Services, Nanyang Asia Technological University As of August 1, 2018 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 201 2018 29 Japan Business Business Strategy Japan Business Revenue Santen has developed its ophthalmic product franchise Fiscal 2017 in Japan for nearly 130 years, spanning the three fields of ¥158,653 million +9.1% prescription pharmaceuticals, OTC pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Today, we enjoy a dominant presence in the ophthalmic sector. Under the Medium-Term Plan (MTP2020), 158.7 161.3 we will further evolve our business strategy by taking full (¥ Billion) 150 advantage of the strengths of each of these three businesses. In doing so, we will promote the transformation of Santen into an ophthalmic “total solution” provider that develops new market segments and caters to such new needs. 75 Santen has firmly maintained the top share of the Japan prescription ophthalmic pharmaceutical market for over twenty years, gaining the top share in every major field for two consecutive years in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 20171. 0 Leveraging a strong customer focus and a competitive and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (forecast) expansive product lineup, we are focused on high-quality Prescription Pharmaceuticals Over-the-Counter Pharmaceuticals detailing activities that are tailored to the needs of medical Medical Devices Others professionals at clinical sites, coupled with activities to address relevant disease-related therapeutic issues. Business conditions in the pharmaceutical sector are Prescription Ophthalmic Pharmaceutical Market Scale/ becoming increasingly challenging amid a continuing debate Santen Product Market Share1 about reforms in the NHI drug price system. To achieve Market scale Market share steady sales growth, we are focusing on activities aimed at increasing market share, expanding the markets by Prescription Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Overall ¥363.3 billion 46.2% #1 existing products, and growing markets by creating new Treatments for Glaucoma ¥114.9 billion 31.2% #1 value. We are also trying to minimize the impact of NHI drug price revisions on our overall business by consistently Treatments for Keratoconjunctival Disorders ¥46.6 billion 62.2% #1 introducing new products to gain higher market penetration. Treatments for Retinal Disorders 2 ¥85.3 billion 71.8% #1 Our sales ratio of new products was 74.5% in fiscal 2017. Anti-Allergy Ophthalmics ¥42.9 million 47.9% #1 Going forward, besides providing information on individual Anti-Infective Ophthalmics ¥13.9 billion 40.0% #1 products, we aim to provide solutions to satisfy the needs of patients and medical professionals across the entire field 1. Source: Copyright © 2018 IQVIA. Santen analysis based on JPM 2016.4-2018.3. Reprinted with permission. of ophthalmic medicine, from prevention and diagnosis to 2. Including co-promoted product of Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd. (MAH) (Anti-VEGF Eylea) treatment and post-therapeutic follow-up. Initiatives to Support Treatment Compliance Rates for Glaucoma Patients Glaucoma is a disease that narrows the field of vision by causing damage Glaucoma Patient Compliance Rate to the optic nerve. The basis of treatment is the lowering of intraocular pressure to suppress optic nerve damage and further loss of vision. （%） After package 100 introduction Approx. Continuous treatment is necessary to maintain control over intraocular 90% pressure because the optic nerve cannot be restored to an earlier healthy state once it has suffered damage. Although glaucoma can cause Approx. blindness, there are few noticeable symptoms of the disease, leading many 50 Before package 50% patients to stop treatment. With improving treatment compliance becoming introduction a relevant issue, Santen has begun supplying in-house-developed glaucoma treatment program packages to medical clinics. The 11 sites that led implementation of these packages in 2016 demonstrated an average 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Number of treatment compliance rates increase from approximately 50% to 90%. consultations 30 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 201 2018 In the OTC pharmaceutical market, Santen is focused on Business Performance sales of mainstay products such as the Sante FX series Santen’s Japan prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals including Sante FX NEO which is Japan’s top-selling brand3 revenue increased 8.3% in fiscal 2017 to ¥140.4 billion. of ophthalmic solution by volume, and the Soft Santear Revenue from mainstay products by sector is shown in the series. Product development is focused on high-value, hightable below. end brands such as the Sante Medical series and the Sante OTC pharmaceuticals revenue increased 15.1% in fiscal Beautéye series. Aiming to win the support of consumers 2017 to ¥14.3 billion. In addition to capturing inbound as the #1 eye care company, Santen is also leveraging the demand from foreign tourists visiting Japan, this reflected specialist and technical expertise cultivated in prescription continued strong sales of high-end brands such as the ophthalmic medicines to meet new needs, including switchSante Beautéye series and the new Sante Medical series. OTC medicines4. A collaboration based on a popular anime series resulted In the medical device business, Santen has been developin a successful marketing campaign for the Sante FX ing its specialized intraocular lenses (IOLs) in the cataract series. surgery field. We have been selling the Eternity series of Revenue from medical devices increased 0.5% in fiscal foldable IOLs since 2008, which are made of a new glisten2017 to ¥2.5 billion, reflecting the efforts to strengthen the ing-free hydrophobic acrylic material. In addition to Eternity system of collaboration with our pharmaceutical business Natural, an IOL that should provide more natural visibility, to best respond to customer demand. and Eternity Natural Uni, a novel IOL with an original design, Santen started selling Eternity Natural Uni R from April Revenue Year on Year (¥ Billion) 2017, which features an upgraded lens design. Along with Tapros 9.6 +0.2% penetrating the market with the concept of high quality IOLs Treatments for with outstanding transparency in the Eternity series, Santen Cosopt 2.5 +9.9% Glaucoma is aiming to contribute further to the ophthalmic surgery field Tapcom 11.4 +0.3% by developing new products and strengthening its systems Treatments for Hyalein 10.8 –9.1% through tie-ups with our pharmaceutical business. Keratoconjunctival 3. Volume of shares in the Japanese OTC pharmaceutical market in fiscal 2017 Disorders Diquas 12.8 +16.4% Source: Statistics compiled by Santen 5 4. Prescription Pharmaceutical Products Converted to OTC Treatments for Retinal Disorders Eylea 51.5 +14.1% Anti-Allergy Ophthalmics Alesion 16.9 +37.7% (Reference) Revision of NHI Drug Prices Anti-Infective Ophthalmics Cravit 4.1 –11.9% 2018 Industry average –7.48% 5. Co-promoted product (Anti-VEGF Eylea) of Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd. (MAH) Ophthalmic drugs mid –5% Santen mid –4% Providing a New Solution Santen is actively developing new therapeutic solutions for the ophthalmic field, including supplements and switch-OTC pharmaceuticals. Santen’s range of supplements includes Sante Lutax, a product containing lutein launched in 2008, and Sante Glagenox, a product containing pine bark extract and bilberry extract that was launched in 2017. Sante Glagenox is only being made available to patients visiting a medical institution. Sante Lutax Sante Glagenox Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 201 2018 31 Asia Business level of our products and services to contribute to the developAsia Business Revenue ment of ophthalmic medicine for patients in Asia. Fiscal 2017 Accounting for approximately 60% of Santen’s sales in the ¥30,903 million region, China is a major driver of growth. We are working to +30.7% increase market share while further increasing revenue by raising customer satisfaction, strengthening the Santen brand, and reinforcing the established operating platform through expansion (¥ Billion) of hospital coverage. In other countries in Asia, we are striving 40 36.1 to grow faster than the market by investing resources in an 30.9 effective manner so that return on investment is maximized. Business Performance 20 Revenue from the Asia Business increased 30.7% to ¥30.9 billion in fiscal 2017. Sales continued to grow in China, driven mainly by the anti-infective agent Cravit and the dry eye treatment Hyalein. 0 Following the launch of the glaucoma and ocular hypertension 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) treatment Tapros in 2016, our activities continued to focus on (forecast) raising glaucoma-related knowledge among ophthalmologists through meetings with key opinion leaders and academic conferences. Business Strategy In Korea, our product lineup, which includes the glaucoma With nearly 60% of the world’s total population, the market for and ocular hypertension treatment Taflotan and the dry eye prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals in Asia is expected treatment Diquas, has been supplemented by glaucoma and to continue experiencing substantial growth, most notably in ocular hypertension treatments, Cospot etc, acquired from segments such as dry eye, glaucoma and retinal disorders. Merck & Co., Inc. We are working to expand our market There are many patients suffering from ocular infection as presence further. well, notably in emerging countries. In order to respond to the In the ASEAN region, we have already gained a high presence varied needs of customers across different countries, Santen is in Vietnam comparable to our presence in China and Korea. promoting a shift towards sales through our own representatives Elsewhere, our aim is to progressively introduce prescription in the localities. Furthermore, we are proactively undertaking pharmaceuticals for dry eye, glaucoma and other conditions initiatives to enter new markets. Going forward, we will capture in line with local market needs. In fiscal 2017, we launched 29 growth opportunities and develop our business in Asia by using products1 across the region, and we plan to introduce more strengths and insights we have cultivated in Japan and EMEA products going forward. (Europe, the Middle East, and Africa). We will also improve the 1. Total based on numbers of individual products launched in each country or region. Including OTC products in Taiwan. Expanded Hospitals Visits in China In China, Santen currently supplies ophthalmic prescription pharmaNumber of Hospital Visits (Grade 3 and 2 Hospitals), MRs ceuticals to medical institutions, mostly hospitals classified as grade 7,000 400 Number of MRs Number of hospitals visited 3 and 2. Utilizing in-house medical representatives (MRs) to provide high-quality product detailing, Santen has increased hospital visits 1.8-fold over five years, from 2013 to 2017. We also established a 3,500 200 joint venture in Chongqing in 2016 to facilitate the future supply of products to patients in medical institutions other than grade 3 and 2 hospitals. A production facility is also under construction. Based on good working partnerships with the Chinese Ophthal0 0 mological Society and the Chinese Ophthalmologist Association, we 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (CY) are also providing products and services to meet the varied local Number of MRs Number of hospitals visited needs across the country. 32 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 201 2018 EMEA Business is proceeding with initiatives such as sales of the first preservaEMEA Business Revenue tive-free products in that region. Going forward, we will make Fiscal 2017 steady progress in penetrating the market with a wide range of ¥35,015 million products that conform to local needs by taking advantage of +22.2% the business foundations we have built. Along with improving sales and profitability, we will accelerate initiatives that contribute to ophthalmic treatment in EMEA regions through activities (¥ Billion) 40 39.1 based on the highest quality medical information. 35.0 Furthermore, Europe has a strong influence on various global standards and regulatory policies within the pharmaceutical industry. Applying the experience and knowledge gained in EMEA to other regions such as Asia will translate into opportu20 nities for growth for the entire Santen Group. Business Performance Revenue from the EMEA Business increased 22.2% to ¥35.0 billion in fiscal 2017. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) We market several treatments for glaucoma and ocular (forecast) hypertension in the EMEA region, starting with the Cosopt acquired from Merck & Co., Inc. Taflotan/Saflutan, a key product driving our global business expansion, is available Business Strategy in approximately 40 countries in the region. After launching The Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) market for preTaptiqom as a combination ophthalmic solution in 2015, we are scription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals is the second largest after focused on increasing market penetration. As for ophthalmic the U.S., and continues to grow. The market is characterized by products acquired from Merck & Co., Inc, we have been able its diversity—each country in the region has a different health to increase sales due to activities that accommodate local insurance system and different medical treatment practices. needs, such as knowledge-sharing for necessary treatments in Santen is engaging in sales and marketing activities that ophthalmology. capture the specific characteristics of each country, in conjuncIkervis was launched in Germany, the U.K., and 27 countries tion with enhancing our organizational management systems in EMEA and Asia2 as a treatment for severe keratitis in adult for EMEA operations. At the same time, we are developing a patients with dry eye disease, which has not improved despite number of products that address local needs, primarily focused treatment with tear substitutes. We aim to launch the product on glaucoma and ocular hypertension. For instance, there is in other countries and penetrate those markets with Ikervis by great demand in Europe for glaucoma and ocular hypertension leveraging the know-how we have developed as a pioneer of treatments that do not contain preservatives, therefore Santen dry eye treatment in Japan. 2. As of end of June, 2018 Support for 36th World Ophthalmology Congress (WOC2018) Santen was a corporate Gold Sponsor of the 36th World Ophthalmology Congress (WOC2018) held in Barcelona in June 2018. Over 8,000 medical professionals in the ophthalmology field from more than 150 countries attended the event to share the latest knowledge and related technical information. Besides providing information on major products, the representatives at Santen’s corporate booth organized a campaign whereby Santen donated two euros to the OneDollarGlasses Project to provide glasses to people in developing countries for every message left by WOC attendees concerning their thoughts and aspirations for the future of ophthalmology. Santen also conducted three seminars at the joint symposium on the themes of dry eye and glaucoma, attracting a total of over 1,800 people. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 201 2018 33 Corporate Governance Santen will work to enhance and strengthen its corporate governance, and promote business activities based on Santen’s Values. issues, taking advantage of their wide range of experience Overview of the Corporate Governance System and knowledge. Santen also seeks their opinions from the perspective of strengthening management monitoring Basic Views on Corporate Governance function. Furthermore, Santen has taken specific steps such The Santen Group believes it is vital to upgrade and as establishing the Corporate Strategy Committee, the strengthen its corporate governance system in order to Nominating Committee and the Executive Compensation maximize corporate value, and thus returns to shareholdCommittee, which are all voluntary committees comprised ers. of Inside and Outside Directors, and introduced a Santen has adopted a “Company with Board of Corpocorporate officer system to strengthen management rate Auditors” system as defined in Japan’s Companies and improve the speed of business execution. Santen Act. Santen works to continuously to upgrade and will continue to improve management transparency and strengthen its corporate governance systems in place. objectivity. First, the function of the Board of Directors is to make Corporate Auditors audit the Board of Directors and decisions concerning the vital execution of the business operating divisions by collaborating with the Accounting as well as to monitor the execution of the business by the Auditors and the Internal Auditing Group and utilizing the Officers and Directors. Santen operates with focus on swift Corporate Auditor’s Group, bringing into view not only the and appropriate managerial decision-making. legality but also the appropriateness and effectiveness of Santen expects its Outside Directors to be actively inthe performance of their duties, and Santen endeavors to volved in Board of Director decision-making on managerial strengthen their function. Santen Internal Governance System (As of June 2018) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment / Removal Appointment / Removal Appointment / Removal Audit Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Accounting Auditors Judge Appropriateness of Accounting Audit Report (Cooperation) Recommendation Cooperation Corporate Strategy Committee1 Audit Appointment / Removal Accounting Audit Nominating Committee1 Supervision Executive Compensation Committee1 Representative Director, Chairman & CEO Representative Director, President & COO Internal Auditing Group CSR Committee Compliance Committee Internal Audit Risk Management Committee Divisions and Subsidiaries 1. These committees are voluntary and not part of the statutory “Company with a Nominating Committee, etc., System” under Japan’s Companies Act. 34 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Status of Management Supervision Structure Purpose of the Voluntary Committees Committee Purpose Santen has created structures that enable accurate decision-making and business execution in accordance Corporate • The Corporate Strategy Committee deliberates on key strategic issues such as with the issues facing management. Strategy business strategies. Committee Santen’s Board of Directors features well-balanced knowledge, experience and the ability to effectively fulfill its roles and responsibilities with a structure that satisfies Nominating • The Nominating Committee deliberates on the selection of candidates for Directors and both diversity and an appropriate number of members. Committee submits recommendations. Moreover, Santen has appointed Corporate Auditors • This committee also submits recommendations in response to consultations concerning the with the expertise necessary to properly perform audits, selection of candidates as Corporate Officers including finance and accounting issues. and Corporate Auditors. To promote meaningful discussions and important Executive • The Executive Compensation Committee agenda items resolutions at Board of Director Meetings, Compensation deliberates on the compensation of Directors and Corporate Officers and submits materials for the meetings and the relevant information are Committee recommendations to the Board of Directors. provided to the Outside Directors and Outside Corporate • This committee also submits recommendations to the Board of Corporate Auditors with Auditors in advance followed by sufficient explanations respect to the policy on determining the concerning the background, purpose and other agenda compensation of Corporate Auditors with reference to market levels. details of said meetings. Corporate Governance Meeting Composition (As of October 2018) Board of Board of Corporate Corporate Strategy Nominating Executive Compensation Position Name Directors Auditors Committee Committee Committee Akira Kurokawa ○ ○ ○ ○ Shigeo Taniuchi ○ ○ ○ ○ Takeshi Ito ○ ○ Directors Kanoko Oishi Outside Director ○ ○ ○ ○ Yutaro Shintaku Outside Director ○ ○ ○ ○ Kunihito Minakawa Outside Director ○ ○ ○ ○ Masashi Murata ○ ○ Outside Corporate Yutaka Mizuno Auditor ○ ○ Corporate Auditors Outside Corporate Seiichiro Adachi Auditor ○ ○ Outside Corporate Yasuyuki Miyasaka Auditor ○ ○ Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 35 Corporate Governance Reasons for Selecting the Current Corporate Ensuring Independence of Outside Directors Governance System and Outside Corporate Auditors Santen’s governance is based on the corporate orgaSanten has made a concerted effort to nominate Outside nizational form of a “Company with Board of Corporate Directors and Corporate Auditors, with Outside Directors Auditors” as defined in Japan’s Companies Act. This serving on its Board since June 2003. In a bid to strengthstructure enables the Company to have objective audits en and enhance management supervision functions, a by Corporate Auditors who are in independent positions number of highly independent Outside Directors and of the execution of the business by the Directors. Outside Corporate Auditors have been appointed. All of its Furthermore, to secure transparency, objectivity and Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors satisfy appropriateness of management, Santen believes that the requirements of independent officers as defined by the making the most of systems such as the voluntary Companies Act and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and are committees on business strategy, nomination of officers, registered with the Tokyo Stock Exchange. executive compensation, etc. will contribute to the For details about the criteria of independence, please refer to strengthening of the current corporate governance system. convocation notices on the Company’s website. As a material management matter, Santen commits to http://www.santen.com continuously review the improvement and strengthening of the said system. Composition of Directors and Attendance of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors (from April 2017 to March 2018) Corporate Auditors Independent Attendance at Board of Attendance at Board of Corporate Position Name Officers Directors Meetings Auditors Meetings Kanoko Oishi 3 Directors 3 ○ Attended 10 out of 11 meetings ― inside outside Outside Attended 9 out of 9 meetings Directors Yutaro Shintaku ○ (Appointed June 2017) ― ― Kunihito Minakawa ○ ― (Appointed June 2018) Yutaka Mizuno Attended 11 out of 11 meetings Attended 10 out of 10 meetings 1 3 ○ Corporate Outside inside Auditors outside Corporate Seiichiro Adachi ○ Attended 11 out of 11 meetings Attended 10 out of 10 meetings Auditors ― ― Yasuyuki Miyasaka ○ (Appointed June 2018) (Appointed June 2018) For details, please refer to the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance and the Corporate Governance Report on the Company’s website. http://www.santen.com Santen Awarded Corporate Governance of the Year 2017 In February 2018, Santen was selected as a winning company in the 2017 Corporate Governance of the Year Award held by the Japan Association of Corporate Directors (JACD). The Corporate Governance of the Year Award is granted to encourage companies which have achieved sound growth over the medium to long term by implementing good corporate governance. Santen was one of four companies to receive the award from among a total of 356 companies who had three or more outside directors between 2015 and 2017. At the award ceremony held in Tokyo on February 19, 2018, Screening Committee member Dr. Kunio Ito (Adjunct Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Hitotsubashi University) praised Santen’s array of initiatives related to corporate governance as well as Santen’s proactive use of outside directors. Going forward, Santen will continue to strive to enhance its corporate governance. Award ceremony 36 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 ■ Director Compensation and Calculation Methodology Director and Corporate Auditor Compensation 1. Director compensation (excluding Outside Directors) consists of basic compensation, an annual bonus and stock-linked Santen has established an Executive Compensation remuneration (PSU and RS). Committee as a voluntary committee including Outside 2. Basic compensation is decided according to rank and based on Directors to determine the compensation of Directors, job evaluations. 3. Annual bonuses are determined according to company Corporate Auditors, and Corporate Officers. At the Annual performance and individual performance. General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2018, 4. PSU awarded to Directors (excluding Outside Directors) is it was resolved that Santen will introduce a “Performance decided depending on the degree of achievement of previouslyShare Unit system (PSU)” (a performance-linked stock established performance targets within a performance period, remuneration system), a type of compensation that is with rank-based basic remuneration. 5. RS are awarded to Directors (excluding Outside Directors) and linked to the achievement rate of numerical targets or the determined based on the amount of rank-based compensation. like during a certain performance evaluation period, as 6. Outside Director compensation is decided with consideration well as a “Restricted Stock-Linked Remuneration system given to prevailing market standards. (RS),” stock-linked compensation with a transfer restriction that is lifted by satisfying conditions such as holding the ■ Corporate Auditor Compensation and Calculation Methodology target Director position continuously for a certain period. The purpose of introducing these compensation systems 1. Corporate Auditor (excluding Outside Corporate Auditors) was to encourage Directors of Santen, excluding Outside compensation is decided based on discussions among the Corporate Auditors while referring to market standards based on Directors, to proactively engage in achieving Santen’s advice received from the Executive Compensation Committee. vision and strategy, and to promote the further sharing of However, compensation established on an individual basis or a value with shareholders from the perspective of enhancing change in compensation due to performance evaluations will not the stock-linked remuneration program’s functions and be conducted in accordance with the principles of the statutory effectiveness by further clarifying the message conveyed auditor system. 2. Outside Corporate Auditor compensation is decided based on by the program so that it contributes to Santen’s continudiscussions among the Corporate Auditors while referring to ous growth and the improvement of corporate value on a market standards based on advice received from the Executive mediumto long-term basis. Compensation Committee. Director and Corporate Auditor Compensation Total Compensation by Category (Millions of yen) Total Compensation Number of Position Basic Compensation Stock Compensation(Millions of yen) Retirement Benefits Eligible People (Annual) Type Stock Options Directors (Excluding Outside Directors) 226 116 110 ̶ 5 Corporate Auditors (Excluding 24 24 ̶ ̶ 1 Outside Corporate Auditors) Outside Directors 40 40 ̶ ̶ 4 Outside Corporate Auditors 29 29 ̶ ̶ 3 Note: This content represents the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. The number of Directors and Corporate Auditors shown include two Directors whose terms of office have ended since the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 23, 2017, and one Director who resigned during his term of office. Moreover, the stock compensation-type stock options have been abolished due to the introduction of PSU and RS stock-linked compensation that was decided the General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2018. Limits to Director Compensation Basic Compensation (Annual) ¥600 million (maximum amount set by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2018) The total amount of monetary remuneration to be paid during the Performance Evaluation Period shall be 100 million yen Directors per year, multiplied by the number of years of each Performance Evaluation Period; and the total amount of Cash for Tax (Excluding Outside PSU (Annual) Payment Purposes to be paid during the Performance Evaluation Period shall be 100 thousand shares per year multiplied Directors) by the number of years of each Performance Evaluation Period, which will then be multiplied by the share price at the time of issuance (maximum amount set by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2018). RS (Annual) ¥100 million (maximum amount set by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2018) Outside Directors Basic Compensation (Annual) ¥60 million (maximum amount set by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2018) Corporate Auditors Basic Compensation (Annual) ¥80 million (maximum amount set by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 27, 2006) Annual Medium and Breakdown of Director Compensation Fixed compensation incentives long-term incentives Director compensation (excluding Outside Directors) consists of a fixed basic compensation, Basic compensation Annual an annual bonus tied to company performance and individual evaluation, and PSU and RS. 50th percentile of all industry (median) bonus PSU and RS Assuming basic compensation is 1, annual bonuses and PSU and RS are typically 0.25 and 0.5, respectively, of the amount. 1 0.25 0.5 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 37 Corporate Governance Analysis and Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Addressing the Corporate Governance Code For the purpose of further improving the roles and Santen implements all of the principles of the Corporate functions of the Board of Directors, Santen assesses the Governance Code of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In overall effectiveness of the Board of Directors based on November 2015, Santen stated the Basic Policy on Corthe results of evaluation surveys and individual interviews porate Governance based on the five General Principles of of all of Santen’s Directors and Corporate Auditors, and the Corporate Governance Code (Ensuring the Right and any issues are resolved through discussions and other Equality of Shareholders, Cooperation with Stakeholders measures at Board of Directors meetings. Other Than Shareholders, Ensuring Appropriate Disclosure For fiscal 2016, two policies for improvement were of Information and Transparency, Responsibilities of the adopted based on the analysis. For the policy of “continBoard of Directors, etc., Dialogue with Shareholders and uous monitoring of material matters that are decided at Other Persons), and discloses the policy on its corporate meetings of the Board of Directors,” the Board of Directors website. has made improvements by regularly making progress summaries at Board of Directors meetings and identifying issues. For the policy of “further strengthening discussions Internal Control System from the viewpoint of risk management,” the Board of Directors has been holding discussions after clarifying the Development of the Internal Control System risks associated with important matters. The analysis of fiscal 2017, concluded that the Board of In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the Directors is generally functioning effectively. Also, similar Ordinance of Enforcement of the Companies Act, Santen to the previous year, the Board of Directors was found to has passed a resolution regarding the development of a have a culture of incorporating the opinions of Outside system to ensure appropriate operations (Basic Policy on Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors, and is engaging Internal Control). The operating divisions regularly report in free and open discussions. Meanwhile, as areas that on the status of the development and implementation of could be improved, the Board of Directors will enhance the system to the Board of Directors, while the Board of discussions from the perspective of risk management, recDirectors gives instructions and makes course corrections ognizing the importance of initiatives aimed at bolstering as necessary, in order to qualitatively enhance the develgovernance functions and further enhancing discussions opment and implementation of the internal control system about strategy in light of the changes in the business and expand its scope. environment and Santen’s global business expansion. In For details, please refer to the Basic Policy on Corporate addition, the following were decided as initiatives: Governance and the Corporate Governance Report on the •With the aim of further enhancing the quality of decision Company’s website. making in strategic matters and further strengthening its http://www.santen.com governance, Santen will endeavor to enhance the quality of discussions •In the midst of the global expansion of Santen’s business, lead to strengthening of Santen’s governance through further understanding and embodying Santen’s Values and its Code of Practice based on specific case studies Going forward, Santen will continue to work to improve the functions of the Board of Directors. 38 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Example of Compliance Consulting & Reporting Desk in Japan Compliance Compliance Committee Employees Supervisor/Manager In October 2016, Santen appointed a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and set up a Compliance Committee to Compliance Committee establish a system for promoting globalization-compatible member compliance activities. Since then, Santen has worked to Consulting/Reporting Internal consulting improve compliance as a group by holding debates and desk making decisions on a number of matters at the Meeting of the Global Compliance Committee and the Global External expert Meeting of Compliance Administrators. These include compliance with regional laws for the protection of personal information and corruption prevention that Santen Group should address as a whole, as well as partnerships through compliance divisions in each region through lecture invitations for cross-border medical personnel and hosting academic events. Information Disclosure Compliance Consulting & Reporting Desk Ensuring Proactive Information Disclosure and Transparency Santen strives to ensure compliance, formulating as the concrete code of conduct in our business activities, the The Santen Group discloses information as required by Santen Code of Practice, which provides for desirable law and regulations, and also makes concerted efforts ways of action for Santen workers, not to mention complito fairly disclose accurate information that is easy to ance with laws and regulations. understand and not required by law from the standpoint of Santen has made it easier for all employees to consult ensuring transparency and fairness in its decision-making and report on suspicious actions and questions related process as well as effective corporate governance to compliance by establishing in-house consulting and Santen aggressively discloses information to sharereporting desks that respond in various languages in holders and investors based on its Disclosure Policy. its operating countries and regional bases. Additionally, The Company has also created rules for transparency Santen has established external helplines that receive in relationships with medical institutions, and rules for reports anonymously in nearly all of the countries where transparency in relationships with patient organizations. it conducts business with the cooperation of external Information about the provision of funding to medical third-parties, such as lawyers. Incoming consultations and institutions and relationships with patient groups is broadly reports are appropriately investigated and addressed in a disseminated through its website. sincere manner, and reports are relayed to the Board of For details, please refer to the Disclosure Directors regularly. Santen also has a system in place that Policy on the Company’s website. reports directly to the CCO. http://www.santen.com Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 39 Corporate Governance in place with designated executives to check the status Risk Management of these risk management efforts from a Company-wide viewpoint, while the Internal Auditing Group examines Risk Management Promotion Framework them from an independent standpoint. Santen has also stipulated rules for officers and employees to report if Santen has built a system for responding appropriately to there is a possibility that an incident could become a major major risks that occur or could occur in its global business crisis and established crisis report regulations with the activities, in accordance with its risk management rules. objective of enabling a rapid response to such issues. Santen has established a Risk Management Committee as a system to manage risks in normal circumstances. The Committee cooperates with operating divisions Risk Assessment and headquarters to avoid or minimize risk by gathering information and preparing risk management policies and Santen conducts risk assessments every two years to countermeasures for their operations. Furthermore, the comprehensively ascertain risks facing the company as Risk Evaluation Committee discusses risk management a whole, while also working to develop an appropriate policies and countermeasures for when a risk incident risk management system in line with advances in the occurs. Depending on the degree of impact on the comglobalization of its businesses. The assessment conducted pany, an incident may trigger the operation of the Crisis in fiscal 2017 confirmed that business divisions were Response Committee headed by a representative director. progressing with responses to risks evaluated as important Based on Santen’s risk management rules, the committee in the previous assessment, no unexpected major risks coordinates efforts to minimize any losses or damages were identified, and Santen’s risk management was largely and ensure a quick recovery, and institutes measures to satisfactory. prevent a recurrence. Santen has a permanent secretariat Key Risks and Status of Response Matters assessed Specific anticipated risks Status of response Global • Risk of decline in In conjunction with the progress on the globalization of business activities, we are working on a global level to Compliance compliance awareness enhance develop and administer internal controls, strengthen compliance, and develop a risk management promotion due to an inadequate framework in each country. global compliance Please refer to Page 26 for details on initiatives to prevent corruption, Page 38 for details on internal controls, Page framework 39 for details on compliance, and Page 40 for details on risk management. Production/ • Risk of stagnation in Having a stable supply of products is one of the missions that pharmaceutical companies should fulfill for patients. Supply related global production and Santen has positioned strengthening the global product supply framework as one of its important strategies, and supply the Company is working to expand the countries it provides products to and construct a framework to respond • Risk of delayed to a future increase in various products aside from ophthalmic solutions. In addition to establishing processes and deliveries due to an increasingly complex systems to ensure a stable supply, Santen is continuously assessing the current state of affairs and addressing supply chain and issues through initiatives such as monitoring planning and execution, and evaluating risks. inaccurate demand Recently, Santen has also been undertaking initiatives for the manufacturing and supply of quality products that forecasts make it easier to respond to strict regulations related to logistics in Europe, as well as visualizing and centrally managing inventory management, including production plans. Research and • Risk of decline in Santen is committed to carrying out appropriate R&D, and to ensuring the reliability of R&D data. The Company Development reliability of R&Dalso addresses the risks of data manipulation or fabrication, as well as the concealment of facts. related data Along with establishing an implementation process and procedure manual for R&D, we are continually providing related training and education to improve the reliability of R&D data to employees involved in R&D. Another division specializing in guaranteeing reliability also conducts quality checks of R&D data. In addition, the Research Ethics Committee, which includes outside medical experts and lawyers, checks the appropriateness of research from the ethical perspective. We also thoroughly inform employees about the obligation to report safety information, and we have put in place a system to gather such information. When selecting contract research organizations (CRO) and other vendors, we choose organizations that satisfy certain criteria, and make sure that vendors comply with the processes and procedures set forth by Santen. Information • Risk of information In recent years there has been an increase in cyberattacks and other information security threats. We are working Security related leaks and/or system to protect personal information and other information and to strengthen our system to ensure that the systems stoppage due to a remain in operation. cyberattack, etc. As an information management framework, Santen conducts both technological and physical protection as well as training, based on internal rules for information security and document management. We have formulated a roadmap for countermeasures based on information security risk analysis that also includes threats other than IT related threats, and each year we review the status of achieving those countermeasures and make necessary revisions. In addition to continuously incorporating the latest security technologies and trends, we regularly conduct vulnerability audits in order to grasp the current situation and promote countermeasures. We have put in place procedures and a BCP to make the IT system more robust, and minimize impacts in the case of an emergency. 40 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Messages from Outside Director and Outside Corporate Auditor Message Achieving Sustainable Value Creation Kunihito Minakawa Yasuyuki Miyasaka Outside Director Outside Corporate Auditor Eye on Growth Change at a Venerable Company and for 2020 and Beyond Corporate Governance In line with its long-term strategic vision toward 2020 of Specializing in the field of ophthalmology, Santen can becoming a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with be simultaneously thought of as both an “old” and a a Global Presence,” Santen has achieved strong growth “new” company. While its history dates back nearly 130 in excess of initial targets over the past seven years. years, Santen has always pursued change with the aim Leveraging its strengths as an ophthalmology-specialized of optimizing corporate management. Since its founding, company since its founding, Santen has expanded operaSanten’s values have been embodied in the phrase “Tenki tions overseas, mainly in Asia and EMEA, and its efforts at ni sanyo suru,” which means “exploring the secrets and globalization have resulted in noteworthy outcomes. mechanisms of nature in order to contribute to people’s Under globalization, Santen has become an organization health.” In line with these values, the Company has stayed that brings together employees from diverse backgrounds, in touch with the needs of its global customers in the field of with different national identities and values. As a more ophthalmology, promoted globalization including M&A, and global organization, it can be a challenge to determine the strengthened corporate governance from an early stage. best means to achieve our targets. In my opinion, overRecently, I had an opportunity to visit the Noto Plant coming this challenge will become even more important to and the Shiga Product Supply Center. I thought that the Company’s management from now on. the employees there embodied the principle of thinking A number of issues will need to be addressed for the carefully about what is essential and then acting quickly, Company to continue raising corporate value sustainably giving me the impression that Santen’s Values had been from 2020 onward. I believe solving these issues one by instilled in each and every employee. one and steadily producing results will be of the utmost Proper corporate governance is critical in supporting importance. From the standpoint of an independent business expansion and globalization. I intend to Outside Director, I will work together with Santen to contribute to the advancement of Santen as an Outside address these issues within the context of accurate deciCorporate Auditor by performing my duties from multi-facsion-making and appropriate management supervision. eted and multi-dimensional perspectives so that Santen’s global corporate governance structure functions most effectively in Japan and at overseas sites. Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 41 Board of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Corporate Officers As of October 2018 (Front row, from left) Yutaro Shintaku, Shigeo Taniuchi, Akira Kurokawa, Takeshi Ito, Kanoko Oishi, Kunihito Minakawa (Back row, from left) Seiichiro Adachi, Masashi Murata, Yutaka Mizuno, Yasuyuki Miyasaka (Front row, from left) Akio Kimura, Atsutoshi Ota, Masamichi Sato, Naveed Shams, Kazuo Koshiji, Satoshi Suzuki (Back row, from left) Kenji Morishima, Noriaki Yamamoto, Takahiro Morita (Upper left) Frank Binder, Luis Iglesias, Ken Araki 42 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Directors Akira Kurokawa Shigeo Taniuchi Takeshi Ito Chairman and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Operating Officer Director, Executive Corporate Officer 1977 Joined the Company Head of Asia Division Japan Business, Head of Japan Sales and 1997 Director, General Manager, Head of the President & CEO of Santen Inc. Marketing, Prescription Pharmaceuticals Office of Sales and Marketing Division, 1996 Joined the Company 1982 Joined the Company Prescription Pharmaceuticals 2015 Corporate Officer, Head of Santen Europe 2012 Corporate Officer, Head of Prescription 2001 Corporate Officer, Head of Sales and (currently EMEA), and President of Santen Pharmaceuticals Sales Department, Sales Marketing Division, Prescription Holdings EU B.V. and Marketing Division, Prescription Pharmaceuticals 2016 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Santen Pharmaceuticals 2004 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Sales Europe (currently EMEA), and President of 2014 Senior Corporate Officer, Head of Japan and Marketing Division, Prescription Santen Holdings EU B.V. Sales and Marketing, Prescription Pharmaceuticals 2017 Director, Senior Corporate Officer Pharmaceuticals 2006 President & COO Head of Santen EMEA, President of 2016 Executive Corporate Officer, Japan 2008 President & CEO Santen Holdings EU B.V. Business, Head of Japan Sales and 2018 Chairman & CEO (incumbent) 2018 President & COO Marketing, Prescription Pharmaceuticals Head of Asia Division, President & CEO of 2017 Director, Executive Corporate Officer Santen Inc. (incumbent) Japan Business, Head of Japan Sales and Marketing, Prescription Pharmaceuticals (incumbent) Kanoko Oishi Yutaro Shintaku Kunihito Minakawa Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director 1993 Partner, McKinsey & Company, Inc. 2010 Representative Director, President 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, 2000 Established Mediva, Inc. and CEO, Terumo Corporation Ricoh Company, Ltd. Chief Executive Officer (incumbent) 2017 Outside Director, J-OIL MILLS, Inc. (incumbent) 2017 Outside Director, Sony Corporation 2004 Established Platanus Medical Corporation, COO 2017 Outside Director of the Company (incumbent) (incumbent) (incumbent) 2017 Corporate Advisor, Terumo Corporation (incumbent) 2018 Outside Director of the Company 2015 Outside Director of the Company (incumbent) 2018 Outside Director, Kubota Corporation (incumbent) (incumbent) 2015 External Board Member, Ezaki Glico Co., Ltd. 2018 Visiting Professor, Business Administration, (incumbent) Hitotsubashi University Business School (incumbent) 2016 External Director, Shiseido Company, Limited (incumbent) Corporate Auditors Masashi Murata Yutaka Mizuno Seiichiro Adachi Yasuyuki Miyasaka Standing Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor Outside Corporate Auditor 1999 Joined the Company 2004 Executive Officer, Matsushita 2008 Managing Director, 2010 Director of Risk Management and 2007 General Manager, Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. Toyota Tsusho Corporation Quality Assurance Office of IFRS, Corporate Planning Group (currently, Panasonic 2010 President, NV Toyota Tsusho Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC) 2011 Chief Administrative Office Corporation) Europe SA 2017 Established Yasuyuki Miyasaka Certified (CAO), Santen Inc. 2011 Outside Corporate Auditor of 2013 Full-time Audit & Supervisory Public Accountant Office and assumed 2014 General Manager, Corporate the Company (incumbent) Board Member, Toyota Tsusho the Head thereof (incumbent) Auditor’s Group Corporation 2018 Outside Director, ITOCHU-SHOKUHIN 2016 Standing Corporate Auditor 2015 Advisor, Toyota Tsusho Corporation Co., Ltd. (incumbent) (incumbent) 2015 Outside Corporate Auditor of 2018 Outside Corporate Auditor of the the Company (incumbent) Company (incumbent) 2016 Professor, Yokohama College of Commerce (incumbent) Corporate Officers (Not including directors who also serve as corporate officers) Masamichi Sato Naveed Shams, M.D., Ph.D. Atsutoshi Ota Kazuo Koshiji Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Chief Scientific Officer (CSO) Head of Human Resources Corporate Administration Head of CSR & Internal Control Division Head of Global Research and Development Development Division Chief Financial Officer (CFO) CEO of Santen Business Service Co., Ltd. Head of Finance and Administration Division Akio Kimura Satoshi Suzuki Kenji Morishima Noriaki Yamamoto Senior Corporate Officer Senior Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Global Product Supply Head of Corporate Development Division Head of Pharmaceutical Chief Information Officer (CIO) Head of Manufacturing Division General Manager Technology Development Head of Information Santen Pharmaceutical (China) Co., Ltd. Systems Division Takahiro Morita Frank Binder Luis Iglesias Ken Araki Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Head of Japan Prescription Head of Supply Chain Division Head of Santen EMEA Head of Global Business Development Pharmaceuticals Sales Department Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 43 Eleven-year Summary of Selected Financial Data Millions of yen FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 JGAAP JGAAP JGAAP JGAAP For the year: Net sales/Revenue ¥103,394 ¥101,619 ¥110,594 ¥110,812 Cost of sales 36,513 35,947 34,710 34,437 Selling, general and administrative expenses2 33,569 31,720 32,121 32,415 Research and development expenses 12,942 18,458 14,123 13,221 Operating proﬁt 20,371 15,494 29,640 30,739 Core operating proﬁt — — — — Income taxes/Income tax expenses 7,832 5,701 9,887 9,741 Net income/Net proﬁt for the year 12,651 10,123 18,723 21,333 Core net proﬁt for the year — — — — Capital expenditures/Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 3,151 2,953 1,315 1,651 Depreciation and amortization 4,593 4,210 3,421 2,976 At year-end: Total assets ¥156,547 ¥151,012 ¥166,878 ¥184,801 Net assets/Total equity 127,118 125,369 137,603 156,404 Liabilities 29,429 25,643 29,275 28,397 Per share data (yen and U.S. dollars): EPS (Net income basic/Basic earnings)3 ¥ 146.15 ¥ 119.08 ¥ 220.10 ¥ 249.71 Core EPS 3 — — — — Equity/Equity attributable to owners of the company3,4 1,494.48 1,472.32 1,614.08 1,793.15 Cash dividends, applicable to the period3 16.00 16.00 16.00 18.00 Cash ﬂows: Net cash ﬂows from (used in) operating activities ¥ 15,468 ¥ 11,849 ¥ 26,110 ¥ 17,768 Net cash ﬂows from (used in) investing activities (2,083) (5,619) (829) (7,676) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) ﬁnancing activities (11,415) (11,373) (6,753) (1,570) Free cash ﬂow5 12,317 8,896 24,795 16,117 Interest coverage ratio (times) 163.6 165.5 558.1 488.5 Financial data: ROE (Return (Net income) on equity/Return (Net proﬁt for the year) on equity attributable to owners of the company) (%)4 9.9 8.0 14.3 14.5 Core ROE (%) — — — — ROA (Return (Net income/Net proﬁt for the year) on total assets) (%) 8.0 6.6 11.8 12.1 Equity ratio/Equity attributable to owners of the company ratio (%)4 81.1 82.9 82.3 84.5 Debt equity ratio (Interest-bearing debt to equity ratio/Interest-bearing debt to equity attributable to owners of the company ratio) (times)4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 PER (Price earnings ratio) (times) 15.9 23.0 12.7 13.3 Dividend payout ratio (%) 54.7 67.2 36.3 36.0 Issued shares (thousands) 86,867 86,916 86,992 87,053 Number of employees 2,483 2,690 2,756 2,867 1. U.S. dollar amounts have been translated from yen, solely for the convenience of the reader, at the rate of ¥106.24 to U.S.$1.00, the exchange rate prevailing on March 30, 2018. (This date was selected because March 31, 2018 was a non-business day for ﬁnancial institutions.) 2. Research and development expenses are excluded under J-GAAP. 3. The Company conducted a ﬁve-for-one share split of ordinary shares on the effective date of April 1, 2015. Per share data other than cash dividends, applicable to the period for ﬁscal 2013 and the subsequent ﬁscal years are calculated under the assumption that the share split took effect at the beginning of ﬁscal 2013. Cash dividends, applicable to the period have been retrospectively adjusted to reﬂect the impact of the share split. 4. Equity is calculated by deducting stock subscription rights from net assets under J-GAAP. 5. Free cash ﬂow = Net cash ﬂows from operating activities minus Capital payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 44 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Thousands of U.S. dollars1 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 JGAAP JGAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS ¥114,416 ¥119,066 ¥146,260 ¥161,831 ¥195,291 ¥199,096 ¥224,942 $2,117,301 35,385 41,501 57,353 56,373 72,829 74,966 86,378 813,046 35,073 36,164 41,642 48,893 59,406 62,193 68,788 647,474 17,225 16,720 16,862 17,477 19,990 22,786 24,398 229,649 26,732 24,681 29,878 35,374 80,180 32,479 38,691 364,189 — — 30,403 39,088 43,067 39,687 45,378 427,131 10,630 9,071 10,643 11,831 26,097 8,331 4,000 37,649 17,161 16,521 19,718 24,032 53,373 21,724 35,261 331,900 — — 19,813 25,948 29,163 29,125 33,458 314,933 3,281 3,609 5,879 66,440 9,092 9,500 9,937 93,534 2,949 3,291 2,841 6,958 9,338 9,882 10,896 102,556 ¥198,801 ¥199,641 ¥237,640 ¥304,200 ¥355,399 ¥358,906 ¥388,463 $3,656,462 164,861 165,132 187,210 211,779 260,009 255,929 287,557 2,706,678 33,940 34,509 50,430 92,421 95,391 102,977 100,905 949,784 ¥ 196.96 ¥ 195.81 ¥ 47.78 ¥ 58.18 ¥ 128.99 ¥ 52.96 ¥ 86.73 $ 0.82 — — 48.01 62.82 70.48 70.99 82.29 0.77 1,887.81 1,998.44 452.43 511.14 627.78 628.09 702.54 6.61 20.00 20.00 20.00 22.00 25.00 26.00 26.00 0.24 ¥ 21,483 ¥ 9,943 ¥ 26,686 ¥ 25,386 ¥ 22,525 ¥ 10,843 ¥ 42,843 $ 403,262 (10,273) (4,596) (7,847) (61,709) 37,052 (28,201) (8,259) (77,739) (8,559) (21,557) (7,954) 28,960 (24,066) (28,657) (17,631) (165,954) 18,202 6,334 20,807 (41,054) 13,433 1,342 32,906 309,728 1,285.0 3,037.8 2,855.4 309.8 230.9 206.6 1,573.6 10.7 10.0 11.1 12.0 22.6 8.4 13.0 — — 11.2 13.0 12.4 11.3 12.4 8.9 8.3 8.9 8.9 16.2 6.1 9.4 82.8 82.6 78.8 69.6 73.2 71.1 73.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 17.9 22.7 19.2 30.1 13.1 30.4 19.8 50.8 51.1 41.9 37.8 19.4 49.1 30.0 87,147 82,469 82,583 82,653 414,192 406,173 406,848 3,053 3,050 3,072 3,230 3,463 3,667 3,805 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 45 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars1 FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Revenue ¥199,096 ¥224,942 $2,117,301 Cost of sales (74,966) (86,378) (813,046) Gross proﬁt 124,130 138,564 1,304,254 Selling, general and administrative expenses (62,193) (68,788) (647,474) Research and development expenses (22,786) (24,398) (229,649) Amortization on intangible assets associated with products (6,412) (6,740) (63,441) Other income 468 417 3,927 Other expenses (728) (364) (3,428) Operating proﬁt 32,479 38,691 364,189 Finance income 1,105 1,004 9,447 Finance expenses (3,529) (434) (4,087) Proﬁt before tax 30,055 39,261 369,548 Income tax expenses (8,331) (4,000) (37,649) Net proﬁt for the year 21,724 35,261 331,900 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax Items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 297 284 2,671 Net gain or loss on ﬁnancial assets measured at fair value (6,825) 5,867 55,221 through other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments 2,715 (686) (6,461) Other comprehensive income (3,813) 5,464 51,431 Total comprehensive income for the year 17,911 40,725 383,330 Proﬁt attributable to Owners of the company 21,731 35,247 331,769 Non-controlling interests (7) 14 131 Net proﬁt for the year 21,724 35,261 331,900 Total comprehensive income attributable to Owners of the company 17,924 40,648 382,607 Non-controlling interests (13) 77 724 Total comprehensive income for the year ¥ 17,911 ¥ 40,725 $ 383,330 Yen U.S. dollars1 Earnings per share FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Basic earnings per share ¥ 52.96 ¥ 86.73 $ 0.82 Diluted earnings per share 52.76 86.42 0.81 1. U.S. dollar amounts have been translated from yen, solely for the convenience of the reader, at the rate of ¥106.24 to U.S.$1.00, the exchange rate prevailing on March 30, 2018. (This date was selected because March 31, 2018 was a non-business day for ﬁnancial institutions.) 46 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars1 Assets FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment ¥ 28,550 ¥ 29,706 $ 279,615 Intangible assets 138,935 134,495 1,265,952 Financial assets 29,889 35,775 336,736 Deferred tax assets 2,396 2,264 21,311 Other non-current assets 2,124 2,855 26,878 Total non-current assets 201,894 205,095 1,930,492 Current assets Inventories 28,502 30,636 288,366 Trade and other receivables 70,970 78,654 740,344 Other ﬁnancial assets 333 472 4,446 Other current assets 3,909 4,322 40,677 Cash and cash equivalents 53,297 69,283 652,137 Total current assets 157,011 183,367 1,725,971 Total assets 358,906 388,463 3,656,462 Equity and liabilities Equity Equity attributable to owners of the company Share capital 7,792 8,032 75,600 Capital surplus 8,417 8,657 81,486 Treasury shares (10) (11) (105) Retained earnings 223,283 249,225 2,345,863 Other components of equity 15,628 19,921 187,512 Total equity attributable to owners of the company 255,110 285,823 2,690,356 Non-controlling interests 819 1,734 16,322 Total equity 255,929 287,557 2,706,678 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 26,288 21,244 199,961 Net deﬁned beneﬁt liabilities 1,900 1,804 16,983 Provisions 1,426 1,367 12,868 Deferred tax liabilities 17,963 12,909 121,510 Other non-current liabilities 1,919 1,380 12,990 Total non-current liabilities 49,496 38,704 364,311 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 23,937 29,743 279,959 Other ﬁnancial liabilities 17,649 14,404 135,576 Income tax payable 3,279 7,656 72,061 Provisions 1,372 1,508 14,196 Other current liabilities 7,244 8,890 83,681 Total current liabilities 53,481 62,201 585,473 Total liabilities 102,977 100,905 949,784 Total equity and liabilities ¥358,906 ¥388,463 $3,656,462 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 47 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal 2016 Millions of yen Other components of equity Net gain or loss on ﬁnancial assets measured Share Capital Treasury Retained Remeasurements of at fair value through capital surplus shares earnings deﬁned beneﬁt plans other comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥7,695 ¥8,389 ¥ (24) ¥221,945 ¥ — ¥18,676 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year 21,731 Other comprehensive income 297 (6,825) Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 21,731 297 (6,825) Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares 97 97 Acquisition of treasury shares (69) (12,311) Disposal of treasury shares (0) 0 Cancellation of treasury shares (0) 12,325 (12,325) Dividends (10,751) Changes for equity of subsidiary with non-controlling interests Share-based payments Other 2,682 (297) (2,381) Total transactions with owners 97 28 14 (20,393) (297) (2,381) Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥7,792 ¥8,417 ¥ (10) ¥223,283 ¥ — ¥ 9,470 Millions of yen Other components of equity Foreign currency Total equity translation Subscription attributable to owners Non-controlling adjustments rights to shares Total of the company interests Total equity Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥2,611 ¥716 ¥22,003 ¥260,009 ¥ — ¥260,009 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year — 21,731 (7) 21,724 Other comprehensive income 2,721 (3,807) (3,807) (6) (3,813) Total comprehensive income for the year 2,721 — (3,807) 17,924 (13) 17,911 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares (24) (24) 169 169 Acquisition of treasury shares — (12,380) (12,380) Disposal of treasury shares — 0 0 Cancellation of treasury shares — — — Dividends — (10,751) (10,751) Changes for equity of subsidiary with non-controlling interests — — 832 832 Share-based payments 138 138 138 138 Other (4) (2,682) — — Total transactions with owners — 110 (2,568) (22,823) 832 (21,991) Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥5,332 ¥825 ¥15,628 ¥255,110 ¥819 ¥255,929 48 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal 2017 Millions of yen Other components of equity Net gain or loss on ﬁnancial assets measured Share Capital Treasury Retained Remeasurements of at fair value through capital surplus shares earnings deﬁned beneﬁt plans other comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥7,792 ¥8,417 ¥(10) ¥223,283 ¥ — ¥ 9,470 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year 35,247 Other comprehensive income 284 5,867 Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 35,247 284 5,867 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares 240 240 Acquisition of treasury shares (1) Dividends (10,563) Changes for equity of subsidiary with non-controlling interests Share-based payments Other 1,257 (284) (973) Total transactions with owners 240 240 (1) (9,306) (284) (973) Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥8,032 ¥8,657 ¥(11) ¥249,225 ¥ — ¥14,364 Millions of yen Other components of equity Foreign currency Total equity translation Subscription attributable to owners Non-controlling adjustments rights to shares Total of the company interests Total equity Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥5,332 ¥825 ¥15,628 ¥255,110 ¥819 ¥255,929 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year — 35,247 14 35,261 Other comprehensive income (749) 5,401 5,401 63 5,464 Total comprehensive income for the year (749) — 5,401 40,648 77 40,725 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares (68) (68) 412 412 Acquisition of treasury shares — (1) (1) Dividends — (10,563) (10,563) Changes for equity of subsidiary with non-controlling interests — — 838 838 Share-based payments 218 218 218 218 Other (1,257) — — Total transactions with owners — 150 (1,107) (9,934) 838 (9,096) Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥4,583 ¥975 ¥19,921 ¥285,823 ¥1,734 ¥287,557 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 49 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal 2017 Thousands of U.S. dollars1 Other components of equity Net gain or loss on ﬁnancial assets measured Share Capital Treasury Retained Remeasurements of at fair value through capital surplus shares earnings deﬁned beneﬁt plans other comprehensive income Balance at April 1, 2017 $73,341 $79,226 $ (93) $2,101,685 $ — $ 89,139 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year 331,769 Other comprehensive income 2,671 55,221 Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 331,769 2,671 55,221 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares 2,259 2,259 Acquisition of treasury shares (12) Dividends (99,423) Changes for equity of subsidiary with non-controlling interests Share-based payments Other 11,832 (2,671) (9,161) Total transactions with owners 2,259 2,259 (12) (87,591) (2,671) (9,161) Balance at March 31, 2018 $75,600 $81,486 $(105) $2,345,863 $ — $ 135,200 Thousands of U.S. dollars1 Other components of equity Foreign currency Total equity translation Subscription attributable to owners Non-controlling adjustments rights to shares Total of the company interests Total equity Balance at April 1, 2017 $50,190 $7,769 $147,098 $2,401,258 $ 7,711 $2,408,969 Comprehensive income Net proﬁt for the year — 331,769 131 331,900 Other comprehensive income (7,055) 50,837 50,837 593 51,431 Total comprehensive income for the year (7,055) — 50,837 382,607 724 383,330 Transactions with owners Issuance of new shares (643) (643) 3,876 3,876 Acquisition of treasury shares — (12) (12) Dividends — (99,423) (99,423) Changes for equity of subsidiary with non-controlling interests — — 7,887 7,887 Share-based payments 2,051 2,051 2,051 2,051 Other (11,832) — — Total transactions with owners — 1,408 (10,424) (93,508) 7,887 (85,621) Balance at March 31, 2018 $43,135 $9,177 $187,512 $2,690,356 $16,322 $2,706,678 1. U.S. dollar amounts have been translated from yen, solely for the convenience of the reader, at the rate of ¥106.24 to U.S.$1.00, the exchange rate prevailing on March 30, 2018. (This date was selected because March 31, 2018 was a non-business day for ﬁnancial institutions.) 50 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Its Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars1 FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Cash ﬂows from operating activities Net proﬁt for the year ¥ 21,724 ¥ 35,261 $ 331,900 Depreciation and amortization 9,882 10,896 102,556 Impairment losses 475 150 1,415 Finance expenses (income) 983 (327) (3,080) Income tax expenses 8,331 4,000 37,649 Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables (5,489) (7,116) (66,981) Decrease (increase) in inventories (4,120) (1,435) (13,508) Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables (425) 5,697 53,628 Increase (decrease) in provisions and net deﬁned beneﬁt liabilities (200) 285 2,682 Other 2,877 1,706 16,061 Subtotal 34,039 49,117 462,320 Interest received 74 145 1,360 Dividends received 681 598 5,628 Interest paid (52) (27) (256) Income tax paid (23,900) (6,990) (65,790) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) operating activities 10,843 42,843 403,262 Cash ﬂows from investing activities Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 19 — — Payments for acquisition of investments (478) (565) (5,319) Proceeds from sale of investments 1,364 2,879 27,103 Payments for acquisition of subsidiary (19,064) — — Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment (4,145) (3,984) (37,500) Proceeds from sales plant and equipment 4 — — Payments for acquisition of intangible assets (5,355) (5,953) (56,033) Other (545) (636) (5,990) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) investing activities (28,201) (8,259) (77,739) Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities Proceeds from long-term loans 3,000 — — Repayments of long-term loans (9,524) (8,316) (78,276) Payments for acquisition of treasury shares (12,380) (1) (12) Capital contribution from non-controlling interests 832 838 7,887 Dividends paid (10,751) (10,559) (99,393) Other 167 408 3,840 Net cash ﬂows from (used in) ﬁnancing activities (28,657) (17,631) (165,954) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (46,015) 16,953 159,569 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period 99,798 52,282 492,114 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,501) 48 454 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period ¥ 52,282 ¥ 69,283 $ 652,137 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 51 History 1890 1977 1997 Founder Kenkichi Taguchi opened Taguchi Stock listed on First Section of Tokyo Stock Finnish ophthalmic pharmaceutical Santendo in Kitahama, Osaka Exchange and Osaka Securities Exchange company acquired and Santen Oy Production system introduced to allow filling established 1925 Operations incorporated as Santendo Co., Ltd. of solution into molded containers to make Claire Co., Ltd. (special subsidiary company) bottle-packed eye drops established Chuko Mita is appointed first president 1982 1999 1935 Central Research Laboratories established Human resources management Reform Yodogawa Plant established in Plan 21 launched Higashiyodogawa-ku, Osaka 1983 Itaru Mita named president 1998 1944 Medium-term Plan “Hitomi 21” launched Ryouzo Mita named president 1985 Noto Plant established 2000 Company History Head Office transferred to Yodogawa Plant Santen articulated Santen’s Values 1945 1990 Takakazu Morita named president OTC product tampering incident occurred Company name changed to Santendo Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Long-term business vision launched to Subsidiary Santen Pharmaceutical Korea commemorate 100 years since founding Co., Ltd. established 1952 Representative office established in Launch of a business strategy focusing on 1992 Guangzhou, China eye drops for corporate reconstruction TAHMIN SANTEN CO., LTD. established in Taiwan 2001 1958 U.S.-based Advanced Vision Science, Inc. Company name changed to current form of 1993 acquired Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Subsidiary Santen Inc. established in the U.S. Santen entered prescription pharmaceutical 2002 1994 Santen Holdings U. S. Inc. established business Subsidiary Santen GmbH established in Germany Introduced Dimple Bottle, an innovative 1963 patient oriented container for ophthalmic Stock listed on Second Section of Osaka 1996 solutions Securities Exchange ERP package (integrated operation software) introduced 2003 1964 Fiscal 2003-2005 Medium-Term Stock listed on Second Section of Tokyo Representative office established in Beijing, China Management Plan launched Stock Exchange Nara Research and Development Center ISO 14001 certification acquired by Noto 1969 and Shiga Plant (currently Shiga Product Plant Shoukyu Mita named president Supply Center) established From foundation to initial Period of development period, 1960 further development into 1990 Period of transformation focused on eye medicine prescription pharmaceuticals 1890s Launch of Super Sante 1985 Launch of anti-allergy Launch of Heburinmarks first use of plastic Launch of ophthalmic Alegysal gan, a cold eye drop containers Sante 40 NE Launch of anti-rheumatic medicine in Japan Azulfidine EN 1986 1963 Santen commenced Launch of Opegan Hi, an Launch of Thiola, an original sales of intraocular lenses adjuvant for ophthalmic 1899 liver detoxification agent operations Launch of 1987 Daigaku Eye 1965 Launch of anti-infective 1999 Drops Launch of Sante de U ophthalmic Tarivid Launch of Timoptol XE, a Product History treatment for glaucoma and 1970 Launch of anti-rheumatic ocular hypertension Launch of antibiotic Rimatil 1952 ophthalmic Ecolicin Launch of Sante FX Neo Launch of Daigaku 1991 1975 Launch of Sante FX 2000 Penicillin Eye Drops Launch of anti-inflammatory Launch of anti-infective 1953 ophthalmic Flumetholon 1992 ophthalmic solution Cravit Launch of Daigaku Launch of Kary 1977 Uni, a treatment for early2001 Mycillin Eye Drops Launch of Soft Santear stage senile cataracts Launch of anti-allergy 1954 ophthalmic Livostin 1978 Launch of BSS PLUS, an Launch of Daigaku Launch of Detantol, Santen commences ophthalmic perfusion and Super Eye Drops a treatment for glaucoma sales of medical devices bathing solution and ocular hypertension 1962 1995 Launch of Mydrin-P, a 1981 2002 Launch of Timoptol, a Launch of Hyalein, a mydriatic drug (for pupil Launch of Sante de U Plus E Alpha treatment for glaucoma and treatment for corneal and dilation) Launch of Sante 40V ocular hypertension conjunctival epithelial disorders Launch of Sante 40 Note: Based on the years when sales were launched by Santen Pharmaceutical 52 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 2004 2012 2016 U.S. sales partnership with Johnson Acquired Novagali Pharma S.A.S. of France Established Santen Business Services Co., Ltd. & Johnson Vision Care, Inc. (currently (currently Santen S.A.S.) and made into a Established Santen Eye Care Co., Ltd VISTAKON Pharmaceuticals, LLC) started wholly owned subsidiary Established Santen Pharmaceutical (Hong 2005 Established Santen Holdings EU B.V. as a Kong) Limited Subsidiary Santen Pharmaceutical (China) holding company Acquired U.S.-based InnFocus, Inc. Co., Ltd. established Started integrated production at the Suzhou Plant Established Chongqing Santen Kerui 2006 Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Takakazu Morita named chairman 2013 Head Office transferred to Kita-ku, Osaka Japan Investor Relations Association Akira Kurokawa named president presents Santen with “IR Special Award” for Fiscal 2006-2010 Medium-Term Representative office established in Ho Chi investor relations activities Minh City, Vietnam Management Plan launched 2017 Established Santen Pharmaceutical Asia 2007 Established SANTEN LIMITED LIABILITY Pte. Ltd. in Singapore COMPANY in Russia Suzhou Plant established 2014 Santen selected as a member of Dow 2008 Fiscal 2014-2017 Medium-Term Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index, an Santen completed pharmaceutical Management Plan launched Index for Socially Responsible Investment development building and ancillary building at Nara Research and Development Center Took over ophthalmology assets from U.S.Santen begins participation in UN Global based Merck & Co., Inc. Compact 2009 Established subsidiaries in Switzerland, Italy, Santen Pharmaceutical (China) Co., Ltd. 2018 the U.K., Spain, Thailand, Malaysia and the Akira Kurokawa named chairman and CEO commenced direct marketing Philippines Shigeo Taniuchi named president and COO 2010 2015 Long-term strategic vision toward 2020 Medium-term Management Plan (MTP2020) Santen Leadership Competencies (SLC) launched “Vision 2020” created system introduced Santen Pharmaceutical Korea Co., Ltd. Santen Awarded for “Corporate Governance Assigned anti-rheumatic pharmaceuticals of the year 2017” by the Japan Association commenced direct marketing business to AYUMI Pharmaceutical of Corporate Directors 2011 Corporation Fiscal 2011-2013 Medium-Term “IT General Award” received at the Management Plan launched 2015 (33rd) Information Technology Award Subsidiary Santen India Private Limited from the Japan Institute of Information established in India Technology into a global company 2010 Period of rapid acceleration into a “Specialized Pharmaceutical Company with a Global Presence” 2003 2010 2014 Launch of ClariFlex foldable intraocular lenses Launch of Cosopt, Launch of Tapcom, a treatment for a treatment for glaucoma and glaucoma and ocular hypertension 2004 ocular hypertension Launch of Rescula, a treatment for Launch of Soft Santear Hitomi Stretch glaucoma and ocular hypertension Launch of Diquas, a treatment for dry eye 2015 Launch of anti-rheumatic Metolate Launch of Cosopt Mini, a treatment for 2011 glaucoma and ocular hypertension 2006 Launch of Accuject injector for Launch of Papilock Mini, a treatment for Launch of Ikervis, a treatment for inserting intraocular lenses severe keratitis in adult patients vernal keratoconjunctivitis 2012 with dry eye disease Launch of Sante Medical 10 Launch of Intravitreal VEGF Inhibitor Eylea1 Launch of New Sante de U α Launch of Sante AL Cool II Launch of Sante Medical Guard Launch of nutritional supplement 2007 Launch of Sante 40series Sante Lutax 20 +Vitamin & Mineral Launch of Sante Uruoi Contact a 2013 2016 2008 Launch of Tapros Mini, a treatment for Launch of Sante Medical 12 Launch of Tapros, a treatment for glaucoma and ocular hypertension Launch of Sante Medical Guard EX glaucoma and ocular hypertension Launch of anti-allergy ophthalmic Launch of Sante Medical Active Launch of Eternity foldable intraocular lens solution Alesion Launch of Sante 40i 2017 Launch of Eternity Natural Uni Launch of Eternity Natural Uni R foldable Launch of nutritional foldable intraocular lens intraocular lens supplement Sante Lutax Launch of Sante Beautéye Launch of Sante Beautéye Contact 2009 Launch of Sante PC 1. Co-promoted product (Anti-VEGF Eylea) of Bayer Launch of Eternity Natural foldable Launch of Sante Kaiteki 40 Yakuhin, Ltd. (MAH) intraocular lens Launch of Sante ALn Launch of Sante FX V Plus Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 53 Corporate Information / Stock Information As of March 31, 2018 Corporate Headquarters Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Composition of Shareholders Grand Front Osaka Tower A, By number of shares By number of shareholders 4-20 Ofuka-cho, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8552, 0.3% Financial institutions Japan 0.0% 0.2% Securities firms URL: http://www.santen.com Treasury shares 0.7% 2.8% TEL: +81-6-6321-7000 (Main) 25.8% City & regional banks Other institutions +81-6-4802-9360 (PR and IR) 46.1% Trust banks 3.0% 7.7% Foreign investors Foreign Other financial E-MAIL: ir@santen.com investors 95.8% institutions Individual investors Established 1890 1.1% Securities firms Paid-in Capital ¥8,032 million 7.7% Other institutions 0.0% Number of Employees 3,805 (non-consolidated: 1,859) Treasury Stock 8.7% Individual investors Number of Shares Issued 406,847,515 Major Shareholders Number of Shareholders 19,885 Number of Percentage of Stock Exchange Listings Tokyo Name shares held ownership Ticker Code 4536 STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505223 33,702Thousands of shares 8.3% Transfer Agent Osaka Corporate Agency Division, Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 31,688 7.8 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust 6-3, Fushimi-cho 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Account) 22,288 5.5 Osaka 541-8502, Japan RBC IST 15 PCT LENDING ACCOUNT CLIENT ACCOUNT 11,280 2.8 Nippon Life Insurance Company 10,662 2.6 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 10,605 2.6 ONO PHARMACEUTICAL Co.,Ltd. 9,307 2.3 Development Bank of Japan Inc. 8,275 2.0 STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT TREATY 505234 7,534 1.9 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 7,232 1.8 Stock Price Range (Yen) Monthly basis 2,500 2,000 1,500 TOPIX (Tokyo stock price index) 1,000 500 0 2013/4 2014/4 2015/4 2016/4 2017/4 2018/4 (Year/Month) Trading Volume (Thousands of shares) Monthly basis 48,000 36,000 24,000 12,000 0 2013/4 2014/4 2015/4 2016/4 2017/4 2018/4 (Year/Month) Notes: 1. Calendar years. Yearly High and Low Prices 2. Stock prices for 2018 are for the period to the end of June. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 3. Stock price and trading volume from July 16, 2013 are those listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange; prior to this date are those listed on the High (yen) 1,426 2,163 2,064 1,946 2,061 Osaka Securities Exchange. 4. Santen conducted a five-for-one share split of ordinary shares on the Low (yen) 813 1,262 1,251 1,343 1,608 effective date of April 1, 2015. Figures for stock price and trading volume from before the share split have been adjusted using the share split ratio. 54 Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 Business Bases Group Companies Location Location Claire Co., Ltd. Santen Pharmaceutical (China) Co., Ltd. Santen Business Services Co., Ltd. Japan Santen Pharmaceutical Sales and Marketing China (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Santen Eye Care Co., Ltd. Santen Holdings U.S. Inc. Chongqing Santen Kerui Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Santen Inc. Santen Pharmaceutical Korea Co., Ltd. Korea Advanced Vision Science, Inc. U.S.A. Taiwan Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Taiwan InnFocus, Inc. Santen India Private Limited India Santen Ventures, Inc. Santen Pharmaceutical Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Santen Holdings EU B.V. Netherlands SANTEN (THAILAND) CO., LTD. Thailand Santen Oy Finland SANTEN PHARMA MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. Malaysia Santen S.A.S. France SANTEN PHILIPPINES INC. Philippines Santen GmbH Germany SANTEN PHARMACEUTICAL (HONG KONG) Hong Kong LIMITED Hong Kong SantenPharma AB Sweden Santen SA Switzerland Santen Italy S.r.l. Italy Other Office Santen UK Limited U.K. Ho Chi Minh City Representative Office Vietnam Santen Pharmaceutical Spain, S.L. Spain SANTEN LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY Russia Situation Regarding Inclusion in Sustainability Indexes Various sustainability indexes are used to benchmark (ESG), with the aim of enabling responsible investing from a responsible investment. These sustainability indexes are used long-term viewpoint. Santen has been selected for inclusion to evaluate the sustainability of companies from the nonin the following sustainability indexes thanks to our CSR financial perspective of environment, society and governance activities. Index name Overview An index by MSCI (United States). The index selects companies in various MSCI Japan Empowering sectors that excel in gender diversity from among the top 500 Japanese Women Index (WIN) stocks in terms of market capitalization. An index composed of companies that have achieved above-standard ESG scores in corporate surveys conducted by Sompo Risk Management & SNAM Sustainability Index Health Care Inc. (in terms of E: environmental assessments) and by Integrex Inc. (in terms of S and G: social and corporate governance assessments). Please refer to the CSR section on the Company’s website for the most recent information about the index-selection situation. http://www.santen.com/en/csr Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual Report 2018 55 This report is printed with vegetable oil ink. Printed in Japan
