Sustainability at Infineon Supplementing the Annual Report 2017 Content 1 Introduction 2 About this report 7 Key figures 8 Notable events 2017 10 Sustainability strategy 11 Business ethics 13 Human rights 14 Human resources management 18 Responsibility for our employees 19 Environmental sustainability 26 Contribution through sustainable products 29 Our responsibility along the supply chain 31 Corporate citizenship 34 Our sustainability targets 38 GRI G4 Content Index 43 Sustainable Development Goals 45 Limited Assurance Report 48 Imprint INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 1 Introduction Introduction  Neubiberg, November 2017 Sustainability as a matter of conviction Climate change, population growth, consumption of resources and energy are already relevant issues today, but they are of crucial importance to future generations. We need solutions that significantly reduce the emission of carbon dioxide and other pollutants and that enable the efficient use of natural resources. In the long term, the ecological footprint of the population of our planet cannot be supported in its present scope without negative consequences on the quality of life of the world’s inhabitants. In order to sustainably meet worldwide requirements, today we would already need the resources of 1.6 earths. This is why it is of such importance that we achieve the climate objectives of the United Nations’ Paris Agreement as quickly as possible. Products from Infineon help do just that. They enable the users of smartphones, automobiles and industrial facilities to significantly reduce CO2 emissions. During their use-phase our products help reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 58 million tons. After deducting the emissions related to the manufacture of these products, the result is a net benefit of more than 56 million tons. Microelectronics from Infineon make sure that technology achieves more, consumes less and is accessible to anyone, with efficient use of energy, innovative mobility concepts and security for a connected world. Making more out of less is the fundamental idea we want to use to help make a good life sustainably affordable for everyone. Sustainability means continuous engagement. As early as 2004 Infineon was one of the first semiconductor companies to join the UN Global Compact and has voluntarily committed to comply with its Ten Principles. Infineon is the only European semiconductor company to be listed both in the Dow Jones Sustainability™ Europe Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability™ World Index. This means we are among the top 10 percent of the most sustainable companies in the world. The Sustainability Yearbook listed Infineon for the seventh time in a row in 2017, this year even in the “Silver Class”. Our dedicated employees, more than 37,000 women and men from over 100 different nations, act as a matter of conviction: We make life easier, safer and greener. For us, being successful includes entrepreneurial action, accepting responsibility and sustainable profitable growth. Dr. Reinhard Ploss Chief Executive Officer INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 2 About this report About this report GRI G4 – 18, G4 – 23 This report documents Infineon’s environmental and social performance during the 2017 fiscal year. We would like to illustrate how sustainability contributes to Infineon’s business success and how our activities in this area create value for all our stakeholders. @ www.infineon.com/annualreport Information on Infineon’s financial status and performance in the 2017 fiscal year has been published in the Annual Report 2017. The reporting period covers the 2017 fiscal year, from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017. We publish this report annually. The previous report was published in November 2016 supplementing the Annual Report 2016. Unless otherwise specified, the statements and key figures included in this report refer to the 2017 fiscal year. In order to help readers identify and interpret the trends relating to quantitative disclosures, the report includes data for at least the 2016 and 2017 fiscal years. GRI G4 – 18, G4 – 23 Reporting This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) G4 Guidelines “Core” option. These reporting criteria are complemented with corporate rules. The information contained in this report also serves as “Communication on Progress” for the P see page 11 f. United Nations Global Compact initiative (see the chapter “Business ethics”). KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Munich (Germany), has provided independent “limited assurance” regarding the specified sustainability performance information provided in this report in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements 3000 and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, the pertinent standards for assuring sustainability information.1 @ www.infineon.com/csr_reporting The Infineon website contains the explanatory notes on the main data and other information pertaining to this report. The Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Munich (Germany), has been published on our website and P see page 45 ff. is also included at the end of this report. GRI G4 – 25, G4 – 26, G4 – 27 Determining the content of the report Infineon engages in continuous dialog with all its stakeholders. In our materiality analysis we evaluate the expectations and requirements of our internal and external stakeholders with regard to sustainability in various topics in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines GRI G4. First, we identified Infineon’s most important stakeholders, taking into account the dimensions “Responsibility”, “Influence”, “Proximity”, “Dependency” and “Representation” in the “Stakeholder Engagement Manual” drawn up by the organization “AccountAbility”. In a second step, consideration was given to general as well as sector and company-specific sustainability standards appropriate for determining the material aspects for assessing Infineon’s sustainability performance. Afterwards, relevant topics were pre-selected on our corporate strategy and stakeholder expectations. 1 Selected information and key data in the chapter “Human resources management” are also part of the Combined Management Report (as of 30 September 2017) of Infineon Technologies AG. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 3 About this report GRI G4 – 23, G4 – 25, G4 – 26, G4 – 27 In a fourth step, we assembled our in-house experts to discuss the topics chosen and any potentially related risks or opportunities which could impact the long-term performance of the organization. The various Infineon divisions and departments use different communication channels and continuously engage in conferences, forums, industry association activities and surveys to ensure targeted communication with the corresponding stakeholder groups. The results of this analysis and the material topics were then confirmed by the Infineon Management Board. The present report describes these topics. In accordance with the GRI G4 sustainability reporting guidelines, the table below shows the areas of the value chain that Infineon regards as key fields of activity. GRI G4 – 19, G4 – 20, G4 – 21 Material aspects along the value chain Supply chain Infineon internal Product use Long-term viability of core business Responsible manufacturing Diversity and equal opportunity Presence in local markets Contribution through sustainable products Business ethics Labor relations Effective risk and opportunity management is a key element of our business activities. It supports the achievement of our strategic goals, namely sustainable profitable growth and preservation of financial resources through efficient use of capital. We have established a variety of coordinated risk management and control system elements oriented towards the realization of our risk strategy. These elements include in particular the systems “Risk and Opportunity Management System” and the “Internal Control System with respect to Financial Reporting Processes” as well as the associated planning, management and internal reporting P see page 20 ff. and page 81 ff. processes and our Compliance Management System. Further information is available in the of the Annual Report 2017 “Group strategy” and “Risk and opportunity report” chapters of the Annual Report 2017. TARGETS see page 34 ff. The progress during the 2017 fiscal year as well as the achievement of our targets and the associated key performance indicators are described in the following chapters of this report P see page 20 ff. as well as in the chapter “Group strategy” of the Annual Report 2017. of the Annual Report 2017 Long-term viability of core business: Energy efficiency, mobility and security are important key fields of action for the global society that offer enormous growth potential. Infineon occupies leading positions in these sectors. We expect our innovative power and technological expertise to continue to drive sustainable and profitable growth going forward. The steady progress of digitalization and networking is one of the most vital technological trends of our time, with the potential of radically changing how companies and consumers interact with one another and with the surrounding infrastructure. In the “Internet of Things” (IoT) the physical and virtual worlds converge in ways never seen before. More and more physical “objects” – ranging from people and places to cars and computers all the way to household appliances and industrial machines – are being equipped with electronic systems, software and sensors and connected to the internet. This opens the door to a new dimension of connectivity and intelligence with far-reaching consequences for our society and our economy. As a worldwide leading provider of semiconductor solutions, Infineon supplies manufacturers in all market segments with key components for applications in the IoT. International Data Corporation (IDC) estimates that, at a growth rate of 17.5 percent, there will be 28.1 billion installed IoT devices and systems by the 2020 calendar year. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 4 About this report GRI G4 – 19, G4 – 20, G4 – 21 At that time the data volume generated annually is expected to reach 40 zettabytes (1 zettabyte = 1,0007 bytes). At the same time the world market for IoT solutions will grow by 20 percent annually, from US$1.9 trillion in the 2013 calendar year to US$7.1 trillion in the 2020 calendar year. Our sensors, processors, security controllers and actuators set the standards for highly-developed sensor technologies, cross-application control and optimized power management: They make the IoT intelligent, secure and energy-efficient. Additional P see page 26 ff. in this report and information on this material topic can be found in the chapter “Contribution through sustainpage 22 ff. of the Annual Report 2017 able products” as well as under “Success factors in strategy” in the chapter “Group strategy” of the Annual Report 2017. Responsible manufacturing: Respect for human rights is essential for Infineon. As a participant in the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, Infineon made a voluntary commitment to uphold the Ten Principles outlined there. Principles 1 and 2 relate to human rights. In our Business Conduct Guidelines we anchor our mandatory compliance with valid human rights. P see page 11 f. and page 13 Additional information on this topic can be found in the chapters “Business ethics” and “Human rights”. We also demand that our supply chain upholds these principles. This is why we have defined a Group-wide approach aimed at ensuring the necessary transparency within the supply chain. We expect our suppliers to commit to the values outlined in our Principles of Purchasing. The P see page 29 f. chapter “Our responsibility along the supply chain” contains further information on this topic. Availability of natural resources is one of the greatest global challenges. Efficient resource management is therefore a central component of our Infineon Integrated Management Program for Environment, Energy, Safety and Health (IMPRES). The energy prices have been subject to fluctuations and increases in the past that were partly related to legal regulations. This economic benefit is another motivation for reducing our specific consumption, namely increasing our energy efficiency, and has been part of our sustainability strategy for years. Manufacturing semiconductors requires a wide variety of chemicals. At Infineon we guarantee that we handle hazardous materials in a highly responsible way. We are subject to many laws and regulations which apply, among others, to the areas of environmental and climate protection, as well as to the field of energy. Present or future environmental legislation and other government regulations, or amendments thereto, could require an adjustment to our operating activities and result in higher costs. Infineon keeps abreast of planned legislative changes and engages in these issues in various associations and organizations on an ongoing basis. P see page 18, page 19 ff. and page 26 ff. Additional information on these topics can be found under “Sustainable use of resources at our manufacturing sites” in the chapter “Environmental sustainability” as well as in the chapters “Responsibility for our employees“ and “Contribution through sustainable products”. Diversity and equal opportunity: Diversity management provides a framework for a corporate culture that values the individuality of each staff member and promotes equal opportunities. International customer relationships demand great cultural competence. Qualified job applicants expect an open working environment. As an international company, staff diversity is particularly important to us. The promotion of women to leadership positions is a key aspect of Infineon’s diversity management. Changes within the organization that support the successful career development of female managers are prerequisites for meeting our targets. Promoting an adequate work-life balance is also essential for the professional success of our employees and is part of our human resources work. As emphasized in our Business Conduct Guidelines, our employees are paid on the basis of work-related criteria such as job requirements and performance. Men and women are paid equally at Infineon. Additional information INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 5 About this report GRI G4 – 19, G4 – 20, G4 – 21 on this material topic can be found under “Encouraging diversity” in the chapter “Human P see page 11 f., page 13 and page 16 resources management” as well as in the chapters “Business ethics” and “Human rights”. Presence in local markets: We are present at locations around the world dedicated to sales, P see page 49 ff. research and development as well as manufacturing. The global presence of our sites is of the Annual Report 2017 illustrated on page 49 ff. of the Annual Report 2017. We support local communities in line with our sustainable business strategy. With our presence in different regions we contribute in various ways – by creating jobs, with our innovative products and solutions and with the taxes we pay as well as our social commitment as part of our corporate citizenship activities. This globalization can entail risks related to economic and geopolitical crises in regional markets. We have to consider country-specific laws and regulations that influence investment parameters and opportunities to practice free trade. We have established coordinated risk management and risk control systems for the implementation of our risk and opportunity strategy. These systems help us comply with tax, legal and administrative rules. P see page 20 ff. and page 38 ff. The chapters “Group strategy” and “The segments” of the Annual Report 2017 as well as the of the Annual Report 2017 and chapter “Corporate citizenship” in this report contain additional information regarding this page 31 ff. in this report topic. Contribution through sustainable products: Microelectronics made by Infineon is the key to attaining better living standards. Our invention power and commitment let us create value for customers, staff and investors. We understand how technical systems can be made increasingly efficient through the use of semiconductors, providing sustainable solutions for the world of today and the world of tomorrow. This makes our customers more successful and is an important contribution to society. We make life easier, safer and greener – with technology that achieves more, consumes less and is accessible to everyone. The manufacture of sustainable products is an integral part of our business strategy. Two thirds of our annual research and development expenditures can be allocated to energy efficiency and climate protection. According to the World Health Organization, in the 2050 calendar year the earth will have approximately 9.7 billion inhabitants, most of them living in cities. One consequence of this development will be a worldwide rise in the need for energy. Using energy more efficiently is one of the greatest challenges of the future, and semiconductors play a decisive role here. The biggest lever in energy savings is increasing efficiency of use. The savings potential represented by today’s worldwide several hundred million industrial motors and billions of household appliances is gigantic. As described in our IMPRES policy, potential environmental impacts are examined at the earliest possible stage and taken into account when developing products and processes. This applies to all our company activities, from procurement, development and manufacturing all the way to the sale of our products. All our actions are based on compliance with applicable legislation P see page 26 ff. and 29 f. and regulations. For more information see the chapter “Contribution through sustainable products” and “Our responsibility along the supply chain”. We want to make driving a car safer for everybody. A system should support drivers and significantly reduce the number of accidents: It will detect signs of driver fatigue (microsleep) or distraction. Infineon is also working in the area of “eCall” (Emergency Call), an emergency call system integrated in the car. In case of an accident “eCall” automatically transmits the location and other important data to the emergency services, drastically reducing the amount of time needed before reaching the driver. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 6 About this report GRI G4 – 19, G4 – 20, G4 – 21 Today, Infineon already has solutions that meet the high requirements of active and passive assistance systems. They enable, for example, piloted driving in traffic jams and automated parking. In the future car-to-car communication will improve safety and efficiency in road traffic. For example, it will be possible to warn drivers of road damage or accidents on their route. P see page 27 in this report and Additional information on this material topic can be found under “The Infineon CO2 footprint” page 38 ff. of the Annual Report 2017 in the chapter “Contribution through sustainable products” in this report as well as in the chapter “The segments” in the Annual Report 2017. Business ethics: We need to be aware of risks both inside and outside the organization in order to meet our own high business ethics standards and simultaneously interact with our stakeholders as a sustainable and reliable partner. As part of the Compliance Management System, each year a formal assessment of our risks is made, especially in terms of corruption and antitrust law. The necessary measures derived from the assessment are summarized in the compliance program. Employees and business partners can report any breaches to the usual internal bodies (Management, Human Resources and Compliance) or use an anonymous hotline and an external ombudsman. The Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines define our basic principles for ethical and legal conduct. They are an important foundation for our everyday activities. They apply to all employees and members of corporate bodies around the world when dealing with one another and with our customers, shareholders, business partners and with the public. P see page 12 Infineon reports on the measures implemented in the context of the UN Global Compact’s Principles in the “UN Global Compact Communication on Progress” in this report. In the P see page 43 f. chapter “Sustainable Development Goals” Infineon reports for the first time on the processes and steps implemented in support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. P see page 11 f. and page 13 in The chapters “Business ethics” and “Human rights” in this report, as well as the “Corporate this report and page 99 Governance Report” in the Annual Report 2017 contain additional information on this of the Annual Report 2017 material topic. Labor relations: We are convinced that effective human resources and a secure working environment are prerequisites to our business success. Long-term high performance is only viable with satisfied and successful employees. In our daily activities we undertake to promote employees’ performance and realize their potential in the best possible way based on the three pillars “Leadership excellence”, “Promoting talent” and “Our workforce”. The integration of refugees in our society and in our labor market is one of the most important challenges of the upcoming years. Infineon participates in the education initiative of the “Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft” (Donors’ Association for the Promotion of Sciences and Humanities in Germany) for the integration of refugees, and thus helps manage this challenge. Our commitment to comply with internationally applicable human rights and work-related standards, including the protection of individual personal dignity and privacy, is anchored P see page 11 f. in our Business Conduct Guidelines. The chapter “Business ethics” in this report contains additional information on this material topic. Our occupational safety and health management system has been certified in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 standard at all of our large manufacturing sites as well as at our corporate headquarters. The system is designed to ensure that the required measures are taken to minimize risks identified in the working environment that could endanger our employees. P see page 13, page 14 ff. and page 18 The chapters “Human rights”, “Human resources management” and “Responsibility for our employees” in this report contain additional information on this material topic. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 7 Key figures Key figures Worldwide leader in semiconductor solutions that make life easier, safer and greener. Revenue of €7,063 million €776 million 4 business research and segments development expenses 78 sites in 31 countries and more than 100 nationalities in our teams 37,479 employees of whom 17 percent work in research and development €1,022 million of investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including €129 million of capitalized development costs INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 8 Notable events 2017 Notable events 2017 October 2016 March 2017 Infineon strengthens leading position in automated Infineon part of the “Ethibel Sustainability driving through acquisition of Innoluce B.V. Index (ESI) Excellence Europe” As the leading chip provider for driver assistance systems, Infineon is once again confirmed in the “Ethibel SustainInfineon continues its innovation path and acquires ability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe”. The ESI indices Innoluce B.V., a fabless semiconductor company headquaruniverse lists companies which are included in the tered in Nijmegen (Netherlands). Based on the know-how “Russell Global Index” and which show the best perforof Innoluce, Infineon will develop chip components for mance in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. high-performance lidar systems (“light detection and ranging”). Lidar employs laser beams to measure the distance to objects adjacent to the car and helps detect small objects on the road. Lidar, radar and camera will be the April 2017 key sensor technologies for semi-automated and fully Toyota acknowledges Infineon for automated cars. outstanding quality The car manufacturer Toyota awards Infineon with its Infineon once again in the “STOXX Global ESG “Best Quality Award”. This award is presented only Leaders Index” to companies that have not delivered a single defective A worldwide benchmark by the renowned analysis firm product for three years running. Infineon was acknowlfor sustainability topics confirms Infineon’s leading role, edged for delivering CAN transceivers of outstanding resulting in its renewed addition to the “STOXX Global ESG quality. Today, around 60 electronic control units (ECUs) Leaders Index”. Accordingly, Infineon is considered one of communicate with each other in vehicles via the Controller the leading global companies in areas of environmental Area Network (CAN). Transmitting and receiving data, protection, social engagement and corporate governance. CAN transceivers are key contributors for the communication within a car. They connect the respective ECUs in automotive powertrain, body and safety applications. January 2017 Infineon included in the “Sustainability Yearbook” May 2017 for the seventh year in a row In the 2017 fiscal year Infineon qualifies for inclusion in Infineon once again listed in the “Euronext the “Sustainability Yearbook” for the seventh consecutive Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index” time – this year listed for the first time in the “Silver Class”. This index lists the 120 best companies in the area of Infineon is once again among the ten best semiconductor Corporate Responsibility in the eurozone. manufacturers in the world in terms of entrepreneurial sustainability. “Kedah Industry Excellence Award 2017” for Infineon Kulim (Malaysia) Infineon joins CharIN to support global standards The Infineon frontend site is awarded the Malaysian in electric mobility “Industry Excellence Award 2017”. The award recognizes Infineon is key for the automated and electric car. An Infineon’s contributions to Malaysia’s growth, particularly appropriate charging infrastructure is critical to support towards the state of Kedah’s economy and its goal of the rapidly growing electric vehicles market worldwide. becoming a high-tech economic center for the northern As the world’s leading semiconductor supplier for driver region of the country. assistance systems and electric mobility Infineon supports the global standardization of charging infrastructure for hybrid and electric vehicles. Therefore, Infineon has joined the global Charging Interface Initiative e.V. (CharIN). INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 9 Notable events 2017 May 2017 June 2017 Infineon unveils 1,200 Volts silicon carbide Infineon receives award from DENSO MOSFET technology for unprecedented efficiency The Japanese automotive system supplier DENSO honors in power conversion designs Infineon with a “Supplier of the Year Award”. DENSO Infineon develops silicon carbide (SiC) solutions to meet acknowledged the cooperation of its subsidiaries in North rising demands with regard to energy efficiency, compactAmerica with Infineon. The award is given to the supplier ness, system integration and reliability. Thanks to the very who demonstrates commitment to exceptional quality much higher switching speed of SiC MOSFETs as comand logistics performance. The assessment criteria also pared to conventional silicon MOSFETs, electric power can include collaboration in advancing automotive technolobe converted much more efficiently and in significantly gies and consistent customer orientation. smaller packages, meaning less cooling is required. The July 2017 result is increased performance, higher reliability and reduced system costs. Research project “eRamp” strengthens Germany Infineon receives Bosch “Global Supplier Award” and Europe in power electronics Recognized among thousands of suppliers, Infineon One of the most important European research projects receives the award form the world’s largest automotive for energy efficiency, “eRamp”, comes to a close: Over the component supplier, Robert Bosch GmbH, for the sixth past three years, 26 partners from business and science time. With the award, the Bosch Group honors outstandhave explored innovative electronics components for using ing performance in the manufacture and supply of energy even more efficiently. Infineon, the world market products or services – notably in the areas of quality, leader in power semiconductors, led the research, which innovation and logistics. was conducted in six European countries. Infineon launches Silicon Valley Innovation Center Microelectronics for connected production: The world is changing fast and Silicon Valley has long Infineon launches “Productive4.0” research been a major hub for innovation. Through the new Silicon project in Dresden (Germany) Valley Innovation Center (SVIC) Infineon develops new technologies that make our lives easier, safer and greener. “Productive4.0”, the largest European research initiative Now, the SVIC located in Milpitas (USA) helps accelerate to date in the field of Industry 4.0, is launched at Infineon our customers’ innovations to grow existing markets and in Dresden (Germany). Coordinated by Infineon, more create new ones. than 100 partners from 19 European countries work on digitizing and networking industry. The aim is to create a user platform across value chains and industries that especially promotes the digital networking of manufacturing companies, production machines and products. September 2017 The platform can be used in the three interlocked process Infineon listed in the “Dow Jones Sustainability™ pillars for managing supply chains, the product life cycle World Index” and digital production. For the eighth time in a row, Infineon is listed in the “Dow Jones Sustainability™ Europe Index” and for the third time in the “Dow Jones Sustainability™ World Index” – as the only European semiconductor company listed in both indexes. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 10 Sustainability strategy Sustainability strategy We understand Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as our voluntary responsibility towards both international and local societies. Our commitment is based on compliance with current legal requirements, the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the principle of sustainability as the symbiosis of economy, ecology and social engagement. Based on these tenets we have identified six fields of activity: Business Ethics, Occupational Health and Safety, Environmental Sustainability, CSR Supply Chain Management, Corporate Citizenship, as well as Human Resources Management and Human Rights. Infineon CSR Concept GRI G4 – 24, G4 – 26, G4 – 27 Investors Politics DER MANAGEM AK EHOL ENT • Annual General Meeting ST • Political dialogs • Roadshows & conferences • Employees involved in • Quarterly Reports Industry associations • Quarterly segments presentation • Workshops • Annual Report • Yearly Financial Statements Business Ethics • Sustainability reporting Human Corporate Resources Citizenship Management, Human Rights Customers Employees Infineon • Audits CSR • “Great Place to • Services provided Concept Work” Survey by experts • Quarterly “All-Hands • Infineon Service Center CSR Occupational Meetings” 24/7 Supply Chain Health • Daily internal news • Product requirements Management and Safety • Compliance hotline 24/7 • Roadshows • Training • Committees for CSR Environmental topics, e.g., “Corporate Sustainability citizenship Panel” Suppliers Social stakeholders • Suppliers’ assessment • Participation in • Principles of Purchasing surveys and studies • Compliance website • Citizenship activities • Awareness-raising campaign • Conferences & about water-stressed areas workshops INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 11 Business ethics Business ethics MATERIAL TOPICS › Business ethics › Diversity and equal opportunity › Responsible manufacturing › Labor relations ALL EMPLOYEES WERE TRAINED ON THE REVISED INFINEON BUSINESS CONDUCT GUIDELINES. TARGETS see page 34 ff. In the last years Infineon has structured its Compliance Management System according to the IDW PS 980 standard. Infineon Technologies AG and selected major subsidiaries subjected their Compliance Management System to confirmation of appropriateness, implementation and effectiveness by an external independent auditing firm. After the completion of such evaluation, which was focused on antitrust law and prevention of corruption during the 2014 fiscal year, the standard was extended to all other Group companies including the former International Rectifier companies during the past fiscal years. Since then compliance is monitored by regular internal audits of the Compliance Management System in the various subsidiaries. The Compliance Management System includes an annual formalized risk assessment, in particular with regard to corruption and antitrust law. This evaluation then serves as the basis for the definition of the necessary measures which are ultimately summarized in the compliReports of possible compliance ance program. The Corporate Compliance Officer, heading a worldwide team, is responsible breaches for coordinating the Compliance Management System and reports directly to the member of 107 the Infineon Technologies AG Management Board responsible for Finance. In addition to the 88 93 development of the Infineon compliance program, the officer helps create guidelines, advises 66 53 employees, receives complaints and information on relevant issues and heads investigations 52 54 of compliance cases. 38 44 28 36 39 Employees and business partners took advantage of the available internal and external possi10 bilities (Management, Human Resources department, Compliance, anonymous whistleblower 2014 2015 2016 2017 hotline and ombudsman) to report actual or suspected violations during the 2017 fiscal year. Thereof confirmed as compliance breach The number of reports and the number of subsequent investigations in the last fiscal year were (after investigation) slightly above the level of previous years. We fundamentally attribute this to the raised levels Thereof confirmed as non-breach of awareness within the organization regarding compliance issues and the increased familiarity (after investigation) Thereof still under investigation with the reporting options. The absolute number of noteworthy reported violations, in particular related to financial damages, did not increase. However, a rise was evident in connection with the topics of behavior and individual work-related grievances. The Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines form the central element of our Compliance Management System. As a code of conduct, the Guidelines are an essential basis for our daily actions and apply to all employees and corporate bodies worldwide when dealing with one another, with our customers, shareholders, business partners or with the public. The Business Conduct Guidelines were revised during the 2016 fiscal year and published in 14 different languages. Subsequently, all Infineon employees received web-based or face-to-face training on the content during the 2017 fiscal year. Here each employee has also formally confirmed that he or she is familiar with and will comply with the new version of the Business Conduct Guidelines. The clear objective is not only increasing awareness but also the ability to deal with the related challenges. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 12 Business ethics As a UN Global Compact participant, Infineon is committed to abide by the stated Principles and reports below on the measures implemented in an exemplary manner in its “Communication on Progress”: UN Global Compact Measures implemented Human Rights Principle 1: Support for human rights › Our Business Conduct Guidelines define our responsibility towards our customers, employees, suppliers, community and societies as well as to our shareholders around the world, including respect for and protection Principle 2: Non-complicity in human of human rights. Our CSR policy describes our strategic CSR focus areas and our voluntary commitment to rights abuses fulfill the corresponding obligations. Both our strategic objectives and our daily actions must always be based on high ethical and legal standards. › Training for all employees on Business Conduct Guidelines which reflect our commitment to respect and uphold international human rights. › We conducted various evaluations in the area of human rights at our manufacturing sites around the world. On the basis of these evaluations we concluded that our activities are in compliance with the International Bill of Human Rights and with the conventions and principles of the International Labour Organization (Fundamental ILO Conventions). › We require our suppliers and service providers to comply with permanently defined regulations in our Principles of Purchasing. Infineon purchases components and materials only from companies that respect human rights. Labor Principle 3: Uphold freedom › Our Business Conduct Guidelines prohibit discrimination and any form of forced labor. of association › There are various options available for reporting compliance violations, ranging from a report to the supervisor Principle 4: Elimination of all forms to a report to the Corporate Compliance Officer, the respective responsible regional Compliance Officer or the of forced labor external ombudsman. Cases can also be submitted, either openly or anonymously, via the whistleblower hotline. The Compliance Officer investigates any cases received and decides on the initiation of internal investigations. Principle 5: Abolition of child labor During the 2017 fiscal year the “Infineon Integrity Line” was introduced; an improved whistleblower hotline that Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination uses the highest data protection standards while providing the reporting party with new functions such as the possibility for dialog with the Compliance Officer while remaining anonymous. › We react rigorously to demonstrated violations with balanced and suitable measures within the limits of company and legal regulations. Here we follow the principle of proportionality. We therefore decide on an individual case basis which consequences are appropriate, necessary and suitable. › Around 77 percent of our employees work at sites that have entered into collective agreements and where independent employee representatives are in place. › More than 90 percent of our employees work at production sites where committees are in place that also offer employers, employees and/or employee representatives the opportunity to discuss and receive advice on topics relating to environmental protection, occupational safety and health. › We uphold and promote the fundamental principles defined in the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), such as protection from discrimination in the selection, hiring, employment and promotion of employees, the right to form workers’ councils, as well as the rejection of child labor and all forms of forced labor. Persons under the age of 15 are not allowed to work at Infineon. Exceptions apply for countries subject to ILO Convention 138 (minimum age reduced to 14 years) or for job training or training programs which are authorized by the respective government and which demonstrably promote those participating. Environment Principle 7: Precautionary approach to › Our IMPRES (Infineon Integrated Management Program for Environment, Energy, Safety and Health) is globally environmental protection certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. Relevant EU frontend sites and our corporate headquarters are additionally certified under ISO 50001. Principle 8: Support initiatives for greater awareness of environmental › Our IMPRES policy is an essential part of our management system which contains binding internal strategies, responsibility processes, goals and requirements in the areas of environmental protection, energy, occupational safety and health. Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly › The responsible member of the Infineon Management Board defines the framework for the objectives in this area technologies within the Infineon Group. As part of these definitions, the responsible management sets appropriate targets at site level and makes sure that all goals are realized. › Internal environmental, energy, occupational safety and health audits and external certification audits take place at the sites in the context of our multi-site certification. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Action against corruption › In order to further raise awareness regarding prevention of corruption within the Company, the corresponding web-based training was revised and rolled out globally to approximately 8,000 employees in particular target groups during the second half of the 2017 fiscal year. › The topic of reporting compliance violations is generally described in the Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines. Details of the reporting and notification process in case of violations of laws, the Business Conduct Guidelines and other internal regulations are also part of the worldwide rule “Management of Compliance Cases”. › Implementation of the rules and compliance processes applicable to Infineon (for example, covering gifts and invitations) at the former International Rectifier sites. › Formalized risk assessment as a part of the Compliance Management System and derivation of the necessary measures. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 13 Human rights Human rights MATERIAL TOPICS › Labor relations › Diversity and equal opportunity › Business ethics › Responsible manufacturing INFINEON COMPLIES WITH THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (ILO). TARGETS see page 34 ff. Compliance with internationally proclaimed human rights and labor standards is a matter of course for us. The Infineon Business Conduct Guidelines embody our commitment and define our standards as well as their implementation in this area for all employees worldwide. Those standards are in compliance with the “International Bill of Human Rights” and the “Fundamental Principles” of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Our employees receive regular training on the Business Conduct Guidelines. In addition, we have implemented external hotlines which our employees, suppliers, customers and business partners can contact, openly or anonymously. All cases reported are investigated by our ComP see page 11 f. pliance experts (see chapter “Business ethics”). We do not tolerate any form of forced labor, bonded or involuntary prison labor. All work is performed without coercion of any kind and can be terminated by each employee by means of appropriate resignation. We do not tolerate child labor. The term “child” refers to persons under the age of 15. Exceptions apply for certain countries subject to ILO Convention 138 (minimum age reduced to 14 years) or for job training or training programs which are authorized by the respective government and which demonstrably promote those participating. Our employees are compensated in accordance with applicable wage legislation and in compliance with the respective applicable minimum wage, regulations on overtime hours and legally prescribed additional benefits. Infineon requires its suppliers to comply with all valid laws including those dealing with human P see page 29 f. rights as well as fair business practices (see chapter “Our responsibility along the supply chain”). P see page 99 The “Corporate Governance Report” in the Annual Report 2017 contains additional detailed of the Annual Report 2017 information. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 14 Human resources management Human resources management MATERIAL TOPICS › Labor relations › Diversity and equal opportunity IN THE 2017 FISCAL YEAR INFINEON INVESTED €12.2 MILLION IN THE FURTHER TRAINING OF ITS STAFF. Our engagement in human resources is an essential factor in our efforts towards sustainability. Only contented and successful employees will ensure high performance in the long run. And this conviction characterizes all our employee development measures as well as measures for attracting new employees. TARGETS see page 34 ff. The regularly occurring “Great Place to Work (GPtW)” survey is our barometer for measuring our progress in terms of employee satisfaction. Values such as openness, diversity and work-life balance play a central role in creating attractive workplaces for our employees; thus the promotion of the role of women in leadership positions is a focal point in our diversity management activities. A strong culture of promoting and developing our talented employees and managers runs throughout our entire range of human resources management activities. During the “leadership dialog” managers receive clearly structured feedback from their staff. Number of employees Infineon is active on a worldwide basis. Almost half of the 37,479 employees (previous year: 36,299) worked in Asia-Pacific (17,810 employees). 42 percent of all employees were employed in Europe (15,644); the majority of these were employed in Germany (10,324). Employees by geographical region 2017 2016 Total Female Male Total Female Male Europe 15,644 3,873 11,771 15,176 3,742 11,434 Therein: Germany 10,324 2,696 7,628 9,855 2,572 7,283 Asia-Pacific 17,810 8,456 9,354 17,256 8,303 8,953 Therein: China 1,961 976 985 2,004 1,006 998 Japan 186 36 150 176 36 140 Americas 3,839 1,625 2,214 3,691 1,535 2,156 Therein: USA 2,081 677 1,404 2,047 677 1,370 Total 37,479 13,990 23,489 36,299 13,616 22,683 INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 15 Human resources management In the workforce as a whole, as of 30 September 2017, 2,074 female employees and 1,875 male employees had fixed-term contracts and 11,916 female employees and 21,614 male employees had permanent contracts. A total of 1,629 employees were working part-time as of that date. 2017 2016 Total Full-time Part-time Total Full-time Part-time Male 21,614 20,978 636 20,855 20,327 528 Employees on permanent contracts Female 11,916 10,942 974 11,385 10,477 908 Male 1,875 1,867 8 1,828 1,824 4 Employees on fixed-term contracts Female 2,074 2,063 11 2,231 2,219 12 Total 37,479 35,850 1,629 36,299 34,847 1,452 Employees who were, for example, on parental leave or in the non-working phase of early retirement part-time working arrangements, are not active employees and therefore not included in the tables above. Furthermore, as of 30 September 2017 Infineon employed a total of 309 apprentices and dual students, 122 interns as well as 1,013 working students. 103 new apprentices and dual students were hired in the 2017 fiscal year. Temporary employees are also excluded from the data above. As of 30 September 2017, 2,649 temporary employees were working for Infineon worldwide, of whom 1,270 were female and 1,379 male. Approximately 77 percent of the external employees worked in production, giving Infineon flexibility in its manufacturing in the context of fluctuations in capacity utilization. Female/male employees New hiring and fluctuation (new entries worldwide 2017) Fluctuation rates and the number of new hires are important indicators for us in our efforts to satisfy our demand for high performance and to achieve excellence in management. In the 2017 fiscal year there were 5,088 new hires worldwide, of which 2,337 were female and 45.9 3% 2,751 male. 3,124 employees were under the age of 30, 1,832 employees in the age group of 30 to 50 and 132 employees over the age of 50. 54.07 % Total Europe Therein: AsiaTherein: Japan Americas Therein: Germany Pacific China USA Newly hired Female Male employees 5,088 1,103 688 2,706 150 24 1,255 237 Rate of newly hired employees¹ 13.6 7.1 6.7 15.2 7.6 12.9 32.7 11.4 Staff departures 3,682 521 290 2,018 193 11 1,132 204 Rate of staff departures ² 10.0 3.4 2.9 11.6 9.8 6.1 30.2 9.9 1 Figures expressed in percent based on the workforce as of 30 September 2017, in the respective region. 2 Figures in percent, calculated on the basis of the monthly workforce in the 2017 fiscal year. Age structure Worldwide there were 3,682 staff departures from Infineon in the 2017 fiscal year. Of these, (new entries worldwide 2017) the majority (2,018 employees) were in the Asia-Pacific region, where the majority of new recruitments also occurred (2,706 employees). Employee fluctuation in the Americas region Under 30 years 61.4 % decreased from 30.8 percent in the previous year to 30.2 percent in the 2017 fiscal year. The high 30 to 50 years 36.0 % fluctuation rate in that region derives mainly from the unchanged high fluctuation rate at our Over 50 years 2.6 % manufacturing site in Tijuana (Mexico). Relatively high employee fluctuation rates are common at companies of comparable size in Mexico. At Infineon we take this issue very seriously and are continuously working on lowering the fluctuation rate. Successful realization of the corresponding measures will however take some time. Thus, we are continuously working together with local management on these topics with the clear objective of reducing fluctuation rates. Of the departures, 1,871 were women and 1,811 men. 1,924 employees were in the “under 30” age group, 1,374 in the middle age group (30 to 50 years) and 384 in the “over 50” age group. The worldwide employee fluctuation rate during the 2017 fiscal year was 10.0 percent, which represents a slight decrease of 0.5 percent (previous year: 10.5 percent). INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 16 Human resources management Age structure and length of service Demographic change is one of the megatrends of the 21st century and also impacts the age structure at Infineon. Age structure The average age among employees worldwide is 38.6 years; in the 2017 fiscal year it is slightly (Infineon worldwide 2017) higher than the previous year (2016 fiscal year: 38.5 years). The share of employees below 30 years of age slightly fell (2017 fiscal year: 24.0 percent, 2016 fiscal year: 24.1 percent). The Under 30 years 24.0 % share of employees in the middle age group has also decreased (2017 fiscal year: 59.8 percent, 30 to 50 years 59.8 % 2016 fiscal year: 60.1 percent). On the other hand, the share in the group of employees over Over 50 years 16.2 % the age of 50 has risen (2017 fiscal year: 16.2 percent, 2016 fiscal year: 15.8 percent). The average length of service of Infineon employees worldwide remains in the 2017 fiscal year by 9.9 years. TARGETS see page 34 ff. Encouraging diversity As an international company, the diversity of our staff is particularly important to us. We live out a culture that appreciates the individuality of each and every person and that promotes equal opportunity regardless of age, disability, ethnic-cultural origin, gender, religion, ideology or sexual identity. Our global diversity management program with diversity managers at all major sites guarantees that we support the needs of our employees on site and continue to develop our culture of diversity. Nationalities Infineon employs a total of 37,479 persons of different nationalities. The five most prevalent (Infineon worldwide 2017) nationalities represent a total of 75.1 percent of the workforce, with Malaysian nationals accounting for 28.3 percent and German nationals for 25.5 percent. 24.9 % 28.3 % Employees Under 30 years 1 30 to 50 years 1 Over 50 years 1 total 6.3 % Middle and senior level management 2,3 6,268 0.1 66.2 33.7 8.0 % 25.5 % Entry level management 2 6,978 3.9 81.9 14.2 7.0 % Non-management staff 24,233 36.0 51.7 12.3 Total 37,479 24.0 59.8 16.2 Malaysia Austria Germany China 1 Figures expressed in percent based on the workforce as of 30 September 2017, in the respective comparison group. Indonesia Other 2 At Infineon, the management function includes not only the leadership of employees but also leadership through specialist nationalities (100) expertise as well as project management functions as defined in the internal job evaluation system. 3 Including the Management Board. Distribution of gender and age structure: Out of 13,990 female employees 32.9 percent are under 30 years old, 55.3 percent are in the middle age group and 11.8 percent are over 50 years old. Out of 23,489 male employees 18.7 percent are under 30 years of age, 62.4 percent are in the middle age group and 18.9 percent are over 50 years old. Employees Female 1 Male 1 total Middle and senior level management 2,3 6,268 13.9 86.1 Entry level management 2 6,978 26.5 73.5 Non-management staff 24,233 46.5 53.5 Total 37,479 37.3 62.7 1 Figures expressed in percent based on the workforce as of 30 September 2017, in the respective comparison group. 2 At Infineon, the management function includes not only the leadership of employees but also leadership through specialist expertise as well as project management functions as defined in the internal job evaluation system. 3 Including the Management Board. Qualifications and training We regard ourselves as forerunners for outstanding performance. Accordingly, the continuing education of our staff is very important to us. We do all we can to support them in optimally developing their respective individual abilities and apply these abilities towards the success of Infineon. In the 2017 fiscal year, our staff participated in a total of 1,067,178 hours of training. 40.6 percent of training hours were given to female employees and 59.4 percent to male employees. Production training hours accounted for the majority of the hours utilized, at 76.4 percent. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 17 Human resources management Training hours Per employee ¹ Female ¹ Male ¹ Middle and senior level management 2,3 22.78 27.05 22.09 Entry level management 2 30.30 31.99 29.69 Non-management staff 29.42 31.10 27.96 Total 28.47 30.97 26.99 1 Calculated on the basis of the monthly workforce in the 2017 fiscal year. 2 At Infineon, the management function includes not only the leadership of employees but also leadership through specialist Training expenses 1 expertise as well as project management functions as defined in the internal job evaluation system. € in millions 3 Including the Management Board. 12.2 10.1 Training hours Per employee ¹ 8.5 9.2 Production 30.08 Research and development 27.57 Sales and Marketing 18.09 Administrative 20.41 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total 28.47 1 Starting from the 2016 fiscal year the data from the former International Rectifier sites are included. 1 Calculated on the basis of the monthly workforce in the 2017 fiscal year. Fringe benefits Fringe benefits are a longstanding tradition at Infineon and are also offered in various forms. All benefits form an integral part of the overall remuneration concept and reflect Infineon’s responsibility to its staff. The scale and nature of the benefits are determined in accordance with the relevant regional statutory and standard market requirements. No distinction is made in this respect between full-time and part-time staff. In Germany and the Asia-Pacific region (including Japan), for example, in addition to employer and employee-financed pension plans, benefits granted include the items listed below (the exact arrangements are specific to each location): Industrial accident insurance Company car for work or as additional benefit Paid sick leave beyond the statutory minimum Private car leasing from gross deferred compensation Continued wage payment to surviving dependants Long-service awards in the event of death Sabbatical Preventive health program Flexible transition to retirement pension Family-friendly services, such as, for example, in-house kindergartens or working together with local organi­ zations offering day care facilities for children, vacation activities for children In the Asia-Pacific region (including Japan), in addition to these benefits, site-specific life insurance as well as hospital group insurance policies are also offered, which extend beyond the statutory provisions. One noteworthy example for the USA is the attractive Company pension plan. Infineon also encourages various work-time models aimed, for example, at keeping working hours flexible, depending on individual employees’ circumstances – such as in the form of trust-based working hours, part-time work or teleworking arrangements. In the Asia-Pacific region (including Japan), for example, 90 percent of all sites already offer flexible working time and 70 percent of all sites offer teleworking options. Compensation Infineon wants to attract the best available talent and for that reason attractive, market-oriented remuneration and appropriate participation in the Company’s success are a matter of course. We pay our staff on the basis of work-related criteria, such as job requirements and performance, and in accordance with the respective local market requirements. Men and women are paid equally at Infineon. Each employee receives appropriate, transparent remuneration for their work, in compliance with all legal standards. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 18 Responsibility for our employees Responsibility for our employees MATERIAL TOPICS › Labor relations › Responsible manufacturing IN THE 2017 FISCAL YEAR WE INVESTED APPROXIMATELY 42,392 HOURS IN TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR OUR SPECIALIZED EXPERTS WORLDWIDE IN THE AREAS OF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH AS WELL AS IN FIRE PREVENTION. Injury Rate (IR) ¹ Ensuring a safe working environment is a very high priority at Infineon. Here we take a preven0.5 tive approach. Our occupational health and safety management system, certified according to OHSAS 18001, has been implemented at all major manufacturing sites as well as at corporate 0.4 headquarters. Through workplace-related risk assessments which are carried out worldwide 0.3 we want to ensure that workplace-related risks which may result in a danger to employees 0.2 are identified and required protective measures are taken to minimize risks. This preventive approach is examined and revised on a regular ongoing basis. 0.1 0 Qualified safety experts supervise the implementation of the protective measures. Creating 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 safe and ergonomic workplaces is a matter of course for us. In addition to work areas in 1 The Injury Rate is calculated as follows: total production and other technical areas, office workplaces are also analyzed in terms of improvenumber of injuries/total hours worked x 200,000. ments. One example of realization in everyday practice is the information brochure for our Holidays and public holidays are included in the working hours. corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany) which includes tips and advice on topics such as indoor climate and office acoustics. As another element in our preventive approach, we carry out fire prevention training and evacuation exercises at all our main production sites as Lost Day Rate (LDR) ¹ well as at the corporate headquarters on a regular basis. 6 The recording and evaluation of work-related accident figures in the course of our general data 4 collection process is performed in accordance with GRI G4 requirements on the basis of the standardized Injury Rate (IR) and the Lost Day Rate (LDR). All work-related accidents that have 2 led to more than one lost day have been taken into account. Our Injury Rate of 0.46 in the 2017 fiscal year is presented on the margin in the graphic above. The Lost Day Rate of 5.10 in 0 the 2017 fiscal year is illustrated on the margin in the graphic below. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 The Lost Day Rate is calculated as follows: total In July 2017 there was a fatal accident at one of our manufacturing sites resulting from a number of lost days/total hours worked x 200,000. Holidays and public holidays are included in the behavior-related work accident. Infineon deeply regrets this tragic accident and provided the working hours. family of the casualty with immediate assistance and financial support. With its certified occupational safety program the Company has already achieved a very high level of occupational safety. However, in response to this incident we will also implement a behavior-based TARGETS see page 34 ff. safety program in addition to the existing certified processes and measures in order to minimize even more effectively the risk of work-related accidents. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 19 Environmental sustainability Environmental sustainability MATERIAL TOPIC › Responsible manufacturing 59 PERCENT OF THE WASTE GENERATED IS RECYCLED. Our global management system IMPRES integrates targets and processes relating to environmental sustainability as well as occupational safety and health. IMPRES is certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 worldwide. Additionally, it has been certified in accordance with ISO 50001 energy management standard at our largest European manufacturing sites as well as at our corporate headquarters. Sustainable use of resources at our manufacturing sites The limited availability of natural resources is one of the greatest global challenges. Increasing resource efficiency enables both environmental and economic potential and is an essential pillar in our sustainability strategy. Water management Infineon’s water balance for the 2017 fiscal year is shown in schematic form in the following chart. Water balance in cubic meters (m3) Water use Evaporation Water withdrawal Production Municipal wastewater (sewage plant) (partly treated): 23,984,482 m³ Cooling water: Water discharge after production: 22,112,263 m³ 11,347,182 m³ Groundwater: 14,992,198 m³ Ultrapure water: 8,707,978 m³ Wastewater: 11,930,090 m³ Drinking water: 6,122,239 m³ Non-ultrapure water Internal wastewater treatment Non-drinking water : Sanitary systems, canteen area, etc. 2,870,045 m³ In accordance with In accordance with purity requirements purity requirements Indirect discharge Direct discharge Sewage plant: Discharge to river: Discharge to river: 5,982,919 m³ 5,947,171 m³ 10,182,173 m³ INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 20 Environmental sustainability Water is used at our manufacturing sites, for example, for cooling equipment or for generation of ultrapure water. If the water that we withdraw does not meet the applicable purity standards, it is subject to further treatments. TARGETS see page 35 ff. Part of the withdrawn water can be re-used after its initial use. During the reporting period, 1,543,965 cubic meters (17.73 percent) of ultrapure water and 1,277,547 cubic meters (10.71 percent) of production wastewater were re-used. Infineon withdrew 23,984,482 cubic meters of water during the year under report. Infineon sources water either from its own groundwater wells or from local providers, who supply both drinking and non-drinking water of lesser quality than drinking water. Our water sources are shown in the following graph. Water consumption in cubic meters (m3) 25,000,000 20,000,000 15,000,000 10,000,000 5,000,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Groundwater Drinking water Non-drinking water Standardized water consumption The World Semiconductor Council (WSC) has defined “water consumption in liters per square per square centimeter manufactured wafer centimeter of manufactured wafer” as the unit for measuring the efficiency of water use. The Infineon frontend sites consumed approximately 28 percent less water to manufacture a Infineon ¹ 72 % square centimeter wafer in the 2016 calendar year than the global average of the WSC. WSC 100 % According to the definition of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 1 Frontend sites worldwide. (WBCSD), water stress begins with an available total amount of renewable water resources of less than 1,700 cubic meters per person in the population per year. We used the “Global Water Tool Version 2015” of the WBCSD to perform a risk analysis at country level. The results show that only our manufacturing site in Singapore (Singapore) is located in a water stress area. Water discharges 2017 This site consists primarily of office and test operations with a comparatively low level of water consumption. Although during the 2017 fiscal year only 0.57 percent of our total water volume 26.89 % was consumed there, we implemented measures to ensure efficient water use at the site as well. Two buildings at the site have been awarded the “Water Efficient Building” certificate by 46.05 % the local water authority “PUB”. Since March 2016, a technical innovation has made it possible to make more efficient use of the water in the cooling towers, reducing the annual water 27.06 % demand by more than 4,500 cubic meters. After water has exited the production area, it is either directly or indirectly discharged, dependWastewater – direct discharge ing on its level of purity, the technical conditions and official permissions. The percentage of Wastewater – indirect discharge water discharged is shown in the chart on the left. Other water discharges (excluding wastewater) The high priority given to sustainable water consumption is demonstrated through our participation in the United Nations CEO Water Mandate. On our website we publish the Infineon “Communication on Progress” for this initiative of the UN Secretary-General. By participating @ www.infineon.com/csr_reporting in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water Disclosure we also inform our stakeholders about how we handle water and the associated opportunities and risks. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 21 Environmental sustainability Waste management TARGETS see page 35 ff. Our sustainable waste management is based on classification and separation of waste and the use of safe disposal methods. All manufacturing sites use certified waste management companies. In the 2017 fiscal year the total amount of waste generated was 38,289 tons, with 19,500 tons classified as non-hazardous and 18,789 tons classified as hazardous. Besides statutory requirements, fluctuating production has the greatest impact on the amounts of waste generated. Waste generation in tons 20,000 16,000 12,000 8,000 4,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Waste management methods In the 2017 fiscal year, 69.93 percent of the non-hazardous waste and 47.66 percent of the in the 2017 fiscal year hazardous waste were sent to recycling. The percentages of the various waste management methods are illustrated in the adjoining chart. 7.46 % 1.51 % 12.91 % The WSC has defined the “waste generated in grams per square centimeter manufactured wafer” as the unit for measuring the efficiency of waste management. Compared to the WSC global average, in the 2016 calendar year our worldwide frontend sites generated approxi59.00 % 19.12 % mately 53 percent less waste per square centimeter manufactured wafer. At our site in Villach (Austria) reusable packing is replacing the existing cardboard packing in the transport of sawn wafers, in particular for deliveries to our sites in Warstein (Germany) Recycling Incineration and Cegléd (Hungary). Reusable packing consists of transport boxes made of plastic which Chemical treatment Composting can be used multiple times. This makes it possible to save up to 55,000 boxes and up to Landfill 110,000 pieces of foam plastic per year. Reusable packing not only means reductions in the amount of waste generated, it is also possible to transport significantly more boxes than before. Reusable packing was developed on a cross-site basis by Infineon employees working Standardized waste generation together with suppliers. per square centimeter manufactured wafer Our site in Villach (Austria) uses redestillation to successfully externally recycle the solvents Infineon ¹ 47 % propyleneglycolmonomethyletheracetate (PGMEA), cyclopentanone, N-methyl-pyrrolidone WSC 100 % (NMP) as well as dimethyl formamide (DMF). The most effective recycling applies to DMF, with a recycling rate of 80 percent. 1 Frontend sites worldwide. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 22 Environmental sustainability Energy efficiency and climate protection Efficient energy management At Infineon, energy is used mainly in the form of electricity. Primary energy sources such as oil GWh and gas play only a minor part. Direct energy (Scope 1) renewable 1.12 Within our manufacturing sites, the frontend sites consume the majority of the energy, since Firewood 1.12 the physical conditions for production are particularly demanding there. Thus, for example, Direct energy (Scope 1) non-renewable 196.79 an additional amount of energy is needed to establish the highly stable climatic conditions in Natural gas 182.71 the cleanrooms. In comparison, the backend sites have lower energy consumption due to the Liquid gas 0.98 nature of their processes. Research and development sites and the offices have the lowest energy demand. Petrol 0.05 Petrol (cars) 0.33 In the 2017 fiscal year Infineon consumed approximately 1,667 gigawatt hours (GWh) of Diesel 0.55 energy worldwide. Furthermore, Infineon gave approximately 1.43 gigawatt hours to external Diesel (cars) 11.79 consumers. Fuel oil 0.38 Indirect energy (Scope 2) Consumption by energy source is shown in the following graph and in the adjoining table. non-renewable 1,469.21 Electricity 1,396.00 Energy consumption District heating 73.21 in gigawatt hours 1,600 1,200 TARGETS see page 35 ff. 800 400 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Natural gas Liquid gas Fuel oil Petrol Petrol (cars) Firewood Electricity District heating Diesel Diesel (cars) At our main manufacturing sites we have implemented the systematic of the energy management standard ISO 50001 according to local requirements, and continually analyze options to further improve energy efficiency. Standardized electricity consumption The WSC has defined “electricity consumed per square centimeter manufactured wafer” as per square centimeter manufactured wafer the unit for measuring the energy efficiency of frontend sites. Compared to the global average value of the WSC, our frontend sites worldwide used approximately 47 percent less electricity Infineon ¹ 53 % to manufacture one square centimeter wafer in the 2016 calendar year. WSC 100 % In the 2017 fiscal year, the energy consumption per revenue was 0.24 kilowatt hours per euro. 1 Frontend sites worldwide. Figures from previous years are also shown in the following graph as a comparison. Energy consumption per revenue in kilowatt hours per € 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 23 Environmental sustainability Greenhouse gas emissions Infineon started developing strategies to reduce the amount of material used to the technically necessary minimum at an early stage, thereby minimizing CO2 emissions. Since 2014, Infineon has been publishing information on opportunities and risks for the Company due to climate change through the “Carbon Disclosure Project” (CDP). Infineon has earned a spot among the three best companies in the “Information Technology” sector in the DACH region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) for this year’s CDP climate change reporting. The classification of direct and indirect emissions in Scope 1, 2 and 3 is performed as set out in the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”. The Scope 2 guidelines require companies to calculate and disclose two values for their Scope 2 emissions: “market-based accounting”, based on provider-specific emission factors, and “location-based accounting”, based on the average for the regional or national grid. Scope 1 emissions The semiconductor industry uses various greenhouse gases in wafer-etching processes for structuring wafers as well as for cleaning production equipment. This includes perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), namely perfluorinated and polyfluorinated carbon compounds, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). These greenhouse gases cannot be replaced by another class of substances and account for around 86 percent of Scope 1 emissions. TARGETS see page 35 ff. The increasing level of product complexity results in the tendency towards increased demands for these gases. We are reacting to this trend with continuous optimization of our processes through more efficient manufacturing methods and intelligent abatement concepts. The use of alternative gases with higher utilization rates and lower greenhouse gas potential helps minimize the increase in emissions wherever possible. Since the 2015 fiscal year we have changed our PFC reporting from absolute values to the Normalized Emission Rate (NER) by normalizing the emissions per manufactured wafer surface. The WSC has set the objective to achieve an average normalized emission rate of 2.2 by the year 2020. This corresponds to a reduction of 30 percent compared to 2010. Our target is to remain below the maximum value of 2.2 as early as today. With a NER of 1.35 we have achieved our target. Normalized Emission Rate in tons of CO2 per square meter 3.50 3.00 2.50 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 World Semiconductor Council 1 Infineon frontends Maximum value 1 When preparing this report the WSC 2017 figure was not available. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 24 Environmental sustainability In addition to the PFC reporting, we calculate emissions for other relevant substances used at our main manufacturing sites on an annual basis. In the 2017 fiscal year, 6,176 kilograms of sulfur oxides (SOx), 35,512 kilograms of nitrogen oxides (NOx), 12,722 kilograms of carbon monoxide (CO), 398,369 kilograms of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and 16,916 kilograms of particulate matter (PM) were emitted. The total Scope 1 emissions in the 2017 fiscal year are equivalent to 259,078 tons of CO2. Scope 2 emissions Considering provider-specific emission factors of the energy sources used, our Scope 2 emissions totaled 609,825 tons of CO2 equivalents in the reporting period. This approach was selected in order to illustrate the implementations achieved so far in terms of regenerative energy supply. One example is the use of district heating at the corporate headquarters. Scope 3 emissions Scope 3 emissions refer to emissions generated for the provision and disposal of all raw materials and supplies as well as other utilities, operational materials and other process media, goods transportation, travel and energy supply activities (transmission losses). Scope 3 emissions totaled 539,248 tons of CO2 equivalents. The following emissions and immissions have been included in the calculation of the Infineon CO2 footprint: Calculation of the CO₂ burden in tons of CO₂ equivalents 1,408,151 259,078 609,825 539,248 Scope 1 – Direct Scope 2 – Indirect Scope 3 – Indirect 1 PFCs Electricity Fuel and energy supply Gas District heating Water supply Diesel Wastewater Fueloil Waste Petrol Materials Firewood Raw materials and supplies Infineon function cars Flights Transportation 1 Further emissions along the value chain. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 25 Environmental sustainability Altogether, the Infineon environmental carbon footprint totaled 1.41 million tons of CO2 equivalents in the 2017 fiscal year. The following chart illustrates the emissions by origin. The input streams show emissions generated in the course of supplying the materials. The output streams show emissions that were directly generated (during production) and through internal and external transportation. Allocation input and output of emissions by origin in tons of CO2 equivalents (tCO2e) Raw materials Process gases 119,964 tCO2e 10,159 tCO2e Process Electricity chemicals 766,993 tCO2e 67,585 tCO2e INPUT Other energy Water supply 48,807 tCO2e 2,106 tCO2e Infineon production sites Internal and external OUTPUT Air emissions transportation 221,992 tCO2e 164,335 tCO2e Waste Wastewater 2,567 tCO2e 3,643 tCO2e INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 26 Contribution through sustainable products Contribution through sustainable products MATERIAL TOPICS › Responsible manufacturing › Contribution through sustainable products › Long-term viability of core business DURING THEIR USE-PHASE, INFINEON PRODUCTS ENABLE CO2 EMISSIONS SAVINGS OF ROUGHLY 58 MILLION TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENTS. Semiconductors from Infineon help generate electricity from renewable energy sources. They also offer increased efficiency in all value added stages of the energy sector: in generation, transmission and in particular in the use of electricity. They form a basis for the intelligent and efficient use of energy: in industrial applications, power supplies for computers and entertainment electronics as well as in motor vehicles. Semiconductors and solutions from Infineon make end-products more energy-efficient during their lifetimes and thus make an essential contribution to the improvement of the environmental footprint. For example, in industrial applications such as drives or motor control units, products from Infineon reduce power loss and thus improve efficiency. Products from Infineon are also used in technology fields such as LED lamps and induction cookers. The production of energy from renewable sources with large wind power turbines and photovoltaic parks is also enabled by our high-performance products. The power switches PROFET™+2 and High Current PROFET™ from Infineon promote energy efficiency and miniaturization in automotive electronics. These products are manufactured using the new SMART7 thin-wafer technology, resulting in reduced power loss and less chip surface. The PROFET™+2 power switches are up to 40 percent smaller and their power consumption 50 percent lower than that of the preceding generation. High Current PROFET™ power switches can efficiently control very high electric loads. This reduces P see page 44 ff. power loss in control devices by up to 60 percent. The chapter “The segments” of the 2017 of the Annual Report 2017 Annual Report contains further examples of energy-efficient products. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 27 Contribution through sustainable products The Infineon CO2 footprint When calculating a CO2 footprint a variety of complex processes and a multitude of influencing factors need to be considered. Therefore, carbon footprint calculations are subject to certain estimates. We have further optimized our approach in order to further improve the accuracy of such estimates. TARGETS see page 35 ff. The calculation of CO2 emissions is based on the ISO 14000 standard series, which is further specified by the PAS (Public Available Specification) 2050 guideline issued by the BSI (British Standards Institution) for determining product-specific environmental impacts, as well as by the principles of the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” for determining carbon footprints (relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency and accuracy). In calculating the Infineon CO2 footprint, we have considered the entire manufacturing process in accordance with PAS 2050, including all of the utilities (raw materials and supplies) as well as internal and external logistics including final distribution to customers. During their use-phase, Infineon products in the fields of automotive electronics, industrial drives, servers, lighting, photovoltaics, wind energy, mobile phone chargers and induction cookers alone, enable CO2 emission savings amounting to approximately 58 million tons of CO2 equivalents, representing an increase of around 11 percent compared to the previous year’s value. This increase is due to several factors. The most significant increase is to be seen in automotive electronics. It was also possible to increase the installed performance of photovoltaics. Thus, with its products and innovations in combination with efficient production, Infineon achieved an environmental net benefit of more than 56 million tons of CO2 equivalents. Carbon footprint CO₂ burden ¹ CO₂ savings ² Ratio around 1 : 41 Around 1.4 million tons of CO2 equivalents Around 58.2 million tons of CO2 equivalents Net ecological benefit: CO₂ emissions reduction of more than 56 million tons 1 This figure considers manufacturing, transportation, function cars, flights, materials, chemicals, water/wastewater, direct emissions, energy consumption, waste, etc., and is based on internally collected data and externally available conversion factors. All data relate to the 2017 fiscal year. 2 This figure is based on internally established criteria, which are explained in the explanatory notes. The figure relates to the 2016 calendar year and considers the following fields of application: automotive, LED, induction cookers, PC power supply, renewable energy (wind, photovoltaic), mobile phone chargers as well as drives. CO2 savings are calculated on the basis of potential savings of technologies in which semiconductors are used. The CO2 savings are allocated on the basis of Infineon market share, semiconductor content and lifetime of the technologies concerned, based on internal and external experts’ estimations. Despite the fact that CO2 footprint calculations are subject to imprecision due to the complex issues involved, the results are nevertheless clear. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 28 Contribution through sustainable products Compliance with legal and customer-specific requirements The processes involved in manufacturing semiconductors are complex and require a wide variety of special chemicals and materials. At Infineon we responsibly manage the handling of hazardous substances to safeguard human health and the environment. The products manufactured by Infineon meet all of the requirements set out in the European chemicals policy REACH (Regulation EC 1907/2006 “Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals”). Two important European directives regulate the use of certain substances defined by the European legislature as hazardous in end-products, the directive 2000/53/EC (ELV directive: “End-of-Life Vehicles”) and the directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS directive: “Restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment”). No Infineon product is in the scope of these directives. However, our customers expect Infineon products to meet legal requirements in their applications. Infineon products comply with these requirements and are conform with the substances restrictions in the aforementioned legal regulations and thus meet customer requirements. Furthermore, we provide our customers with information on the chemical composition of the materials contained in our products. Infineon constantly works to develop and implement alternatives for certain materials, such as lead. Thus, for example, we participate in the DA5 (DA: Die Attach) partnership working to find lead-free alternatives for high temperature solders which are necessary for specific applications because of their properties. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 29 Our responsibility along the supply chain Our responsibility along the supply chain MATERIAL TOPICS › Responsible manufacturing › Contribution through sustainable products ALL INFINEON PRODUCTS ARE DRC CONFLICT-FREE. A long-term partnership between Infineon and its suppliers is a core element of our corporate philosophy. In the course of this partnership all our suppliers are managed centrally in a supplier TARGETS see page 35 ff. management portal where data is updated as necessary. This system is also used for supplier evaluation. The compliance with our requirements in the areas of environmental protection, occupational safety and health as well as CSR are highly relevant when selecting new suppliers, evaluating existing suppliers, and also for future supplier development. Principles of Purchasing Labor standards Conflict Human rights of interest Occupational Fair business safety and health Principles practices of Purchasing Business continuity Business gifts planning Environmental Security protection Our Principles of Purchasing are based on internationally recognized guidelines, such as the Principles of the UN Global Compact and the Fundamental Principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) as well as our Business Conduct Guidelines. The requirements described therein cover the topics shown in the diagram “Principles of Purchasing” above. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 30 Our responsibility along the supply chain Furthermore, our new main suppliers are contractually obliged to uphold our environmental, occupational safety and health as well as CSR commitments. Only suppliers that have committed to our basic principles can enter into a business relationship with us. In the 2016 fiscal year, the supplier management portal was expanded, providing our suppliers with a centralized platform for registering and updating relevant parameters. Additionally, this portal allows suppliers to submit updated certifications. More than 100 new suppliers and new subsidiaries of existing suppliers are thus categorized every quarter according to their products and services. Depending on this categorization the supplier receives up to twelve questionnaires on various topics in the supplier management portal. The responses received are evaluated by the respective Infineon specialist departments. The supplier is not approved unless it gets a successful evaluation. When necessary, improvement measures are jointly agreed with the supplier. This procedure supports a fast and up-to-date assessment. Infineon products without DRC conflict minerals TARGETS see page 35 ff. The US Dodd-Frank Act (Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act) was adopted in July 2010. It contains disclosure and reporting obligations for companies listed on stock exchanges in the USA concerning the utilization of so-called “conflict minerals” that originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or its adjoining countries. The term “DRC conflict minerals” applies to tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, inasmuch as their extraction and/or trade does directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the DRC or neighboring countries. The use of the materials mentioned is absolutely necessary for the functionality of our products. Respect for human rights is a matter of course for Infineon. The avoidance of conflict minerals throughout the supply chain is a firm contribution towards the prevention of human rights abuses. Infineon is not listed on US stock exchanges and therefore not legally required to publish a report on conflict minerals. Nevertheless, as a member of the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), we uphold our voluntary commitment towards our responsibility within the supply chain. At the same time, our comprehensive declaration on the use of conflict materials supports those of our customers who are required to perform due diligence within their supply chains in meeting their reporting duties in accordance with the requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Since Infineon does not purchase these metals directly from mines or smelters, we identify their origin in close cooperation with our direct suppliers. For this purpose we have introduced a standardized process throughout the organization based on the “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas” in order to create the necessary transparency within our supply chain. @ www.infineon.com/csr_reporting Our targets and requirements towards our supply chain are set forth in the Infineon “Conflict Minerals Policy” and the “Supplier Code for a Responsible Sourcing of Conflict Minerals”, which are published on our website. In the 2017 fiscal year, Infineon identified 100 percent of its potential suppliers of conflict minerals and evaluated them with regard to their use of conflict minerals. Based on the thorough response of our suppliers and in accordance with the requirements of the OECD guidance, we can duly state that all Infineon products are DRC conflict-free. Moreover, we request our suppliers to continue purchasing only raw materials from smelters that meet the CFSI requirements or those of an equivalent auditing program. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 31 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship MATERIAL TOPIC › Presence in local markets INFINEON IS CURRENTLY ENGAGED IN CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ACTIVITIES IN 17 COUNTRIES. TARGETS see page 35 ff. We understand corporate citizenship as our voluntary social contribution to the communities in which we operate. Infineon has defined four areas of activity in the field of corporate citizenship: “Environmental Sustainability”, “Local Social Needs”, “Education for Future Generations” and help in case of “Natural and Humanitarian Disasters”. These focus areas of engagement are contained in our corporate citizenship rule. This rule ensures that our corporate citizenship activities are performed transparently and in line with our ethical principles. We have also appointed a citizenship representative for this topic at all our major sites. Infineon supported 237 activities worldwide in the 2017 fiscal year. 37 percent of the donations were local investments in the communities we interact with, and 63 percent were donations to charitable activities. Corporate citizenship expenditure 2017 in € Donations Sponsoring Employee In-kind giving Total volunteering 624,524 427,666 14,140 29,636 1,095,966 INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 32 Corporate citizenship Examples of the corporate citizenship activities of Infineon in the 2017 fiscal year Natural and › Support for various initiatives for the integration of refugees (Germany) Humanitarian › Donation to the German Red Cross: Famine relief in Africa Disasters › Donation to UNICEF Sweden for vaccination packages against measles and polio › Support for the “Deutsches Global Compact Netzwerk” foundation › Support for the “International School Carinthia” in Villach (Austria) Local Social Needs › Support for the organization “Charity Meets Challenge e.V.” in Oberschleißheim (Germany) › Support for campaigns against hunger by the aid organizations “Meals on Wheels” and “Food Forward” in El Segundo (USA) › Support of the Endowed Chair for Power Electronics of the Technical University of Munich (Germany) › Support of the German-Chinese university education program on microcontrollers and embedded systems at Education for Tongji University (China) Future Generations › Support for the “Students League” of the Electronics Faculty at the Politehnica University in Bucharest (Romania) › Support for the Soong Ching Ling foundation to provide education to children in mountainous regions (China) › Sponsor of the “Ren De” foundation, focusing on environmental protection (China) › Annual volunteer tree-planting campaign by Infineon employees in collaboration with BADEPAL Environmental Ministry Environmental in Batam (Indonesia) Sustainability › Support for the Alpen-Adria-University in Klagenfurt and its department of Production, Energy and Environmental Management (Austria) › Support for environmental protection projects in Acadia National Park (USA) Local investments and services It is important for us to engage with local communities and to invest in them. The Infineon investment in Warstein (Germany) for the expansion of module development and manufacturing in the area of power semiconductors for electro-mobility has a major impact on the marketing of the city itself. In future, Warstein intends to develop the ecological image of the city besides the strong brand of the Warsteiner brewery also with the subject electro-­ mobility, in connection with Infineon as a strong partner. Here Infineon is supporting the city of Warstein in joint activities. For example, Infineon, the city of Warstein and the regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry hold together the first South Westphalian Electro-mobility Day (“Südwestfälischer Elektromobilitätstag”) on the Infineon premises. Infineon Austria is one of the nine collaboration partners in the industry and tourism initiative “Industrie & Tourismus”. Industry needs skilled employees. To these employees, not only an attractive employer counts, but more and more they choose a working environment based on what the site and their future home base can offer their families in terms of quality of life. Industry and tourism providers have joined together in a cooperative partnership to better position Carinthia and in particular Villach (Austria) as an attractive business location offering high quality of life. The “Industrie & Tourismus” initiative regards itself as a marketplace for leveraging synergies between the two sectors and thus increasing regional value creation. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 33 Corporate citizenship Memberships and partnerships Infineon is involved in numerous industry associations and standardization organizations including but not limited to: Industry associations › World Semiconductor Council (WSC; organization of regional semiconductor associations) › Global Semiconductor Alliance (GSA) › Industrial Internet Consortium (IIC) › Alliance for the Internet of Things Innovation (AIOTI) › European Semiconductor Industry Association (ESIA) › Association representing the Smart Security Industry (EUROSMART) › China Semiconductor Industry Association (CSIA) › US Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) › Federal Association for Information Technology, Telecommunications and New Media (BITKOM) › German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’ Association (ZVEI) › German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA) › 5G Automotive Association (5GAA) Standardization organizations › International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) › International Organization for Standardization (ISO) › Global Standards for the Microelectronics Industry (JEDEC) › Universal Serial Bus Implementers Forum (USB-IF) › TCG-Trusted Computing Group (Computer Security Standards) › European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) › Automotive Open System Architecture (AUTOSAR) › German Institute for Standardization (DIN) › German Commission for Electrical, Electronic & Information Technologies of DIN and VDE (DKE) Others › United Nations Global Compact › Platform “Industry 4.0” INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 34 Our sustainability targets Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2017 FISCAL YEAR STATUS DESCRIPTION Business ethics Ensuring sustainable compliance structures at all sites. Sustainable compliance structures oriented towards IDW PS 980 standard are ensured via regularly occurring internal audits performed at the sites by the audit department. In addition, the responsible Compliance employees assess the state of local Compliance Management Systems, for example, during the annual risk assessments. Human rights Introduction of a new modern whistleblower platform: In the The Infineon Integrity Line, a uniform new whistleblower hotline, past Infineon and former International Rectifier have been using has been in operation since December 2016. Both employees two different platforms. and external parties can submit reports in their native languages anywhere in the world. The menu interface is available in all the essential languages of the Infineon Group. Reports can be made either in written form or by telephone, of course anonymously, when desired. Human resources management Increasing the share of women in management positions We were able to increase the share of women in middle and to 15 percent by the 2020 fiscal year. Our long-term goal is a upper management levels from 13.4 percent to 13.9 percent in 20 percent share of women in management positions. 2017. All divisions, central functions and regions support this goal of 15 percent with individual measures and performance indicators. We remain dedicated to achieving our long-term objective of 20 percent. Starting in the 2018 fiscal year, more than 80 percent of our With an agreement ratio of 78 percent in the survey of 2016, employees will indicate in the “Great Place to Work” survey that we have improved by 3 percent since the last survey in 2013. “All in all, Infineon is a very good employer”. The next survey will take place in the 2018 fiscal year. At least 90 percent of all our managers (Senior Manager level The leadership dialogs provide managers with structured feedwith five or more direct employees and higher1) will conduct a back from their employees. This makes it possible for them to leadership dialog with their employees within two years. reflect on their own management behavior, to strengthen it and identify potential improvements. This improves collaboration both with and within the team. At present a share of approximately 77.3 percent (previous year: 74.2 percent) of managers has conducted their leadership dialogs within the last two years. Compared to the last fiscal year we were able to increase this share by 3.1 percent. The efforts initiated in order to increase this share will be continued in the coming fiscal year and will be supported with additional measures at global and local levels. Responsibility for our employees We will implement the standard OHSAS 18001 at two former The OHSAS 18001 standard was implemented at our sites in International Rectifier sites and will include these sites in our Temecula (USA) and Tijuana (Mexico). Thus both sites have been multi-site certification. included in the Infineon multi-site certificate. 1 Due to the current integration activities, the Americas region has been exempted from the goal until the end of the 2017 fiscal year. Target achieved In progress Target not yet achieved INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 35 Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2017 FISCAL YEAR STATUS DESCRIPTION Environmental sustainability Water management Regardless of growing product complexity, our aim is that our Our specific water consumption was below 8.5 liters per square specific water consumption does not exceed 8.5 liters per square centimeter manufactured wafer. centimeter manufactured wafer. The typically increasing complexity of our products requires an increase in the use of water in production. Therefore, this target is a challenge and a practical reference unit for the effectiveness of our measures aimed at the sustainable use of water. Waste management Regardless of growing product complexity, our aim is to keep the Our specific waste generation was below 27.5 grams per square specific waste generation below 27.5 grams per square centimeter centimeter manufactured wafer. manufactured wafer. The typically increasing complexity of our products requires an increase in the use of raw materials and supplies. This also means an increase in the amount of waste generated. Therefore, this target is a challenge and a practical reference unit for the effectiveness of our measures aimed at the waste reduction. Efficient energy management Completion of projects and measures at our worldwide manuIn the 2017 fiscal year we completed measures which saved an facturing sites which will save a total of 35 gigawatt hours of annual volume of 24.65 gigawatt hours of energy; considering energy by the end of the 2017 fiscal year. the last three fiscal years, we achieved 59.31 gigawatt hours. Greenhouse gas emissions PFC-relevant emissions will remain below the World SemiconOur PFC-relevant emissions were below 2.2 tons CO2 equivalents ductor Council target value of 2.2 tons of CO2 equivalents per per square meter manufactured wafer surface. square meter of manufactured wafer surface. The challenge here is the constantly increasing complexity of our products and thus the associated increase in the number of process steps requiring the use of climate-relevant gases. Contribution through sustainable products Updating of the Infineon CO2 footprint as well as achievement The CO2 footprint was updated. The proportion of CO2 savings of a ratio of CO2 savings through our products in the use-phase by our products during their use-phase was by the factor compared to the emissions generated in manufacturing our 41 higher than the corresponding emissions in manufacturing products of approximately 30 to 1. those products. Our responsibility along the supply chain Integration of the conflict mineral activities in the Supplier The Supplier Management Portal requests declarations on Management Portal. conflict minerals in the form of “Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates” (CMRT). Maintaining a DRC conflict-free supply chain and conducting a A comprehensive supplier evaluation was conducted and the complete renewed supplier evaluation with regard to the use DRC conflict-free supply chain was maintained. of conflict minerals. Here the challenge is the dynamic development of the product portfolio and the resulting modified supplier topology. Corporate citizenship Introduction of an annual “Best Practice Sharing Workshop” with Two corporate citizenship “Best Practice Sharing Workshops” the local citizenship representatives. were held in July 2017 with the participation of a total of over 50 people. Here the Infineon concepts and expectations in the area of corporate citizenship as well as planned process improvements were presented and discussed. Target achieved In progress Target not yet achieved INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 36 Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2018 FISCAL YEAR Business ethics Scheduled revision of the web-based antitrust law training and registration of all employees with potential contact to competitors. The training program is mandatory for employees in sales, marketing and procurement areas as well as for all managers at the Senior Manager level or higher. We expect approximately 4,800 employees to particpate. Human rights Evaluation of possible risks in the area of human rights in the top five countries in our supply chain, based on publically available information, by the end of the 2018 fiscal year. Human resources management Increasing the share of women in management positions to 15 percent by the 2020 fiscal year. Our long-term goal is a 20 percent share of women in management positions. Starting in the 2018 fiscal year more than 80 percent of our employees will indicate in the “Great Place to Work” survey that “All in all, Infineon is a very good employer”. At least 90 percent of all our managers (Senior Manager level with five or more direct employees and higher) will conduct a leadership dialog with their employees within two years. The leadership dialogs provide managers with structured feedback from their employees. This makes it possible for them to reflect on their own management behavior, to strengthen it and identify potential improvements. This improves collaboration both with and within the team. Responsibility for our employees Implementation of a behavior-based safety program by the end of the 2020 fiscal year at all manufacturing sites included in IMPRES and at the corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany), in addition to measures already in existence. Environmental sustainability Water management Due to the increasing complexity of our products the use of water in manufacturing increases too. Regardless of this growing product complexity, our water consumption will nevertheless remain under 8.5 liters per square centimeter manufactured wafer. Implementation of a “Best Practice Sharing Program” for the water management activities of all manufacturing sites included in IMPRES and of the corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany) in the 2018 fiscal year. Identification and assessment of major suppliers located in areas subject to water shortages in the 2018 fiscal year. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 37 Our sustainability targets TARGETS FOR THE 2018 FISCAL YEAR Environmental sustainability Waste management Regardless of growing product complexity, our aim is to keep the specific waste generation below 27.5 grams per square centimeter manufactured wafer. The typically increasing complexity of our products requires an increase in the use of raw materials and supplies. This also means an increase in the amount of waste generated. Therefore, this target is a challenge and a practical reference unit for the effectiveness of our measures aimed at waste reduction. Implementation of measures at the frontend sites in order to save 300 tons of the solvent PGMEA by the end of the 2020 fiscal year. Efficient energy management Implementation of projects and measures by the end of the 2020 fiscal year for increasing energy efficiency, totaling annual potential energy savings of 25 gigawatt hours. Completion of an energy assessment of the data centers at all manufacturing sites included in IMPRES and of the corporate headquarters Campeon (Germany) in order to identify additional possible energy efficiency potential by the end of the 2019 fiscal year. Greenhouse gas emissions In the 2018 fiscal year the PFC-relevant emissions of the frontend sites will remain below the World Semiconductor Council target value of 2.2 tons of CO2 equivalents per square meter manufactured wafer surface. The challenge here is the constantly increasing complexity of our products and thus the associated increase in the number of process steps requiring the use of climate-relevant gases. Performance of a comprehensive efficiency analysis (ABC analysis) of our PFC abatement concept at all frontend sites by the end of the 2019 fiscal year in order to identify additional possible optimization potential. Contribution through sustainable products Revision of the concept for calculation of the Infineon CO2 footprint taking new standards into account, for example, WBCSD “Addressing the Avoided Emissions Challenge”. Updating of the Infineon CO2 footprint as well as achievement of a ratio of CO2 savings through our products in the use-phase compared to the emissions generated in manufacturing our products of approximately 40 to 1. Our responsibility along the supply chain Maintaining a DRC conflict-free supply chain and conducting a renewed evaluation with regard to the use of conflict minerals for 100 percent of the relevant suppliers. Here the dynamic development of the product portfolio and the resulting modification in the supplier topology, as well as the increase of customer-specific requirements present a substantial challenge. Corporate citizenship Definition of a worldwide methodology for the evaluation of the impact of our corporate citizenship activities by the end of the 2018 fiscal year. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 38 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Issue Page Page Remarks External Report “Sustainability Annual Report audit at Infineon 2017” 2017 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4 – 1 Statement from the 1 2–5 Management Board ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4 – 3 Name of the organization Cover page Cover page G4 – 4 Primary brands, “Infineon at a glance” products, and/or services G4 – 5 Organization’s headquarters 49 G4 – 6 Countries where the 49 – 52 organization operates G4 – 7 Nature of ownership 66 – 67 and legal form G4 – 8 Markets served 40 – 48 G4 – 9 Scale of the organization 7 “Infineon key data” G4 – 10 Employee structure 14 – 16 G4 – 11 Percentage of total employees 12 covered by collective bargaining agreements G4 – 12 Organization’s supply chain 29 – 30 G4 – 13 Significant changes during 8–9 the year under report G4 – 14 Consideration of 18 – 19, 68 – 71 precautionary approach G4 – 15 Externally developed charters, 2, 12, 43 – 44 principles and initiatives G4 – 16 Memberships 33 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4 – 17 Structure of the organization 49 – 52, 173 – 175 G4 – 18 Report’s boundaries and limitations on its scope 2 G4 – 19 Material aspects 3–6 G4 – 20 Description of material aspects 3–6 within the organization G4 – 21 Description of material aspects 3–6 outside the organization G4 – 22 Effect of any restatements 68 – 71 Explanatory Notes of information (www.infineon.com/csr_reporting) G4 – 23 Significant changes in 2–3 68 – 71 Explanatory Notes the scope of the Report (www.infineon.com/csr_reporting) Audit of the consolidated financial statements Limited Assurance INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 39 GRI G4 Content Index Issue Page Page Remarks External Report “Sustainability Annual Report audit at Infineon 2017” 2017 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4 – 24 Overview of 10 At Infineon stakeholders are involved continuously. stakeholder groups G4 – 25 Selection of stakeholders 2 – 3, 10 G4 – 26 Stakeholder engagement 2 – 3, 10 For the definition of our stakeholders we evaluated international sustainability guidelines and directives, such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and applied the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) Model for Excellence and the UN Global Compact Blueprint. For those activities included in the chart on page 10, in which the frequency of engagement is not described, Infineon engagement is carried out regularly whenever required. The following topics require a special frequency of engagement: › “Great Place to Work” survey: carried out every two years. › Suppliers’ evaluation: carried out for new suppliers. For specific supplier groups it is also carried out on an annual basis. › Principles of Purchasing: part of contractual negotiations. › Annual Report, sustainability reporting, and yearly financial statements: on a yearly basis. G4 – 27 Consideration of key concerns 2 – 3, 10 raised through stakeholders REPORT PROFILE G4 – 28 Reporting period 2 G4 – 29 Date of most recent 2 previous report G4 – 30 Reporting cycle 2 G4 – 31 Contact point 49 G4 – 32 GRI Content Index 38 – 42 G4 – 33 External verification 45 – 47 178 – 183 GOVERNANCE G4 – 34 Governance structure 99 (Corporate of the organization Governance Report) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4 – 56 Principles, standards 2, 11 – 12 and norms of behavior Audit of the consolidated financial statements Limited Assurance INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 40 GRI G4 Content Index Specific Standard Disclosures Issue Page Page Remarks External Report “Sustainability Annual Report audit at Infineon 2017” 2017 PRESENCE IN LOCAL MARKETS Management approach 5 G4 – EC4 Financial assistance received 131 Splitting of “received benefits” by country is not from governments relevant. Governments do not participate in Infineon. G4 – EC7 Development of significant 32 infrastructure investments and services supported G4 – EC8 Significant identified 26 – 28 20 – 26 Through the use of products in which our semiconpositive and negative ductors are used, Infineon has indirect economic indirect economic impacts impacts, for example, in efficiency improvements. The significance of those impacts was – due to external parameters – not determined in each individual case. G4 – EN8 Total water 19 – 20 Indicator applicable due to the production site placed withdrawn by source in a water-stressed area and the associated specific local requirements. G4 – SO1 Operations related to local 10, 31 – 33 community engagement G4 – SO2 Operations with significant GRI G4 Content Index During the 2017 fiscal year our worldwide citizenship actual and potential negative representatives did not find any adverse effects. impacts on local communities LONG-TERM VIABILITY OF CORE BUSINESS Management approach 3–4 G4 – EC1 Direct economic value 31 “Infineon key data”, Retained economic value is not reported. Splitting generated and distributed 59, 131 – 136 direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) by region or market is not relevant. G4 – EC2 Risks and opportunities 4, 5 posed by climate change G4 – EC8 Significant positive 20 – 26 Through the use of products in which our semiconductors and negative indirect are used, Infineon has indirect economic impacts, for economic impacts example, in efficiency improvements. The significance of those impacts was – due to external parameters – not determined in each individual case. G4 – PR2 Total number of incidents GRI G4 Content Index During the 2017 fiscal year, Infineon could not identify of non-compliance with any incidents of non-compliance with regulations regulations and voluntary and voluntary codes related to the impacts of products codes concerning the health and services on health and safety. and safety impacts of products RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Management approach 4 G4 – EN3 Energy consumed inside 22 of the organization G4 – EN4 Energy consumed outside 22, 25 The description of the Scope 3 emissions is based on of the organization the Infineon CO2 footprint, which includes the whole energy consumption of Infineon, and is reported in metric tons of CO2 equivalents. The other steps, that is, the use-phase of the products by the customer as well as their disposal, cannot be automatically calculated due to the different potential applications and fields of use of Infineon products. G4 – EN5 Energy intensity 22 Due to the confidentiality of specific information, Infineon reported the specific energy consumption in gigawatt hours per euro. Audit of the consolidated financial statements Limited Assurance INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 41 GRI G4 Content Index Issue Page Page Remarks External Report “Sustainability Annual Report audit at Infineon 2017” 2017 G4 – EN6 Reductions in 35 energy consumption G4 – EN7 Reductions in the energy 26 – 27 requirements of sold products G4 – EN8 Total volume of 19 – 20 water withdrawn G4 – EN10 Total volume of water 19 – 20 recycled and reused G4 – EN15 Direct (Scope 1) 23 – 25 GHG emissions G4 – EN16 Indirect (Scope 2) 24 – 25 GHG emissions G4 – EN17 Other indirect (Scope 3) 24 – 25 GHG emissions G4 – EN18 GHG emissions intensity 23 Reported by the NER (Normalized Emission Rate) calculation. Herewith only PFC emissions were taken into account, since these are the most significant source of CO2 emissions. G4 – EN19 GHG emissions 35, 37 The avoided CO2 emissions were reported in the reductions achieved GRI G4 Content Index form of energy under the indicator EN6. These are equivalent to 8,788.3 tons CO2 equivalents. G4 – EN21 Other significant air emissions 24 G4 – EN22 Volume of water discharges 19 – 20 G4 – EN23 Total weight of hazardous 21 and non-hazardous waste, by disposal method G4 – EN27 Activities to minimize the 26 – 28 environmental impacts of products and services G4 – HR6 Measures taken intended 29 – 30 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor in the supply chain CONTRIBUTION THROUGH SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Management approach 5–6 G4 – EN7 Reductions in the energy 26 – 27 requirements of sold products G4 – EN30 Significant environmental 24 – 25, 27 impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials G4 – PR1 Significant product and 28 service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4 – PR3 Legally required information 28 about product and services labeling DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Management approach 4–5 G4 – LA12 Governance bodies by 14 – 16 diversity categories G4 – LA13 Wage differences by gender 17 G4 – HR3 Incidents of discrimination 11, 12, 13 and measures taken Audit of the consolidated financial statements Limited Assurance INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 42 GRI G4 Content Index Issue Page Page Remarks External Report “Sustainability Annual Report audit at Infineon 2017” 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS Management approach 6 G4 – SO4 Percentage of employees 12, 36, Compliance training is carried out in particular at trained in anti-corruption GRI G4 Content Index management level and Board level. Splitting training participation by individual regions or employees category is not an indicator relevant to the management process for Infineon. G4 – SO7 Legal actions for 154 – 156 anti-competitive behavior G4 – HR2 Employee training on 12, Infineon carried out 38,000 hours of training on the human rights GRI G4 Content Index Code of Conduct (Business Conduct Guidelines). It included information related to human rights. After publication of the updated Business Conduct Guidelines in the 2016 fiscal year, a refresher training started for all employees, which was completed at all sites during the 2017 fiscal year. G4 – HR3 Incidents of discrimination 11, 12, 13 and measures taken LABOR RELATIONS Management approach 6 G4 – EC3 Coverage of benefit plans 144 – 148 G4 – EC7 Infrastructure investments 32 and services provided G4 – LA1 Employee turnover 15 G4 – LA2 Benefits provided to 17 full-time employees G4 – LA5 Committees are in place 12 that also offer employers, employees and/or employee representatives the opportunity to discuss on topics relating to environmental protection, and occupational safety and health G4 – LA6 Work-related accidents 18 In addition to the general accident data, in the 2017 fiscal year we have sorted the information by gender. The female employees had an IR of 0.54 and LDR of 5.96 and the male employees had an IR of 0.41 and LDR of 4.54. Reporting of the accident rate and lost days rate by region is not a global steering-relevant figure. Infineon has currently no globally harmonized information for the reporting of occupational diseases. The absenteeism rate is not a global steering-relevant figure. Audit of the consolidated financial statements Limited Assurance INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 43 Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals The Agenda 2030 for sustainable development is an expression of the conviction of the international community of states that the global challenges we face can only be mastered together. The Agenda creates a foundation for shaping worldwide economic progress in harmony with social justice and within the ecological boundaries of the earth. The heart of the Agenda is an ambitious catalog with 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Subsequently, Infineon reports on which measures have been or will be implemented for relevant goals and where our business model can contribute to realizing the goals of the Agenda 2030. GOAL IMPLEMENTATION AT INFINEON Ensure healthy lives and Training and continuing education in the area of environmental protection, promote well-being for all occupational safety and health are available to employees including at all ages specialized experts. In 2017 fiscal year our worldwide specialized experts in the areas of occupational safety and health as well as in fire prevention invested approximately 42,392 hours in training and continuing education measures. Infineon also offers projects in the area of ergonomics and health measures. Ensure inclusive and We are committed to high-quality education as a part of the focus area equitable quality education “Education for Future Generations” of our corporate citizenship program. 55 percent of Infineon’s donations and sponsoring activities belong to this area. Achieve gender equality No one may be personally attacked, disadvantaged, harassed or excluded because of their gender, marital status, appearance or sexual identity or orientation. Our Business Conduct Guidelines reflect this value. We take decisive action against every form of discrimination, sexual harassment, physical violence, coercion or verbal abuse. Employment of women and their equal opportunity in accepting management roles is anchored in the Infineon diversity policy and programs. Ensure availability and We participate in the United Nations CEO Water Mandate and provide sustainable management information on specific activities and programs on our Communication of water and sanitation on Progress. for all Ensure access to affordable, Semiconductors from Infineon enable a more efficient production of reliable, sustainable and electricity from renewable energy sources. Furthermore, they offer increased modern energy for all efficiency in all value added stages of the energy industry: in generation, transmission and in particular in the use of electric energy. They form the basis for the intelligent and efficient use of electric energy – for example, in industrial applications, power supplies for computers and entertainment electronics as well as in vehicles. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 44 Sustainable Development Goals GOAL IMPLEMENTATION AT INFINEON Promote sustained, inclusive We respect and promote the fundamental principles defined by the Internaand sustainable economic tional Labour Organization (ILO) conventions in our daily actions. Infineon growth, full and productive also supports special activities that promote decent work opportunities for employment and decent everyone. These include programs for the integration of refugees and asylum work for all seekers: career preparation for refugees and support for the “Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft” (Donors’ Association for the Promotion of Sciences and Humanities in Germany) in assisting refugees within the program “Integration through Education”. Promote inclusive and Our environmental management system enables more efficient use of sustainable industrialization resources and the use of clean and environmental friendly technologies and and foster innovation industrial processes. Infineon has defined specific processes for taking environmental aspects into account in the purchasing of manufacturing equipment and services. Make cities and human One of the key topics of the 21st century is sustainable and optimally consettlements inclusive, safe, nected mobility within urban metropolitan areas as well as mobility between resilient and sustainable cities. Today reliable and fast public transportation is more important than ever for the quality of life and competitiveness of many regions and cities around the world. Our components are used both in local public transportation trains, subway trains and trams as well as in high-speed trains. Hybrid and electric vehicles are taking on a key role in shaping sustainable mobility, since their energy-efficient drives offer a decisive advantage compared to conventional internal combustion engines: They make it possible to effectively reduce air pollutants, in particular in urban areas, such as the emission of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide (NOx) otherwise caused by vehicle traffic. Our components are applied here as well. Ensure sustainable The availability of natural resources is one of the largest global challenges. consumption and Efficient resources management is therefore a central component in IMPRES. production patterns The manufacture of semiconductors requires the use of chemicals which we handle with a great sense of responsibility. As part of IMPRES we commit to our responsibility in the supply chain by concentrating on the procurement of environmentally friendly materials for the manufacture of our products. Protect, restore and In the context of the focus area “Environmental Sustainability” of our citizenpromote sustainable use of ship program we engage in special projects aimed at protecting ecosystems. terrestrial ecosystems Thus, for example, our employees in Kulim (Malaysia) and Batam (Indonesia) have partnered with their respective forest protection agencies in volunteer campaigns to plant more than 1,000 trees. In general, soil protection and biodiversity are a permanent part of IMPRES. Promote the development, The middle classes in India and China are growing annually by around transfer, dissemination ten million people each, a development which also drives rising demand for and diffusion of environmenautomobiles. In Africa the transition from the bicycle or moped to the car is tally sound technologies to also a sign of increasing prosperity. Infineon offers solutions for the continuing developing countries development of these countries through innovative solutions for safety functions and emissions’ reduction in the automobile. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 45 Limited Assurance Report Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor Regarding Sustainability Information1 To the Management Board of Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on the sustainability information published in “Sustainability at Infineon – Supplementing the Annual Report 2017” (further: Report), except for the chapter “Human Resources Management”, but including the “Explanatory Notes” of Infineon Technologies AG (further “Infineon”), for the 2017 fiscal year, published in the Report as well as @ www.infineon.com/csr_reporting. In addition, we have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on the information on the aspects “Financial assistance from governments”, “Indirect economic impacts” and “Direct economic value generated and distributed”, and “Coverage of benefit plans”, published in the Annual Report 2017 of Infineon. Management’s Responsibility The legal representatives of Infineon are responsible for the preparation of the reporting in accordance with the principles and standard disclosures of the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, in combination with internal guidelines, as well as internally developed criteria for the reporting and calculation of the indicator “CO2 savings enabled through our products” (further: Reporting Criteria). This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the assured information and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable under the given circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the information in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm We are independent from the Company in accordance with the requirements of independence and quality assurance set out in legal provisions and professional pronouncements and have fulfilled our additional professional obligations in accordance with these requirements. Our audit firm applies the legal provisions and professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the professional code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1), both in accordance with the International Standard on Quality Control, published by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the Report 2017. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in the German language, whereas the German text is authoritative. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 46 Limited Assurance Report Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed within a limited assurance engagement on the abovementioned information. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the abovementioned sustainability information including the “Explanatory Notes”, published online @ www.infineon.com/csr_reporting , as well as in the Annual Report 2017 for the period from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017, has not been prepared, in all material respects with the aforementioned Reporting Criteria. We do not, however, issue a separate conclusion for each sustainability disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the auditor’s own judgement. Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures: › I nterviewing employees at Group level in order to gain an understanding of the process for determining material sustainability topics and the respective boundaries of Infineon. › A  risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for Infineon in the reporting period. › Reviewing the suitability of internally developed Reporting Criteria. › E  valuating the design and implementation of systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the sustainability performance information, including the consolidation of the data. › I nterviewing relevant staff at Group level responsible for providing the data and information, carrying out internal control procedures and consolidating the data and information, including the Explanatory Notes. ›  valuating internal and external documentation to determine whether the qualitative and E quantitative information is supported by sufficient evidence. › A  n analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sites for consolidation at Group level. ›  ite visit to Warstein (Germany) and phone interview with Temecula (USA) to assess local S data collection and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data. ›  valuation of the overall presentation of the quantitative claims and qualitative indicators E on the sustainability performance included in the scope of the engagement. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 47 Limited Assurance Report Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence received to obtain assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information in the Report “Sustainability at Infineon Supplementing the Annual Report 2017”, except for the chapter “Human Resources Management”, but including the “Explanatory Notes” published online @ www.infineon.com/csr_reporting, as well as the information on the aspects “Financial assistance from governments”, “Indirect economic impacts”, “Direct economic value generated and distributed”, and “Coverage of benefit plans”, published in the Annual Report 2017 of Infineon, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Purpose of the assurance report This assurance report is issued based on an assurance engagement agreed upon with Infineon. The assurance engagement is conducted on behalf of Infineon and the assurance report is solely for information purposes of Infineon on the results of the assurance engagement. Limited liability The assurance report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Munich, 21 November 2017 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Jens C. Laue ppa. Carmen Auer Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES | SUSTAINABILITY AT INFINEON 2017 48 Imprint Imprint Published by: Infineon Technologies AG, Neubiberg (Germany) Editors: Corporate Sustainability & Continuity Planning Copy deadline: 21 November 2017 Fiscal year: 1 October to 30 September Independent auditors: KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Berlin (Germany) Designed by: HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg (Germany) Notes: The following were brand names of Infineon Technologies AG in the 2017 fiscal year: Infineon, the Infineon logo, PROFET™+2 and High Current PROFET™. Specialized technical terms are explained in the Technology Glossary of the Annual Report 2017 on pages 184 ff. Forward-looking statements: This Report contains forward-looking statements about the business, financial condition and earnings performance of the Infineon Group. These statements are based on assumptions and projections resting upon currently available information and present estimates. They are subject to a multitude of uncertainties and risks. Actual business development may therefore differ materially from what has been expected. Beyond disclosure requirements stipulated by law, Infineon does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG Headquarters: Am Campeon 1– 12, D-85579 Neubiberg near Munich (Germany), Phone + 49 89 234 0 Contact for Investors and Analysts: investor.relations@infineon.com, Phone + 49 89 234 26655, Fax + 49 89 234 955 2987 Media Contact: media.relations@infineon.com, Phone + 49 89 234 28480, Fax + 49 89 234 955 4521 Visit us on the web: www.infineon.com/sustainability
