2017 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report vestergaard.com TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO Letter 1 Responsible Operations 2  Responsible supply chain 3  Employee rights & respect 4  Occupational health & safety 6  Environmental responsibility 8  Responsible design 9 Humanitarian Impact  Contributing to Guinea worm eradication 10  Helping eradicate sleeping sickness 10  Helping victims of natural disasters 11  Reducing malaria deaths 11  Protecting vulnerable people from waterborne diseases 12  Contributing resources to critical causes 12 Commitments 13 From our CEO In 2017, we continued to be persistent where our products and activities have impact on tough global health problems. HUMANITARIAN IMPACT As hurricanes left residents of Puerto Rico and the Caribbean at enormous risk for waterborne diseases, Vestergaard mobilized efforts to help. Through donations and partnerships, we deployed enough LifeStraw® water filters to bring safe water to over 153,000 Islanders. More than 1.6 billion people have benefited from Vestergaard’s bed nets, water filters and food security products. In 2017, the malaria world faced an alarming reversal in a 15-year trend of significant reduction in malaria cases and deaths. This was due in part to increased resistance by malaria-carrying mosquitoes to insecticides approved for use in bed nets. Vestergaard has been leading the fight against malaria since 2004. We introduced the advanced PermaNet® 3.0 bed net, 796.5 million PermaNet® long-lasting insecticidal nets have been opened a state-of the-art vector lab in Ghana, developed an online tool to map resistance, and we continually provide produced since 2002, contributing to the 60% reduction in malaria deaths technical support regarding resistance to ministries of health throughout sub-Saharan Africa, Cambodia, India and Vietnam. But more needs to be done. from 2000 to 2015. On page 13 of this report, you’ll read about significant commitments we’re making to drive humanitarian impact. For example: 37 million LifeStraw® Guinea Worm filters are helping eradicate Guinea  We’ll continue to donate LifeStraw® Guinea worm filters to support Guinea worm eradication and ZeroFly® Tiny Targets to worm disease which afflicted 3.5 million people in 1986; 30 people in 2017. help eliminate human sleeping sickness, 400,000 ZeroFly® Screens, Targets & Traps are keeping tsetse flies from   Within five years, we’ll bring a non-pyrethroid bed net to market to tackle insecticide resistance, and We’ll innovate technologies that address a wider range of water contamination, including arsenic and fluoride removal. infecting humans and animals with sleeping sickness disease. As we work diligently to achieve these commitments, we’ll continue to abide by the highest standards of ethical behavior. 5.5 million LifeStraw® water filters are preventing waterborne diseases We’ll monitor and enforce a zero-tolerance policy regarding infringements of labor rights and corruption throughout the supply chain. And we’ll reduce our environmental footprint, while fostering sustainability in our products and the processes for some of the 2.1 billion people without access to safe, readily available we use to make them. water at home. In 2018 and beyond, we’ll continue to think and act smart, dig deep, roll up our sleeves and focus on improving global health, 320,000 ZeroFly® Storage Bags support food security by protecting postone commitment at a time. Mikkel Vestergaard, CEO harvest grains and seeds from losses due to pest infestation. Vestergaard 2017 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 1 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Guiding Maintaining a responsible supply chain Code of Conduct This represented a 25% increase in training hours in 2017 vs. 2016. Policies Training topics included: • • Speaking Up • • • • Monitoring Risk Assessment Commitments: In 2018, we will issue an updated, more comprehensive Employee Code of Conduct. In 2018, a new online compliance training platform, developed by the third party Thomson Internal Management Internal Reuters, will be implemented. and BoD Audit Controls Requests Activities Plan In 2018, we will launch new human resource management software for our Tier 1 supplier to improve their social accountabilities management. By 2020, we will cover SA8000® training for all Tier 2 suppliers. Compliance Reporting vestergaard.com 2017 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2 3 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS & RESPECT mission. Encouraging engagement Early in 2018, as in the past 10 years, dozens of staff members Supporting work-life balance from several offices and Board members had the opportunity The safety, health and wellbeing of our employees is of the to travel to rural Kenya to participate in LifeStraw’s Give Back utmost importance to us. Our approach to promoting work–life Program. 2018 marks the achievement of a special milestone: balance varies from country to country. But it is always based reaching 1 million children with ongoing access to safe water. on a common straightforward principle: we want to help our Vestergaard staff helped with the installation of LifeStraw® water employees perform to their full potential. purifiers in 1,621 schools without access to a safe water source. Depending on the location, these programs may include, for • Most volunteers left by 6 am and did not return until example, medical services (e.g., medical check-ups, screenings), 12 hours later, often skipping lunch. They sat with the participation in fitness abonnements, bi-weekly yoga/Zumba teachers and school children and chatted with them, sessions. We also offer International SOS, a complimentary traded stories about cultures, sang songs, played games, service, to all our employees to help keep them safe and healthy demonstrated hand washing and drinking safe water if an emergency situation arises when they are traveling or living hundreds of times, and connected with school children outside their home country. and individuals from around the world. In 2017, Vestergaard launched a Work from Home policy, which Through this event, employees get to experience and embrace, allows employees to work from home one day each week. in a very real manner, the embodiment of Vestergaard’s driving principles. This, in turn, has effectively enhanced loyalty to the company and motivation to go the extra mile to support our Fostering diversity Providing HR support WORKFORCE STRUCTURE – 2017 Vestergaard has a long history of diversity, inclusion and Human resources representatives at our offices across the engagement. All our employees, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, religious faith, sexual orientation or disability, have the globe report to the corporate human resources director at our headquarters in Switzerland. HR teams are committed to FEMALE 47% same opportunities with regards to compensation, promotion, establishing lean, system-supported HR processes to improve job transfer and assignments. employee engagement and achieve workforce efficiencies, while MALE 53% continuing to support employees with quality service. Ensuring employee rights TOTAL STAFF 130 Comprehensive policies guide our activities. Nearly half of all employees NATIONALITIES 16 • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: deployed globally, have been with the company with annual acknowledgment • Equal Employment Opportunities Policy for 5+ years. • Child Labor Policy Commitments: • Flexible Working Hours Policy This includes launching our new online HR Self Service tool and In 2018, Vestergaard will implement new guidelines for succession planning and continue to • Anti-Harassment Policy performance management system. This system has transformed provide training to prepare staff for elevated roles and responsibilities. • Maternity, Paternity, Adoption & Parental Leave our previously paper based review process into an ongoing • Recruitment and Induction Policy strategic collaboration. It ensures that people are engaging with In 2018, we will initiate a global employee engagement survey to give employees a platform • Work from Home Policy our vision, values and strategy but also aligning their goals to for open feedback. these key drivers. vestergaard.com 2017 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 4 5 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY In 2017, Vestergaard opened a new manufacturing facility in Vietnam with world-class working conditions. The new manufacturing site has exceptional safety, environmental and health features including: Enhancing systems and standards • Automatic fire fighting system with 1820 sprinklers, 232 drencher automatic fire Vestergaard made many enhancements in 2017 to ensure that the production lifecycle is handled in an efficient, environmentally controls in addition to 27 fire horse boxes and 5 fire water pumps and hundreds responsible and safe manner. of fire extinguishers • Automatic fire alarm system with central fire alarm network with 16 channels at each area Safety and hygiene practices were strengthened at all production in the factory, 16 beam detectors, 47 smoke detectors, 31 emergency buttons, locations. This included implementation of the internationally recognized 5S method for workplace organization which leads to 14 fire alarm bells. All systems are connected and send signal to a central fire alarm. improved efficiency, service and safety. Improving physical environment Improved working Enhanced safety and Increased lighting Conducted occupational conditions by installing ergonomics for unloading levels by 260% and health checks on 100% of a cooling ventilation by upgrading to automatic improved energy savings operators (137 workers) system at the operators’ conveyor equipment. by replacing standard working on processes Commitments: working positions. lights with LED lights at related to hazardous cut & sew workshops, environmental conditions. In 2018, our objective is to decrease the physical waste generated from our polyester net prolaboratories and offices. duction lines by 20%. By 2019, we will complete all Tier 2 supplier training and upgrade of their practices on O.H.S standards. vestergaard.com 2017 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 6 7 ENVIRONMENTAL RESONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE DESIGN Vestergaard recognizes a shared responsibility to protect Ensuring supplier adherence All products are designed and produced following and maintain our planet. We are committed to reducing the to environmental standards strict criteria. environmental impact of our operations and materials and Vestergaard’s Tier 1 suppliers and production factory must continually look for new ways to implement environmentally sign and adhere to the company’s Supplier Code of Conduct They must be: All products undergo independent testing and certification by responsible business practices across our company. which includes expectations for environmentally responsible • Simple but technologically advanced accredited laboratories against global standards, including manufacturing and sourcing. • Fit for a specific purpose and a clear benefit to humanity the National Science Foundation (NSF), the US Food and Drug Highlights of this activity in 2017 • Durable and long-lasting, even in harsh environments Administration (FDA) and the World Health Organization (WHO). • Easy to understand and use We publish these results as well as results that support all of • Affordable at scale our product claims. 1. Implemented an upgraded boiler system for the coating operation which uses green materials in the form of cashew • Designed and produced in a responsible manner nut shells (biofuel) instead of coal materials. Cashew nut • Evidence based in terms of product claims and shell has a more powerful heating value than coal, resulting intended impact in the need to consume less kg of cashew nut shell versus coal to generate the same amount of heat. Saving the environment with eco-friendly products Vestergaard’s LifeStraw® water filters reduce the need for bottled water by making safe water readily available anywhere. Cashew nut shell Coal 25 – 28 MJ/kg 10 – 30 MJ/kg In fact, one LifeStraw® provides 8,000 water bottles worth of safe drinking water. Heating value Heating value 2. Reduced COD at waste water treatment by 70% by adding = a microbiological treatment (moving bed biofilm reactor) to the physico-chemical treatment at the waste water plant, securing a more effective and efficient waste water treatment. 3. Ensured the highest level of environmental compliance with ISO14001:2015 certification at Vestergaard’s new This tackles a huge problem: Currently 400 billion water bottles are used annually; 150 million tons of plastic manufacturing site. are floating in our oceans and it is predicted that, by 2050, the oceans will contain more plastic by weight than fish. Commitments: In 2018, we will engage an external independent consultancy to audit the hazardous solid and liquid wastes disposal management at our manufacturing Commitments: operations, to ensure we continue to seek, identify and implement improvements By 2025, our operations will be sourced from 80% renewable energy. beyond local compliances and requirements. By 2025, 70% of our supply chain inputs will come from recycled materials. By 2020, we will complete key environmental improvement projects for renewable energy and energy efficiency. vestergaard.com 2017 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 8 9 HUMANITARIAN IMPACT Our core business and socially responsible initiatives contribute In 1986, there were 3.5 million annual cases of Guinea worm Helping victims of natural disasters to more than half of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. disease in roughly 21 countries. In 2017, there were 30 cases in The LifeStraw® Safe Water Fund provides a means for sociallyOften, we engage in high-impact partnerships to ensure even just two countries. Overall, if the downward trend holds steady, as minded individuals and organizations to engage in highgreater humanitarian impact. Here are highlights of 2017 activity. expected, Guinea worm disease will soon be the second human impact safe water programs around the world and respond disease ever eradicated and it will be the first one eliminated to emergencies quickly. The Safe Water Fund enables us to without the use of a vaccine. crowdsource contributions from individuals, non-profits and Contributing to Guinea worm eradication foundations which expands our ability to respond to disasters LifeStraw® was built on a partnership that started over 20 years Helping eradicate sleeping sickness and to serve vulnerable school children around the world. The ago with the Carter Center in a collective effort to eradicate Vestergaard has been a long-term partner in the fight against Fund is managed by New Ventures Fund, a 501-c3 public charity. Guinea worm disease by removing the parasite from drinking water. LifeStraw® has supported this effort with the invention of Human African Trypanosomiasis, also called sleeping sickness. the Guinea Worm filter, a plastic pipe with a stainless-steel mesh This parasitic disease spread by the tsetse fly affects people in In 2017, the Safe Water Fund expanded its program work in Haiti, that filters out Guinea worm larvae from contaminated water. resource-limited settings in Africa, with more than 56 million Kenya and India. In the fall of 2017, the Fund along with several LifeStraw® has provided over 37 million LifeStraw® Guinea Worm people living at risk. The disease is almost always fatal if left partners, undertook a major effort to respond to the crisis of lack filters to the Carter Center and its partners for the eradication of untreated. of safe water in Puerto Rico and the Caribbean. To date, through the disease. In 2017, LifeStraw® donated 149,000 Guinea Worm a combination of direct donations, Safe Water Fund support and filters. These were distributed in the two countries with remaining partner organizations, LifeStraw® has provided more than 10,000 cases: Chad and Ethiopia. Filters were also distributed in Mali and filters and purifiers to the region, covering over 153,000 people. The South Sudan, to sustain eradication efforts. Safe Water Fund’s direct contributions covered over 37,000 people. Reducing malaria deaths Vestergaard has been supporting the fight against malaria since the company invented its first long-lasting insecticidal bed net in 2004. PermaNet® 2.0 is the world’s most distributed and used net and the newer PermaNet 3.0, launched in 2008, is the first net with increased efficacy against the growing problem of insecticide resistance.”.WHO has estimated that 69% of the 663 million fewer malaria cases attributable to interventions were due to the use of mosquito nets. In 2017 Vestergaard donated 40,000 ZeroFly® Tiny Targets to the Trypa-NO! Partnership, a consortium of experts, funded by the To combat the threat of insecticide resistance, Vestergaard continues Gates Foundation, working to eliminate human sleeping sickness to innovate the next generation of bed nets and partner with the Number of people reached with safe water private sector and multilaterals to distribute products while making by 2020. The ZeroFly® Tiny Targets, impregnated with insecticide, through Safe Water Fund initiatives sure the company is part of the ongoing dialogue fighting disease. attract, trap and kill tsetse flies. To bolster scientific research, Vestergaard runs a vector research lab Additionally, in the Democratic Republic of Congo, one of the 18,900 Ecuador in Ghana in partnership with Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical most challenging and heavily burdened countries, Vestergaard Research and has developed an online tool (released in 2012) to map insecticide resistance (www.IRMapper.com). is enlisting its in-country partners already distributing its malaria bed nets and its LifeStraw® water filters, including IMA World 1,300 Haiti Health. The existing distribution networks and highly trained In 2017, Vestergaard provided technical support and materials to staff are being activated to distribute ZeroFly® Tiny Targets faster 1,900 India ministries of health throughout sub-Saharan Africa, Cambodia, India and Vietnam in an effort to help the countries better understand and more cost-effectively, especially in hard-to-reach areas. This unique approach breaks down silos by co-distributing vital health insecticide resistance. tools. 7,788 Kenya 37,123 Puerto Rico vestergaard.com 2017 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 10 11 Protecting vulnerable populations from waterborne diseases expertise and with our own staff in developing countries to provide LifeStraw® water purifiers specifically designed for COMMITMENT SUMMARY Vestergaard’s LifeStraw® brand connects consumer sales to schools. The program also includes ongoing on-site training, impacting people in developing countries through initiatives education about safe water practices and maintenance to ensure including the ongoing Give Back Program. For every product the schools and school kids have the knowledge and tools to purchased, a child in need receives safe drinking water for prevent waterborne illness and stay happy and healthy. In every an entire school year. We do this using our own public health school we support, we make a minimum five-year commitment. Responsible operations We will continue to make our online insecticide resistance mapping tool, IRMapper, freely accessible to support In 2018, we will engage an external independent consultancy Anticipated results after 4th annual distribution scheduled in February 2018 to audit the hazardous solid and liquid wastes disposal National Malaria Control Programmes in malaria-endemic countries. management at our manufacturing operations, to ensure 1,015,652 1,621 10,677 10,000+ 106 M we continue to seek, identify and implement improvements In 2018, the LifeStraw® Safe Water Fund aims to create global Students with Schools Purifiers Follow-up Liters of beyond local compliances and requirements. partnerships with emergency response organizations, like access to safe water reached Delivered visits purified water Team Rubicon, that can support in the rapid deployment By 2020, we will complete key environmental improvement of safe water products within the first 72 hours of any projects for renewable energy and energy efficiency. emergency. By 2025, our operations will be sourced from 80% renewable In 2018 and 2019, we will continue to innovate technologies energy. to address a wider range of water contamination, including By 2025, 70% of our supply chain inputs will come from arsenic and fluoride removal. recycled materials. In 2019, we will address the issues of safe water in the In 2018, we will issue an updated, more comprehensive home, launching a household product that can remove Employee Code of Conduct. microplastics, heavy metals, chemicals and microbiological In 2018, 100% of employees will participate in compliance contamination. training developed by a premier third party training resource, In 2018, we will expand our retail funded safe water Thomson Reuters. programs to new countries, including looking at Nepal and Contributing resources to critical causes Donated 40,000 ZeroFly® Tiny Targets to the GatesIn 2018 we will initiate a global employee engagement survey the US. Vestergaard contributes as members of many industry funded Trypa-NO! Consortium working to eliminate Human to give employees a platform for open feedback. organizations, including: African Trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) by 2020. In 2018, we will assess the possibility of using ocean plastics/ In 2018, we will implement new guidelines for succession organic plastic for a few of the product components to be Camber, Outdoor Women’s Association Donated 15,000 PermaNet® 3.0 bed nets for refugee planning and continue to provide training to prepare staff for implemented in 2019. National Malaria Control Programs in several countries camps in South Sudan and worked with the Mentor Initiative elevated roles and responsibilities. Engage for Good to set up a pilot study to test their effectiveness. In 2018, we will launch a new human resource management European Outdoor Association software for our Tier 1 supplier to improve their social Donated 149,000 LifeStaw® Guinea Worm Filters to IRAC (Insecticide Resistance Action Committee) accountabilities management. contribute to the eradication of Guinea worm disease. Innovation to Impact By 2020, we will increase supplier training volume by 20%. National Institute of Malaria Research, New Delhi, India Donated LifeStraw® Community water purifiers to Private Sector Delegation of the Global Fund to victims of natural disasters in Puerto Rico, the Caribbean and Humanitarian impact Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Houston, TX. Private Sector Malaria Coalition Over the next 5 years, we will bring non-pyrethroid bed nets Donated 121,600 PermaNet® bed nets to the Rotary to market to continue to lead the fight against insecticide Roll Back Malaria Vector Control Working Group Club for distribution in Venezuela and South Africa to address resistance. UN Women Advisory Board the resurgence of malaria in those regions. In 2018, we will prepare to scale up production of PermaNet® Vestergaard routinely donates funds and Donated 3,421 PermaNet® bed nets to the 3.0 bed nets to meet expected demand. products to worthy causes around the world. Goodbye Malaria Foundation for their malaria program in In 2018, we will enhance PermaNet® end user compliance Here are a few activities in 2017. Mozambique. with new instructions on packaging that explain how to take care of bed nets. Provided funds to support operations and support the construction of a maternity ward at the Emusanda Health By 2020, we will establish a local manufacturing facility for Centre in Lurambi, Kakamega, Kenya. our bed nets in an African country. vestergaard.com 12 vestergaard.com
