€¥ INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 ORIX by the Numbers Net Income ¥313.1 billion Net income for FY2018.3 increased 15% year on year to ¥313.1 billion. This was our ninth consecutive year of profit growth and our fourth consecutive year of record net income. Segment Assets ¥9 trillion Without overstretching our asset size, we have been focusing on improving profitability and strengthening financial soundness. Furthermore, we adjust our asset mix flexibly for different times and environments. Dividend Growth Rate 7 consecutive years of double-digit growth We have generated double-digit dividend growth for seven consecutive years since FY2012.3. We remain committed to stable returns while making new investments for sustained profit growth. History Global Network Number of Employees 54 years 38 countries and regions 31,890 Since we introduced “leasing” to We have expanded our global netThe company has grown from a 13-person Japan in 1964, we have been work since launching operations venture into one of Japan’s largest nonproviding a wide variety of innovain Hong Kong in 1971. We charackeiretsu affiliated multinational corporations. tive solutions highly valued by the teristically partner with outstandIt is home to a large and diverse organization market. In return, we have been ing in-market companies, localize of dedicated professionals. rewarded with more than 50 years management, and build a customof continuous profitability and a er base of companies from the longstanding reputation. areas we serve. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 1 New Investment Renewable Energy About ¥740 billion About 3 GW of capacity secured We invested about ¥740 billion during FY2018.3 in key We are involved in solar, wind, geothermal, hydro, biomass businesses worldwide including environment and energy, and other renewable energy projects worldwide with a financial services, fixed income, aircraft, ships, real estate, total capacity of about 3GW. We are a leader in the solar and equity investments. power generation business in Japan, with secured capacity of about 1,000MW and about 700MW online as of March 31, 2018. → Page 42, Environment and Energy Individual Insurance Policies Assets under Management at ORIX Europe About 3.94 million About ¥38 trillion ORIX Life Insurance had a portfolio of approximately 3.94 ORIX Corporation Europe N.V. (formerly Robeco Groep N.V.) million individual insurance policies as of March 31, 2018. We had EUR 288.7 billion in assets under management as of have generated double-digit growth for 12 consecutive years March 31, 2018 (about ¥37.8 trillion at EUR 1 = ¥130.94). In since 2005 by enhancing our product lineup to address addition, the ORIX Group’s overall assets under management customer needs. are steadily increasing through the acquisition of an asset → Page 48, Life Insurance management company in the Americas and growth in the real estate asset management business in Japan. → Page 46, Asset Management Driving Data Collected Aircraft under Management 7 laps around the Earth (per hour) Approximately 200 ORIX had approximately 1.66 million vehicles under We have been in the aircraft business for almost 40 years. management, one of the largest fleets in the world, as of Our competitive strengths stem from our expertise including March 31, 2018. Driving data collected from the telematics market insight, access to lessee airlines and investors, and service we provide corresponds to about seven laps around strong aircraft management capabilities. the Earth per hour. → Page 50, Automobiles → Page 52, Aircraft 2 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 ORIX Helps Create a Vibrant Society through a Range of Activities At ORIX we’re helping create a vibrant society by giving new energy to the economy and people’s lives. We’re working to understand our customers as deeply as possible so we can assist them with all of their needs and challenges in life, and in doing so build truly reliable relationships. We aspire to be a source of discovery and joy by working closely with specialists from many different fields and offering ideas from a unique perspective. Every day we’re dedicated to providing the best service and most thorough attention so that we’ll always be the top choice for our customers. Bringing our society “alive” — this is ORIX’s continuing challenge. Corporate Philosophy Management Policy ORIX is constantly anticipating market 1. ORIX strives to meet the diverse needs of its customers and to deepen trust by needs and working to contribute to sociconstantly providing superior services. ety by developing leading financial ser2. ORIX aims to strengthen its base of operations and achieve sustained growth vices on a global scale and striving to by integrating its resources to promote synergies amongst different units. offer innovative products that create 3. ORIX makes efforts to develop a corporate culture that shares a sense of fulfillnew value for customers. ment and pride by developing personnel resources through corporate programs and promoting professional development. 4. ORIX aims to attain stable mediumand long-term growth in shareholder value by implementing these initiatives. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 3 Contents 01 ORIX by the Numbers 30 Corporate Governance • Management Team 04 A Message from the CEO • Comments from Outside Directors • Corporate Governance at ORIX 06 ORIX Value Creation 40 EC21 Excellent Company 08 Our Business Model • Contributing to Society through Our Businesses —Business Areas for Further Growth • People Who Support Sustainable Growth 10 ORIX’s Three Strengths —Relationship with Employees • Flexibility • Strong Platform • Disciplined 62 Financial Section 16 Management Strategies 72 About ORIX • ORIX’s Business Portfolio • ORIX from a Balance Sheet Perspective • CEO Inoue on Strategy • Investment Process • Financial and Capital Strategies Editorial Policy In addition to financial information, ORIX Integrated Report 2018 contains other important information on subjects such as ESG (environment, society and governance). This report is intended to help our diverse stakeholders including shareholders and investors to understand ORIX’s sustainable growth from a multifaceted perspective. We hope this report provides valuable insight into ORIX’s fundamental belief in contributing to the economy and society through its business activities as well as its strategies for continuing to create value over the medium and long term. Action Guidelines EC21 Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Creativity At ORIX, we have defined “EC21” which clarifies “ORIX’s Corporate ORIX became a participant in Develop the flexibility and foresight Vision” as an “Excellent Company the United Nations Global Comto constantly take actions that are in the 21st Century.” pact in July 2014. We support creative and innovative. the ten principles in the four Integration fields of human rights, labor, Enhance ORIX Group strength by the environment and anti-coractively exchanging knowledge, ruption, and we are promoting https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ ideas, and experiences. company/philosophy/ec21/ initiatives in each of these fields. 4 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 A Message from the CEO Bringing Our Society “Alive” – This Is ORIX’s Continuing Challenge. “Who is ORIX?” Stakeholders often ask me this to society’s issues and needs, and working for society question. Since making our start in the leasing busiwhile maintaining autonomy without relying on others ness upon our foundation, we have constantly are crucial for us. These management philosophies, expanded the scope of our operations into adjacent unchanged since our inception, have led to the growth fields and have grown into a global company encomof ORIX and our contribution to society. passing a variety of businesses. The diversity of our At ORIX, we are helping to create a vibrant society businesses makes ORIX a unique company without through our diverse efforts. By expanding our busipeers worldwide. It may be difficult to understand, ness and growing as a company, ORIX has assumed but the unique ORIX business model transcends a great social responsibility. We will fulfill that social industry categories. responsibility by continuing to think about the interORIX has thrived by quickly recognizing changes in ests of our stakeholders and contributing to the revisociety and markets and turning them into opportunitalization of the economy and people through our ties. Going forward, we will continue to change. As a business activities. We thank all our stakeholders for global company, we will accelerate further developtheir continuing support of ORIX. ment of our operations by bringing business from abroad to Japan. Our management philosophies of Creating New Value and Standing on Our Own Two Feet have been steadfast over the years and are the source of our Makoto Inoue sustained growth. Taking initiatives by seriously thinkDirector Representative Executive Officer ing about how ORIX can create new value in response President and Chief Executive Officer ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 5 6 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 ORIX Value Creation Three Strengths Born from Our Management Philosophies Since its inception in 1964 as a leasing company, ORIX has stayed true to its management philosophies of Creating New Value and Standing on Our Own Two Feet. They are the source of our unique strengths – Flexibility, Strong Platform, and Disciplined – that were created by taking on challenges and innovating while adapting to diversifying needs and changing environments. Our Management Philosophies • Creating New Value • Standing on Our Own Two Feet 1999 Loan Servicing 1986 Real Estate 1995 Environment/Energy 1971 Ships/Aircraft 1973 Automobiles 1983 Investment 1991 Life Insurance 1998 Banking 1973 Lending FY1998.3 1964 Leasing FY1993.3 Asian currency crisis FY1989.3 Collapse of the (six-month results) economic bubble in Japan Trends in Net Income and FY1974.9 FY1979.9 FY1988.9 First oil shock Second oil shock Black Monday Expansion of Business Domains 1964 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 7 Our Three Strengths Flexibillity Since introducing leasing to Japan in 1964, ORIX has not been content with leasing alone, and set its sights higher to grow. Our adaptability in all aspects of business, such as how we develop business and leverage talent, created our strength of flexibility. Net income ¥313.1 billion 2016 Concession Stro ong Platform We have expanded our business platform 2010 Asset Management overseas while flexibly broadening our business portfolio. At the same time, we strength2006 Investment Banking ened our platform by having the discipline to enhance our financial base and governance system. Through this process, ORIX has developed a strong platform. Disscip plin ned FY2009.3 Global ﬁnancial ORIX has pursued an independent approach crisis since its foundation. Our self-discipline to promote management independent of shareholder companies and our risk management capabilities that adapt to business growth and changing environments are what make us disciplined. 2005 2010 2015 2018 8 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Our Business Model Inputs (Our Strengths) Value Creation Process Identify changes and transform them into opportunities Astute moves, flexibility and adaptability are fundamental to our business operations. Each ORIX employee has the ability to identify change and the mindset that change Flexibillity means opportunities, so there are limitless opportunities for growth as long as the world continues to change. Collaborate among diverse people We do not focus on having a portfolio of individual businesses that are growing, but on horizontal collaboration that generates growth for the Group as a whole. We link diverse human resources with expertise to identify new business opportunities and improve the level of human resources by sharing know-how. Turn over assets at the Stro ong Platform right time Since ORIX does not have a core business, we identify global trends and constantly rotate assets in order to keep growing. We have built a business portfolio attuned to social change using our speedy decision-making and execution capabilities. Maintain portfolio liquidity ORIX always maintains vigilance over the assets it holds and leverages the expertise of the Group to build value. We maintain the liquidity of our business portfolio in this way so that assets are always ready to be sold. Dissciplin ned Identify and take healthy risks We cannot grow if we do not take risks. Effective risk identification and control lets us continue to grow. We are focusing on developing and strengthening a system that allows us to take risks. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 9 Outputs Outcomes (Value Creation) Sustainable Improvement in Corporate Value Economic Value A Multifaceted Business Portfolio Sustainable Earnings Growth • Profitability for 53 consecutive years, and earnings growth from Identifying for 9 consecutive years Changes Worldwide • Record high earnings for 4 consecutive years • New investments of approximately ¥740 billion Social Value • Enter new businesses and markets, and create new products and services • Generate stable earnings Contributing to Society through Our Businesses • Transition to a carbon-free society • More efficient use and supply of energy Providing Services • Creation of a society that reuses and recycles to a Broad Array of • The aging society/Achieving secure and healthy lifestyles Customers • Regional revitalization • Operations in 38 countries and regions • A smart and resilient society • Vitalizing small and medium-size enterprises • Services provided to small, medium-size and large corporations → Page 42, Business Areas for Further Growth • Involved in businesses from local to global People Who Support Sustainable Growth • About 32,000 diverse employees • People who consistently take the initiative in creating new businesses • Highly skilled people who continuously take on challenges → Page 58, Relationship with Employees Link value creation to strengths 10 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 ORIX’s Three Strengths • Astuteness, Flexibility and Adaptability • Horizontal Group Collaboration • Diverse People Since introducing leasing to Japan in 1964, ORIX has not been content with leasing alone, and set its sights higher to grow. Our adaptability in all aspects of business, such as how we develop business and leverage talent, created our strength of flexibility. Astuteness, Flexibility and Adaptability opportunities through teamwork and collaboration Astuteness, flexibility and adaptability are fundamental to among relevant departments. our business activities. We are sensitive to change and adapt quickly to it, which is why ORIX has grown – and will Diverse People continue to grow. Diverse people support ORIX’s wide-ranging projects and embody the concept of “Keep Mixed.” We hire diverse huHorizontal Group Collaboration man resources regardless of nationality, age, gender or The ability of diverse people with specialized expertise work history, integrating their various values and expertise to work together in challenging businesses through within our concept of a Fusion of Intelligence to create new horizontal Group collaboration encourages the growth value by raising the capabilities of each employee. of both our people and the Group. We are particularly → Page 58, Relationship with Employees good at boldly taking on the challenge of new business A Flexible Organization Corporate Financial Services Overseas Business Maintenance Leasing Seamlessly B rin nging Integrated Deliver New Value O urr S o c i e t y Expertise “A l i ve” Retail Real Estate Investment and Operation ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 11 Value Creation Case Study: Horizontal Group Collaboration Concession Business: passenger-related services of the terand team members had to take on Horizontal Group minal building business. ORIX initially specified tasks as soon as they joined Collaboration to Enter examined the concession business in the project. However, the conditions a New Business the Real Estate segment. However, engendered by horizontal collaboradifferences from a conventional PFI* tion enabled team members to act ORIX captures business opportunities that we identified during our initial proindependently while moving quickly through horizontal Group collaboration. cess of investigation made us realize toward a single goal as a team. In the concession business, where that the concession business is more Organizational flexibility is a unique growth is forecast, we have built our akin to hybrid M&A and business sucORIX strength. We can execute projoperations in this way. cession because of its complexities. ects to capture new growth opportuIn the concession business, private Senior management recognized the nities by forming cohesive teams of companies handle the management social significance of the concession highly skilled people from various and operation of airports, roads, water business and its importance to ORIX businesses without the constraints of supply, sewerage and other public as a new business, and therefore divisional boundaries. We are proud facilities that public institutions concalled on experts from Group divisions that the extensive expertise we have tinue to own. Established by a consorinvolved in real estate, business investacquired has enabled us to pioneer tium led by ORIX and VINCI Airports ment in Japan and abroad, finance, and multifaceted businesses, and our goal of France, Kansai Airports was the credit evaluation. The project team ultiis to continue generating new vitality first full-fledged airport concession in mately had more than 50 members. for society. Japan and began operating Kansai After organizing the project team → Page 44, Concession International Airport and Osaka Interand submitting our bid, we had to connational Airport in April 2016. duct various consultations, due diligence * Private finance initiatives (PFI) provide public services by using private funding and experThe concession business may have and proposal preparation in a short tise to design, construct, maintain and opera high social profile today, but the lack time. We still had an enormous ate public facilities. of precedents and the scale of operaamount of work to do by the date destions made large companies and other ignated for the start of operations, potential participants hesitant when Japan began its move toward concessions in 2011. This project required multifaceted consideration ranging from concession fees in trillions of yen and ultra-long-term management over 30 to 40 years to enhanced security and smooth relations with neighboring communities. The airport management involved encompasses a broad array of businesses including sales to airline companies, route expansion and the food, beverage, merchandise sales, parking, hotel and other 12 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 • Global Network • Solid Financial Base • Sound Governance System • Diverse Business Portfolio We have expanded our business platform overseas while flexibly broadening our business portfolio. At the same time, we strengthened our platform by having the discipline to enhance our financial base and governance system. Through this process, ORIX has developed a strong platform. Global Network Sound Governance System Starting in Hong Kong in 1971, ORIX has expanded internaORIX proactively enhances oversight of its managers. Our tionally using expertise acquired in Japan without setting framework is demanding on managers and simultaneously limits on businesses or countries. Today, ORIX has a global ensures safety to strengthen corporate management. network that spans 38 countries and regions. → Page 30, Corporate Governance Solid Financial Base Diverse Business Portfolio ORIX aligns fund procurement methods with its portfolio We have enhanced our expertise in finance and tangible because its business structure is always changing dynamiassets arising from leasing as we have expanded into adjacally. We are strengthening procurement in conjunction cent markets. Our expansion into diverse businesses diswith our global business portfolio and continue to expand perses risk and increases opportunities to create new value. borrowings from banks and to procure funding from capital markets in the countries we serve. → Page 28, Financial and Capital Strategies An Expanding Network and Business Portfolio 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Countries and Regions in Our Global Network 7 12 18 26 38 Continued to expand global network Expanded our business portfolio by Expanded global network with Diversified into aircraft-related and acquiring Robeco and entering the emphasis on leasing in Asia equity investment businesses environment and energy business ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 13 ORIX’s Three Strengths Value Creation Case Study: Global Network Business Locations Japan 1,468 Ex-Japan 716 (As of March 31, 2018) Building New Business companies in the countries we serve, a highly convenient web-based vehiModels from an Expandlocalize management, and build a cuscle and contract management system ing Network of Locations tomer base of local companies. We that keeps profitability high. This busiWorldwide assign few expatriates from Japan, ness model is tailored to the Austraand local employees are primarily relian market, with its many large-scale ORIX’s global network spans 38 counsponsible for conducting business. users. We have recently begun to tries and regions. We originally foGlobal expansion rooted in local adapt its services to our automobile cused on the finance lease business economies has supported optimum leasing operations in other countries in expanding internationally, then local performance. Localized manageto meet even larger vehicle managebroadened the markets we serve as ment enables proactive development ment needs. This exemplifies how we expanded our business portfolio in of business aligned with local needs, ORIX uses its global network to creJapan. Today, we operate in a diverse without being bound by Japanese ate new products and services. array of businesses in Japan and ideas. We are therefore autonomously ORIX does not bifurcate business around the world, including automobuilding businesses attuned to each opportunities domestically and interbile leasing, aircraft-related, investof the countries and regions we serve. nationally. Our strong platform allows ment in bonds, equity investment, For example, in Australia we us to take on the challenge of attracasset management, and environment specialize in automobile leasing. Our tive markets without creating artificial and energy. customers are corporate fleet users, barriers. As a truly global company, A strength of our overseas operaprimarily multinational corporations. we will leverage the strengths of our tions is that they involve local partners, Our strengths are a well-established global network to simultaneously crelocal management, local clients, and structure for maintenance leases and ate and operate new business in mullocal staff. We partner with leading high-quality IT systems. We also offer tiple countries. 14 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 • Risk Management Capabilities • Self-Discipline That Supports Independence ORIX has pursued an independent approach since its foundation. Our self-discipline to promote management independent of shareholder companies and our risk management capabilities that adapt to business growth and changing environments are what make us disciplined. Risk Management Capabilities Self-Discipline That Supports Independence ORIX is an independent company that does not belong to a Self-discipline has helped ORIX chart its own course since capital-based corporate group, so it is free to conceptualize day one. We have ensured management tension to avoid and design bold strategies. At the same time, we assess erroneous decisions that could put ORIX out of business. risk very carefully. We consistently stress prudent, careful We have therefore been able to overcome changes in our business decisions and expert assessment of the risks we operating environment, thus enabling ORIX to remain profshould take to grow. itable for 53 consecutive years since its inception. Establishing an ERM* System: Risk Management Enhancements Enterprise Risk Management Headquarters Established in June 2017 We are concentrating on upgrading systems to empower us to judge, control and manage risk appropriately to enable further dynamic growth. • Create mechanisms to properly report management information to top management. Mission • Focus on enhancing global compliance and internal controls. • Comprehensively assess all investments, including assessment of non-financial risks Examples of such as reputation risk. Specific Initiatives • Strengthen overseas departments and upgrade our framework for global risk management. * ERM: Enterprise risk management ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 15 ORIX’s Three Strengths Value Creation Case Study: Risk Management Capabilities A System for Taking Healthy Risks maintaining soundness. This approach forms the basis of ORIX’s risk management. ORIX has expanded its businesses and grown by taking on We have established a system to appropriately identify and challenges and innovating in order to address diversifying manage the characteristics of various risks related to Group customer needs and changes in its operating environment. businesses. The following are our eight primary risks, and we Risk management entails two crucial components: taking manage each of them according to their features. risks after assessing their potential impact on growth and Main Risks and Methods for Managing Them Main Risks Risk Definition Examples of Risk Management Methodologies Uncertainty regarding future recovery of investments • Obtain adequate collateral and guarantees. Credit risk caused by fluctuations in cash flow from debtors and • Securitize receivables. investees. • Diversify debtors and their business types. Uncertainties related to new business areas, potential obsolescence of the products or services we offer or a • Conduct scenario analyses and stress testing. Business risk decline in their quality, and variability in market prices for • Monitor business plans and operations. the types of products or services we offer. The risk of changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities • Set Groupwide rules for comprehensive asset and liability Market risk caused by changes in market variables, such as interest management (ALM). rates, exchange rates and stock prices. • Comprehensively understand and verify market risks. The risk that we will be unable to obtain required funds or Liquidity risk • Diversify fund procurement methods and sources. that we will be forced to procure funds at an unusually high (risk relating to • Manage liquidity on hand and analyze liquidity risk rate of interest due to market turmoil, a sharp decline in the fund procurement) using hypothetical stress scenarios. financial condition of the ORIX Group or other reasons. The risk of financial loss, regulatory sanction or damage to our reputation resulting from a failure by the ORIX Group • Formulate and implement an annual compliance plan. to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding Compliance risk the ORIX Group’s business acti vities or corporate • Raise awareness for compliance matters among philosophy, internal policies, social norms, rules and executives and employees by establishing and procedures which may also encompass legal risk when disseminating various regulations. applicable laws and regulations are violated. Legal restrictions on business activities and legal liability • Involve the credit department, the legal department as well as disadvantages that may arise due to laws and and the compliance department to avoid, reduce and Legal risk regulations applicable to ORIX Group’s business and conduct measures to prevent risks. corporate management, the establishment and amendment of such laws and regulations and regulatory oversight. • Employ outside legal counsel. • Establish policies for information management systems. Information The risk of loss caused by destruction, damage or leakage asset risk of information or failure of our information systems. • Maintain and manage internal systems to reduce the risk of system failure and cyber-attacks. The risk of loss resulting from damages, losses, adverse effects or damage to our reputation caused by inadequate • Maintain internal rules to manage risks associated with Operational risk or failed internal processes for business execution or natural disasters. prevention of human error or by a failure in operations due • Monitor based on an annual internal audit plan. to external events such as natural disasters. For detailed information on risks, please refer to the following: Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ▶▶▶ https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ir/library/20f/ 16 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Management Strategies ORIX’s Business Portfolio In 38 countries and regions, ORIX conducts a diTable 1: Six Segments verse array of businesses including leasing, loan, ORIX currently manages its businesses in a portfolio divided into investment, life insurance, banking, asset managesix segments. → Page 68, Segment Overview ment, auto-related business, real estate, and environment and energy. We manage this business Segment Main Business portfolio by dividing it into six segments (Table 1). Corporate Financial Leasing, loan and fee business for small and To better comprehend ORIX’s mid-term strategic Services medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) directions, in FY2016.3 we also began grouping the Maintenance Auto-related, test and measurement instruments business portfolio into the three categories of Leasing and other equipment rental “Finance,” “Operation” and “Investment” (Table 2). Real estate development and rental, facilities We believe that the combined picture of the Real Estate operation, REIT asset management, real estate investment and advisory services three categories together with the six segments allows a deeper understanding of ORIX (Table 3). Investment and Environment and energy business, private equity Operation investment, concession, loan servicing Retail Life insurance, banking, card loan business Leasing and loan through overseas subsidiaries, Overseas Business aircraft and ship-related operations, private equity investment, investment in bonds, asset management Table 3: Our Business Portfolio Matrix of Six Segments and Three Categories The following table presents ORIX’s business portfolio matrix of six segments and three categories. Finance Main Risk Credit risk Capital Requirement Low Japan Ex-Japan Environment/Infrastructure Leasing/Loan/Fee Corporate Financial Services business Maintenance Leasing Six Segments Real Estate Real estate facility operation Environment and energy/ Investment and Operation Concession Banking/Consumer Retail finance/Guarantee Overseas Business Leasing/Loan ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 17 Table 2: Three Categories From FY2016.3, we began grouping our business portfolio into three categories that take the main risks and capital requirements into account. Three Categories Main Risk Capital Requirement Main Business • Primarily business involving credit risk, including leasing, loan, housing loans and card loans in Japan and overseas Finance Credit risk Low • Includes most of the Corporate Financial Services segment, banking and consumer finance businesses in the Retail segment, and the overseas corporate business in the Overseas Business segment • Environment and Infrastructure: Real estate facilities operation, environment & Operation risk energy, concession and other businesses we assume operation for Operation Business risk Medium High • Financial Services: Asset management business and life insurance business • Maintenance Services: Auto-related businesses and the rental business • Fixed Income: Investments in non-performing loans and bonds • Tangible Assets: Investment in real estate, aircraft, and ships Investment Market risk High • Equity Investment: Private equity investments in Japan and overseas, new businesses that we will launch and grow Three Categories Operation Investment Operation risk and business risk Market risk Medium High High Financial Services Maintenance Services Others Fixed Income Tangible Assets Equity New business Yayoi development ORIX Auto/ ORIX Rentec REIT/Real estate investment Real estate investment advisory Private equity investment/ Loan servicing Daikyo Life insurance/HLIKK Asset management/ Bond investment Aircraft/Ships Private equity investment Houlihan Lokey 18 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 ORIX from a Balance Sheet Perspective (As of March 31, 2018) Assets Actively invest in businesses for which we expect sustainable growth and suppress the addition of low-return assets. Assets (Trillions of yen) Asset Composition ROA （%） Three Categories Segments Other Assets 2.4 Corporate Financial Services 3.4% Finance Maintenance Leasing 3.5% 1.6% Real Estate 6.7% Investments and ﬁnance Investment and Operation 8.1% Existing businesses 9.0 New businesses Retail Strategic investments Segment Assets Operation Returns 1.6% Pure ﬁnancial 3.5% 5.3% investments ROA Overseas Business Investment 2.9% 4.5% → Page 20, ROA Assets Our Three Categories ● Given the current low-interest-rate environment, we are focusing greater new investment on Operation and Investment than on Finance. ● New investment in Operation and Investment in FY2018.3 totaled approximately ¥740 billion. By Segment ● Aircraft, ships (Overseas Business), environment and energy (Investment and Operation) and banking (Retail) were primarily responsible for growth in segment assets as of March 31, 2018. ● The Real Estate segment accounted for 7% of assets as of March 31, 2018 (25% as of March 31, 2008). Total Assets and ROA Total Assets ((Billions of yen) ROA (%) 11,439.9 10,992.9 11,231.9 11,426.0 2.76 8,981.0 9,063.5 2.46 8,353.9 8,561.9 8,332.8 8,435.2 2.32 7,722.0 2.14 2.29 1.96 0.99 1.33 0.81 0.45 0.24 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 19 Management Strategies Liabilities and Equity Aim for ROE of 11% or higher with financial leverage that can maintain our single A credit rating. Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity (Trillions of yen) Other Liabilities 1.2 Composition of Liabilities Policy Liabilities 1.5 Fixed/Floating By Funding Method Deposits 1.8 Deposits Short-term debt Funding 4.1 Financial Longand Fixed rate institutions and Short-Term Debt Interest bond investors Long-term debt Floating rate Funding Individuals and others Financial institutions Shareholders’ Equity 2.7 Returns Shareholders Foreign institutional ROE investors Liabilities ● We diversified funding, lengthened maturities and laddered repayment to ensure adequate liquidity on hand. ● The total of cash, cash equivalents and unused commitment lines at the end of March 2018 was ¥1.7 trillion. The share of long-term debt (excluding deposits) was 93% (77% as of March 31, 2008). ● The D/E ratio (including deposits) as of March 31, 2018 was 2.2 times (5.0 times as of March 31, 2008). Equity ● Share repurchases will take into consideration the necessary level of retained earnings, and we will respond flexibly and agilely to changes in the operating environment, trends in share prices, financial conditions, and target business indicators. → Page 28, Financial and Capital Strategies ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity and Shareholders’ Equity Ratio ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity (Billions of yen) ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity Ratio (%) 2,682.4 2,507.7 2,310.4 2,152.2 1,919.3 1,643.6 1,306.6 1,380.7 1,258.9 1,287.2 1,157.3 23.5 21.0 22.3 19.5 21.2 18.8 16.7 15.3 16.6 14.0 13.9 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 20 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 CEO Inoue on Strategy We Will Transition to a More Mature Business Platform as a Truly Global Company Overview of FY2018.3 targets for profit growth, capital efficiency, and financial soundness announced in our mid-term strategic directions in 2015. In FY2018.3, we posted net income of ¥313.1 billion, surpassIn our new investments, we expanded business in the ing the mid-term net income target of ¥300 billion we anOperation category by investing in a geothermal power company nounced in 2015. We have achieved average growth of 10% in and acquiring a mortgage servicing company for seniors in net income over the past three years and set record highs for the United States. Overall, we made new investments of four consecutive years. Return on equity (ROE) as of March around ¥740 billion in the Operation and Investment catego31, 2018 was 12.1%, and above 10% for the fifth consecutive ries in FY2018.3, an increase of more than 20% from the year. We also demonstrated our financial soundness by mainroughly ¥600 billion we invested in the previous fiscal year. taining our single A credit rating. We have reached all the Review of Previous Mid-Term Directions FY2015.3 Results FY2018.3 Targets FY2018.3 Results Evaluation Profit Growth ¥234.9 billion ¥300.0 billion ¥313.1 billion Achieved (Net Income) Capital Efficiency 11.5% 11%-12% 12.1% Achieved (ROE) R&I A+ (Stable) R&I A+ (Stable) Financial Soundness S&P A− (Negative) S&P A− (Negative)1 Single A Achieved (Long-Term Credit Rating) Fitch A− (Stable) Fitch A− (Stable) Moody’s Baa1 (Stable) Moody’s A3 (Stable)2 1. Outlook changed from stable to negative as of August 10, 2018. 2. Upgraded from Baa1 to A3 as of April 16, 2018. Results in Our Three Categories Segment Profits Segment Assets ROA (Billions of yen) (Trillions of yen) (%) Finance Finance Operation Investment Finance Operation Investment Operation 500 10 6 Investment 5 400 8 4 300 6 3 200 4 2 100 2 1 0 0 0 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Notes: 1. FY2016.3 Operation category profits exclude capital gains/valuation gains (approximately ¥39.6 billion) associated with the IPO of Houlihan Lokey and ordinary profit/loss contribution from HLIKK. 2. FY2017.3 Operation category profits exclude ordinary profit/loss contribution from HLIKK. 3. FY2018.3 Operation category profits exclude capital gain from the sale of Houlihan Lokey shares and ordinary profit/loss contribution from HLIKK. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 21 Management Strategies New Investment in Key Areas in FY2018.3: Approximately ¥740 billion Environment and • The environment and energy business expanded in Japan and is also investing overseas Infrastructure Overseas: New investment in geothermal energy business (Ormat Technologies Inc.) ¥120 billion Japan: Additional investment in mega solar and other, construction of power plants Operation • New investments in the Americas, including acquisition of Lancaster Pollard Holdings LLC, Financial Services, a mortgage servicing company Maintenance Services • Acquired Yodogawa Transformer Co., Ltd., the largest renter of power receiving and ¥130 billion transforming facilities and equipment in Japan Fixed Income • Primarily investments in municipal bonds and CMBS in the Americas ¥140 billion • Purchased 68 aircraft (including joint venture investments) and invested in ship mortgage Tangible Assets loans Investment ¥310 billion • New investments in logistics centers and others • Concentrated on new business opportunities expected to result from changing social needs Equity Investment Japan: Information processing service ¥40 billion Americas: Traffic control services and products Asia, Greater China: Vehicle dispatch service, fintech services Mid-Term Strategic Directions in new fields, new investments and M&As, in addition to (FY2019.3 to FY2021.3) organic growth. At the same time, it is necessary to avoid unreasonable investments where risk and return do not For the three years from FY2019.3, our business objectives match, and we will continue to be selective in making good are to achieve annual net income growth between 4% and investments around the world. 8% and ROE above 11%, and to maintain our single g A credit ting. Moreover, we consider it important to conduct rating. anagement based on the three elements of profit growth, management pital efficiency, and financial soundness while keeping a capital alance among them. balance In order to achieve these strategic directions, an important owth strategy for us is to continue business development growth Makoto Inoue Director Representative Executive Officer President and Chief Executive Officer 22 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Over the past three years, we have achieved high growth real estate asset management business in Japan, which in the categories of Finance, Operation, and Investment, and includes private equity funds and J-REIT management, is have established a well-balanced portfolio in terms of both also performing strongly. We expect to grow each of the profits and assets. However, given the current low interest assets under our management. rates it will be difficult to substantially grow financial revenues In the concession business, in addition to our airport operain the Finance category. As such, we will continue to focus on tions, we formed a consortium with the Japanese subsidiary Operation and Investment and be proactive in developing of French company Veolia and other partners and started new fields and cultivating the businesses that will become operating a wastewater treatment plant in Hamamatsu City, our next mainstays, while steadily increasing revenues. We Shizuoka Prefecture in April 2018. We will continue to expand regard environment and energy, asset management, concesthe scope of the concession business while setting our sights sion, and life insurance in the Operation category as business on a broad range of opportunities overseas. areas where further growth can be expected. This also apIn the life insurance business, we had approximately 3.94 plies to private equity investment, aircraft and ships in the million individual insurance policies in force as of March 31, Investment category. 2018, which is a 1.5-fold increase from three years ago. We will expand sales channels and products to take the business to the next stage. Expected Growth Areas In the Investment category, we intend to expand assets with optimal schemes for each project. For private equity The Operation category has been steadily growing for the investments, we will continue to enhance the corporate valpast three years. Going forward, we aim to expand our portue of existing investees and engage in new investments folio through new investments and M&A. while diversifying investment methods and reviewing target In the environment and energy business, our solar power industries. We will also actively promote investment overbusiness in Japan is coming on line in stages and we expect seas in the United States, Asia, and elsewhere. growth in both income and assets. We are also actively As for aircraft and ships, we will leverage our accumulated seeking investment opportunities overseas for the renewexperience in this field to continue to increase revenue able energy business. through asset acquisition and expand gains on sale and fee In the asset management business, we are diversifying income from asset management. business lines and expanding geographical coverage. Our Mid-Term Strategic Directions (FY2019.3 to FY2021.3) Profit Growth Annual net income growth between 4% and 8% Capital Efficiency ROE above 11% Financial Soundness Maintain single A credit rating ERM with global best practice Shareholder Returns Policy • Dividend payout ratio target of 27% • Share buybacks as proactive capital management ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 23 Management Strategies Business Areas for Further Growth Operation Environment and Energy (See page 42) Asset Management (See page 46) • Bring domestic mega‐solar plants on line in stages, promote utilization • Diversify business lines and expand geographical coverage of own power supply in electric power retailing • Continue to grow domestic real estate asset management business, • Proactively seek overseas investment opportunities and expand assets under management Concession (See page 44) Life Insurance (See page 48) • Take on new concessions beyond airport management • Expand sales channels and products to the next stage • Expand the scope of business including overseas projects Investment Private Equity Investment (See page 54) Aircraft (See page 52) • Keep adding value to investees • Maintain diversified revenue sources • Proactively promote investment in the Americas and Asia • Continue to develop business area proactively Our Approach to Investment: failure is equivalent to 100 successes. A Strategy That Supports Sustainable Growth For ORIX to be selected as a partner by an investee company, we emphasize an investment process with its longOne investment criterion for new business domains is term growth in mind. In many instances, investors who whether a project can achieve ROE above 11%, as set in our pursue profit from a short-term perspective harm the corpomid-term strategic directions. We will not invest if a business rate value of the investee over the long term. ORIX places cannot be expected to achieve this figure. Financial, legal, importance on supporting the long-term growth of its accounting and tax expertise is indispensable for controlling investee companies and improving their corporate value. For risk and determining the potential of a business we invest in. example, we may leverage the ORIX Group’s nationwide Our sales headquarters takes primary responsibility, but sales network to support the sale of products by an investee we have also established expert teams in accounting, company, and support business succession of the ownerlegal affairs, taxation and other areas to build a system that operator. Also, when corporate value has reached a certain enables us to scrutinize investment projects. level and an investment is to be sold to the next shareholder, Quick decision-making is required, as the more attractive we respect the opinion of the investee’s management team an investment opportunity, the more intense the competiin selecting the buyer. These accomplishments mean that tion for it. This calls for players who can independently make we are selected as a business partner who earns trust, pardecisions and negotiate on the spot. Top-down direction of ticularly in the field of corporate revitalization. project investments rarely works. A framework in which emGain on sale is an element of profit growth at ORIX, but ployees regularly generate projects from the bottom up is this is not profit that is dependent only on the market. That key, even if authority for approval is at the top. ORIX has profit is backed by the increased value of the investee. We made bad investments before, but we do not penalize those will continue striving to maximize corporate value by continresponsible for making them. This is because we believe uously looking at each investment from entry to exit, includthat failure leads to the next success. What you learn from ing the potential for impact from the external environment. 24 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Our Approach to Corporate Governance: Our Approaches to Contributing to Society A Management Foundation That Supports through Our Businesses and Our Employees: Sustainable Growth Societal Relationships That Support Sustainable Growth Given ORIX’s diverse array of businesses and broad and rapidly growing portfolio, ongoing enhancement of our goverSince its inception, ORIX has had a fundamental commitnance system is crucial. We are able to take an aggressive ment to social contribution through its business activities. approach to growth by proactively investing overseas beGenerating profit is important to a company, but it is necescause of our effective defenses. In recent years, we have sary to be aware of the profits of all stakeholders, not just of been working on improving our risk management framework one individual, but of customers, business partners, invesoverseas with the Enterprise Risk Management Headquarters tors, employees, local communities and other parties. To as the main organization for strengthening governance from a that end, we believe that providing new value to and being global perspective. an integral part of society will result in the profits that enable We are also enhancing internal control. As the organization sustainable growth. of ORIX matures, I always sense a danger of the organization Social issues and needs are business opportunities and becoming rigid. Top management cannot make normal profit opportunities. We have grown and contributed to socidecisions if the content of reports from the front lines differs ety by thinking about what ORIX can do for each of these from the facts due to speculation or considerations among issues and needs, and then taking action. Social change concerned parties. Moreover, there is a risk that this could gives rise to countless issues and needs. We will continue to have a substantial negative impact on future profit growth if, contribute to society by proactively identifying social changes for example, due diligence for an M&A project is neglected that create business and profit opportunities. to prioritize quick decision-making. The success of our employees is also indispensable to As I have already mentioned, in this regard the Enterprise ORIX’s continued growth. We are nurturing the people who Risk Management Headquarters plays the role of creating a will contribute to our strategy for global growth, and creating framework that completely eliminates factors that impede a workplace environment that allows them to energetically sustainable corporate growth. Ignoring a small scandal for demonstrate their capabilities. We launched our Work Style the sake of prioritizing growth allows the scandal to become Reform Project under the supervision of the CEO in October larger in a few years, which may shake the company’s man2016 to improve work-life balance. Although we have impleagement. ORIX will continue to thoroughly decentralize mented various measures and made numerous accomplishfront line, middle, and back office management functions to ments, such as reducing overtime, we will continue with expand business in order to prioritize growth. ORIX can pave improvements so that our reforms fully permeate the the way for the next stage of growth if it can put in place an workplace. organizational structure in which the middle management When our people demonstrate their capabilities to the fullcheck function and back office stop function are more effecest, we not only grow but also contribute to society as we tive and work more efficiently on front line operations. do so. All of us should think about what ORIX means to society during our day-to-day business activities. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 25 Management Strategies Shareholder Returns Future Growth We are striving to increase shareholder value by keeping ORIX has reached its net income target of ¥300 billion, profit from our business activities primarily as retained earndemonstrating that it has grown into a Japanese corporation ings, and using it to invest in enhancing our business platwith top-class profitability. However, ORIX employees never form and for growth. At the same time, we offer stable and rest on their laurels or take their eye off the ball. We are sustained dividends that reflect our business performance. continuing our efforts to thrive as a company that is conUnder this basic policy, we increased the dividend payout stantly growing while maintaining a sense of urgency. ratio 2% year on year to 27% for FY2018.3. We increased Our next goal is to transition to a more mature business dividends 26% year on year from ¥52.25 to ¥66 per share for platform as a truly global company. We do not distinguish FY2018.3 for 1.8-fold growth over the past three years. We between Japan and overseas when it comes to business also repurchased our own shares in an amount of approxiopportunities. While business in Japan currently accounts mately ¥50 billion during FY2017.3 into the beginning of for much of our operations, we have already made numerFY2018.3. ous investments in projects in the United States. Although For FY2019.3, we expect to maintain a dividend payout still in the preliminary stage, we have been asked to introratio of 27% and forecast an interim dividend of ¥30 per duce a business originating overseas in Japan. We are also share, as we emphasize an optimum balance between developing business in Southeast Asia primarily in leasing, acquiring proactive investment opportunities for profit and we are seeking to develop business leveraging local growth and stable and sustained dividends. Share repurfintech and IoT together with the many talented employees chases will take into consideration the necessary level of of a Chinese investee company. Once we establish local retained earnings, and we will respond flexibly and agilely to businesses around the world and get them on the path to changes in the operating environment, trends in share prices, success, we can call ourselves a truly global company. financial conditions, and target business indicators. There are always new business opportunities on the front lines. It is through our work on the front lines that we constantly accumulate experience and knowledge to find the seeds of the next new business. It is my firm belief that we will meet the expectations and earn the trust of our stakeholders through our diligent efforts at work each day. Shareholder Returns Dividend per Share and Payout Ratio Shareholder Returns (Billions of yen) Interim Dividend (Yen) Year-End Dividend (Yen) Payout Ratio (%) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 27 27 25 Total Amount 23 30.1 47.2 60.0 68.3 84.6 of Dividends 20 66.00 ¥50 billion Share buyback 16 52.25 Buybacks 45.75 — — — 10.9 39.1 39 (Based on 36.00 Acquisition Year) 29.25 23.75 23.00 Total Return to 30.1 47.2 60.0 79.2 123.7 36 Shareholders 27 30 23 22 23 Total Return 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 16% 20% 23% 29% 40% (Forecast) Ratio 26 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Investment Process ORIX’s Involvement Maximizes Asset Value and Investee Corporate Value Frontline Sales Drive Investments Investment Decisions That Emphasize Entry Price ORIX takes a bottom-up approach to identifying investments. Fundamentally, we use our Group network in Japan and The key to investment is a sharp focus on entry price. Whether around the world to identify investments driven by frontline we are making a strategic or a pure financial investment, we sales. We primarily invest on our own in Japan and in collabfocus on profitability indicators including internal rate of return oration with local partners overseas. In addition, an increasand efficiency indicators including ROA and ROE, premised ing number of deal proposals come directly to us because on an exit strategy for five to seven years in the future. We do of our track record. We do not limit ourselves to a single not incorporate ancillary businesses or synergies in price. We investment theme or business. We explore a broad range always consider the profitability of the investment itself with of investments without constraint so that we can adapt rigorous due diligence and entry price validation. ORIX makes quickly to our operating environment. investment decisions after confirming that discrete projects The knowledge of and expertise in finance and ancillary will generate returns that are commensurate with their risks areas we have developed since our establishment is instruand exceed our cost of capital. mental to the success of our diverse investment portfolio. We have built a system for screening investment projects that examines investee potential and controls risk. Frontline sales operations lead projects, leveraging specialized financial knowledge in collaboration with teams that have expertise ranging from accounting and law to taxation and compliance. Generate Assess • Frontline sales operations • Emphasis on entry price identify projects • Valuation does not • Rigorous screening include synergies leverages Group expertise • Exit strategies are always in place ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 27 Management Strategies Medium-to-Long-Term Growth in Selling at the Right Price and Time Corporate Value and Regular Monitoring Our knowhow, experience and expertise empower us to Our investment process emphasizes medium-to-long-term look at markets and pick the right time to sell our investments. growth in investee corporate value. Unlike some private equity This ability is predicated on considering exit strategies for all funds, we invest own capital. We can therefore respond investments at all times to remain able to sell at any time. flexibly to changes in investment period or increase our capWe model exit strategies including IPOs and trade sales, ital commitment, and we can also increase investee value and at the time of sale we choose the method and buyer by leveraging our Group network. The latter emphasizes a with due respect for the intentions of the investee managemultifaceted hands-on approach in which we work closely ment team. Over the past several years we have made with investees to increase their corporate value. This involves more investments with long-term time frames exceeding business administration, operational support, deployment five to seven years, and more investments that are linked to of expert personnel, and help from ORIX business units for our businesses. investees to find new customers and expand sales channels. Investees often choose ORIX as a business partner bePost investment, we conduct periodic checks with the cause of our record of results, and our investment pipeline same focus on profitability, asset efficiency and capital effiis well stocked. Our capital gains represent our profit from ciency as when making the initial decision to invest. Timely increasing investee corporate value. We will maintain our identification of project status enables us to quickly take thoroughgoing focus on each of our projects with the goal corrective action if the environment changes. We also apof generating sustainable earnings. propriately assess risk by testing for impairment and calculating the cost of withdrawal from a business. Exit • Sell at the right price and time Partners select ORIX because our record of success earns their trust. Add Value Monitor • Constant conﬁrmation • Hands-on approach of strategies and plans • Leverage Group network • Immediate response to operating environment changes • Able to sell at any time • Model sales methods and buyers Business continuity 28 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Financial and Capital Strategies Optimize Capital Allocation to Increase Corporate Value Appropriate Capital Controls as necessary to evaluate the impact on capital beforehand. We continuously monitor risks and returns for existing For our mid-term strategic directions from FY2019.3 through businesses at the project and business portfolio level. FY2021.3, we aim to achieve net income growth of 4% to The interests of shareholders and investors are top prior8% annually and ROE of 11% or higher, and to maintain our ities in optimizing capital allocation. We consciously single A credit rating. We will properly control our emenhance understanding of the core strengths that enable ployed capital ratio to maintain our single A credit rating. us to create value over the medium and long term in our ORIX measures the employed capital ratio using a propridialogue with shareholders and investors, and we also etary method that refers to global benchmarks and the emphasize capital allocation. I intend to further emphasize assessment methodology of credit rating firms such as our medium-to-long-term perspective in my dialogue with risk-adjusted capital (RAC). Our employed capital ratio shareholders and investors about our strategic approach at the end of FY2018.3 was 84.6%, which we consider to building and restructuring our business portfolio, balreasonable for maintaining financial soundness and flexibility ance sheet management, and the optimal balance to make new investments. between new investments to generate profit and stable ORIX makes decisions about each investment and credit shareholder returns. transaction after confirming that its returns are commensurate with risk and exceed the cost of capital. When considering large-scale new investments, we analyze scenarios Employed Capital Ratio* Employed Capital Breakdown (Billions of yen) (As of March 31, 2018) Finance Operation Investment March 31, 2018 Shareholders’ equity 2,682.4 15% Employed capital 2,269.8 30% Unemployed capital 412.6 Employed capital ratio 84.6% 55% * ORIX calculation (Risk capital ÷ Shareholders’ equity) ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 29 Management Strategies Breakdown of Funding Procurement Share of Long-Term Debt (%) Balance of Longand Short-term Debt and (As of March 31, 2018) Deposits by Currency and Funding Cost Borrowings from ﬁnancial institutions (Trillions of yen) Yen Foreign currency (left scale) (%) 5 Yen funding cost (right scale) 3.5 Domestic bonds Foreign bonds, MTN CP Foreign currency funding cost ABS, CMBS Deposits (right scale) 3.0 4 94 93 93 93 2.5 92 30% 3 2.0 1.5 2 52% 1.0 1 8% 0.5 8% 0 0 1% 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 1% Note: Long-term debt ratio: Long-term debt ÷ (Short-term debt + Long-term debt) A Solid Financial Base That Supports Addressing Interest Rate Risk Growth Investments We control interest rate risk by using the shared asset and In its funding procurement, ORIX diversifies funding sourcliability management (ALM) rules we have established for es, lengthens durations, levels out its maturity ladder and the Group to comprehensively assess issues including the ensures proper liquidity to maintain a solid base that supfunding environment and the impact of interest rate fluctuports future investments in growth. We will flexibly fund ations on periodic profit and loss and the balance sheet. We new investments according to business and asset. We will limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on periodic select the best funding methods and schemes for each profit and loss by structuring liabilities with reference to the project, which will include the effective use of project fixed and variable interest rates associated with assets and finance according to the nature of the investment. projected future cash flows. We expect higher interest Foreign currencies account for a greater proportion of rates in the United States and tighter monetary policy in funding because we have expanded overseas businesses in Europe, but we should be able to limit the overall impact of recent years. We generally manage exchange rate volatility higher interest rates through additional measures that will risk with funding in the same currency we use for business include appropriately hedging interest rate mismatches and transactions and overseas investments. We are also considturning over assets. ering U.S. dollar bond issues to fund asset growth in our U.S. and aircraft businesses. We maintain a policy of funding subsidiaries in Asia with bond issues that take into account the scale of capital markets in the countries we serve. We will flexibly and stably fund projected growth in our overseas operations. Hitomaro Yano Director Executive Officer Head of Treasury and Accounting Headquarters 30 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Management Team (As of June 26, 2018) Directors Makoto Inoue Age: 65 Yuichi Nishigori Director Joined ORIX in 1975. After serving in Director Representative Executive Officer positions including Deputy Head of Senior Managing Executive President and Chief Executive Investment Banking Headquarters and Officer Officer Head of Global Business & Alternative Head of Energy and Eco R Responsible for Group Strategy Investment Headquarters, appointed Services Business Headquarters B Business Unit Director, Representative Executive Director, Ubiteq, INC. Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer in June 2014. Stan Koyanagi Age:e: 57 Shuji Irie Director Directo Joined SHEPPARD, MULLIN, RICHTER TER & Director Manag Managing Executive Officer HAMPTON LLP in 1985. After serving ving in Managing Executive Officer Head oof Enterprise Risk positions including Vice President, ORIX Head of Investment aand Manag Management Headquarters USA Corporation (currently ORIX Operation Headquart Headquarters Global General Counsel Corporation USA), joined ORIX in 2013. Appointed Director and Managing aging Executive Officer in June 20177 (to present). Outside Directors Eiko Tsujiyama Age: 70 ● Nominating Committee ● Audit Committee ● Audit Committee (Chairperson) Main Career History ● Compensation Committee ● Compensation Committee Has served in positions including financial accounting advisor for or domestic and • Emeritus Professor, Waseda University foreign governments and nd institutions and • Corporate Auditor, Lawson, Inc. chool of Commerce Dean of the Graduate School • Audit & Supervisory Board Member, NTT DOCOMO, INC. at Waseda University. Appointed Outside • Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Director in June 2010 (too present). Shiseido Company, Limited Main Area of Expertise se Accounting Robert Feldman ge: 65 Age: ● Compensation Committee (Chairperson) Main Career History ● Nominating Committee Has served in positions including luding onomist Managing Director and Chief Economist • Senior Advisor, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities ies Co., • Professor, Graduate School of Management and Ltd. Appointed Outside Director inn June Innovation Studies at Tokyo University of Science 2010 (to present). Main Area of Expertise Economics and finance Takeshi Niinami Age: 59 ● Nominating Committee Main Career History ● Compensation Committee Has served in positions including President, Representative Director and • President and Chief Executive Officer, Member of the Board, Representative CEO, Lawson, Inc. Appointed Outside Director, Suntory Holdings Limited. Director in June 2010 (to present). Main Area of Expertise Corporate management ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 31 Age: 61 Kiyoshi Fushitani K Age: e: 67 Joined the Japan Industrial ial Bank, Ltd. Director D imited Joined The Sumitomo Bank, Limited (currently Mizuho Bank, Ltd.) in 1980. S Senior Managing Executive anking (currently Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Joined ORIX in 2003. After ter serving in O Officer RIX in Corporation) in 1973. Joined ORIX positions including Head of Investment H Head of Global Business itions 1975. After serving in positions and Operation Headquarters, ers, appointed H Headquarters including Deputy President, ORIX ecutive Officer Director and Managing Executive H Head of East Asia Business USA Corporation (currently ORIX in June 2015. Appointed Director and H Headquarters p Corporation pp USA), appointed irector Director Senior Managing Officer er in January H ation Head of Global Transportation and Senior Managing Exec cutive Executive 2016 (to present). S Services Headquarters present). Officer in June 2016 (to present). Age: 55 Hitomaro Yano Age: 55 Joined Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. in Director Joined Seibu bu Department Stores, 2001. Joined ORIX in 2011. After serving Executive Officer ently Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd.) Limited (currently in positions including Deputy Head of Head of Treasury and in 1985. Joinedned ORIX in 1989. After Investment and Operation Headquarters, Accounting Headquarters ositions including Deputy serving in positions appointed Director and Managing easury and Accounting Head of Treasury Executive Officer in June 2018 (to Headquarters, s, appointed Director and present). Executive Officer in June 2018 (to present). Nobuaki Usui Age: e: 77 ● Nominating Committee (Chairperson) Main Career History ● Audit Committee Has served as Administrative Vice Minister, Ministry of Financee and • Audit and Supervisory Board Member, KONAMI HOLDINGS CORPORATION nance Governor and CEO, National Life Finance • Corporate Auditor, MIROKU JYOHO SERVICE Corporation (currently Japan Finance nance CO., LTD. rector Corporation). Appointed Outside Director in June 2012 (to present). Main Area of Expertise Finance and taxation Ryuji Yasuda Age: 72 ● Nominating Committee Main Career History ● Audit Committee Has served in positions including ing ● Compensation Committee Director, McKinsey & Company and nted Chairman, A.T. Kearney, Asia. Appointed • Adjunct Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Outside Director in June 2013 (to Hitotsubashi University Department of International Corporate Strategy present). • Outside Director, Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd. • Outside Director, Benesse Holdings, Inc. Main Area of Expertise • Outside Director, Kansai Mirai Financial Group, Inc. Corporate strategy Heizo Takenaka Age: 67 ● Nominating Committee Main Career History ● Audit Committee Has served in positions including Minister of State for • Professor, Faculty of Global and Regional Studies Economic and Fiscal Policy, Minister of Statee for Financial at Toyo University Services, Minister of State for Communications ications and • Chairman and Director, PASONA Group Inc. Privatization of Postal Services, and Ministerer for Internal • Director, Academyhills Affairs. Appointed Outside Director in June 20155 (to present). • Director, Center for Global Innovation Studies at Toyo University Main Area of Expertise • Outside Director, SBI Holdings, Inc. Economics and finance 32 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Comments from Outside Directors ORIX is backed by effective and ORIX is able to address urgent social functional corporate governance. issues because its businesses and investments incorporate new technologies. The ESG and SDG initiatives of companies around the world are not new concepts for ORIX, which has always Many analysts evaluate ORIX and other Japanese corporabuilt its businesses from the perspective of what is necestions by calculating the value for each business of the ensary for society. For example, ORIX entered the environment terprise and adding up the figures, but they do not seem and energy business by identifying the close relationship to take synergies between those businesses into signifibetween social issues and business opportunities. This emcant account. These synergies make ORIX a company with bodies the SDGs. outstanding value, and that should be a positive addition to ORIX has always been a leader in corporate governance its valuation. and created a sound and highly transparent corporate govORIX has also explained its medium-term direction by ernance framework in ways such as transitioning to a comclassifying its business portfolio into Finance, Operation, pany with a nominating committee, etc. in 2003. Checks and Investment since FY2016.3. I would hope that invesand balances characterize ORIX’s Board of Directors. The tors and analysts will deepen their understanding of ORIX mechanisms ORIX has established to incorporate external through discussion that draws on these classifications. opinions would be meaningless if management refuses to I expect further enhancement of corporate value through listen, but CEO Inoue listens attentively to objective opininnovation that is unique to ORIX. ORIX will cultivate new ions and frank advice from external viewpoints. The give innovations through exchange and friendly competition and take between the opinions of a CEO who wants to among Group employees who have excelled in a broad arlisten and Board Members who want to talk raises the ray of businesses. ORIX must also recruit and develop proquality of management strategies. This enables deeper fessionals who can use new technologies such as AI and discussion that identifies good risks and optimizes reIoT. I also expect ORIX’s concentration on businesses and source allocation, among other outcomes. investments that incorporate new technologies to empower it to address problems such as Japan’s labor shortage and aging population. ORIX should be able to fulfill its important responsibility to make society more affluent by providing solutions that are uniquely its own. ORIX is able to increase corporate value through synergy rather than simple addition. Robert Feldman ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 33 Corporate Governance ORIX’s communication and business change symbolized by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, so approaches are oriented toward longwe Outside Directors must always advise the Board from new, medium-to-long-term perspectives. For example, we term investors. need to fulfill our responsibilities as Outside Directors while asking ourselves whether ORIX is nominating DirecORIX must deal with the issue that people evaluate it only tor candidates who can effectively implement medium-toin terms of corporate Japan. However, ORIX has locations long-term strategies, or whether ORIX is looking beyond in 38 countries and regions and a diverse business portfoshort-term compensation to structure compensation lio, and so it should be valued in terms of its operating geared to the medium and long term. strengths and growth potential as a global company and Currently, ORIX must emphasize the risk of political and compared with global peers. ORIX must therefore comgeopolitical uncertainty. The key to minimizing this risk is municate its sustainable growth potential as a global brand for ORIX to leverage its unique and extensive business so that investors value it more accurately. ORIX will also portfolio to build its global network spanning the world’s be able to earn the trust of long-term investors who major countries and regions and its information collection emphasize ESG if it understands the deep connection capabilities on par with a general trading company. In that between the SDGs and its businesses and seriously sense, a core point will be how ORIX management and executes relevant initiatives. That is, ORIX will both coexist the leaders of local operations expand their relationships with the global environment and society and improve profwith diverse people, starting with key persons involved in itability by selecting, investing in, and deploying its knowand outside of the Group’s businesses in countries worldhow and expertise in businesses that make the greatest wide, to build relationships of trust with them. ORIX will contribution to the SDGs. Cumulatively, such business deneed people with the power to connect the information cisions will generate returns by leading investors to view gathered through its networks in each country to opportuORIX as an ESG investment. ORIX should create its own nities, and I expect these people to grow and excel. ORIX unique virtuous cycle along these lines. has a corporate culture of taking on new challenges, so providing opportunities to the new generation of employHow should ORIX respond to growing ees will support substantial progress. geopolitical uncertainty? ORIX has taken the initiative in deepening corporate governance over the long term since before Japan’s Corporate Governance Code was enacted in 2015. The Board of Directors also engages in wide-ranging discussions with its broadly knowledgeable Outside Directors, and I feel that these discussions are getting even more substantial over time. Companies must now deal with rapid social I expect ORIX to create te new value from fresh medium-to-long-term m perspectives. Takeshi Niinami 34 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance at ORIX Approach to Corporate Governance ● ORIX believes that a robust corporate governance system is essential for ensuring objective management and carrying out appropriate business activities in line with its core policies. We have therefore established a sound and transparent corporate governance system. ● Corporate governance is a system for management oversight. It involves setting management objectives for managers, performance analysis and evaluation, and supervision in order to ensure that management strives to attain outstanding results. The tension inherent in corporate governance encourages management to perform to the best of its ability and facilitates innovation in pursuit of corporate objectives. Such an approach is conducive to the achievement of consistently high ROE. ● Outside Directors have a crucial role to play in corporate governance. From various perspectives reflecting their diverse professional backgrounds, Outside Directors are able to objectively evaluate management’s performance in ways that transcend the industry’s conventional wisdom and the company’s ingrained practices. Moreover, by virtue of their external perspectives, Outside Directors are in the position to objectively evaluate the risk of management not taking adequate levels of risk. Evolution of Corporate Governance In order to present itself in an accurate and transparent fashion to investors, ORIX has been applying 1964 Adopted U.S. GAAP U.S. GAAP in its financial reporting since its founding in 1964. Listed on the second Six years after its founding, ORIX listed its shares on the second section of the Osaka Securities 1970 section of the Osaka Exchange. Going public reflected the Company’s aspiration to be a responsible member of society Securities Exchange with transparency and accountability in its governance. ORIX spearheaded the strengthening of corporate governance through measures such as establishing Established Advisory 1997 an Advisory Board, a committee composed entirely of outside advisors who provide advice to Board management, in 1997 and introducing a Corporate Executive Officer System in 1998. Introduced Corporate In 1998, ORIX adopted the Corporate Executive Officer System, which separates the supervisory function (Board of Directors) and business execution (Executive Officers). In the same year, ORIX Executive Officer System 1998 listed its shares on the New York Stock Exchange after considering the growing number of foreign and listed on the New shareholders and the benefit of strengthening corporate governance through the more stringent York Stock Exchange disclosure requirements of the SEC. Adopted the “Company ORIX welcomed its first Outside Director in 1999 and adopted the “Company with Committees” board model* in 2003. All of the current Outside Directors meet the independence criteria prescribed by the 2003 with Committees” board Tokyo Stock Exchange. model* * Adopted the new “Company with Nominating Committee, etc.” board model in line with the amendment of the Companies Act of Japan in 2015. This is how ORIX has been strengthening its management oversight since its founding. The current corporate governance framework requires a high level of discipline from the managers, but we believe this is how corporate governance is supposed to be. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 35 Corporate Governance ORIX’s Vision of Corporate Governance Desirable Undesirable Viewpoints of supervision and • Supervision of management pursuing enhancement of corporate value • Supervision of legal compliance only operation at Board of • Operation led by Outside Directors • Operation led by Executive Officers Directors meetings • Productive debate with a healthy degree of tension • Unproductive discussion lacking a degree of tension Orientation of the way the • Healthy risk appetite to facilitate innovation • Lack of innovation due to excessive risk aversion Board of Directors meetings • Risk evaluation from an objective perspective • Excessive risk appetite lacking an objective perspective are conducted • Appointment of management and determination of • Appointment of management and determination of compensation compensation from shareholders’ viewpoint entirely from an internal perspective Result High ROE sustainable over the long term Low ROE over the long term Corporate Governance Framework (As of June 29, 2018) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment or Dismissal of Directors Management/Supervision Nominating Committee Independent Certiﬁed Public Accountants Board of Directors (All members are Outside Directors) The committee decides the candidates for Directors 6 Outside Directors Compensation Committee (All members are Outside Directors) The committee decides the compensation for Directors and Executive Ofﬁcers 6 Internal Directors Audit Committee (All members are Outside Directors) Reporting The committee monitors the operational execution of Directors/Executive Ofﬁcers Supervision Execution of Operations Framework* *Please refer to page 38 for Execution of Operations Framework. Financial Auditing Differences with Respect to the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Standards ORIX’s American Depositary Shares have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) since 1998. As an NYSE-listed company, ORIX is required to comply with certain corporate governance standards under Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. However, as a foreign private issuer, ORIX is permitted to follow home country practice. Our corporate governance practices differ in certain respects from those that U.S. listed companies must adopt. A summary of these differences is as follows: • ORIX is not required to meet the NYSE’s independence requirements for • ORIX is not required to have the majority of its Board of Directors individuals on its Board of Directors or its Nominating, Audit and comprised of Outside Directors nor is ORIX required to compose its Compensation committees. ORIX’s Nominating Committee has determined committees exclusively of Outside Directors. Of ORIX’s twelve Directors, its own “Conditions for Director Independence.” six are Outside Directors. In addition, all members of each committee are Outside Directors. 36 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Board of Directors Aside from such items, the Board of Directors delegates decision-making regarding operations to Representative The Board of Directors carries out decisions related to Executive Officers to facilitate better efficiency and items that, either as a matter of law or pursuant to our swiftness of such process. The Board of Directors also Articles of Incorporation, cannot be delegated to Executive receives reports from Executive Officers and committees Officers, and important items as determined by the regarding the status of business operations and finances. regulations of the Board of Directors. The Board of The Board of Directors is composed of Directors, Directors is responsible for deciding and monitoring ORIX’s including Outside Directors, that possess broad knowledge policies on a regular basis, which include corporate and experience. The number of Directors on the board is planning such as capital management, fund procurement, also maintained at the level we consider to be appropriate hiring and recruitment strategies and internal controls. for effective and efficient Board discussion. Board of Directors Evaluation The Board of Directors conducts a survey of all Directors. The effectiveness of the Board of Directors is evaluated and analyzed and actions to improve the administration of the Board of Directors are implemented. An overview of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors for FY2018.3 follows. Evaluation Process • The Secretariat of the Board of Directors provided a questionnaire (details below) to the Directors. • Based on the results of the questionnaire, the Secretariat of the Board of Directors personally interviewed each Director to gather additional information including opinions not available from the questionnaire alone and requests concerning the operations of the Board of Directors. • The Secretariat of the Board of Directors reported the results of the questionnaire and interviews to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors formulated action plans for the issues raised by the report. Questionnaire Contents Process • Composition of the Board of Directors May 2018: Questionnaire conducted • Operation of the Board of Directors June 2018: Interviews conducted based on the • Agenda of the Board of Directors and questionnaire other bodies July 2018: Final results of the evaluation • Effectiveness of the Board of Directors presented to the Board of Directors, discussions and action plan formulated • Board of Directors support system Evaluation Results • The results of the questionnaire confirmed the effectiveness of the Board of Directors in terms of its composition, operation, agenda, effectiveness of discussion, and support system. • In addition, the results of the last Board of Directors evaluation for FY2017.3 showed that the Board needed to discuss a detailed management succession plan to fulfill its responsibilities and obligations. Based on this opinion, the Board of Directors created opportunities to discuss a detailed succession plan, and consequently improved the evaluation of this item compared with the previous questionnaire. Action Plan Based on the results of the above evaluation, the Board of Directors established the following action plan to be carried out in FY2019.3. • Deepen understanding of our businesses by encouraging interchange between Outside Directors and employees on the front lines, and continue to conduct inspections of business offices, facilities and other locations. • Stimulate discussions by continuing to provide advance explanation of agenda items and enhance the content of the explanations. • Promote paperless Board of Directors materials through the use of tablets or other terminals. • Periodically report the results of communications, such as interviews with investors, to the Board of Directors. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 37 Corporate Governance Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Nominating Committee Audit Committee • The Nominating Committee decides and produces • The Audit Committee monitors the execution of the duties proposals to appoint or dismiss Directors, which are then of the Directors and Executive Officers and creates audit submitted at the general meeting of shareholders reports. The Audit Committee decides the content of (appointment and dismissal of Directors are subject to proposals to appoint, dismiss or refuse the reappointment resolution at the general meeting of shareholders). o f t h e C o m p a ny ’s I n d e p e n d e n t C e r t i f i e d Pu b l i c • The Nominating Committee also deliberates on the Accountants, which are submitted to the general meeting appointment or dismissal of Executive Officers, although of shareholders. this is not required under the Companies Act of Japan. • The Nominating Committee has determined the Compensation Committee “Conditions for Director Independence.”* • The Compensation Committee formulates the policy for • The Nominating Committee ensures that the Board of determining compensation of each Director and Executive Directors possesses the appropriate levels of and diversity Officer (“Policy for Determining Compensation of in knowledge, experience, and expertise, through Directors and Executive Officers”) and also decides the “Nomination Criteria for Director Candidates”* for specific compensation for each individual Director and Directors’ appointments. Executive Officer. * For detailed information on “Conditions for Director Independence” and “Nomination Criteria for Director Candidates” determined by the Nominating Committee, please refer to the following: Board of Directors and Committee Meetings in FY2018.3 • Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Number of Meetings Attendance Rate https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ir/library/20f/ Board of Directors 8 98% Nominating Committee 3 94% Audit Committee 9 94% Compensation Committee 5 100% Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers The Compensation Committee believes that in order to * Share component of compensation is a program in which points are annually allocated to Directors and Executive Officers based upon accomplish ORIX’s business objectives, Directors and prescribed standards while in office, and the actual number of ORIX shares Executive Officers should place importance not only on calculated based on the number of accumulated points is provided at the time of retirement. Points granted to the members of each position are performance during the current fiscal year, but also on determined based on the guidelines set by the Compensation Committee. mediumand long-term results. The fundamental policy is to ensure that compensation is designed in a way that Compensation Policy for Executive Officers (including provides effective incentives to Directors and Executive those who concurrently serve as Directors) Officers. Based on this principle, the Committee then • The compensation consists of fixed compensation, establishes specific policies for each Director and Executive performance-linked compensation and share component of Officer in accordance with his/her respective role. compensation. • Fixed compensation is decided based on the standardized base amount for each position followed by an adjustment in Compensation Policy for Directors accordance with each position’s respective role and • The compensation consists of fixed compensation and responsibility. share component of compensation.* • Performance-linked compensation consists of two • Fixed compensation is, in principle, a certain amount that components of equal weighting. The first component is is added to the compensation of the chairperson and derived from the standardized base amount for each member of each committee. position that starts from 50% followed by adjustment • Share component of compensation is calculated based within the range of 0% to 200% based on the attainment on the number of points earned and accumulated by the level of the consolidated net income target for the current individual while in office until retirement. It is eventually fiscal year as a performance indicator. The second granted to the individual in the form of ORIX shares upon component is derived the same way as the first retirement. This compensation is intended to align component, except with the subsequent adjustment within mediumto long-term results of the Company with the the range of 0% to 300% based on the attainment level of individual’s performance. his/her division(s)’ performance target for the current fiscal 38 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 year. Furthermore, in the case of a Representative Executive • Share component of compensation is calculated based Officer, his/her performance-linked compensation is entirely on the number of points earned and accumulated by based on a standardized base amount that is adjusted the individual while in office until retirement. It is within the range of 0% to 200% based on the attainment eventually granted to the individual in the form of ORIX level of the consolidated net income target for the current shares upon retirement. fiscal year as a performance indicator. Compensation of Directors, Executive Officers and Group Executives (FY2018.3) Fixed Compensation Performance-linked Compensation Share Component of Compensation Total Number of Amount Paid Number of Amount Paid Number of Amount Paid Amount Paid Recipients (Millions of yen) Recipients (Millions of yen) Recipients (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) Directors 7 99 7 16 116 ̶ ̶ (Outside Directors) (6) (67) (6) (13) (81) Executive Officers 27 694 27 370 27 492 1,557 and Group Executives Total 34 794 27 370 34 508 1,673 1. There were three new Executive Officers (including those serving concurrently as Directors and Executive Officers) and six resigning Executive Officers (including those serving concurrently as Directors and Executive Officers) in FY2018.3. There were a total of 12 Directors (including six Outside Directors), 17 Executive Officers (including those serving concurrently as Directors and Executive Officers) and four Group Executives as of March 31, 2018. The number of people and amounts paid in the table above include six Executive Officers (including those serving concurrently as Directors and Executive Officers) who retired during FY2018.3. 2. At ORIX, no Directors serving concurrently as Executive Officers received compensation as Directors. Total compensation for the six people serving concurrently as Directors and Executive Officers is shown in the Executive Officers and Group Executives line. 3. The amount paid listed in the table above is calculated by multiplying the number of points confirmed to be provided as the portion for FY2018.3 by the stock market price paid by the trust when ORIX’s shares were acquired (¥1,544 per share). 4. ORIX did not provide stock options in the form of stock acquisition rights in FY2018.3. 5. Figures shown are rounded down by truncating figures of less than ¥1 million. Executive Officers The Representative Executive Officers of ORIX make Characteristics of the Executive Officer System important business execution decisions after deliberations • Operation and oversight are separated through a “Company by the Investment and Credit Committee in accordance with Nominating Committees, etc.” board model. with ORIX’s various rules. • CEO and CFO are involved in all processes for evaluating The duties of Executive Officers are decided by the individual transactions and monitoring the progress of strategies and plans of business units as well as the Board of Directors and the Representative Executive progress of strategies and plans of the Group as a whole. Officers and are carried out in accordance with ORIX’s • Executive Officers and Group Executives regularly report various rules. Group Executives are appointed by the Board and share information with CEO and CFO about progress of Directors from among the Directors and Executive of strategies and plans of business units they are Officers of the Group companies. responsible for. • Executive Officers and Group Executives along with CEO and CFO share information about strategies and plans of the Group as a whole. Execution of Operations Framework (As of June 29, 2018) Management/Supervision Nominating Committee The Board of Directors Compensation Committee Audit Committee Execution of operations Report Delegation of execution Audit Committee Secretariat Cooperation Report Investment and Credit Committee Disclosure Committee (Organs responsible for execution of operations) Information Technology Management Committee CEO* and Executive Ofﬁcers Group Executive Ofﬁcer Committee Monthly Strategy Meetings Execution Internal audit Business units Internal control-related functions department (including subsidiaries) (Departments in charge of Group management) Monitoring Audit Whistle-blower channels * CEO undertakes the role of CFO. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 39 Corporate Governance Individual Executive Bodies Important decision-making, monitoring and discussions regarding the execution of business and sharing of information are conducted by the following bodies. Investment and Credit Committee (ICC) Information Technology Management Committee Attendees: Top management and Executive Officers involved in projects Attendees: Top management and the Executive Officer in charge of Held: Three times a month in principle IT systems • Meets primarily to deliberate and make decisions on credit transactions and investments Held: Once a month in principle that exceed certain specified investment or credit amounts and important matters related to • Meets to deliberate and decide important matters concerning fundamental policies for IT management of the Company and matters that have been entrusted to Representative operations and IT systems. Executive Officers by the Board of Directors. • Ensures that IT decisions are consistent with business strategies and works to realize IT • In consideration of their importance, the content of the matters and items decided by the investments that contribute to business growth and reduce risk. ICC are reported to the Board of Directors as necessary. Disclosure Committee Monthly Strategy Meeting Attendees: CFO (Chairperson) and Executive Officers in charge of Treasury Attendees: Top management and each divisional head and Accounting Headquarters, Credit and Investment Held: Once a month in principle Management Headquarters, Enterprise Risk Management • Meets to discuss matters such as the state of achievement of strategic targets and changes Headquarters, Group Human Resources and Corporate in the business environment. Administration Headquarters and Group Internal Audit • Matters of high importance discussed at the Monthly Strategy Meeting are deliberated and Department decided by the ICC and reported to the Board of Directors as necessary. Held: As necessary • Upon receiving warnings regarding important information from those in charge of individual Group Executive Officer Committee departments, the Disclosure Committee meets to discuss whether any timely disclosure is Attendees: Executive Officers and Group Executives required and takes steps to provide appropriate disclosure of such information, if necessary. Held: Every two months in principle • The committee controls information disclosure and facilitates the appropriate and timely disclosure of information to stakeholders. • Meets to share important information related to the business administration of the ORIX Group. Control by Business Unit Control by the Internal Control-related Functions • Each business unit evaluates material risks in light of the (Departments in Charge of Group Management) business strategies and plans, and exercises its own risk • Each department of internal control-related functions management. assesses not only the material risks but the risks that it controls and manages on an across-the-board basis, and assists in the risk management conducted by each business unit. Advisor System • ORIX appoints advisors when necessary. They are primarily responsible for activities in the business community and other external activities that are important for the ORIX Group. • Advisors do not take part in deliberative bodies that make decisions for ORIX and are not involved in business execution. • Compensation for advisors is determined based on rules decided by the Board of Directors after deliberation by the Compensation Committee. • The following three advisors served in roles including Representative Director and President. Their total compensation was ¥32 million as of June 29, 2018. Senior Chairman: Yoshihiko Miyauchi Honorary Advisors: Yukio Yanase and Yasuhiko Fujiki For more detailed information on corporate governance, please refer to the following: • Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ▶▶▶ https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ir/library/20f/ • Corporate Governance ▶▶▶ https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/company/governance 40 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 EC21 Excellent ORIX established the corporate conduct charter EC21 to make clear the company it aims to be, in an effort to become an “Excellent Company in the 21st Century.” ORIX draws on EC21 based on a stance of contributing to society through its businesses to deliver value unique to ORIX by energetically addressing social issues and needs. We have pride in creating new value which is Pride highly regarded from the market. We win the trust of all stakeholders Trust by responding professionally to diverse society needs. We earn utmost respect from society with the highest standards of Respect compliance with all laws, morals and a transparent corporate culture. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 41 Company Contributing to society through our businesses + People who support sustainable growth Transition to a Carbon-Free More Efficient Use and Supply Society of Energy We are contributing to the creation of a carbon-free world by bringing We are contributing to the efﬁcient use and supply of energy by saving renewable energy such as solar power generation into the mainstream. energy and reducing energy costs. Creation of a Society That The Aging Society/Achieving Reuses and Recycles Secure and Healthy Lifestyles We are contributing to the creation of a society that emphasizes the We are contributing to the formation of a society where people can live extended use of things of value and a society that effectively uses and with peace of mind by providing a variety of services as Japan’s birthrate recycles natural resources to reduce the generation of waste and decreases and its population ages. environmental loading. Regional Revitalization A Smart and Resilient Society We are contributing to the development of regional economies through We are contributing to the creation of a smart and resilient society in our diverse business portfolio in ways such as increasing demand for ways such as supporting corporate R&D, disaster response, and tourism and creating employment outside major cities. operational efﬁciency. Vitalizing Small and MediumAbout 32,000 Diverse Size Enterprises Employees We are contributing to the growth and vitality of small and medium-size We develop highly skilled people who consistently take the initiative in enterprises, a core customer group, by providing various kinds of creating new businesses and continuously take on challenges. support. → Page 58, Relationship with Employees Business Areas for Further Growth We consider businesses that are aligned with our strengths and social needs to be our growth markets, and we are aggressively building them. Environment and Energy .......... 42 Automobiles .............................. 50 Concession ................................ 44 Aircraft ...................................... 52 Asset Management ................... 46 Private Equity Investment ......... 54 Life Insurance ............................ 48 New Businesses ........................ 56 42 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Environment and Energy Finance Operation Environment and Infrastructure Investment ORIX Awaji Mega-Solar Power Plant (Awaji, Hyogo Prefecture) ORIX’s broad portfolio includes energy businesses such as energy-saving services, electric power supply and renewable energy power generation, and environment businesses such as waste disposal and metal resources. The proliferation of renewable energy, energy saving and energy cost reduction are making a notable contribution to the transition to a carbon-free society and the efficient use and supply of energy. Backed by our achievements in Japan, we will build businesses overseas with a platform investment* policy. *Platform investment: Investment in companies we expect to generate many business opportunities. Revenues from Environment and Contributing to Society through Our Businesses Energy Businesses (Billions of yen) 113.8 Transition to a carbonCreation of a society free society that reuses and recycles More efficient use and 19.7 supply of energy FY2013.3 FY2018.3 Features and Strengths Risks Opportunities One of the largest solar power generation Stronger regulation of environment and Leveraging achievements in Japan to businesses in Japan, with secured capacity energy businesses; declining proﬁtability expand the renewable energy business of about 1,000 MW due to abolition of favorable government overseas policies; withdrawal from businesses Increasing ability to stably supply our Deepening of renewable energy busiown electricity, a broadening network, Inability to continue operating businesses nesses including geothermal, wind power and expanding renewable energy and properly could result in suspension of and biomass in Japan electric power retailing businesses in operations and compensation to stakeProviding solutions that utilize IoT techline with systemic change in Japan, holders for damages nology capabilities, storage batteries or including the deregulation of power other methods to serve the digital society generation and feed-in tariffs A single source for services ranging from collection and transportation to ﬁnal disposal of waste ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 43 Business Areas for Further Growth Specific Initiatives The Renewable Energy Business in Japan The Renewable Energy Business Overseas As of March 31, 2018, the solar power generation business in Our previous stance on the renewable energy business Japan was involved in projects with secured capacity of about overseas was to focus primarily on financial investments to 1,000 MW, of which 700 MW is in operation. This makes take minority stakes in such businesses, but we have ORIX one of the largest solar power generation companies in changed our focus to a policy of platform investment to Japan, and we also plan to begin operating a succession of build a foundation of businesses. In July 2017, we invested new projects. We have been focusing on secured capacity, approximately ¥70.7 billion to acquire a stake of about and will now shift our focus to the operation of power plants. 22.1% in Ormat Technologies, Inc. (Ormat) in the United We will improve our operating structure and add value to our States. As of March 2018, Ormat owned or had installed assets while ensuring stable operation over the long term and power plants with gross capacity of 2,500 MW worldwide, maximizing earnings. and had a top global share of about 82% of binary power We will complement our solar power generation business equipment installation volume. Outside the United States, by investing aggressively in renewable energy businesses Ormat is building businesses in Central America, Africa and such as geothermal, wind power, and biomass. The develelsewhere, and has about 800 MW of capacity. These opment period for projects is longer in these businesses investments are the first steps in building a global geothermal than in the solar power generation business. However, climate power generation platform. We will strategically collaborate change is less likely to affect projects in these businesses with Ormat to integrate expertise and business platforms once operation begins, so we expect to benefit from the as we build our geothermal power generation business stable supply of power over the medium and long term. with a focus on Japan and Asia. Japan will take a more balanced approach to renewable energy Future investment in the overseas renewable energy rather than focusing mainly on solar power, and ORIX business will target platform investments similar to Ormat will continue to fulfill its responsibilities in supporting the with a focus on Asian and European companies. The proliftransition to a carbon-free society. Our objective is to add eration of renewable energy is an important policy issue geothermal and wind power to our portfolio as a leader in worldwide from the viewpoint of ensuring energy selfrenewable energy in Japan. sufficiency and achieving a low-carbon society. We will enhance the fundamentals of our existing businesses while leveraging our expertise in Japan to expand globally. Drilling site at Minamikayabe, Hakodate (feasibility study for the construction of a geothermal power plant) The McGinness Hills Complex power plant owned and operated by Ormat (Nevada, U.S.A.) 44 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Concession Finance Operation Investment Environment and Infrastructure Kansai International Airport ORIX launched its concession business with the first full-fledged airport management project by the private sector in Japan. We are expanding from airport management into infrastructure businesses including water supply and sewerage to position ORIX as the top concessionaire in Japan while also looking at a broad range of concession opportunities overseas. Passengers Using Kansai International Contributing to Society through Our Businesses Airport and Osaka International Airport (Itami Airport) (Millions of passengers) 44.48 Regional revitalization 38.68 FY2016.3 FY2018.3 Features and Strengths Risks Opportunities Broad business management expertise Intensifying competition for concessions Ongoing increase in number and types and operating track record in Japan of concessions in Japan Extensive relationships with leading comChanges in pro concession policies; Increasing opportunities to participate panies in Japan and overseas changes in laws and regulations in concession projects overseas Ability to deploy operating and ﬁnancial Signiﬁcant decrease in the number of expertise as infrastructure assets are tourists visiting Japan due to increased monetized geopolitical risk ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 45 Business Areas for Further Growth Specific Initiatives Operation of Kansai International Airport, City privatized operation of the plant for the next 20 years Osaka International Airport (Itami Airport) with the intention of raising management efficiency to reduce operating costs. and Kobe Airport Water supply and sewerage is a mature business in which The operation of Kansai International Airport and Osaka many local governments are having trouble improving operaInternational Airport (Itami Airport) is our first concession. tional efficiency and are introducing new technology to sustain Kansai Airports, established by a consortium led by ORIX infrastructure operations in the face of increased renovation and VINCI Airports of France, took over the operation of costs and reduced demand caused by a decreasing population. both airports in April 2016. In addition, a wholly owned subOn the other hand, the total operating revenues of water supsidiary of Kansai Airports called Kansai Airports Kobe took ply and sewage systems throughout Japan are estimated at over the management of Kobe Airport in April 2018. about ¥4 trillion, indicating a large potential market. Water SupWe are structuring a three-in-one airport organization that ply Act revisions are expected to promote broadly based coopwill support economic development and increase demand eration and public-private partnerships, so water and sewage for air transport in Kansai. We will prioritize airport safety and concession opportunities may well increase in the future. security as we fully leverage our private-sector knowledge and expertise to further enhance services. Future Initiatives and Policies The total worldwide value of infrastructure investment deals Operation of Public Wastewater Treatment is estimated at US$337 billion.* In addition to bolstering its Plant in Hamamatsu City position as the number-one concessionaire in Japan, ORIX is also aggressively taking on the challenge of overseas projects. ORIX began participating in the operation of a public wasteWe will consider infrastructure projects with due considerwater treatment plant in Hamamatsu City in April 2018, our ation of regional characteristics, from Europe where the legal first water supply and sewerage concession. Hamamatsu system is clear, transparency is high and cash flow is stable, to Water Symphony operates the plant, and ORIX holds a miAsia where development projects are numerous. nority stake in this company that is majority owned by the * Preqin survey (2017) Japanese subsidiary of French company Veolia. Hamamatsu Actual and Potential Concessions in Japan (As of July 2018) Wakkanai Airport Asahikawa Airport Kansai International Airport and Osaka International Airport (Itami Airport) Memanbetsu Airport New Chitose Airport (Operation by Kansai Airports began in April 2016) (Kansai International Airport: 25.71 million passengers in FY2017.3) Hakodate Airport (Osaka International Airport: 15.10 million passengers in FY2017.3) Kushiro Airport Tottori Airport Obihiro Airport Kobe Airport (Operation by Kansai Airports Kobe began in April 2018) Water supply and sewerage (2.72 million passengers in FY2017.3) (combined concession) Tajima Airport (Miyagi Prefecture) Hiroshima Airport Sendai Airport Fukuoka Airport Kitakyushu Airport Ariake Arena (Tokyo Prefecture) Shizuoka Airport Kumamoto Airport Nanki-Shirahama Hamamatsu City Public Wastewater Treatment Plant Airport Hamamatsu Water Symphony K.K. began operation in April 2018 Takamatsu Airport Osaka City Museum of Fine Arts (Osaka Prefecture) Bidding process completed Project initiated Aichi Prefecture Toll Road Potential concession (premised Potential concession on combined operation) 46 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Asset Management Finance Operation Financial Services Investment Our asset management business has grown substantially due to changes in the business environment caused by the global financial crisis. Overseas, we operate internationally through asset management companies including Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (Robeco). In Japan, we have established a business foundation for asset management centered on real estate. We will continue to contribute to the sustainable development of society through sustainability investing and to help customers manage their assets reliably and design affluent lives. Assets under Management at Contributing to Society through Our Businesses ORIX Corporation Europe (Billions of euros) The aging society/ 288.7 Achieving secure and healthy lifestyles 198.3 FY2013.3 FY2018.3 Features and Strengths Risks Opportunities Broad Groupwide product lineup and Reduction in balance of assets under Increase in alternative asset manageinvestor base management due to reduced asset ment opportunities management performance or intensiﬁed Extensive experience backed by a longIncrease in the pool of new investors competition term track record; outstanding research due to growing investment needs in Asia system Weaker management due to loss of Growing M&A opportunities associated excellent human resources Comprehensive capabilities from a diverwith the reorganization of the asset siﬁed real estate business encompassing Increase in management costs due to management industry development, leasing, asset management tighter regulation of asset managers and facility management; access to Group network ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 47 Business Areas for Further Growth Specific Initiatives Diversification and Geographical In 2016, OCU acquired Boston Financial Investment ManExpansion of Business agement, LP, which syndicates Low-Income Housing Tax Credits. In 2017, it acquired Lancaster Pollard Holdings, LLC, ORIX acquired the asset management company Robeco a provider of integrated investment banking, mortgage Groep N.V. (now ORIX Corporation Europe N.V.), headquarbanking, balance sheet lending and private equity services tered in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, in 2013 for full-scale focused on the full continuum of senior living and healthentry into the global asset management business. Robeco care clients. Our objective is to establish a strong position is central to this business. Since its establishment in 1929, in the U.S. residential real estate financial services market. Robeco has built a consistent record of performance and In Japan, ORIX Asset Management manages a J-REIT, investment in new asset management technologies and reand ORIX Real Estate Investment Advisors manages private search. We are now offering a wide range of active investequity funds. The latter had approximately ¥430 billion in ment solutions from equities to bonds. assets under management as of March 31, 2018, ranging Robeco offers innovative asset management strategies from hotels and office buildings to logistics facilities. Its with a proprietary combination of research in three areas: goal is to leverage the expertise and network of the ORIX fundamentals, sustainability, and quantitative investing. It is Group to increase assets under management to ¥650 billion a pioneer and global leader in sustainability investing and in 2022. In addition, the J-REIT that ORIX Asset Managequantitative asset management. Sustainability investing is ment manages was the sixth largest in Japan in terms of increasingly popular in Europe and around the world, giving assets as of June 30, 2018. This integrated REIT owns office Robeco more opportunities to exercise its competitive adbuildings and various other assets, and will improve the vantage. Robeco is committed to providing customers with overall quality of its asset portfolio by circumspectly acquirexcellent asset management results over the long term, ing properties without restricting investment by property using a quality-focused process based on research. type or location and flexibly disposing of properties in conU.S. subsidiary ORIX Corporation USA (OCU) is a strategic sideration of their future competitiveness. Group operation in the United States that is involved in Our asset management business is competitive in a wide businesses including securities investment, real estate and range of asset classes. We will also promote collaboration infrastructure finance, private equity investment, and asset among our operations. We will continue to expand our existmanagement. We are now structuring a unique business model ing portfolio while diversifying our businesses and expandwith emphasis on fee businesses including the securitization ing them geographically through M&A and new investment. of rental housing loans and the asset management business. Main Group Companies in the Asset Management Business (As of March 31, 2018) Established/ Segment Company Name Principal Business Acquired Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. 2013 Asset Management Transtrend B.V. 2013 Asset Management Overseas Business/ ORIX Corporation RobecoSAM AG 2013 Asset Management Europe N.V. Harbor Capital Advisors, Inc. 2013 Asset Management Boston Partners Global Investors, Inc. 2013 Asset Management RED Capital Group, LLC 2010 Loan Servicing Mariner Investment Group LLC 2010 Fund Operation and Management Overseas Business/ Real Estate Securitization, Asset Management, ORIX Corporation RB Capital S.A. 2016 Real Estate Development and Investment USA Boston Financial Investment Management, LP 2016 Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Syndicator Lancaster Pollard Holdings, LLC 2017 Mortgage Banking and Loan Servicing ORIX Asset Management Corporation 2000 Asset Management of J-REIT Real Estate ORIX Real Estate Investment Advisors Corporation 2007 Real Estate Investment and Advisory Services 48 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Life Insurance Finance Operation Financial Services Investment Our life insurance business offers simple and easily understood products and reasonably priced insurance coverage. We offer a full lineup of insurance products, primarily in the third-sector market and also in the firstsector market. Recognized by customers and external observers as insurance professionals, we also research and develop new products so that we can provide optimal insurance aligned with evolving customer needs. Life Insurance Premiums and Contributing to Society through Our Businesses Investment Income (Billions of yen) 353.0 The aging society/ Achieving secure and healthy lifestyles 139.5 FY2013.3 FY2018.3 Features and Strengths Risks Opportunities Strong ability to develop products aligned Contraction of the domestic life insurance Improving service with a customer-driven with evolving customer needs market due to the declining population management strategy Omnichannel business development Response to the investment environment Increase in opportunities to acquire policyin Japan, which is subject to factors such holders through our omnichannel strategy as the protracted negative interest rate policy ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 49 Business Areas for Further Growth Specific Initiatives Expanding Our Product Lineup and Timely Cooperation between Two Channels Direct channel Marketing Channels (Phone/online sales) I want to send in my premium Consideration of insurance/inquiry Since launching our Cure branded medical insurance in I wonder if I should 2006, we have been adding policyholders by developing take out insurance… Sending materials Rapid cooperation (Information on customers core third-sector insurance products, updating coverage, desiring a home visit) How do I change and focusing on developing first-sector insurance products. my coverage? Home visit We also broadened our marketing channels in 2016 by esThorough consulting tablishing a direct sales channel so that ORIX Life Insurance Conserve Advisor employees can make proposals to customers to comple(Consulting sales) ment sales through agencies, financial institutions and mail has steadily grown, achieving double digit growth for 12 order. We have organically integrated multiple channels consecutive years since FY2006.3. In the past two years, with an omnichannel strategy of providing services via the pace of growth has accelerated, with the number of channels that customers wish to use. Our consulting serpolicyholders rising from 3 million to 4 million.* In addition, vice in which we call on customers who have requested customer support is widespread, with the number of new information via phone or Internet has been particularly well policies in force exceeding 500,000 for five consecutive received. We thoroughly explain insurance products and years. provide advice about customer needs and risks so that cus* The increase in the number of policyholders from 1 million to 2 million took tomers can confidently consider our products. 3 years and 3 months, and the increase from 2 million to 3 million took 2 years and 5 months. As a result, the number of individual insurance policyholders exceeded 4 million as of May 31, 2018, and the business Marketing Channels Customer-Oriented Business Policy We provide a wide range of products to customers through about 6,300 locations,* including insurance agencies that handle life ORIX Life Insurance considers it important to provide prodand non-life insurance, drop-in style agencies close to train ucts and services with a closer connection to customers to Agency Sales stations and in large shopping malls, and tax accounting-related agencies that offer consulting that leverages expertise in taxation be the life insurance company they continue to choose. In and other subjects. 2017, we established a customer-oriented business policy Sales through Financial We offer insurance products at approximately 5,500 branches* of and established a Customer-Oriented Promotion Departcity and regional banks and credit unions. Institutions ment to carry out this policy. Viewing customer-oriented Mail Order and business as a management strategy, ORIX Life Insurance is We sell insurance by mail and the Internet. Internet Sales promoting its companywide penetration to thoroughly maxFace-to-Face ORIX Life Insurance salespeople known as Conserve Advisors sell imize the benefit for customers. ORIX Life Insurance aims Sales via ORIX our products directly to customers. Employees to fulfill the true interests of customers, not just by develop*As of March 31, 2018 ing competitive products but also by improving service quality and building up added value as a company. Individual Insurance Policies in Force (Millions of policies) Surpassed Surpassed 4 million 3 million policies policies 3.94 Surpassed 2 million 3.48 Surpassed policies 2.94 1 million 2.54 2.13 policies 1.78 1.49 1.16 0.73 0.89 0.41 0.48 0.59 2006.3 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2018.5 50 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Automobiles Finance Operation Maintenance Services Investment ORIX Rent-A-Car New Chitose Airport Our automobile business has strengths that include extensive expertise and a broad lineup of products and services. It incorporates automobile leasing, rental and car-sharing in comprehensive proposals aligned with various usage conditions such as the customer’s length, frequency and purpose of use. We are a one-stop provider of every kind of automobile-related service, including comprehensive vehicle management outsourcing and solutions that meet needs for compliance, environmental friendliness and safety management. Vehicles under Management in Japan Contributing to Society through Our Businesses (Millions of vehicles) 1.34 Creation of a society that A smart and resilient 1.01 reuses and recycles society The aging society/ Achieving secure and healthy lifestyles FY2013.3 FY2018.3 Features and Strengths Risks Opportunities Ability to propose comprehensive, optiDecline in earnings from existing busiGrowing demand for value-added sermum service to customers with a service nesses and services and the residual value vices such as automobile leasing, vehicle menu aligned with the automobile life cycle of vehicles due to structural changes in management, and operations support due from purchase to sale the automobile industry to corporate cost reduction needs and improved risk management and awareness A global leader in vehicles under Limited market expansion due to a societal of compliance management shift from ownership to usage and sharing Development of new products and services that address social demands and technological advances ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 51 Business Areas for Further Growth Specific Initiatives Leasing, Rental and Car-Sharing onboard communication and GPS device. We acquire information such as driving speed and driver behavior including ORIX’s automobile business provides comprehensive services sudden acceleration and deceleration in real time. We use related to automobiles. We are a leader in the leasing industhis data to help companies properly manage labor and pretry with 1,347,000 vehicles under management in Japan as vent accidents, which contributes significantly to our stated of March 31, 2018. Vehicles under management have been goal of realizing a smart, resilient society. We also gather increasing steadily due to the societal trend away from vehicle information including fuel consumption, and CO2 ownership toward usage and sharing. We also leverage our emissions in real time, and analyze these data to encourage automobile expertise in businesses that use pre-owned vehisafe, ecologically sound driving and reduce the environmencles, which makes an important contribution to the creation tal load of vehicle use. of a society that reuses and recycles. We launched Ever Drive in February 2017. It is a driving ORIX offers a service menu aligned with the automobile monitoring service that uses telematics technology to reduce life cycle from purchase, use and maintenance to operating accident risk for families with elderly drivers. The proportion management and sale, and we consult with customers to of elderly people involved in fatal accidents has been increaspropose optimal services. Our comprehensive services are ing year by year. The goal of this service is to identify the not available from other companies, and we use this advansigns of dangerous driving and create an environment in tage to further expand our business and enhance profitabilwhich elderly drivers can drive safely by visualizing the driving ity through economies of scale. of seniors. This service has received recognition as a solution Furthermore, we are deploying the vehicle management for contemporary issues and needs because it offers peace expertise we have acquired in Japan at overseas subsidiarof mind to the families of elderly drivers. ies in Australia, India, Southeast Asia, and elsewhere to exA future goal is to utilize the big data accumulated through pand our overseas automobile business. We will enhance the telematics service to provide new value added services. our products and services by collaborating with the ORIX For example, we are planning to further develop the telematGroup network while taking the market characteristics of ics services we have pioneered, such as by collaborating Asian countries into account and strengthening our busiwith municipalities and police in using analytical data to ness platform with enhanced systems and data use. restore and expand roads, thus supporting an automobile oriented society that is free of accidents. The structure of the automobile industry is changing dramatically due to changing Telematics Services lifestyles, urban configurations, and government regulations, and the technological transformation of the automobile itself. ORIX Auto provides telematics services that visualize the We will respond flexibly while using our experience and exoperating status of customer vehicles equipped with an pertise to transform change into new business opportunities. The Structure of Our Telematics Services GPS satellite E-mail notiﬁcation of Effectiveness ORIX Auto dangerous behavior veriﬁcation using data Vehicle operation data Provision of transmission using a operation communication line management information Consulting Telematics Onboard device System server website 52 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Aircraft Finance Operation Tangible Assets Investment Aircraft leased by ORIX Our aircraft business provides a wide array of services from leasing of owned aircraft to asset management for third parties, including sale of aircraft, lease brokerage, and aircraft maintenance monitoring. Given strong demand for aircraft, our goals are to increase earnings by adding assets, increasing gains on sale, and expanding fee income from aircraft management. Aircraft Owned and Under Management Contributing to Society through Our Businesses (Number of aircraft) 205 Creation of a society that Regional revitalization reuses and recycles 131 FY2016.3 FY2018.3 Features and Strengths Risks Opportunities Diverse services in addition to aircraft Decline in the number of passengers due Growing demand for aircraft as a result leasing including asset management to economic downturn or reduced demand of increased passenger traffic volume and arranging aircraft investment for for logistics worldwide investors Sharp decrease in the number of passenIncreasing demand for leasing among gers due to increased geopolitical risk airlines ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 53 Business Areas for Further Growth Specific Initiatives Providing Aircraft-Related Services 48,540 in 2037, and passenger traffic is estimated to grow Worldwide by an average of 4.7% annually. Leasing demand is rising among airlines because it ORIX has been acquiring aviation business expertise since enables flexible equipment planning and financing, and entering the aircraft leasing business 40 years ago in 1978. about 40% of aircraft currently operating worldwide are We established ORIX Aviation Systems Limited (OAS) in Ireunder operating leases. The lease ratio is forecast to rise to land in 1991 to lay the foundation for our aircraft operating 50%, suggesting further growth in the future. lease business. Today, OAS is growing as a major aircraft The number of aircraft owned and managed by ORIX is asset manager and leasing company, and is the only aircraft steadily increasing. As of March 31, 2018, we owned or leasing company in the world that has been ranked by managed 205 aircraft, an increase of 56 aircraft from the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) aircraft servicing rating. We not end of the previous fiscal year. only lease aircraft that we own, but we are also involved in Future initiatives and policies include opportunistic major asset management for aircraft owned by investors and purchases while generating stable leasing revenues and funds in Japan and overseas and provide comprehensive turning over our portfolio in response to the market to supmanagement services from purchase of aircraft to various port sustainable earnings. We generate stable fee income contract procedures for airlines that lease aircraft, monitorby investing with joint venture partners, arranging aircraft ing of aircraft operation and maintenance, re-leasing aircraft investments for corporate investors in Japan in line with coming off lease, and selling aircraft. Pre-owned aircraft their needs, and leveraging our expertise to provide a broad and the secondary market are another area of strength. array of asset management services. We currently own and manage more than 200 aircraft, and our leasing business serves over 70 airlines in more than 30 countries. Future Initiatives and Policies Global demand for aircraft continues to increase with the emergence of international low-cost carriers and the increase in passenger traffic volume spurred by economic growth in emerging countries and elsewhere. Aircraft in operation is projected to increase from 24,400 in 2017 to Earnings Opportunities in the Aircraft Business Leasing Revenues Gains on Sale Fee Income Owned aircraft Lease aircraft we own to airlines 〇 〇 Jointly own aircraft with investors for lease to airlines 〇 〇 〇 Joint investment Manage aircraft under contract from joint investors 〇 Arrange aircraft investments for investors 〇 Arranging aircraft investments* Manage aircraft under contract from investors 〇 * We arrange investments designed for investors to receive lease payments from airlines and then recover principal and receive capital gains through the sale of aircraft after several years. 54 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Private Equity Investment Finance Operation Private Equity Investment Investment Our private equity investment business makes full use of our Group network and expertise in Japan and overseas to improve the corporate value of investees. We particularly emphasize hands-on investment in Japan, and concentrate on joint investment with reliable partner companies overseas. We resolve management issues for investees and help increase their corporate value by dealing flexibly with business succession and structures that typical private equity funds do not handle well. Investment Balance of Private Equity in Japan Contributing to Society through Our Businesses (Billions of yen) 77.8 The aging society/ Vitalizing small and Achieving secure and medium-size enterprises healthy lifestyles 23.0 FY2013.3 FY2018.3 Features and Strengths Risks Opportunities A private equity investment business in Lack of new investments due to rapidly Japan: Increasing business succession Japan that emphasizes hands-on investrising purchase prices needs among SMEs; increasing number of ment and helps to increase the value of carve outs among listed companies Dysfunctional management in new investees in ways that include developbusinesses Japan and overseas: Major structural ing new customers and sales channels changes in industries due to progress of using the Group’s sales network Potential for impairment of the goodwill AI and IoT; increase in new investment recognized at purchase or inability to An overseas private equity investment opportunities due to accelerated industry exit at planned price if investees do not business that sources deals using specialreorganization perform well ized teams familiar with in-market businesses; strong relationships with reliable local partners that reduce investment risk ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 55 Business Areas for Further Growth Specific Initiatives Private Equity Investment in Japan support for a “company rebirth” following business succession and roll ups that are part of industry reorganization. Unlike some private equity funds, we invest own capital. We Acquisition prices are currently rising rapidly in Japan’s can therefore respond flexibly to changes in investment periM&A market, so we will diversify investment approaches od or increase our capital commitment. Post investment, we and review target industries while continuing to make new leverage our Group network to support investees. This investments. Complementing our traditional focus on indusinvolves deploying experts to provide management, administries such as healthcare, IT and information services, busitrative and operational support, and having ORIX business ness process outsourcing, and lifestyle support services, we units help investees find new customers and expand sales are targeting investment in industries such as automobiles channels. Our hands-on approach and deep commitment to and logistics in which we expect structural change. investee operations and management empower effective Principal Investees in Japan since 2012 Investee Initial Investment Industry and Business Exit Minori Holdings Co., Ltd. 2012.2 Liquor wholesale FY2018.3 2Q KR Food Service Corporation 2012.4 Japanese style restaurant FY2016.3 1Q Net Protections, Inc. 2012.12 Deferred payment-type settlement service FY2017.3 2Q Asahi Fiber Glass Co., Ltd. 2013.3 Manufacturing and sales of glass wool products FY2016.3 1Q Wing Arc1st Inc. 2013.5 Software vendor FY2017.3 1Q Net Japan Co., Ltd. 2014.4 Recycling of precious metals and jewelry Holding ARRK Corporation 2014.8 Production and sales of industrial design models FY2018.3 4Q (partly sold) INNOMEDICS Medical Instruments, Inc. 2015.1 Sales of medical equipment and devices Cosmolife Co., Ltd. 2015.10 Producer and distributor of spring water Kyoto Biken Laboratories, Inc. 2016.4 Producer of veterinary animal vaccines Holding Fujita Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 2016.7 Producer of veterinary pharmaceuticals Koike Co., Ltd. 2017.3 Manufacturer of electronic materials Primagest, Inc. 2017.7 Information processing service Private Equity Investment Overseas services is therefore expected to increase for transportation infrastructure and other public works projects. ORIX launched Outside Japan, we primarily invest in the United States and a private equity investment business in 2016 through a U.S. China. subsidiary and has invested in public infrastructure-related In the United States, aging public infrastructure for roads, service companies, including transport infrastructure safety water supply, gas and electricity has increased demand for services companies and a water supply-related maintenance facility replacement and maintenance. Moreover, the Fixing and management services company. We will steadily act on America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act was enacted in investment opportunities and expand in businesses that proDecember 2015 to promote long-term investment in transporvide public infrastructure services through investees. tation infrastructure such as the U.S. highway and rail transIn China, the peer-to-peer (P2P) financial market that serves portation network. Outsourcing demand for safety assurance as a loan intermediary linking lenders with borrowers is rapidly expanding in response to robust financial demand among Principal Investees in the United States since 2016 SMEs and individuals that exceeds the ability of commercial banks to provide traditional financial services. We have proacInvestee Initial Investment Industry and Business RoadSafe Trafﬁc Transportation infrastructure safety tively become involved in China’s expanding fintech market 2016.3 Systems, Inc. services with investments in two fintech-related companies. Protection Services Transportation infrastructure safety 2016.11 Inc. services Fintech-Related Investees in China Hoffman Southwest Water supply maintenance and 2017.2 Corporation management services Investee Initial Investment Industry and Business Transportation infrastructure safety Beth’s Barricades 2017.7 Dianrong 2018.1 P2P ﬁnance services Peak Utility Installation and maintenance services 2018.6 Wecash 2018.3 Individual credit information service Services Group for public infrastructure and facilities 56 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 New Businesses Finance Operation Investment ORIX is committed to addressing social issues and needs while providing its own unique value through various new businesses including accounting and financial support for SMEs, regional revitalization through agriculture, and preventive care in the healthcare market. Yayoi Co., Ltd.* Segment Profits Contributing to Society through Our Businesses (Billions of yen) 6.4 Vitalizing small and Regional revitalization medium-size enterprises 5.4 The aging society/ Achieving secure and healthy lifestyles FY2016.3 FY2018.3 * Acquired in December 2014 Features and Strengths Risks Opportunities Utilization of horizontal Group collaboraIntensiﬁed competition due to an increase Emergence of new growth businesses tion to ﬂexibly bring together the expertise in new entrants (e.g., IT, agriculture, and healthcare) due to required to develop new businesses deregulation and changes in the business Dysfunctional management in new busienvironment Identiﬁcation of growth opportunities ness areas using the ability of the Group’s nationwide Ability to take advantage of synergy Less-than-expected deregulation-driven sales network to gather information among existing businesses and new inexpansion of new markets vestments to create new businesses ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 57 Business Areas for Further Growth Specific Initiatives Fintech Agriculture Yayoi Co., Ltd. is a strategic investee for ORIX. This software ORIX expects that regulatory reforms and business environservices company develops and sells a range of business ment changes will make agriculture a growth business over software and provides after-sales support and services. It has the long term. Our goal is to contribute to regional economic established a strong customer base because of its excellent development by building highly competitive, value-added product development capabilities and the strength of its agricultural businesses. We are implementing various initiabrand, and it holds the top desktop and cloud share (see tives to support the stable supply of agricultural products as graph below) of business software for small businesses.* consumer needs diversify with the increasing number of seIn December 2017, ORIX and Yayoi launched an online lendniors, working women, and single-person households. ing service through a jointly established entity, Altoa, Inc. This We have been acquiring experience and expertise in agriservice specializes in small-amount, short-term loans using a cultural businesses by operating vegetable production bases new credit model that employs ORIX’s credit expertise, in five locations throughout Japan since 2004. We estabYayoi’s accounting big data, and the AI technology of d.a.t. lished fruit and vegetable distribution company ORIX Food Inc., a partner in the venture. Altoa’s credit model is capable Supply Corporation in 2016, and purchase and sell both our of high-precision, real-time data analysis using dynamic data own produce and the fruit and vegetables produced by affilifrom accounting journals. ates. We also concluded a capital and business alliance with ORIX will continue to contribute to the revitalization of the Farmind Corporation in July 2017 to create a nationwide fruit economy by making full use of the Group’s comprehensive and vegetable distribution network, and launched sales using capabilities to support small businesses with finance and a wide-area, multifunctional logistics network. We will contechnology. tribute to the development of agriculture and regional revital*Small businesses with 20 or fewer employees, which account for nearly ization through full-scale entry into the distribution business. 90% of all Japanese companies. Share of Business Software Market for Small Businesses Healthcare Japan has an aging society, and preventive healthcare is exOthers Company B 11％ pected to grow strongly in conjunction with the advance of 6％ medical and other technologies and rising health awareness. Company A In addition, promoting healthy life expectancy through pre11％ Desktop1 Yayoi ventive healthcare will help maintain Japan’s health insur72％ ance system and reduce rising medical expenses. ORIX concluded a capital alliance with CMC Corporation in July 2017 to expand its support business into the preventive healthcare sector. CMC provides business support services Others 6％ for medical administration at Utsunomiya Central Clinic, Company D 16％ which provides services such as medical examinations and check-ups. Specialized management functions such as Cloud2 Yayoi finance, marketing, and M&A are not sufficiently sophisticat55％ Company C ed in the healthcare sector, and our experience and expertise 23％ should contribute significantly to management efficiency. We will continue to contribute to the development of preventive 1. Calculated by Yayoi based on sales data from October 2016 to September 2017 and regional healthcare in Japan by expanding alliances with (GfK Japan Survey) 2. MM Research Institute survey (survey of cloud-based accounting software usage as of clinics and hospitals that specialize in preventive healthcare. March 31, 2018) 58 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Relationship with Employees Human Resources Initiatives Making Maximum Use of the Capabilities and Expertise of Our Employees under the Concept of “Keep Mixed” People are ORIX’s most important asset. We hire diverse human resources regardless of nationality, age, gender or work history, integrating their diverse values and expertise within our concept of a Fusion of Intelligence to create new value and workplaces where employees can fully use their capabilities. Specifically, we create fulfilling workplaces by establishing a working environment that respects diverse work styles and embraces contemporary social conventions, and by reforming our human resource system. Moreover, we are enhancing training to offer opportunities for employees who embrace challenges and to enable employees to excel internationally. Diverse Human Resources Workplaces That Offer Value Keep Mixed Nationality Academic Creating New Management That Makes the Most of Individuality Background Value from Fusion of Work-Life Age Gender Career Intelligence Balance Self-Fulﬁllment Initiatives to Realize Our “Keep Mixed” Concept ORIX promotes diversity and the creation of workplaces that offer value (improved work-life balance) to realize its concept of “Keep Mixed.” Promoting Diversity For ORIX to continue to grow, each of our employees must gain further experience and knowledge, and demonstrate and communicate those strengths on an ongoing basis. At the same time, the need for work style options is increasing due to the globally changing social milieu, including rising retirement ages, the increase in households with working couples, and the enactment of the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. Our goal is to create workplaces where employees can maximize their abilities and expertise, so we are enhancing the diversity and freedom of work styles that are aligned with the life events of employees to further promote diversity. Promote the participation Promote the participation Promote the employment of and advancement of women and advancement of seniors Hire foreign nationals people with disabilities in the workplace in the workplace Employee Composition Female Employees in Managerial Positions1 (As of March 31, 2018) ● ORIX (non-consolidated) ● ORIX Group2 Number of Proportion 21.1% (360) Employees ● Overseas 7,813 24% 17.9% (590) Total ● Female employees (2,459) (8%) overseas 13.9% (157) 31,890 ● Japan 24,077 76% 10.4% (250) ●Female employees (8,988) (28%) in Japan Female employees 2008.3 2018.3 (total) 11,447 36% 1. The percentages in “Female employees in managerial positions” represent the ratio of female managers to the total number of managers. 2. Total of 10 ORIX Group companies: ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, ORIX Real Estate, ORIX Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life Insurance, ORIX Eco Services, and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 59 Improving Labor Productivity ORIX aims to create workplaces that enable employees to make full use of their abilities and expertise. We respect various work styles to realize that. Case Study: ORIX Business Center Okinawa Corporation ORIX Business Center Okinawa Corporation (OBCO) tools to visualize operations, and rigorously manages supports various Group businesses including leasing, productivity. It began promoting diverse work styles in rental, automobiles, life insurance, and banking. Origi2015, including the introduction of a telecommuting sysnally founded in 1999 as a call center, it is now a shared tem. Telecommuting often involves management and service center that handles a wide range of sales funccommunication obstacles, which OBCO eliminates tions, such as confirming contract conditions and car inthrough productivity management to realize diverse spection related work. work styles. OBCO employs a method it established to visualize, Worker diversity is a current theme at OBCO. The measure, and analyze operations as the basis for busiintroduction and use of robotic process automation1 ness process improvement. It uses internally developed (RPA) is representative. OBCO uses RPA to improve the quality of work and save time by robotizing PCs to handle standardized operating procedures. OBCO has received recognition for its initiatives and was selected as a New Diversity Management Selection 1002 company in fiscal 2016. ORIX expects the further use of techniques such as business process improvement throughout the Group. 1. Robotic process improvement (RPA): Automation of the tasks performed by humans using dedicated software (robots). 2. An award presented by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to companies that have linked diversity promotion to performance. Childbirth/Child-Rearing Leave System Use3 ■ Female Employees Who Are Working Mothers ■ Female Employees Who Have Taken ■ Female Employees Who Have Used the ● Ratio of Female Employees Who Child-Rearing Leave Short-Time Working System Are Working Mothers to Total ● Ratio of Female Employees Who ● Ratio of Female Employees Female Regular Employees 35.8% Have Taken Child-Rearing Leave to 7.9% Who Have Used the Short-Time 12.8% Total Female Regular Employees Working System to Total Female Regular Employees 1,390 308 498 4.3% 14.0% 154 507 3.2% Increase of Increase of Increase of about 2.7 times 2.0 times 116 about 4.3 times 2008.3 2018.3 2008.3 2018.3 2008.3 2018.3 3. Applies to full-time female employees of 10 ORIX Group companies: ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, ORIX Real Estate, ORIX Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life Insurance, ORIX Eco Services, and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services 60 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Workplaces That Offer Value (Improving Work-Life Balance) We have been improving work-life balance to realize a workplace environment where employees with diverse values can work healthily with peace of mind. We launched our Work Style Reform Project in 2016 under the direct control of the CEO to further improve our workplaces, and we will continue to enhance and improve work style support measures and promote employee awareness. Work Style Reform Project Execution Phase levels. Overtime at 10 Group companies decreased by 33%2 We launched the Work Style Reform Project in October 2016 during FY2018.3 compared with the previous fiscal year, and to create workplaces where diverse human resources can the rate of annual paid vacation days taken was 77.5%. 1. The ORIX Group has been conducting morale surveys since 2004 to investigate be active and foster a culture that recognizes diverse work how employees feel about their day-to-day work and companies, and we make styles. More than 200 employees at 10 main Group compause of the data in various subsequent measures. The 2017 survey involved employees of 10 major Group companies in Japan, and we disclosed the results nies set up committees and considered issues and meaof the survey in-house. 2. Includes a 20-minute reduction in working hours. sures over a six-month period, then proposed approximately 120 measures. We began carefully examining these proposals in April 2017 and started implementing reforms. Support for Balancing Work and Family We are focusing on improving productivity per hour while We have established various systems to realize flexible work maintaining our commitment to improving long working styles according to life events such as marriage, childbirth, hours during FY2019.3. Our employee satisfaction survey childcare, and nursing care to support work-home balance. (morale survey) indicated a definite step forward in terms of 1 We provide systemic support and also hold seminars for consciousness reform, while work style reform feedback people taking childbirth and childcare leave to address more indicated improved working time flexibility but the need for specific concerns, such as a work-home balance mindset. additional efforts to address core productivity issues. We We also began offering career seminars in FY2017.3 for therefore plan to implement various Groupwide measures employees who are raising children to address the balance to increase investment in productivity improvement after rebetween work and family, and nursing care seminars on view by relevant business units. We are also reviewing past providing care for family members. practices and work flow at the individual and business unit Personnel Systems That Accommodate Life Stage and Career Many employees use the systems to achieve ﬂexible work styles that accommodate their own life stage and career. Join company Marriage Childbirth Childcare Return to work •Short-time working •Short working hours Childbirth and childcare Returning to work Nursing care system during for postpartum •Special childcare leave system Flexible work style support •Nursing care leave system pregnancy doctor visits for childcare •Flextime system •Nursing care leave system •Staggered prenatal •Childcare leave system (until child is (paid) hours •Super ﬂextime system 3 years old) •Career select system •Nursing care short-time •Short working hours •Parenting time (2 hours a day) working system for prenatal doctor •Spousal transfer location change system •Childcare short-time working system (2 hours a day) visits •Spousal relocation leave system (2 hours a day until child completes elementary school) •Return to work system •Child nursing care leave (paid) •Incentive system for short vacations to refresh and rejuvenate •Babysitter subsidy system •System for taking annual paid leave in hourly units •Volunteer leave system •“No overtime” days Career planning support Career Challenge System, Internal Public Offering System, Internal Intern System, Internal Career Change System, Self-Assessment System, Career Challenge System from Age 45, and Internal Recruiting System for Seniors ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 61 Relationship with Employees Work Style Reform Project The Work Style Reform Project that launched in 2016 has shifted to the execution phase. We are implementing work style reforms by introducing a new personnel system and raising awareness. Employees Working Steadily as a Team in Year Three of Work Style Reform The Work Style Reform Project began with six months This project is a major effort to change ORIX’s corpoof serious discussion by many employees throughout rate culture. In addition to requiring collaboration the Group, culminating in a series of actionable proposbetween executives and business units, the project can als to the CEO. We have been implementing these proonly succeed if we can change the attitudes and behavposals with a sense of urgency under the CEO’s strong ior of each employee. Executives and employees are leadership. We are seeing clear improvements since therefore moving forward together, one step at a time. the start of the project, with positive changes in ORIX people’s mood and the way they think about work styles. However, similar initiatives in the past often started out strong but ended up losing momentum. We are therefore focused on inculcating new approaches and our ability to stay on track to achieve our workplace ideals. We will continue to improve workplace productivity by enhancing corporate infrastructure, IT, and the office Yasuaki Mikami environment. Our goal is to comprehensively impleExecutive Officer ment work style reforms that are unique to ORIX. ble for Work Responsible orm Project Style Reform External Recognition and Awards Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 2018 Certified Forbes Japan Women Award 2017 (December 2017) Health & Productivity Management Outstanding ORIX Ranked 10th among Companies with 1,000 or More Organizations Recognition Program (February 2018) Employees; Received Second Prize for Work Style Reform The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry selected ORIX Sponsored by Forbes Japan, the Forbes Japan Women as an outstanding health and productivity management Award 2017 is one of Japan’s largest forums for recognizing organization in the large enterprise category (White 500) on the achievements of women, encompassing 1,000 compaFebruary 20, 2018. Companies that consider employee nies and 1,000 individuals. It ranked ORIX 10th among health management from the perspective of corporate companies with 1,000 or more employees and awarded management to implement strategic initiatives are certified ORIX second prize in the Work Style Reform category. as outstanding health and productivity management Launched in 2016, the award recogorganizations. This certification was initiated in 2017, and nizes pioneering female business ORIX has been certified in the White 500 category in each of leaders and entrepreneurs as well its first two years. as companies that are committed to workplaces that encourage women to excel. 62 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Financial Section Eleven-Year Summary ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2008 through 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 Financial Position: Investment in Direct Financing Leases ¥1,098,128 ¥ 914,444 ¥ 756,481 ¥ 830,853 Installment Loans 3,766,310 3,304,101 2,464,251 2,983,164 Investment in Operating Leases 1,019,956 1,226,624 1,213,223 1,270,295 Investment in Securities 1,121,784 926,140 1,104,158 1,175,381 Property under Facility Operations 197,295 189,560 186,396 207,480 Total Assets 8,981,012 8,353,852 7,722,017 8,561,910 Short-term Debt, Long-term Debt and Deposits 6,263,017 5,919,639 5,263,104 6,075,076 Longand Short-term Debt 5,792,334 5,252,012 4,409,835 5,009,901 Debt/Equity Ratio Short-term Debt, Long-term Debt and Deposits/ 5.0 5.1 4.1 4.6 Shareholders’ Equity (Times) Short-term Debt and Long-term Debt/Shareholders’ Equity (Times) 4.6 4.5 3.4 3.8 Share of Long-term Debt (%) 77 85 87 90 ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity 1,258,906 1,157,269 1,287,179 1,306,582 Shareholders’ Equity Ratio (%) 14.0 13.9 16.7 15.3 Revenues and Expenses: Total Revenues ¥1,101,364 ¥1,014,289 ¥ 887,290 ¥ 938,258 Total Expenses 926,837 961,003 856,326 865,992 Provision for Doubtful Receivables and Probable Loan Losses 33,223 77,015 71,857 31,065 Income before Income Taxes and Discontinued Operations 235,075 11,195 56,748 90,271 Income from Continuing Operations 141,496 15,054 35,723 65,437 Net Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders 168,454 20,674 36,512 66,021 ROA (%) 1.96 0.24 0.45 0.81 ROE (%) 13.8 1.7 3.0 5.1 Per Share Data (Yen): Net Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders: Basic Earnings per Share ¥ 184.81 ¥ 23.25 ¥ 35.83 ¥ 61.42 Diluted Earnings per Share 180.57 22.07 30.58 51.83 ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity per Share 1,391.10 1,294.48 1,197.55 1,215.44 Cash Dividends 26.00 7.00 7.50 8.00 Segment: Segment Profits ¥ 286,728 ¥ 29,960 ¥ 67,909 ¥ 116,954 Segment Assets 7,656,309 6,982,736 6,378,552 6,266,915 Segment Assets ROA (%) 2.27 0.28 0.55 1.04 Number of Employees 18,702 18,920 17,725 17,578 Notes: 1. In fiscal 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries adopted FASB Accounting Standards Update 2009-16 (ASC 860 (“Transfers and Servicing”)) and FASB Accounting Standards Update 2009-17 (ASC 810 (“Consolidation”)). The effects of adopting these updates on the Company and its subsidiaries’ financial conditions at the initial adoption date were an increase of ¥1,147.4 billion in total assets, an increase of ¥1,169.0 billion in total liabilities and a decrease of ¥22.5 billion in retained earnings, net of tax, in the consolidated balance sheets. 2. Cash dividends represent the amount of dividend per share for the corresponding fiscal year. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 63 (Millions of yen) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ¥ 900,886 ¥ 989,380 ¥1,094,073 ¥ 1,216,454 ¥ 1,190,136 ¥ 1,204,024 ¥ 1,194,888 2,769,898 2,691,171 2,315,555 2,478,054 2,592,233 2,815,706 2,823,769 1,309,998 1,395,533 1,379,741 1,296,220 1,349,199 1,313,164 1,344,926 1,147,390 1,093,668 1,214,452 2,846,257 2,344,792 2,026,512 1,729,455 194,576 218,697 295,863 278,100 327,016 398,936 434,786 8,332,830 8,435,193 9,063,517 11,439,874 10,992,918 11,231,895 11,425,982 5,828,967 5,556,330 5,363,968 5,701,356 5,685,014 5,753,059 5,890,720 4,725,453 4,477,743 4,157,555 4,413,976 4,286,542 4,138,451 4,133,258 4.2 3.4 2.8 2.7 2.5 2.3 2.2 3.4 2.7 2.2 2.1 1.9 1.7 1.5 90 91 93 94 92 93 93 1,380,736 1,643,596 1,919,346 2,152,198 2,310,431 2,507,698 2,682,424 16.6 19.5 21.2 18.8 21.0 22.3 23.5 ¥ 963,721 ¥1,052,477 ¥1,375,292 ¥ 2,174,283 ¥ 2,369,202 ¥ 2,678,659 ¥ 2,862,771 841,506 901,624 1,172,244 1,917,454 2,081,461 2,349,435 2,526,576 19,186 10,016 13,838 11,631 11,717 22,667 17,265 127,515 172,572 286,339 344,017 391,302 424,965 435,501 82,907 118,890 187,786 254,960 270,990 280,926 321,589 83,509 111,909 187,364 234,948 260,169 273,239 313,135 0.99 1.33 2.14 2.29 2.32 2.46 2.76 6.2 7.4 10.5 11.5 11.7 11.3 12.1 ¥ 77.68 ¥ 102.87 ¥ 147.75 ¥ 179.47 ¥ 198.73 ¥ 208.88 ¥ 244.40 65.03 87.37 143.20 179.21 198.52 208.68 244.15 1,284.15 1,345.63 1,465.77 1,644.60 1,764.34 1,925.17 2,095.64 9.00 13.00 23.00 36.00 45.75 52.25 66.00 ¥ 142,694 ¥ 197,329 ¥ 295,237 ¥ 336,542 ¥ 380,110 ¥ 420,837 ¥ 429,058 6,123,874 6,382,654 7,267,798 9,170,249 8,972,449 8,956,872 9,017,250 1.35 1.79 2.75 2.86 2.87 3.05 3.48 17,488 19,043 25,977 31,035 33,333 34,835 31,890 3. Balance sheet data and income statement data have been changed beginning in the third consolidated fiscal period of FY2015.3. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified to reflect this change. 4. During FY2015.3, we eliminated the accounting period gap that previously existed between Daikyo and ORIX. The amounts in the previous years have been retrospectively reclassified to reflect this change. 64 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheets ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 (unaudited figures for March 31, 2016) (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 2018 ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents ¥ 730,420 ¥ 1,039,870 ¥ 1,321,241 Restricted Cash 80,979 93,342 83,876 Investment in Direct Financing Leases 1,190,136 1,204,024 1,194,888 The amounts of ¥20,673 million as of March 31, 2016, ¥19,232 million as of March 31, 2017 and ¥17,260 million as of March 31, Installment Loans 2,592,233 2,815,706 2,823,769 2018 are measured at fair value by electing the fair value option under FASB ASC 825. Allowance for Doubtful Receivables on Direct Financing Leases and Probable (60,071) (59,227) (54,672) Loan Losses Investment in Operating Leases 1,349,199 1,313,164 1,344,926 The amounts of ¥27,367 million as of March 31, 2016, ¥24,894 million as of March 31, 2017 and ¥37,631 million as of March 31, Investment in Securities 2,344,792 2,026,512 1,729,455 2018 are measured at fair value by electing the fair value option under FASB ASC 825. Property under Facility Operations 327,016 398,936 434,786 Investment in Affiliates 530,667 524,234 591,363 Trade Notes, Accounts and Other Receivable 294,638 283,427 294,773 Inventories 139,950 117,863 111,001 Office Facilities 120,173 110,781 112,962 The amounts of ¥37,855 million as of March 31, 2016, ¥22,116 million as of March 31, 2017 and ¥15,008 million as of March 31, Other Assets 1,352,786 1,363,263 1,437,614 2018 are measured at fair value by electing the fair value option under FASB ASC 825. Total Assets ¥10,992,918 ¥11,231,895 ¥11,425,982 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 65 Financial Section (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 2018 LIABILITIES Short-term Debt ¥ 349,624 ¥ 283,467 ¥ 306,754 Deposits 1,398,472 1,614,608 1,757,462 Trade Notes, Accounts and Other Payable 266,216 251,800 262,301 The amounts of ¥795,001 million as of March 31, 2016, ¥605,520 million as of March 31, Policy Liabilities and Policy Account 2017 and ¥444,010 million as of March 31, 1,668,636 1,564,758 1,511,246 Balances 2018 are measured at fair value by electing the fair value option under FASB ASC 825. Income Taxes: Current 17,398 93,884 18,798 Deferred 341,360 351,828 348,149 Long-term Debt 3,936,918 3,854,984 3,826,504 Other Liabilities 534,008 562,393 588,474 Total Liabilities 8,512,632 8,577,722 8,619,688 Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 7,467 6,548 7,420 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities EQUITY Common Stock: 220,469 220,524 220,961 Authorized 2,590,000,000 shares Issued March 31, 2016 1,324,058,828 shares March 31, 2017 1,324,107,328 shares March 31, 2018 1,324,495,728 shares Additional Paid-in Capital 257,629 268,138 267,291 Retained Earnings 1,864,241 2,077,474 2,315,283 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss): Net unrealized gains on investment in securities 47,185 32,279 10,465 Defined benefit pension plans (23,884) (17,330) (20,487) Foreign currency translation adjustments (24,766) (31,736) (31,806) Net unrealized losses on derivative instruments (4,757) (4,483) (3,738) Sub-Total (6,222) (21,270) (45,566) Treasury Stock, at Cost: (25,686) (37,168) (75,545) March 31, 2016 14,544,808 shares March 31, 2017 21,520,267 shares March 31, 2018 44,494,856 shares ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity 2,310,431 2,507,698 2,682,424 Noncontrolling Interests 162,388 139,927 116,450 Total Equity 2,472,819 2,647,625 2,798,874 Total Liabilities and Equity ¥10,992,918 ¥11,231,895 ¥11,425,982 Notes: 1. The Company’s shares held through the Board Incentive Plan Trust (1,696,217 shares as of March 31, 2016, 2,126,076 shares as of March 31, 2017 and 1,651,443 shares as of March 31, 2018) are included in the number of treasury shares as of March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. 2. From April 1, 2016. Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-03 (Interest-Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs) has been applied retroactively to consolidated financial statements for prior fiscal years. 66 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Consolidated Statements of Income ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 2018 Revenues: Finance revenues ¥ 200,889 ¥ 200,584 ¥ 214,104 Gains on investment securities and dividends 35,786 30,328 43,302 Operating leases 373,910 398,655 379,665 Life insurance premiums and related investment income 189,421 295,940 351,590 Sales of goods and real estate 834,010 1,015,249 1,079,052 Services income 735,186 737,903 795,058 Total revenues 2,369,202 2,678,659 2,862,771 Expenses: Interest expense 72,821 72,910 76,815 Costs of operating leases 245,069 243,537 252,327 Life insurance costs 121,282 200,158 255,070 Costs of goods and real estate sold 748,259 928,794 1,003,509 Services expense 445,387 451,277 482,796 Other (income) and expense, net (3,729) (4,396) 429 Selling, general and administrative expenses 422,692 418,746 431,594 Provision for doubtful receivables and probable loan losses 11,717 22,667 17,265 Write-downs of long-lived assets 13,448 9,134 5,525 Write-downs of securities 4,515 6,608 1,246 Total expenses 2,081,461 2,349,435 2,526,576 Operating Income 287,741 329,224 336,195 Equity in Net Income of Affiliates 45,694 26,520 50,103 Gains on Sales of Subsidiaries and Affiliates and Liquidation Losses, net 57,867 63,419 49,203 Bargain Purchase Gain — 5,802 — Income before Income Taxes and Discontinued Operations 391,302 424,965 435,501 Provision for Income Taxes 120,312 144,039 113,912 Net Income 270,990 280,926 321,589 Net Income Attributable to the Noncontrolling Interests 10,002 7,255 8,002 Net Income Attributable to the Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 819 432 452 Net Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders ¥ 260,169 ¥ 273,239 ¥ 313,135 (Yen) Amounts per Share of Common Stock for Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders: Basic ¥ 198.73 ¥ 208.88 ¥ 244.40 Diluted 198.52 208.68 244.15 Cash Dividends 45.75 52.25 66.00 Note: Cash Dividends represent the amount of dividend per share for the corresponding fiscal year. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 67 Financial Section Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income ORIX Corporation and Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 2018 Net Income ¥270,990 ¥280,926 ¥321,589 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax Net change of unrealized gains (losses) on investment in securities (3,121) (14,926) (22,834) Net change of defined benefit pension plans (4,123) 7,670 (2,962) Net change of foreign currency translation adjustments (26,957) (5,968) (1,955) Net change of unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments (4,063) 326 779 Total other comprehensive income (loss) (38,264) (12,898) (26,972) Comprehensive Income 232,726 268,028 294,617 Comprehensive Income Attributable to the Noncontrolling Interests 7,414 4,276 6,433 Comprehensive Income Attributable to the Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 1,738 374 36 Comprehensive Income Attributable to ORIX Corporation Shareholders ¥223,574 ¥263,378 ¥288,148 68 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Segment Overview Corporate Financial Services Loan, leasing and fee business Segment Profits and Assets In addition to recording gains on sales of securities, various stable fee businesses contributed to steady profits. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 1,837.0 3.4 49.3 42.4 1,488.0 38.0 2.6 2.5 1,189.3 1,132.5 28.5 1,008.5 946.5 943.3 992.1 961.9 23.0 25.9 24.9 25.5 1,049.9 1,032.2 0.9 1.7 11.5 0.6 1.6 1.5 1.4 (10.4) (0.4) (0.8) (17.9) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Maintenance Leasing Automobile leasing and rentals, car-sharing, and test and measurement instruments and IT-related equipment rentals and leasing Segment Profits and Assets Although profit growth was impacted by a year-on-year decrease in gains on sales from used cars, assets increased due to steady growth in vehicles under management. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 818.2 731.3 752.5 42.9 41.1 40.4 39.8 40.2 653.1 662.9 37.1 612.6 622.0 33.3 34.9 490.9 549.3 28.0 467.1 463.0 24.7 4.1 4.1 3.9 4.0 4.1 21.7 3.7 3.7 3.5 3.1 2.6 2.4 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Real Estate Real estate development and rental, facility operation, REIT asset management, and real estate investment and advisory services Segment Profits and Assets Profits decreased due to the absence of a large gain on sales recorded in the previous fiscal year, but profits from the asset management business increased and new hotels, Japanese inns and other facilities began operation. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) ） 99.9 7.1 1,923.6 6.7 00 1,855.6 1,698.4 00 1,561.4 72.8 1,390.5 62.4 59.2 1,133.2 00 3.6 3.3 962.4 42.9 835.4 00 657.7 1.9 620.2 739.6 18.0 1.1 00 5.6 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 1.3 3.5 0.0 0.0 0.3 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 69 Financial Section Investment and Operation Environment and energy, principal investment, loan servicing (asset recovery), and concession Segment Profits and Assets An improved capacity utilization rate in the solar power generation business and income from the concession business (Kansai Airports) contributed to profit growth. Assets increased due to accelerated overseas expansion, including investment in Ormat Technologies, Inc., a geothermal energy business in the U.S. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 847.7 95.8 96.1 766.2 768.7 85.0 704.2 552.2 660.0 57.2 557.7 517.2 509.6 42.4 471.9 444.3 8.1 33.7 34.9 7.9 11.9 16.0 5.6 13.2 3.0 1.5 1.9 (2.4) 4.7 4.5 (0.3) (74.6) (6.7) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Retail Life insurance, banking and card loan Segment Profits and Assets In the life insurance business, the number of policies increased steadily. Housing and card loans in the banking business also contributed to profit growth. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 3,700.6 3,462.8 120.6 3,291.6 3,174.5 2.6 2,167.0 1.6 74.5 1,994.1 1.5 72.9 1,742.9 1.1 1,583.2 1,658.2 1.5 51.8 1,453.3 1.4 49.9 43.2 1.1 1.0 25.7 29.2 21.8 19.4 1,372.8 0.3 0.8 0.7 7.6 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 €¥ Overseas Business Leasing, loan, bond investment, asset management and aircraft and ship-related operations Segment Profits and Assets Profits decreased due to a loss on sales of shares of overseas affiliates, lower contribution from affiliates and other factors, but performance was firm in the asset management and aircraft and ship-related businesses. Segment Profits (Billions of yen) Segment Assets and Segment ROA (Billions of yen and %) 2,594.7 142.9 2,454.2 2,284.7 2,178.9 1,972.1 112.3 4.3 104.1 106.6 3.0 2.9 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.6 2.3 3.2 3.2 69.7 57.9 1,015.6 1,318.4 49.8 52.8 1,103.8 1,066.3 1,081.2 45.6 923.4 37.1 20.1 1.1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 70 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Breakdown of Assets and Revenues by Segment (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) Segment Assets (Millions of yen) Corporate Maintenance Investment Overseas Real Estate Retail Total Financial Services Leasing and Operation Business Segment Assets ¥961,901 ¥818,201 ¥620,238 ¥847,677 ¥3,174,505 ¥2,594,728 ¥9,017,250 Investment in Direct 415,301 305,041 33,589 25,497 208 368,721 1,148,357 Financing Leases Installment Loans 363,993 — 312 48,131 1,852,761 520,137 2,785,334 Investment in 26,350 491,369 247,001 30,158 44,319 490,953 1,330,150 Operating Leases Investment in Securities 19,208 560 2,988 32,563 1,260,291 413,977 1,729,587 Property under Facility 15,075 904 195,463 208,106 — 43,995 463,543 Operations Inventories 49 461 2,850 101,518 — 5,923 110,801 Advances for Investment 203 197 20,524 1,261 — 9,487 31,672 in Operating Leases Investment in Affiliates 16,845 1,996 86,666 170,449 702 314,569 591,227 Advances for Property 720 — 19,351 44,901 — — 64,972 under Facility Operations Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Acquired 104,157 17,673 11,494 185,093 16,224 426,966 761,607 in Business Combinations Segment Revenues (Millions of yen) Corporate Maintenance Investment Overseas Real Estate Retail Total Financial Services Leasing and Operation Business Segment Revenues ¥115,712 ¥275,740 ¥172,948 ¥1,402,313 ¥428,697 ¥477,420 ¥2,872,830 Finance Revenues 28,390 14,059 2,055 8,982 61,222 96,368 211,076 Gain on Investment 17,085 500 526 7,630 114 17,513 43,368 Securities and Dividends Operating Leases 23,355 189,592 46,938 10,491 — 111,367 381,743 Life Insurance Premiums and Related Investment — — — — 352,974 — 352,974 Income Sales of Goods and 4,379 3,779 7,365 1,048,684 — 13,557 1,077,764 Real Estate Services Income 42,503 67,810 116,064 326,526 14,387 238,615 805,905 Note: Figures in the table above may vary from figures reported in the consolidated statements of income and the consolidated balance sheets because items considered as corporate assets and revenues are not included. ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 71 Financial Section Main Components of Segment Assets Corporate Maintenance Investment Overseas Real Estate Retail Financial Services Leasing and Operation Business Investment in Direct Corporate leasing and sales Leasing of energy saving Leasing and sales finance Auto leasing Real estate leasing — Financing Leases finance equipment of local subsidiaries Corporate loans in the Installment Loans Loans purchased under Housing loans, card loans, Corporate loans — — U.S., auto loans and corpoloan servicing unit and corporate loans rate loans in Asia Investment in Leasing, rental, lease Lease renewal and real Rental properties owned ORIX Life Insurance’s operatAuto leasing in local subsidrenewal of auto and preciReal estate rental Operating Leases estate leasing sion measuring equipments by Daikyo ing assets (rental properties) iaries and aircraft leasing Corporate and government bonds, listed shares, the Investment in municipal Investment in Investment in listed shares, assets under management bonds and CMBS in the Investment in listed shares — Investment in funds Securities PE funds of variable annuity and U.S., investment in funds in variable life insurance the U.S., Europe and Asia contracts Operating facilities includProperty under Environment and energy Solar power facilities (JV ing hotels, Japanese inns, Mortgage servicing rights — related facilities and — Facility Operations with Kyudenko Corporation) aquariums, golf courses, equipment in the U.S. etc. Daikyo’s condominiums and Inventories Investees’ (consolidated sub— — Condominiums investees’ (consolidated sub— sidiaries) operating assets sidiaries) operating assets Advances for Investment in Rental properties under — — — — Vessels under construction development Operating Leases PE investment, investment Investment in joint venInvestment in Investment in joint venJoint development of rental in power business abroad, tures, PE investment in — — Affiliates tures and new businesses properties investment in concession Asia, and investment in business U.S. investment banks Advances for Environment and energy Property under Operating facilities under — — related facilities and equip— — development Facility Operations ment under development Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets resulting from M&As Acquired in Business Combinations Main Components of Segment Revenues Corporate Maintenance Investment Overseas Real Estate Retail Financial Services Leasing and Operation Business Leasing and sales finance Gains on loan collection in Leasing and sales finance Interest revenues from revenues and interest revFinance Revenues Revenues from real estate loan servicing and leasing revenues and interest revAuto leasing revenues housing loans, card loans enues of local subsidiarleasing revenues from energy enues from corporate loans and corporate loans ies, and interest revenues saving equipment from CMBS in the U.S. Gains on sales of investGain on Investment Gains on sales of investGains on sales of corpoees and equity income Securities and Gains on sales of listed ees and equity income/ — — rate and government from PE funds, gains on shares dividends from investees Dividends bonds held by ORIX Bank sales of municipal bonds and PE funds in the U.S. Auto leasing revenues of Auto and precision meaRental revenues from local subsidiaries, gains Lease renewal revenues suring equipment leasing, Operating Leases rental properties and Rental revenues from on sales of used cars, airand revenues from real rental, and leasing renew— gains on sales of rental Daikyo’s rental properties craft leasing revenues estate leasing al revenues and gains on properties and gains on sales of sales from used cars aircraft Life Insurance Premiums and Life insurance premiums — — — — and related investment — Related Investment income Income Revenues from sales of Sales of Goods and Revenues from sales Revenues from sales of Revenues from sales of G ai ns on sal es of goods by investees and — of goods by investees Real Estate software of Yayoi used rental equipment condomi ni ums Daikyo’s gains on sales of (subsidiaries) condominiums Revenues from EnvironRevenues from after-sales Revenues from operating ment and Energy busiORIX Europe’s asset manservices of Yayoi, insurfacilities (including gains nesses (including gains on Guarantee fees on other agement fee revenues, Services Income ance agency commisRevenues from vehicle on sales), asset managesales) and income from financial institutions’ card and income from auto sions, environment and maintenance services ment fees and real estate Daikyo’s real estate manloans maintenance services of energy business related investment advisory fees agement service and local subsidiaries fees income from investees 72 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 About ORIX Group Companies (As of March 31, 2018) Direct/ Established Segment Principal Business Indirect (Acquired) Investment Corporate Financial Services ORIX Corporation Leasing, Lending, Other Financial Services Eastern Japan Sales Headquarters, Western Japan Sales Headquarters NS Lease Co., Ltd. Leasing, Lending, Other Financial Services (Jul. 2002) 100% ORIX Tokushima Corporation Leasing, Other Financial Services (Oct. 2005) 95% Tsukuba Lease Corporation Leasing (Jun. 2010) 95% Kyuko-Lease Inc. Leasing, Other Financial Services (Jan. 2012) 85% FREEILL CORPORATION Medical Equipment Rental (May 2013) 100% Development, Marketing, and Support of Business Management Yayoi Co., Ltd. (Dec. 2014) 99% Software and Related Services ORIX Yatsugatake Farm Co., Ltd. Production and Sales of Hydroponic Vegetables Apr. 2015 97% ORIX Food Supply Corporation Purchase and Sales of Fruits and Vegetables Jul. 2016 100% Altoa, Inc. Online Lending Feb. 2017 91% Maintenance Leasing ORIX Auto Corporation Automobile Leasing, Rental, Car-Sharing and Sales of Used Automobiles Jun. 1973 100% ORIX Rentec Corporation Rental and Leasing of Test and Measurement Instruments and IT-related Equipment Sep. 1976 100% Manufacturing, Rental, Sales, and Purchasing of Power Receiving, Transforming, and Yodogawa Transformer Co., Ltd. (Jan. 2018) 100% Generating Facilities and Equipment, Various Types of Transformers, Cubicles, etc. Real Estate ORIX Corporation Real Estate Headquarters Real Estate Development and Rental Interior Finish Work and Construction Management, Real Estate Rental ORIX Interior Corporation (Jan. 1987) 100% and Manufacturing and Sales of Interior Furnishings BlueWave Corporation Hotel and Training Facility Management Jan. 1997 100% ORIX Real Estate Corporation Real Estate Development and Rental, Facilities Operation Mar. 1999 100% ORIX Asset Management Corporation Asset Management of J-REIT Sep. 2000 100% ORIX Golf Management Corporation Golf Course Management (Nov. 2004) 100% ORIX Living Corporation Senior Housing Management Apr. 2005 98% Chofu Driving School Corporation Driving School (Dec. 2005) 100% ORIX Real Estate Investment Advisors Corporation Real Estate Investment and Advisory Services Sep. 2007 100% ORIX Aquarium Corporation Aquarium Operation Apr. 2011 100% ORIX Agriculture Corporation Production of Vegetables at Plant Factory and their Sales Feb. 2014 100% Investment and Operation ORIX Corporation Investment and Operation Headquarters Principal Investment ORIX Corporation Energy and Eco Services Business Headquarters Environment and Energy Business ORIX Capital Corporation Venture Capital Oct. 1983 100% Trading of Recycled Metals and Other Resources, Collection and ORIX Eco Services Corporation Apr. 1998 100% Transportation of Industrial Waste, and Intermediate Waste Processing ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services Corporation Loan Servicing Apr. 1999 100% ORIX Environmental Resources Management Corporation Waste Recycling Sep. 2002 100% Agatsuma Bio Power Co., Ltd. Biomass Power Generation Jan. 2006 100% ORIX Loan Business Center Corporation Personal Loan Related Asset Management, Customer Relations May 2009 99% Development and Manufacturing of Electronic Equipment and In-Vehicle Ubiteq, INC. (Jul. 2010) 57% Devices, Development and Operation of Systems, IoT Business ONE Energy Corporation Trading and Rental of Storage Batteries, Energy Related Services Mar. 2013 70% Retail ORIX Credit Corporation Consumer Finance Services Jun. 1979 100% ORIX Life Insurance Corporation Life Insurance Apr. 1991 100% ORIX Bank Corporation Banking (Apr. 1998) 100% ORIX Insurance Consulting Corporation Insurance Agency Services Oct. 2012 100% ORIX Headquarter Functions (Not included in Segment Financial Information) ORIX Insurance Services Corporation Insurance Agency Services Sep. 1976 100% ORIX Computer Systems Corporation Software Engineering and Systems Management Mar. 1984 100% ORIX Baseball Club Co., Ltd. Professional Baseball Team Management (Oct. 1988) 100% ORIX Management Information Center Corporation Accounting and Administration Services Oct. 1999 100% ORIX Business Center Okinawa Corporation Business Center, Contact Center Nov. 1999 100% ORIX Business Support Corporation Business Support Services Apr. 2007 100% ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 73 Direct/ Country Established Segment Principal Business Indirect (Region)1 (Acquired) Investment Overseas Business ORIX Corporation Global Business Headquarters2 Japan Administration of Overseas Activities, Alternative Investment ORIX Corporation Global Transportation Services Headquarters2 Japan Ship-related Services, Aircraft-related Services ORIX Corporation East Asia Business Headquarters2 Japan Administration of Overseas Activities ORIX Maritime Corporation2 Japan Ship Charter and Ship Broker Service Nov. 1977 100% ORIX Aircraft Corporation2 Japan Aircraft Leasing May 1986 100% ORIX Corporation USA USA Financial Services Aug. 1981 100% RED Capital Group, LLC USA Loan Servicing (May 2010) 100% Mariner Investment Group LLC USA Fund Operation and Management (Dec. 2010) 69% Boston Financial Investment Management L.P USA Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Syndicator (Jul. 2016) 100% Ormat Technologies, Inc.3 USA Geothermal Power Generation (Jul. 2017) 21% Lancaster Pollard Holdings, LLC USA Mortgage Banking and Loan Servicing (Sep. 2017) 100% Boston Partners Global Investors, Inc. USA Asset Management (Jul. 2013) 100% Harbor Capital Advisors, Inc. USA Asset Management (Jul. 2013) 100% ORIX Brazil Investments and Holdings Limited Brazil Equity Investment Aug. 2012 100% Real Estate Securitization, Asset Management, Real RB Capital S.A. Brazil (Dec. 2016) 67% Estate Development and Investment ORIX Asia Limited Hong Kong Leasing, Automobile Leasing, Lending, Banking Sep. 1971 100% ORIX Asia Capital Limited Hong Kong Equity Investment, Fund Operation and Management, Lending Jul. 1973 100% ORIX Taiwan Corporation Taiwan Leasing, Sales Finance, Insurance Agency Services (Feb. 1991) 100% ORIX Auto Leasing Taiwan Corporation Taiwan Automobile Leasing Apr. 1998 100% ORIX Taiwan Asset Management Company Taiwan NPL Investment, Loan Servicing Nov. 2004 100% Rental and Leasing of Test and Measurement Instruments ORIX Rentec (Korea) Corporation South Korea (Apr. 2001) 100% and IT-Related Equipment ORIX Capital Korea Corporation South Korea Automobile Leasing, Leasing, Lending Feb. 2004 100% ORIX Private Equity Korea Corporation South Korea Fund Operation and Management Mar. 2010 100% ORIX China Corporation China Leasing, Rental Aug. 2005 97% CHINA RAILWAY LEASING CO., LTD. China Railway-related Leasing (Jan. 2006) 14% Beijing Oriental Jicheng Co., Ltd. China Rental and Sales of Precision Measuring Equipment (Feb. 2006) 25% ORIX (China) Investment Co., Ltd. China Leasing, Equity Investment, Other Financial Services Dec. 2009 100% Pang Da ORIX Auto Leasing Co., Ltd. China Automobile Leasing May 2012 25% TenGer Financial Group LLC Mongolia Banking, Leasing, Non-Life Insurance (Oct. 2013) 16% ORIX Leasing Singapore Limited Singapore Leasing, Sales Finance, Lending Sep. 1972 50% ORIX Investment and Management Private Limited Singapore Equity Investment, Lending May 1981 100% ETHOZ Group Ltd. Singapore Automobile Leasing and Rentals, Leasing Sep. 1981 45% Rental and Leasing of Test and Measurement Instruments ORIX Rentec (Singapore) Pte. Limited Singapore Oct. 1995 100% and IT-related Equipment ORIX Leasing Malaysia Berhad Malaysia Leasing, Lending Sep. 1973 100% ORIX Credit Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Sales Finance Jan. 1981 100% ORIX Car Rentals Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Automobile Rentals Feb. 1989 100% Rental and Leasing of Test and Measurement Instruments ORIX Rentec (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Nov. 1996 100% and IT-related Equipment ORIX Auto Leasing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Automobile Leasing Oct. 2000 100% ORIX Asset Management Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia NPL Investment Jan. 2008 100% PT. ORIX Indonesia Finance Indonesia Leasing, Automobile Leasing Apr. 1975 85% PT. Sinar Mitra Sepadan Finance Indonesia Used Car Loans for Sole Proprietors and Individual Customers (Nov. 2015) 85% ORIX METRO Leasing and Finance Corporation Philippines Leasing, Automobile Leasing, Lending Jun. 1977 40% ORIX Auto Leasing Philippines Corporation Philippines Automobile Leasing Sep. 1989 40% Thai ORIX Leasing Co., Ltd. Thailand Leasing, Automobile Leasing and Rentals Jun. 1978 96% Fund Operation and Management, Real Estate Indochina Capital Corporation Vietnam (Nov. 2010) 25% Development, and Advisory, Investment Banking ORIX Leasing Pakistan Limited 3 Pakistan Leasing, Automobile Leasing Jul. 1986 49% INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING & FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED India Infrastructure Investment, Investment Banking (Mar. 1993) 23% ORIX Auto Infrastructure Services Limited India Automobile Leasing and Rentals Mar. 1995 99% Canara Robeco Asset Management Company Limited India Asset Management (Jul. 2013) 49% ORIX Leasing Egypt SAE Egypt Leasing, Automobile Leasing Jun. 1997 34% Saudi ORIX Leasing Company Saudi Arabia Leasing, Automobile Leasing Jan. 2001 28% Al Hail ORIX Finance PSC UAE Leasing, Automobile Leasing, Lending Mar. 2002 38% The Mediterranean & Gulf Insurance & Reinsurance Company B.S.C. Bahrain Non-Life Insurance, Life Insurance, Reinsurance (Jun. 2013) 25% ORIX Australia Corporation Limited Australia Automobile Leasing and Truck Rentals Jul. 1986 100% ORIX New Zealand Limited New Zealand Leasing, Automobile Leasing Dec. 1988 100% Aircraft Leasing, Asset Management, Aircraft-related ORIX Aviation Systems Limited Ireland Mar. 1991 100% Technical Services ORIX Polska S.A. Poland Leasing, Automobile Leasing (Oct. 1995) 100% ORIX Corporation Europe N.V. Netherlands Asset Management (Jul. 2013) 100% Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (RIAM) Netherlands Asset Management (Jul. 2013) 100% Transtrend B.V. Netherlands Asset Management (Jul. 2013) 100% RobecoSAM AG Switzerland Asset Management (Jul. 2013) 100% ORIX Corporation UK Limited UK Equity Investment, Lending Jan. 2018 100% Notes: 1. ORIX has offices in other locations not included in the list above. In total, ORIX’s business operations currently extend across 38 countries and regions worldwide. 2. ORIX Corporation’s Global Business Headquarters, Global Transportation Services Headquarters, East Asia Business Headquarters as well as ORIX Maritime Corporation and ORIX Aircraft Corporation, are based in Japan but are engaged in business activities primarily in Asia, Oceania and Europe. 3. Listed company 74 ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Corporate Profile/Stock Information/Investor Memo Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2018) Company Name ORIX Corporation Shareholders’ Equity ¥2,682,424 million Established April 17, 1964 Fiscal Year-End March 31 Head Office World Trade Center Bldg., 2-4-1 Consolidated Companies 831 Hamamatsu-cho, Minato-ku, Affiliates 190 Tokyo 105-6135, Japan Tel: +81-3-3435-3000 Number of Employees 31,890 Global Network 2,184 locations in 38 countries and regions worldwide Japan 1,468 locations Ex-Japan 716 locations Stock Information (As of March 31, 2018) Number of Shares Total Number of Shares Authorized 2,590,000,000 shares Total Number of Shares Issued and Outstanding 1,324,495,728 shares Number of Shareholders 299,722 Number of Shareholders/ Major Shareholders Composition of Shareholders (%) Number of Percentage of Total ■ Financial Institutions ■ Overseas Corporations Name Shares Held Shares in Issue ■ Individuals ■ Other* (Thousands) (%) 178,573 227,666 299,722 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 114,527 8.93 1.6% 2.1% 3.9% (Trust Account) 6.5% 6.9% 7.6% The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 77,985 6.08 (Trust Account) 59.6% 57.9% 55.2% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 38,225 2.98 (Trust Account 9) CITIBANK, N.A.-N.Y, AS DEPOSITARY BANK 26,904 2.09 FOR DEPOSITARY SHAREHOLDERS Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 32.3% 33.1% 33.3% 25,136 1.96 (Trust Account 5) 2016 2017 2018 State Street Bank and Trust Company 24,468 1.90 * Other includes treasury stock. State Street Bank West Client Treaty 505234 24,344 1.89 The Chase Manhattan Bank 385036 23,629 1.84 State Street Bank and Trust Company 505001 22,203 1.73 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 20,941 1.63 (Trust Account 7) ORIX INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 75 About ORIX Stock Price and Volume Stock Price (Yen) 2,500 1,500 500 Volume (thousand shares) 1,200,000 800,000 400,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 April January January January January January January January January January June Note: On April 1, 2013, the Company conducted a 10-for-1 stock split for shareholders of record as of the close of trading on March 31, 2013. Stock prices for the year ended March 31, 2013 and earlier have been restated for convenience. Investor Memo (As of August 1, 2018) Transfer Agent for Common Shares Depositary and Registrar for American Depositary Receipts Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Citibank, N.A., Shareholder Services Tel: 0120–232–711 (toll-free in Japan) P.O. Box 43077 Providence, RI 02940-3077 Stock Exchange Listings USA Tokyo Stock Exchange, First Section, Securities Code: 8591 Tel: 1–877–248–4237 (toll-free in the U.S.) New York Stock Exchange Trading Symbol: IX 1–816–843–4281 (outside the U.S.) Fax: 1–201–324–3284 E-mail: citibank@shareholders-online.com Ratio 1 ADR = 5 common shares NYSE: IX Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules The Company believes that it will be considered a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the year to which these consolidated financial results relate and for the foreseeable future by reason of the composition of its assets and the nature of its income. A U.S. holder of the shares or ADSs of the Company is therefore subject to special rules generally intended to eliminate any benefits from the deferral of U.S. federal income tax that a holder could derive from investing in a foreign corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Investors should consult their tax advisors with respect to such rules, which are summarized under “UNITED STATES TAXATION” in the Company’s Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Presentation of Financial Information The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31. The fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, is referred to throughout this Integrated Report as “FY2018.3” and other fiscal years are referred to in a corresponding manner. Forward-Looking Statements This document may contain forward-looking statements about expected future events and financial results that involve risks and uncertainties. Such statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those described under “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and under “Business Risk” of the securities report (yukashoken houkokusho) filed with the Director of the Kanto Local Finance Bureau. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website (http://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en) its annual report on Form 20-F and other reports. ORIX Corporation Treasury and Accounting Headquarters Corporate Planning Department World Trade Center Bldg., 2–4–1 Hamamatsu-cho, Minato–ku, Tokyo 105–6135, Japan Tel: +81–3–3435–3121 Fax: +81–3–3435–3154 URL: https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ For inquiries about this Integrated Report, please contact us at the address above.
