2017 Compact Gute Reise! We make it happen 2 2017 Compact Fraport has been operating under a new mission statement for two years now. Processes and infrastructure are focused on our customers having a “gute Reise”, a good trip. We’ve stated our objective in no uncertain terms: “We successfully operate airports for our customers worldwide, and offer associated services. We create the conditions needed for international interconnectedness, economic development and prosperity. In doing so, we want to offer our partners a platform for their business model, and be an economic force and job engine in the respective regions as well as an attractive employer and responsible partner.” The cover photo once again reflects our slogan. Airports around the world are fascinating places, and Frankfurt Airport is no exception. It is not just visitors and passengers, but also the employees of Fraport who are fascinated, each in their own way, by the various experiences that Frankfurt Airport has to offer. The “2017 Compact” report presents the favorite spots of Fraport’s employees who contribute to making airports fascinating places. One of them is Charalampos Karakousis, who along with his colleagues at the General Aviation Terminal in the south of Frankfurt Airport is responsible for a special service provided to passengers traveling by private aircraft. Gute Reise! We make it happen 2017 Compact 3 Contents Foreword 14 Highlights 2017 16 Our Group 20 Governance and compliance 27 Responsibility 30 Our program 36 Economic enhancement 43 Customer satisfaction and product quality 44 Economic efficiency 48 Growth and development in the Group 50 Ideas and innovation 52 Employees 57 Attractive and responsible employer 58 Occupational health and safety 60 Community 65 Value generation and engagement in the regions 66 Noise abatement 70 Environment 77 Climate protection 78 Conservation of nature and resources 80 Key figures 85 About this Report/Imprint 91 Company Portrait Fraport USA Inc. 40 Fraport Slovenija, d.o.o. 54 Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. 62 Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD 74 Fraport Regional Airports of Greece 82 4 Favorite spots 2017 Compact Visitors’ Terrace at Terminal 2 “Frankfurt Airport is Germany’s door to the world. I can see it close-up from my favorite spot. But I also have a favorite time: When the different shades of red glow on the horizon and you can take your time watching the planes in the sky as they take off and land, that’s when I enjoy the visitors’ terrace the most.” 2017 Compact Favorite spots 5 Asli Ibrik Fraport 6 Favorite spots 2017 Compact Micco Reccius Fraport 2017 Compact Favorite spots 7 Baggage handling system “The numerous transit passengers in a wide-body aircraft such as the A380 need to reach up to 100 connecting flights in a short period of time. Promptly reloading their baggage is one of the main challenges of baggage management at a hub like Frankfurt Airport. You can see this amazing logistics service in full swing at my favorite spot: the 80-km long baggage conveyor system.” 8 Favorite spots 2017 Compact Terminal 1 “My favorite spot is where the world meets! To make sure that every passenger truly has a ‘Gute Reise’, all the processes at the terminal must be perfectly coordinated. This is a big challenge, especially on peak days when there are over 200,000 passengers using the airport. It’s all the more fascinating when everyone involved pulls together so that even on such days, things stay calm and under control...” 2017 Compact Favorite spots 9 Alicia Schäfer Fraport 10 Favorite spots 2017 Compact Frank Deichmeier Fraport 2017 Compact Favorite spots 11 Da-Vinci-Haus “Because of my work as an executive driver, I spend a lot of time driving to and fro and am very familiar with both the public and restricted-access roads within the airport’s grounds. I really love the area in the south around Da-Vinci-Haus. There’s even a nice green spot between Fraport AG’s guesthouse and the Airlift Memorial where you can watch the planes taking off in the background.” 12 Favorite spots 2017 Compact Apron “The apron is the ideal place to see how everything works in concert at the airport. It clearly shows how important it is for processes to be coordinated perfectly and to be able to trust in your colleagues. This is the only way that Fraport can ensure that its customers, both airlines and passengers, enjoy a high level of performance. You can clearly observe this process from my favorite spot.” 2017 Compact Favorite spots 13 Maximilian Schultheis Fraport 14 Foreword 2017 Compact Foreword Dear Reader, In the past fiscal year, Fraport achieved a very good As you can see, we are in a good position in Frankfurt result. With over 64.5 million passengers, Frankfurt to meet future traffic demands despite the currently Airport grew by more than six percent, setting a new robust traffic growth. Developing capacities based record. We also served a significantly greater number on demand while at the same time keeping customer of passengers at all Group airports compared to the satisfaction at a high level are the challenges that we previous year. With the addition of the two Brazilian set ourselves both in Frankfurt and at our airports airports as well as the successful take-over of 14 Greek internationally. For example, after taking over the airports in the past year, we were also able to continue Greek airports, we immediately started implementing to expand our international portfolio. As a result, we important modernization measures as well as efficient have made good progress in the goal to continuously processes to noticeably improve the travel experience increase the result contribution of our international for our guests from all over the world. The next step business activities. will include extensions to and new constructions of terminal facilities, including more attractive service At the same time, growth at Frankfurt Airport presents and shopping offers. us with the challenge of creating the capacities necessary for it in good time. In Terminals 1 and 2, we are With the take-over of the two Brazilian airports of intensively working with our partners on measures to “Pinto Martins” in Fortaleza and “Salgado Filho” in improve processes and capacities. The most importPorto Alegre on January 2 of this year, we completed ant aspects for meeting the challenge of increasing a further step in the expansion of our international passenger numbers during peak hours are security business. These airports welcomed nearly 14 million checks as well as passport controls for entry into and passengers in total in 2017, an increase of 4.4 percent departure from the country. Customer satisfaction compared to the previous year. Drawing on our exonce again increased, with 85 % of our passengers pertise, we will significantly develop both airports for stating that they were satisfied with the travel process the benefit of the country. For our customers, whether as a whole. This new record is certainly proof of our airlines or passengers, we will expand terminal capacity excellent performance and the great commitment of and improve processes and services as well as add our airport employees and partners. At the same time, attractive retail and food & beverage offerings. improving these processes remains an ongoing task, as this year’s current development shows once again. Our experience shows that well-managed airports prove themselves to be true engines of economic In particular, we are creating capacity for 14 million growth in their respective regions. The best example additional passengers in Frankfurt with the construction of this can be seen at our airport in Lima. One of the of Terminal 3, which should commence operations in most successful airports in our portfolio, “Jorge Chávez 2023 with piers H and J. The construction of this terInternational Airport” has achieved consistently high minal is on schedule. In order to be prepared for the growth rates and a high level of customer satisfaction, anticipated passenger growth as well as offering our while receiving numerous awards. For this reason, customers even better and more tailored services, the we will build an additional runway as well as a new schedule for the construction of pier G with an annual passenger terminal at the airport. This is the only way capacity of four to five million passengers will also be we can meet the growing traffic volume in Lima, and brought forward. The building application for pier G continue to steadily improve the range of high-level was submitted last year, and construction work is set offerings and services for passengers. to start in the second half of 2018. 2017 Compact Foreword 15 Michael Müller Anke Giesen Dr. Stefan Schulte Dr. Matthias Zieschang Executive Director Executive Director Chairman of the Executive Director Labor Relations Operations Executive Board Controlling and Finance In this regard, we warmly thank our employees the sickness rate, and the CO2 emissions, which were throughout the entire Group, who now number over already included among the most important non24,500. It is due to their efforts and performance that financial performance indicators in the 2017 reports, we have achieved such a positive result despite the have now been included in the Group management challenges we face. report. The selected indicators also include the key figures for overall passenger satisfaction, baggage Our commitment to the issues of active noise abateconnectivity, and employee satisfaction. These are of ment and noise reduction shows that growth and recourse also part of our sustainability program, which sponsibility are not mutually exclusive. These continue can be found starting on page 36. We hope you find to have a high priority. Together with our partners such this report interesting and informative, and we look as Deutsche Flugsicherung, Deutsche Lufthansa, and forward to your responses. other players from politics and the industry, in the past year we have improved our role of international pioneer in noise abatement at the Frankfurt site. Frankfurt is now the first hub airport worldwide that is equipped with state-of-the-art navigation technology on all runways and supports an approach procedure that Dr. Stefan Schulte Anke Giesen allows for noise reduction in the areas most affected Chairman of the Executive Director by the landing approaches. We have taken these and Executive Board Operations additional measures in a conscious effort to shoulder our corporate responsibility. This also includes identifying non-financial performance indicators, which arise from the Group’s Michael Müller Dr. Matthias Zieschang strategy. We made a few changes in the 2018 fiscal Executive Director Executive Director year. The quota of women in management positions, Labor Relations Controlling and Finance 16 Highlights 2017 2017 Compact Highlights 2017 Jan Feb March Fraport among the top 100 most “Excellence Award” for Contract for two Brazilian airports sustainable companies in the world FRA Cargo Airport As part of the privatization program of the Fraport AG is one of the world’s top 100 most Frankfurt Airport was awarded the “STAT Brazilian government, Fraport AG won the sustainable companies. This was announced Trade Times International Award for Exceltender for both Fortaleza Airport and Porto at the World Economic Forum in Davos by the lence in Air Cargo” for the second time in Alegre Airport. With a bid in the amount Canadian media and investment consulting a row in the category of best international of 1,505.75 million reais (approximately agency Corporate Knights. This also meant airport. The ceremony for the award of the €446.81 million) for the Fortaleza Airport Fraport AG’s inclusion in the index of the renowned trade magazine “STAT Trade Times and 382.01 million reais (approximately “2017 Global 100 Most Sustainable CorpoInternational” took place during the inter€113.36 million) for the Porto Alegre Airport, rations in the World (Global 100)”. For the national trade fair for air freight “Air Cargo Fraport won out against strong international ranking, 4,973 companies worldwide were Africa” in Johannesburg (South Africa). competition. In addition to the concession assessed according to factors such as econoprice, Fraport will pay a commercial fee of my, the environment and social benefit. five percent annually. The terms for the two concession agreements are 30 years for Fortaleza and 25 years for Porto Alegre. 2017 Compact Highlights 2017 17 May Jun New Sky Line Station C Dividend of €1.50 per share at Frankfurt Airport At the 16th Annual General Meeting of The new stop now connects Area C in the Fraport AG, the shareholders approved the eastern part of Terminal 1 with the Sky Line proposed dividend of €1.50 per share. The train. Here, transit passengers can board and approval rate was 99.99 %. Thus, the divideboard, and get to their connecting flights dend for the 2016 fiscal year has increased comfortably and quickly. Since the passenby 15 cents per share. Lastly, the dividend for gers remain in the non-Schengen area during fiscal year 2014 was increased. In addition, the entire transit procedure, no passport the shareholders approved the actions of controls are required. Fraport invested a total the Executive Board (99.76 % approval rate) of €24 million for the new station building. and the Supervisory Board (96.05 % approval rate) for fiscal year 2016. Advisory agreement with Bahrain Airport Decrease in CO2 emissions of 65 percent by 2030 Fraport AG won a contract from Bahrain Airport Company for a multi-year consultIn 2016, Fraport AG achieved the climate proing project for Bahrain Airport. It includes tection targets which it set for itself for 2020 advisory and other services for the smooth Apr significantly ahead of schedule. As such, it inauguration of new airport facilities. The has set new climate protection targets in line mandate extends to the new terminal buildwith the German government’s climate proings and other infrastructure systems such as tection plan. The CO2 emissions produced the apron areas, a fire station, fuel depot, and by the business activity of Fraport AG at the aircraft maintenance hangars. Frankfurt site are expected to be lowered to Fraport Greece takes over operations of 80,000 metric tons by 2030. Compared to 14 Greek airports the levels in 1990, the base year of the international climate protection agreement, this With the concession of over 40 years, Fraport corresponds to a reduction of 65 %. Greece is assuming responsibility for the management and further development of the 14 airports, which are located both on Occupational health management the mainland and on the islands of Greece. awarded Fraport AG has also paid the prescribed concession fee of €1.234 billion into the Greek HR management in Fraport AG has always fostate privatization fund. In addition, Fraport cused on preserving the health, performance Greece will pay an annual fixed concession and therefore productivity of employees fee of €22.9 million, as well as an amount in the long term. The airport operator was equivalent to 28.5 % of the annual operating lauded for its exemplary occupational health profit, to the Greek state. management with the German Corporate Health Award (Deutscher Unternehmens­ preis Gesundheit) of the BKK Dachverband e.V. in the category “Trade/Transport/Traffic”. 18 Highlights 2017 2017 Compact Jul Aug Sept FRA best connected in the world Group result increases significantly New historic daily record in Frankfurt The European airport association ACI Europe The Group revenue of Fraport AG increased For the first time in its history, Frankfurt Airconfirmed in its connectivity report that the by 10.7 % in the first six months of 2017 to port (FRA) exceeded the 220,000-passenger Frankfurt air traffic hub was again number one almost €1.4 billion (+€130.6 million). The mark in a single day on 15 September. In in the category “Total Hub Connectivity” in positive change in Frankfurt is due, among terms of passenger satisfaction, FRA is in tenth 2017, with a massive lead in terms of flight other things, to significant passenger growth, place worldwide according to the Skytrax connections ahead of the airports Amsterdam increased income in connection with the sale ranking. In terms of punctuality, the airport Schiphol and Dallas/Fort Worth. Frankfurt of land, and higher retail sales. Outside of the is in third place among the large airports in received this rating for this first time in 2005 Frankfurt site, Fraport Greece in particular, Europe according to the OAG Punctuality and has been able to confirm it time and which took over operations on April 11, League. again over the past decade. 2017, and the Group company Lima made substantial contributions to revenue growth. Lima Airport to be expanded Building application submitted for Pier The Fraport Group company Lima Airport G in Frankfurt Partners, S.R.L. and the Peruvian government have agreed to expand Lima Airport. Lima has By moving up the schedule for the condeveloped into one of the fastest growing struction of the new pier, Fraport is reairports in South America. The expansion sponding to passenger growth. Pier G was program will begin in 2018 and involves an originally planned for the second phase investment volume of approximately US$1.5 of construction of Terminal 3 but should billion. Plans include, among other things, now be completed and inaugurated earlier. a second runway and a new passenger The pier has a capacity of 4 to 5 million terminal. passengers per year and will cost up to €200 million. 2017 Compact Highlights 2017 19 Oct Nov Dec Fraport training initiative selects Fraport USA extends concession Large mandate for the property division winner at Cleveland Airport The property experts of Fraport AG have The Fraport training initiative offers associaThe Airmall Cleveland business unit of received the contract for the management tions and institutions the possibility to submit Fraport USA extended the retail concession of seven high-value properties of TRIUVA innovative training measures for children and at Cleveland Airport until 2024. The Fraport Kapitalverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH. The teenagers as a project. The prizes on offer subsidiary has been successfully managing properties are all in top downtown locations came to a total of €25,000. The winner of the retail and restaurant offers since 2008. in Frankfurt am Main and Mannheim. Fraport’s the contest was KinderHelden Förderverein Since then, employment in the concession specialized division for property developFrankfurtRheinMain e.V., which received division has increased by 60 %, and the revment and marketing manages assets with a prize money of €10,000. Nine other clubs enue per departing passenger has increased total value of €2.3 billion. were also delighted to receive funding. by 88 % to US$10.46. Self-driving shuttle tested at Frankfurt Airport Fraport, in partnership with R+V Versiche­ rung, successfully tested a self-driving mini­ bus for the transport of employees on the company premises. The test took place on a 1.5-kilometer section of a busy street. The highly automated minibus proved that it can maneuver itself in a realistic, busy street scenario with pedestrians and a wide range of different types of transport. 20 Our Group 2017 Compact From Frankfurt to the world The Fraport Group (hereinafter: Fraport) is been stock exchange-listed since 2001, is also contribution to earnings (3.7 %) from the among the leading global airport groups the biggest single company of the Group, Greece site (hereinafter: Fraport Greece) was with its international portfolio. Thereby, which has more than 20,600 employees. added in 2017. The Turkey site recovered in Fraport provides all airport and terminal fiscal year 2017 and made a positive contribuoperation services and associated services. The Fraport Group is divided into four segtion of 4.3 % (in the previous year: negative We also provide planning and consultancy ments: Aviation, Retail & Real Estate, Ground contribution). In contrast, the Brazil site, due services and run both operational and Handling, and External Activities & Services. to start-up costs without offsetting revenue administrative activities. Passenger traffic, Fraport’s strength lies in an integrated busiin preparation for the operational take-over which impacts on a majority of the services ness model in airport management, which of the Brazilian airports in January 2018, and the Group provides, is key to the Group’s guarantees comprehensive know-how in all the USA site, due to the extraordinary impairrevenue and earnings performance. airport services. Fraport provides the entire ment loss for the concession in Boston, made range of airport and airport-related services a negative contribution to the Group result. The Group’s business activities can fundaat the Frankfurt site. mentally be broken down by Group site and by the services provided there. Here, Germany – almost exclusively Frankfurt Airthe main site is Frankfurt Airport, one of the port – was once again the most important biggest passenger and cargo airports in the site of the Fraport Group in the past fiscal world. Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services year with a share of 66.0 % in the Group result Worldwide (hereinafter: Fraport AG) is the (2016: 63.7 %). Among others, the share of owner of Frankfurt Airport. With more than the Slovenia site rose compared with the 10,200 employees, Fraport AG, which has previous year, to 1.5 % (2016: 0.8 %). The Share in the Group result by site in % 0.6 Other sites 3.2 China 4.3 Turkey 3.7 66.0 Germany Greece 5.7 Bulgaria 15.0 Peru 1.5 Slovenia 2017 Compact Our Group 21 Organization Fraport AG is a publicly listed corporation As an additional decision-making and control registered in Germany. As such, its managebody, Fraport AG’s shareholders exercise ment and control are divided into three intheir participation and voting rights in the dependent bodies. As a management body, company at the Annual General Meeting. the Executive Board bears the strategic and The ordinary Annual General Meeting takes operational responsibility for the Group. At place in the first six months of each fiscal year the end of 2017, it comprised four members, and makes decisions on all tasks assigned to Dr. Stefan Schulte (Chairman), Anke Giesen it by law and the Group’s articles of associa(Executive Director Operations), Michael tion, such as appropriation of profit, election Müller (Executive Director Labor Relations), and discharge of the Supervisory Board, and and Dr. Matthias Zieschang (Executive Direcdischarge of the Executive Board. Each share tor Controlling and Finance). grants one voting right. The Supervisory Board appoints the Executive Board and controls the latter’s activities. It exists under German law and, as a result of the size of the parent company, comprises 20 members who are appointed or elected by shareholders and company employees in equal numbers. Shareholder structure as at Sunday, December 31, 2017 1) in % 32.05 Free Float 5.05 31.31 Lazard Asset Management LLC State of Hesse 3.12 20.03 BlackRock Inc. Stadtwerke Frankfurt am Main Holding GmbH 8.44 Deutsche Lufthansa AG 1) The relative ownership interests were adjusted to the current total number of shares as at Sunday, December 31, 2017 and therefore may differ from the figures given at the time of reporting or from the respective shareholders’ own disclosure. Shares below 3 % are classified under “Free Float”. 22 Our Group 2017 Compact Group airports (with an interest of more than 10 %) Frankfurt/Main Ljubljana Lima Name Frankfurt Airport Name Ljubljana Jože Pucnik Airport Name Aeropuerto Internacional Jorge Chávez Company Fraport AG Company Fraport Slovenija d.o.o. Company Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. Type Group headquarters Type Group company Type Concession until at least 2041 Shares 100 % Shares 100 % Shares 70.01 % Employees 10,204 Employees 409 Employees 494 Passengers 64.5 million Passengers 1.7 million Passengers 20.6 million Cargo (air freight + air mail) 2.2 million metric tons Cargo (air freight + air mail) 12,000 metric tons Cargo (air freight + air mail) 284,000 metric tons Movements 476,000 Movements 34,000 Movements 187,000 Hanover St. Petersburg Xi’an Name Hanover-Langenhagen Airport Name Pulkovo Airport Name Xi’an Xianyang International Airport Company Flughafen HannoverCompany Northern Capital Gateway LLC Company Xi’an Xianyang Langenhagen GmbH Type Concession until 2040 International Airport Co. Type Group company Shares 25 % Type Group company Shares 30 % Employees 3,458 Shares 24.5 % Employees 665 Passengers 16.1 million Employees 3,697 Passengers 5.9 million Cargo (air freight + air mail) n/a Passengers 41.9 million Cargo (air freight + air mail) 18,000 metric tons Movements 152,000 Cargo (air freight + air mail) 259,000 metric tons Movements 75,000 Movements 318,000 2017 Compact Our Group 23 Greek regional airports Burgas/Varna Antalya (example: Thessaloniki) Name Burgas Airport/Varna Airport Name Antalya Airport Company Fraport Greece 1) Company Fraport Twin Star Airport Company Fraport IC Ictas Antalya Airports Type Concession until 2056 Management A.D. Type Concession until 2024 Shares 73.4 % Type Concession until 2041 Shares 51 % Employees 525 Shares 60 % Employees 422 Passengers 27.6 million Employees 1,037 Passengers 26.4 million Cargo (air freight + air mail) n/a Passengers 4.95 million Cargo (air freight + air mail) n/a Movements 226,000 Cargo (air freight + air mail) 14,500 metric tons Movements 157,000 Movements 37,000 Porto Alegre Fortaleza Delhi Name Aeroporto Internacional de Porto Alegre Name Aeroporto Internacional de Fortaleza Name Indira Gandhi International Airport Company Fraport Brasil S.A. Company Fraport Brasil S.A. Company Delhi International Airport Limited Aeroporto Porto Alegre 2) Aeroporto Fortaleza 2) Type Concession Type Concession until 2042 Type Concession until 2047 Shares 10 % Shares 100 % Shares 100 % Employees 1,403 Employees 161 Employees 91 Passengers 63.5 million Passengers n/a Passengers n/a Cargo (air freight + air mail) 966,800 metric tons Cargo (air freight + air mail) n/a Cargo (air freight + air mail) n/a Movements 448,000 Movements n/a Movements n/a 1) Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Management Company S. A.; Fraport Regional Airports of Greece – A, S. A.; Fraport Regional Airports of Greece – B, S. A. Start of concession: 2017 2) Start of operations on 1/2/2018 24 Our Group 2017 Compact Key business fields in the value generation chain Input Business model – Fraport Group worldwide Contribution –– Financial resources Passengers B2C Generating value –– Human resources –– Environmental resources Passenger Services | VIP Services | Parking –– Customer satisfaction –– Business resources and product quality (license to operate –– Economic efficiency and grow, external –– Growth and infrastructure) development in –– Goods and services Airlines B2B Tenants & Airport the Group –– Intellectual capital concessionaires B2B Management & –– Ideas and innovation –– Airside operations competence –– Attractive and –– Terminal operations –– Property operations and B2B & B2G responsible employer –– Security ground services marketing –– Value generation and –– Passage and check-in (incl. conferencing) –– Management contracts engagement in the –– Freight handling –– Concessions for –– Consulting regions –– General aviation retail & gastronomy –– Airport (partial) –– Advertising inauguration Limit effects –– Noise abatement –– Occupational health IT Services | Maintenance and Repairs and safety Cleaning | Canteen –– Climate protection –– Conservation of nature and resources Our business activities are divided into four units and service units of Fraport AG and also segments: “Aviation”, “Retail & Real Estate”, include the Group companies involved in “Ground Handling”, which are largely active each of these business processes. In addition, at the Frankfurt site, as well as “External Activten central units of Fraport AG in Frankfurt ities & Services”, which primarily includes the provide services, among other things, across Group companies outside of Frankfurt. The the entire Group. segments encompass the strategic business Segment structure Fraport Group Segments 1) Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling External Activities & Services Directly asigned Airside and Retail and Properties Ground Services Global Investments and strategic business Terminal Management, Management Management units and service units Corporate Safety and of Fraport AG Security Integrated Facility Management Information and Telecommunication Airport Expansion South Corporate Infrastructure Management Central units Controlling | Finance and Investor Relations | Internal Auditing | HR Top Executives Human Resources | Accounting | Legal Affairs and Compliance | Corporate Development, Environment and Sustainability Corporate Communications | Central Purchasing, Construction Contracts 1) Including assigned Group companies. 2017 Compact Our Group 25 Strategy Fraport continues to guide its strategy by the continue to be negatively influenced by inVision long-term forecasted development of the tense competition, the rolling out of national global aviation market and its market trends. taxes, such as the German aviation tax, and “Fraport – from Frankfurt to the world. We Here, renowned aviation associations and airpotential labor disputes. Positive and negaare Europe’s best airport operator and set craft manufacturers expect long-term stable tive effects also arise from the appreciation standards worldwide.” This is the vision for growth of the aviation market. This is derived, and depreciation of currencies and from price the Fraport Group. It clearly indicates the in particular, from projected global economic fluctuations on commodity markets. company’s close connection with its home growth and the continuing global expansion location in Frankfurt. This is the source of of the middle class, which consumes more. The aforementioned uncertainties also affect the impetus for our international activities. Supporting effects continue to result from the Frankfurt Airport, as it is an international In Europe, we measure ourselves against continuing internationalization of labor and hub. Individual Group airports may see other airport operators. Fraport is successfully education. Increasing traffic is also forecasted shifts in passenger flows, albeit temporarily, building a network worldwide and setting from migration and tourism. The intense to other destinations. For example, Antalya standards in the operation of international competition between airlines has the effect Airport was significantly affected by this in airports and associated services. of promoting growth. Business models which 2016 in particular. Due to the high share of focus their performance purely on transport Russian-dominated traffic, the St. Petersburg, lead to relatively cheap ticket prices. DisproVarna, and Burgas sites are also affected by portionate growth is still expected from and political uncertainties related to Russia. in the economic emerging markets. Fraport monitors various lead indicators to Despite the long-term growth forecasts, the identify trends in travel or freight flows at short-term development of aviation markets an early stage. At an economic level, these continues to be marked by uncertainties in include industrial production, purchasing individual markets. These primarily result managers indices, the logistics indicator or from geopolitical conditions, such as in private consumption in different economies. Ukraine or the wider Middle East, potential In addition, indicators specific to flight marterrorist attacks, and the possible spread of kets such as booking forecasts or the airlines’ epidemics, but also from the economically publications of flight plans are part of such uncertain situations of various economies. monitoring activities. In addition, the various companies in the aviation industry, and airlines in particular, 26 Our Group 2017 Compact Vision: Europe’s top airport operator Economically successful through Growth in Frankfurt and internationally Service-oriented airport operator optimal cooperation Fairness and recognition for partners and neighbors Learning organization Group Mission Statement The changing conditions in global aviation From the passengers’ perspective, airports The five objectives are: influence the entire air aviation sector. Price are becoming increasingly interchangeable. wars between airlines as well as passengers’ Transfer passengers can often choose be–– Growth in Frankfurt and internationally price-conscious travel behavior are leading tween several airlines or alliances and thus to more competition among airports. At the different hubs. Price-sensitive passengers –– Service-oriented airport operator same time, the quality of the service as well have a wide range of low-cost carriers (LCC) as providing reliable and fast processes are to choose from. We have responded to –– Economically successful through optimal increasingly gaining importance as competthis expanding market by opening up the cooperation itive factors. Frankfurt site to LCC. For Fraport, a factor critical for competitive success is to offer –– Learning organization The continued development of the Group various customer groups the appropriate strategy, based on the mission statement improducts upon departure, arrival or transfer –– Fairness and recognition for partners and plemented in 2015/2016, draws on existing at Frankfurt Airport. With the mission stateneighbors and anticipated changes to general and marment “Gute Reise! We make it happen”, the ket conditions, and gears the Fraport Group focus of the entire company that is needed The implementation of the strategy is subject to achieving success in this dynamic envifor this has been placed on customer. The to company-wide planning and management ronment. The mission statement’s vision of further penetration of the mission statement’s based on numerous measures in which repestablishing Fraport as Europe’s best airport aspirations throughout the company will also resentatives of various business units and operator while setting standards worldwide is be continued at the segment level and in the companies are involved. Strategic teams draw the basis of the Group strategy. We offer our Group companies over the next few years. up annual targets to put the strategic goals customers a platform for their businesses at all of the mission statement in concrete terms. our sites which stands out from the compeThe values of competence, commitment, In total, ten programs are being pursued in tition through its quality as well as attractive openness, reliability, courage, and trust are order to promote the achievement of the obpricing. As a result of this offering in Frankfurt the core values of our culture. The vision, the jectives. In addition, sub-strategies are drawn and throughout the world, possibilities have new motto, and the five objectives set a clear up and pursued within the segments, which been created to meet the mobility needs direction for the future. do not deviate from the overarching Group of society and to strengthen the economic objectives. They operationalize the Group power of the regions concerned. objectives in a manner specific to the different sections and make recommendations. 2017 Compact Our Group 27 Governance and compliance The basis of ensuring legal and compliant behavior in the Fraport Group as well as at Fraport AG is the corporate culture as it has been laid out, in particular, in the code of conduct for employees. The Code of Conduct applicable to all employees worldwide takes into account the United Nations’ anti-corruption conventions and is based on the ten Global Compact principles, the OECD guidelines, and the ILO Core Labor Dr. Stefan Schulte Standards. Chairman of the Executive Board In accordance with the values in the Fraport Code of Conduct, Fraport intends to operate in a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable manner. This responsibility is »For many years, Fraport has been committed to complydefined in the Code of Conduct for all eming with internationally recognized codes of conduct with ployees. The same values are contained in the regard to responsible corporate governance. These include Fraport Supplier Code of Conduct. Fraport the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, to which we expects its suppliers and service providers have been expressly committed since 2007. The UN 2030 to comply with the same standards. Agenda and the objectives contained therein for sustainable development are part of our voluntary commitments.« The Code of Conduct and the Compliance Guidelines are available to all employees on the internal information portals. The certified electronic whistleblower system (BKMS® System), which is used to report conduct dammaintain and further develop a process-oriin respect to corruption and violations of aging the company, is an important tool for ented corporate organization and to align antitrust and competition law. This Code preventing or uncovering violations. Fraport it with our new mission statement of “Gute of Conduct is a key part of the Compliance has also appointed an external lawyer as an Reise”. In this system, the key processes of Management System (CMS) policy for the ombudswoman. She is a trusting contact for Fraport AG are systematically checked and Group companies and of Fraport AG’s CMS. all of the Fraport Group’s employees as well constantly developed in order to offer the The comprehensive analysis of compliance as customers, suppliers, and other business customer a consistently high level of quality risks forms an important part of the CMS. partners and also receives information on and ensure that our company is competitive. There is a focus on anti-corruption and anticorruption issues. An internal ombudsperson A certification of the quality management trust and competition law. is also available to employees in Germany. system according to ISO 9001 was already successfully completed back in 1996. From The value-based corporate culture is the basis 2000, the certification was also extended to of the stable development of the CMS. The Management systems Group companies and a certification associCMS is designed to be preventive and should ation was formed. This association currently enable our employees to become aware of We have numerous management systems in comprises 16 companies. compliance risks and violations at an early our business processes to ensure responsible stage and respond to them appropriately. For corporate governance. This includes, for Fraport AG, the Executive Board has expressly example, environmental, health and safety, Anti-Corruption and Bribery Matters committed to this value-based compliance. and quality management. (Regarding the enWith the Group-wide code of conduct as vironmental management system, see page The Fraport Code of Conduct covers corwell as various communication measures, 80 et seq., regarding occupational safety, see ruption prevention and antitrust law, among the Executive Board supports the managing page 60 et seq.) Under the umbrella term other things. The Executive Board is expressly directors and their managers within the of “process-oriented quality management”, committed to these principles as well as Group to meet their responsibility to continFraport AG runs a system which serves to the zero tolerance principle, in particular uously implement the compliance objectives. 28 Our Group 2017 Compact the conditions for employees along the supply chain in order to prevent, for example, suppliers from employing refugees under inappropriate working conditions. We support the police where possible in pursuing and combating international human trafficking – for example at Frankfurt Airport by providing video material in certain justified cases. Before any data is exchanged, the relevant data protection officers are asked to review the data and approve the transfer. Furthermore, technical security systems were installed in cooperation with the German Federal Police and the German Customs Office. One example of this are ID card locks that prevent repeated use of the same ID card on doors within a short period of time. Wherever possible, check points for staff between Schengen and non-Schengen areas will be installed in close proximity to a border inspection post. In addition, there are Conduct standards flesh out Fraport AG’s and bribery are implemented in the Group clear guidelines for all ID card holders in the value-based compliance and help employees companies, in part as stipulated by external airport use regulations and the identification to adhere to existing laws and internal comlenders. regulations as well as rules for abuse thereof pany rules. To prevent accusations of bribery, up to the withdrawing of ID cards or access it clearly describes – using examples – in what The aforementioned organizational concepts permissions. form it is acceptable to give or receive gifts, for identifying and reporting irregularities benefits and invitations. ensure that the Executive Board gains direct During the period under review, there were knowledge of any cases of corruption and no complaints related to human rights subCompliance due diligence is a standard bribery. In fiscal year 2017, there were no mitted to Fraport AG and the Group comprocess in Fraport AG’s strategic business agreements with any business partner terpanies by way of the formal organizational unit Global Investments and Management, minated due to allegations of corruption. complaint mechanisms. meaning that significant compliance aspects, such as reviews of business partners on the topics of corruption, price fixing, and fraud, Respect for Human Rights Procurement are taken into account for each capital expenditure project and for consulting services. Fraport rejects any form of forced or child Unlike manufacturing companies, Fraport’s The obligation for all fully consolidated labor. Among other things, the minimum age management does not focus on the supply Group companies to adopt the Group CMS permitting full-time employment in complichain, but on the quality of the services policy also ensures that the Fraport standards ance with the relevant national regulations offered and the functionality of the infrafor the CMS are implemented in the relevant is observed within the Fraport Group. The structure required for this. Irrespective of Group companies. Code of Conduct and the Group Complithis, it is crucial that business partners and ance Management System (CMS) policy are suppliers are selected carefully. The Group Fraport has taken preventative corruption available to all employees on the internal companies each have their own procurement measures for the foreign Group companies information portals. management. in accordance with the CPI (Corruption Perceptions Index) issued by Transparency Regulations on working hours and complaints In Germany, we require business partners International. Here, the focus is on commechanisms, for example, are implemented and suppliers to comply with our Supplier pliance risk analysis, which mainly looks at in large financing projects, some of which Code of Conduct and the law as part of our corruption risks. The analysis also considers are also demanded by external lenders. General Terms and Conditions (AGB). The risks resulting from fraud and competition The Environmental and Social Action Plan Supplier Code of Conduct details how to law. Measures to prevent corruption are (ESAP), which requires the implementation treat employees correctly, including compliderived by the Group companies on this of a human resource policy as well as a ance with human rights, environmental and basis. These include, for example, training management and a monitoring system, is, climate protection, and integrity in the course measures, reviews of business partners, for example, a prerequisite for the financing of business, for example the prohibition of and documentation of compliance-related of Fraport Greece. The plan applies not only corruption and bribery. A violation of this processes. Within the scope of large financto Fraport’s employees, but also to suppliers code may result in the termination of the ing projects, measures against corruption and subcontractors. The ESAP also regulates business relationship. A contractual penalty 2017 Compact Our Group 29 may be imposed and a claim for lump-sum sanction lists are extensively checked in adFraport AG’s four largest suppliers by order damages may be raised in the event of vance. Sanction lists are official lists of people, volume are service companies in which antitrust violations and serious misconduct. groups or organizations subject to economic Fraport AG has a stake. These are the Group Business partners and suppliers must also or legal restrictions. If there are irregularities, companies FraSec, FraGround, FraCareSerundertake to observe these principles in further checks are planned which may result vices, and GCS. This concerns among others dealings with their own suppliers. in the withdrawal of an order. Ground Services, Security, Cleaning Services, and IT Services. As fully consolidated Group Fraport AG undertakes to focus on sustaincompanies, they must adopt the Code of ability criteria when purchasing products and Own process for Terminal 3 Conduct for employees and are also obliged services. In addition, the company was one of to comply with the Group Compliance the first in Hesse to sign a target agreement A separate procurement process via the Management System (CMS) policy. These initiated by the Hessian Ministry of the EnviGroup company Fraport Ausbau Süd (FAS) guidelines include instructions to make the ronment, Climate Protection, Agriculture and was defined for the Expansion South projSupplier Code of Conduct part of the General Consumer Protection in 2016. Consequently, ect, in particular Terminal 3 at Frankfurt, due Terms and Conditions and to use it insofar social and ecological criteria are considered to the size and complexity of the project. as this is possible for the Group companies in purchasing decisions in addition to ecoBy submitting an offer in this procurement pursuant to national law. If such inclusion nomic criteria. process, building companies are obliged in the General Terms and Conditions is not to comply with all requirements in the possible, or is only possible if the Supplier Fraport AG has a heterogeneous requirement Posted Workers Act (Arbeitnehmer-EntsenCode of Conduct is modified, the local manstructure. Its requirements range from archidegesetz, AEntG) and the Minimum Wage agement shall inform the department dealing tectural services to the construction of entire Act (Mindestlohngesetz, MiLoG), to make with compliance at Fraport AG. Fraport AG’s buildings and maintenance of such buildings, contributions to the collective bargaining fifth-largest supplier, Arbeitsgemeinschaft from office materials to IT services and aircraft parties’ joint facilities, and also to only enBaugrube T3, is not part of the Fraport Group push-backs. More than 68 % (approximately gage subcontractors or other third parties and is engaged by FAS. It is subject to the €663 million) of Fraport AG’s order volume that meet these requirements. The Fraport award conditions described above. of approximately €972 million was awarded Supplier Code of Conduct also forms part to companies in the Rhine-Main area in 2017. of any agreement. The international Group companies must also comply with all components of the Fraport AG had around 2,950 active suppliers A due diligence review process was defined Group CMS policy. This applies in particular and service providers in 2017. Around 98 % for purchases made for the construction of to large construction projects such as the of the order volume was awarded to suppliers Terminal 3, which has since been carried out new terminal at Lima Airport. In that project, and service providers based in Germany, depending on the order value. In addition compliance with the Fraport Supplier Code approximately 1 % to those based in the EU to mandatory checking of sanction lists and of Conduct is a mandatory part of the tender and about 1 % to those based in the US and company information, this includes extensive for the general contractor. Switzerland. As there are comparable legal research online on potential business partstandards in these countries, in particular ners before business relationships are started. in relation to respect for human rights as well as anti-corruption and bribery matters, the first level of Fraport AG’s supply chain is not deemed critical. Although orders with business partners and suppliers based outside the aforementioned countries seem insignificant in relation to the total order volume, of which they make up less than one percent, business relationships with suppliers from risk countries, known as the “Primary Impact Countries” (in accordance with the FTSE4Good Index), in particular require special care. If contracts for product groups that include suppliers or service providers from risk countries are to be put out to tender and awarded, the potential contractors will be reviewed depending on the order value. This also applies to orders for work clothes, for example. The location of production sites is periodically checked. If a business relationship is started with a supplier from one of these countries, 30 Our Group 2017 Compact Responsibility For us, sustainable action means creating Stakeholder dialog With its stakeholder dialog activities, Fraport the future responsibly. We understand susaddresses all of the company’s key staketainable development to be a continuous Airports are of great interest to the general holders in a targeted manner. They include process. We are convinced that the compapublic. They are often the cause of social and passengers, business partners, analysts, propny’s scope of action can only be secured by political debates, particularly in the case of erty owners as well as civil society, political, consistently including non-economic aspects Frankfurt Airport, which is one of the largest and government representatives. Special in management processes. hubs in Europe. As an operator, Fraport AG attention is given to neighbors affected by is caught between very different demands. aircraft noise at our sites and airport employThe topic of sustainability or responsibility ees. At Frankfurt Airport alone, the largest falls under the remit of the central unit For many of our stakeholders, our contriworkplace in Germany, there are around “Corporate Development, Environment, bution to connectivity with the world and 81,000 employees. In this regard, we bear and Sustainability”, which is assigned to the thus to their business activities or their direct responsibility for Fraport employees in Chairman of the Executive Board. The section travel needs are of primary importance. particular. The Fraport Group also maintains brings together the strategically relevant Other stakeholders are concerned with isclose contact with its main customers – airline themes relating to responsible corporate sues surrounding the Group’s financial value companies – to regularly exchange inforgovernance and initiates their development. creation and its competitiveness, as well as mation on a range of issues and coordinate It is also in charge of environmental managemaintaining and creating secure, attractive operational measures. ment, and drawing up the materiality matrix jobs. Global challenges such as climate and the program. Responsibility for reporting change are also seen as a relevant issue by We consider dialog to be an important and managing rankings and assessments some stakeholders. Noise from airplanes is an tool with which we can develop prolies with the “Finance & Investor Relations” extremely important issue for many people posals regarding the strategic orientasection. in the proximity of an airport. tion of the company and information for risk management. As a “learning organiThe concerns submitted to us are extremely zation” we also strive to achieve progress in diverse. We firmly believe that exchanging science and technology. information with all stakeholders contributes to mutual understanding and developing widely accepted solutions. 2017 Compact Our Group 31 Key stakeholder groups Local residents Authorities Airlines living near airport Politics Passengers Airport visitors Business Associations Community partners Value generation and engageFoundations ment in the region Noise abatement Economic Shareholders enhancement Customer satisfaction and product quality Responsible corporate management Economic efficiency Bank Environment at Fraport Growth and representatives NGOs development in the Group Climate protection Ideas and innovation Conservation of nature and resources Analysts Science Employees Attractive and responsible employer Occupation health Investors and safety Labor unions Employees Examples of stakeholder communication in 2017 External: Internal: –– 2016 Annual Report –– Employees meetings –– “2016 Compact” –– Management conference –– 2017 Environmental Statement –– “Fraport World” employee newspaper –– Noise abatement reports –– Intranet “Skynet” and extranet “Galaxynet” –– Website www.fraport.de –– “Fraport Barometer” employee survey –– Social media activities –– Dialog with Executive Board members –– Customer Advisory Board for passengers “Ask the Executive Board” or “Meet –– “Air Cargo Community Frankfurt” association the Executive Board” –– Customer magazines “Aviation World” and “Retail World” –– Participation in Airport and Regional Forum (Forum Flughafen und Region) –– Informational events for airport neighbors –– Involvement with associations –– Talks with authorities 32 Our Group 2017 Compact Materiality matrix Economic Customer satisfaction enhancement and product quality Economic efficiency Growth and development in the Group Ideas and innovation Employees Attractive and responsible employer Occupational health and safety Society Value generation and engagement in the regions Noise abatement Environment Climate protection Conservation of Nature and Resources Management Stakeholders High priority Updates to the materiality matrix Our systematic talks with internal and external The matrix is reviewed annually to ensure scientific bodies, NGOs, local residents stakeholders provide us with inspiration for it is up-to-date and, if necessary, adjusted. living near the airport) will also be surveyed the strategic orientation of the company. Fraport’s management and representatives regularly regarding the relevance of the Since 2010, we have used this to create a of our most important stakeholders (airline areas of activity for the company’s sustainmateriality matrix that depicts the company’s companies, passengers, business partability. The current materiality matrix was future challenges. ners, shareholders, analysts, employees, approved by the Executive Board in 2015. employee representatives, political bodies In 2017, a check to ensure that the matrix is and authorities, foundations, associations, up to date was made and the matrix’s validity was confirmed. 2017 Compact Our Group 33 Definitions of the areas of activity Customer satisfaction and product Ideas and innovation: Development of new Value generation and engagement in quality: Continuous improvement of our products or approaches that solve a problem the regions: Positive contribution to the services, reflected by a high level of customer more efficiently or fulfill a need better than economic development of the regions. Charsatisfaction. Safeguarding of the Frankfurt existing solutions while bringing (added) itable involvement in the neighborhood of hub function and preservation of the Group’s benefit. the airport and dialog with our stakeholders. competitiveness. Attractive and responsible employer: Noise abatement: Noise abatement in nearEconomic efficiency: Return-oriented utiProtection of jobs across the Group and by residential areas and reduction of those lization of present and future assets while provision of a working environment that is affected by aircraft noise. securing profitability and liquidity. characterized by diversity, equal opportunities, fairness, and respect. Creating good Climate protection: Increase in energy effiGrowth and development in the Group: labor conditions and development opportuciency, monitoring and minimization of the Growth, consolidation, and expansion of the nities to recruit, qualify, and retain dedicated emission of climate-relevant gases caused by Group’s portfolio. personnel. airport operations (e.g. CO2). Occupational health and safety: MaintainConservation of nature and resources: ing and promoting the physical and mental Conservation of natural resources; minimizaperformance of our employees by means of tion of waste and emissions of air pollutants suitable measures in the areas of safety at caused by airport operations as well as mainwork and health. tenance and improvement of the biodiversity on the airport grounds. Our program Our program regarding strategically imthese targets, the scope of application will with the uniform reporting on the legal perportant topics for responsible corporate gradually be extended to the entire Group. centage of women and allows better target governance is structured analogously to The responsibility for implementing the control, especially at the Group companies. the areas of activity included in the materimeasures and achieving the targets lies with The KPIs above, together with the “Global ality matrix. We have set ourselves concrete the relevant departments. You can find the satisfaction” and “Employee satisfaction” targets and defined the actions required to entire program on pages 36 to 39. KPIs, are part of the non-financial perforachieve them. Every target is measurable and mance indicators decided upon by the Execrecorded using at least one key performance Notable changes in the program are the utive Board in 2017. This unified the KPIs of indicator (KPI). The KPIs allow the extent to adoption of a target for CO2 emissions at the annual report with those of the program. which targets are achieved to be presented Group level and the addition of two further in a transparent manner. KPIs: Baggage connectivity at the FRA site In the “Noise abatement” area of activity, the in the “Customer satisfaction and product “Noise units per traffic unit” and “Residents The program is reviewed and updated quality” area of activity and the Group-wide in protection zone 1/night protection zone” annually. Its scope is essentially the Fraport sickness rate in the “Occupational health and KPIs were replaced by the “Area affected by Group, i.e., all companies that are included safety” area of activity. a Leq of 55 dB(A) day” KPI. in the scope of consolidation for financial reporting. Nevertheless, there are targets For the “Women in management positions” We report key opportunities and risks in our that, at the current time, only apply to Group KPI in the “Attractive and responsible emcurrent annual report on www.fraport.de in companies in Germany and the Frankfurt site ployer” area of activity, the Executive Board the “Investor Relations” section. or the parent company. They are identified decided to place the focus on management in the program accordingly. To achieve levels 1 and 2 in future. The decision is in line 34 Our Group 2017 Compact Common goals for global challenges With Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development, the international community is expressing its conviction that global challenges can only be solved if we all work together. The Agenda provides the basis for making global economic progress in line with social justice and within the ecological limits of our planet. Agenda 2030 was adopted by all member In January 2017, the Federal Cabinet adopted Our focus in this regard is on eleven SDGs states at a United Nations summit in Septemthe “German Sustainability Strategy – Revised which, in our view, lie within the scope of ber 2015. The heart of the agenda consists of 2016”. This is mainly modeled on the UN what we are able to influence by our actions. 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Agenda 2030 and its sustainable developThese are as follows. For the first time, the SDGs give equal weightment goals. ing to all three dimensions of sustainability – social, environmental, economic. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Fraport AG is particularly committed to the objectives of Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals. Fraport AG assumes responsibility for the Well-trained employees are required in a Fraport AG is committed to ensuring a health of its employees and offers comprespecialized field such as managing and opworking environment that is characterized hensive benefits to maintain and promote erating an airport. We therefore provide a by diversity, equal opportunities, fairness, their physical and mental performance. wide range of ongoing training opportunities and respect. and offer numerous traineeships every year. As transport hubs, airports are sites where Through our own environmental fund, we Area of activity resources are used intensively; it is our aim also support projects, institutions and facili–– “Attractive and responsible employer” to organize this so that resources and nature ties that improve the employability of young are conserved as well as possible. Our noise people in the region, as well as research and abatement goals contribute to noise abateenvironmental education activities. ment in nearby residential areas and reduction in the number of those affected by noise Areas of activity at the Frankfurt site. –– “Attractive and responsible employer” –– “Value generation and engagement Areas of activity in the regions” –– “Occupational health and safety” –– “Conservation of nature and resources” –– “Noise abatement” 2017 Compact Our Group 35 Operating an airport requires a lot of water The use of renewable energy is an essential Fraport is internationally one of the leading and simultaneously generates a large amount component for achieving the climate procompanies in the airport business and has of waste water. When dealing with the legally tection targets of Fraport AG. We continually set itself the goal of profitable growth and protected resource of water, Fraport takes all examine the options for use of renewable enthe long-term achievement of a positive aspects of modern water management into ergies and manage our electricity purchasing value added in all business fields (economic account and conserves natural resources. portfolio to keep our emissions factor below enhancement). This includes creating good the national average. When our energy effilabor conditions and development opportuArea of activity ciency measures are exhausted, we increase nities to recruit, qualify, and retain dedicated –– “Conservation of nature and resources” the renewable proportion in the purchasing personnel. portfolio to bridge the gap to achieving our climate protection targets. With our value generation, we also make a positive contribution to the economic deArea of activity velopment of the regions in which our sites –– “Climate protection” are located. Areas of activity –– “Economic efficiency” –– “Growth and development in the Group” –– “Customer satisfaction and product quality” –– “Attractive and responsible employer” –– “Value generation and engagement in the regions” Innovations are a key to competitiveness for We want to operate our business model as Fraport AG. The aim is to introduce new techsustainably as possible. To this end, comnologies and continuously optimize complex pliance with international regulations on processes to meet a wide range of customer occupational health and safety is the obvious demands while staying true to our economic course for us. We consider ourselves responand business requirements. This is also part sible for protecting the environment, and we of the constant further development of our expect our suppliers and service providers to airport infrastructure. do the same. Area of activity Areas of activity –– “Ideas and innovation” –– “Occupational health and safety” –– “Customer satisfaction and –– “Climate protection” product quality” –– “Conservation of nature and resources” Operating an airport and air traffic have an As transport hubs, airports make extensive As a company with operations throughout effect on the environment. Fraport is commituse of resources. We are committed to the world, Fraport bears responsibility at ted to the due and proper consideration of the maintenance and improvement of the both a national and an international level. the environmental requirements associated biodiversity of the airport grounds and their We have made a commitment to comply with this. This includes, in particular, increassurroundings. with internationally recognized standards of ing energy efficiency, monitoring and miniconduct and are a member of national and mization of the emission of climate-relevant Area of activity international working groups to promote gases caused by airport operations. –– “Conservation of nature and resources” sustainable development. Area of activity –– “Climate protection” 36 Our program 2017 Compact Our program Area of activity Objective Key Target level performance indicator Customer satisfaction We want to maintain and Global satisfaction ≥ 80 % 1) further improve our customers’ Passengers and product quality satisfaction. Customer Service At the level of the previous year (2016: 77.2 %) Index Airline Baggage > 98.5 % connectivity Economic efficiency We want to maintain our finanGroup Result 2017: between around €310 million and around cial strength at a high level, de€350 million spite future capital expenditure, 2018: between around €400 million and around and increase the company’s €430 million value in the long term. ROFRA 2017: slightly below the previous year’s figure 2018: at roughly the same level as in the previous year Net 2017: an increase of approximately €900 million financial debt 2017 adjusted: an increase of approximately €1.2 billion 2018: up to €4 billion Free cash flow 2017: at level of previous year or slightly below it 2018: significantly below the previous year’s level and negative Growth and We want to increase passenger Frankfurt passengers 2017: between 2 % and 4 % numbers organically and 2017 adjusted: growth of around 5 % development in the Group optimize our portfolio. 2018: Range of approximately 67 to approximately 68.5 million passengers Group passengers 2017: growth at Group sites, with a slight recovery expected for St. Petersburg and a recovery in a percentage range in the low double digits expected for Antalya 2018: growth in all Group airports Ideas and We want to promote and Benefit of At least €300,000/year exploit the knowhow and implemented ideas innovation skills of our employees and (in €) incorporate the input of our stakeholders. Attractive and We want to create good Employee Better than or equal to 3.0 working conditions and increase satisfaction responsible employer employee satisfaction. We want to increase the Women in man30 % 4) number of women in agement positions management positions. (first and second level below the Executive Board) We want to offer good Traineeships ≥ 110 development opportunities to recruit and retain motivated employees. 1) From 2021 with Pier G: 82.5 %, from 2025 with Terminal 3: 85 %. 2) The majority of the performance areas were assessed slightly worse and some changes were made in the survey content Flight and Terminal Operation Services (limited comparability) 2017 Compact Our program 37 Term Area of Measures Status Achievement application (as at the end of 2017) as at end of of objective 2017 As at end of 2017 2021 FRA site ––Continuation of the service program “Great to have you here!” or the 85 % adjusted subsequent model, consisting of over 100 individual measures and projects designed to improve the orientation, services and the environment ––Implementation of special training structures for employees who have direct customer contact in order to improve customer service at the airport (a total of 3,400 participants took part in service training in 2017, of whom close to 2,200 are Group employees) ––Establishing the Service Quality Committee, an association of the most important partners at the site for the purpose of further developing service quality matters, including joint service training sessions (see previous paragraph) and service guidelines for employees 2018 FRA site ––Regular exchange of views with airline representatives 75.4 % 2) 2018 FRA site ––Continuous development of improvement measures, which are agreed 98.5 % upon in close coordination with the customers during regular performance meetings. 2018 Group ––Maintaining the competitive integrated business model at the Frankfurt site €359.7 million ––Reinforcing cooperation within the Group ––Reduction of costs and complexity 2018 Group ––Execution of the company-wide program to support 10 % (– 1.4 PP) the HR structure transformation ––Fall in energy consumption by 20 % by 2020 compared to fiscal year 2013 2018 Group without major capital expenditure Increase of ––Achievement of potential for growth to access new sources of income €1.16 billion (€3,512.4 million) 2018 Group €393.1 million (+30.3 %) 2018 FRA site ––Continued development of the Frankfurt site as a hub Growth of 6.1 % ––Dialog with Deutsche Lufthansa regarding a middleand long-term (64.5 million intensification of the partnership passengers) ––Further development of low-cost traffic at the Frankfurt site ––Construction and inauguration of Terminal 3 2018 Group ––Expansion of the international portfolio Passenger growth ––Implementation of comprehensive modernization and expansion measures in all Group airports at the Greek airports ––Take-over of the operations of the Brazilian Fortaleza and Porto Alegre Airports, as well as implementation of measures for further infrastructure development 2018 FRA site ––Award of an ideas and innovation prize €557,133 ––Topic-specific campaigns to generate ideas for selected problems ––Creation of an online platform for employees to share knowledge and develop solutions 2018 Group ––Joint project BASE of the Ground Services section and Group company 2.87 3) FraGround: as part of a pilot project, leaner processes and structures are tested with employee involvement ––Workshops for motivation and feedback; segment-specific workshops and regular communication to help managers to develop and to obtain assessments of the development of absenteeism and to derive measures ––Improvement of the support and personal development of employees by establishing a “Human Resources Development Program” for young employees 2021 Group ––Review and improve existing instruments and measures to increase the 28 % 5) number of women in management positions: • Communication of the objective in management training • Ensuring transparency in selection procedures in terms of consideration of qualified and suitable women for management positions • Development of a structured process which enables women to qualify for management positions at all levels Group-wide 2018 FRA site ––Varied range of training with one-year job guarantee 110 traineeships ––Continuation of the vocational preparation program “Ready for Take-off” offered, 106 traineeships filled 3) This includes Fraport AG and twelve Group companies at the Frankfurt site as well as the Group companies Twin Star and Fraport Slovenija. 4) Adjustment of the target figure through a focus on management levels 1 and 2 5) Includes Fraport AG and the German Group companies. 38 Our program 2017 Compact Our program Area of activity Objective Key perforTarget level mance indicator Occupational Health and Safety We want to constantly Workplace ≤ 25 reduce workplace accidents. accidents per 1,000 employees We want to stabilize the Sickness rate ≤ 7.2 % sickness rate in the medium term and reduce it in the long term. Value generation and We want to make a positive Gross value at least +2 % compared with previous year 1) contribution to the economic generation engagement in the and social development (company regions of the regions. performance) Noise abatement We want to keep the area LOG noise area: ≤ 22,193 ha affected by aircraft noise below Area affected by a the noise ceiling during the day. Leq of 55 dB(A) per day Climate protection We want to reduce the CO2 Absolute emissions 125,000 t CO22) emissions of the Fraport Group. (sum of scope 1 and 2 GHG Protocol) of the Fraport parent company and the fully consolidated Group airports in metric tons of CO2 We want to reduce the CO2 Absolute emissions 80,000 t CO2 emissions of Fraport AG at the (sum of scope 1 FRA site. and 2 GHG Protocol) in metric tons of CO2 0.9 kg CO2/traffic unit Specific emissions (sum of scope 1 and 2 GHG Protocol) in kilograms of CO2/traffic unit Conservation of We want to provide our services Proportion of fully 100 % in the Group while always consolidated, nature and resources taking environmental concerns environmentally into account and to constantly relevant Group improve our environmental companies with performance. certified environmental management systems (EMAS or ISO 14001), weighted according to revenue. 1) Subject to maximum net financial debt of 4 – 6× EBITDA. 2) If necessary, the goal will be adjusted for changes within the Fraport airport portfolio. 3) Includes Fraport AG and the Group companies GCS, FraGround, Fraport Slovenija, Lima, and Twin Star. 4) Decrease compared to status in previous year because of the first-time consideration of Fraport Greece. The environmental management system of Fraport Greece is still in the process of expansion. 2017 Compact Our program 39 Term Area of applicaMeasures Status Achievement tion (as at the end of 2017) as at end of of objective 2017 As at end of 2017 2020 Group ––Reduction of workplace-related risks through rigorous implementation 25.5 of the measures stated in the risk assessments ––Enhancement of the prevention culture through targeted training measures and projects with managers and employees, with a focus on “safe behavior in the workplace” ––Rigorous development of the instruments of the occupational safety management system and their implementation in all Group companies ––Implementation and further development of load-reducing technical solutions in the ground services section 2025 Group ––Fitness training for employees close to their homes through cooperation 7.5 % with fitness chains ––Communication campaign to reduce motivation-related absenteeism ––New evaluation options for sick leave and training for managers 2020 Group ––Operational and financial improvements at Group sites +5.1 % ––Capital expenditure on existing airports to meet the future (around €3.1 billion) transport requirements of the particular regions and markets 1) ––Expansion of the Group portfolio, e.g. through acquisitions Up to limit FRA site Active noise abatement measures such as 16,952 ha ––Encouraging the replacement of fleets with quieter aircraft through the charges schedule ––Increase in approach glide angle for the northwest runway to 3.2 degrees ––GBAS-based noise-abatement flight approach procedures, especially increase in angle of approach glide to 3.2 degrees for south and central line ––Incentivization of GBAS as a component of the application for airport charges 2030 Group ––Improvement of energy efficiency in terms of running buildings 209,668 t CO23) and airport infrastructure ––Increased use of vehicles and ground handling equipment with alternative motors ––Use of alternative energies in accordance with the given local circumstances. 2030 Fraport AG ––Improvement of the energy efficiency of existing buildings of Fraport AG 190,065 t CO2 • in the terminals • in offices and services buildings ––Planning and operation during construction of an energy-efficient new terminal (T3) 2030 Fraport AG ––Implementation of energy measures in the baggage handling system 2.2 kg CO2/traffic by 2020 unit ––Expansion of electric vehicle fleet (focus on ground services) by 2020 2020 Group ––Assessment of Group companies in terms of their environmental relevance 89.3 % 4) ––Expansion of environmental management systems in the Group companies GCS and FraGround in 2017 ––Expansion of environmental management systems in other Group companies that are environmentally relevant based on their portfolio 40 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Portrait Fraport USA Inc. (formerly AMU Holdings Inc.) Fraport USA was founded in 1992 at Pitts282 retail and gastronomy outlets in an collaboration with important partners such as burgh International Airport. In collaboration area measuring approximately 20,400 m² the Maryland Aviation Administration, Fraport with airport operators in North America, (approximately 220,000 ft²), which are operUSA Maryland was able to win additional Fraport USA develops creative retail and ated by regional, national, and international concessionaires for the airport. In addition, restaurant concepts which appeal to both concessionaires. Baltimore/Washington Airport saw the launch domestic travelers and a diverse international of the innovative Airport Sherpa app, which audience. Based on Fraport AG’s slogan, offers passengers a baggage transportation “Gute Reise! We make it happen”, the conExtension of contract for retail service to their gate. As a result of a two-year cept of service and customer satisfaction is program in Cleveland process of modernization for around US$15 always a top priority for the Chairman and million, Fraport USA has doubled revenue at CEO Ben Zandi and his on-site teams. As the largest airport in the metropolitan the site since the take-over in 2003. With a region around the US capital city of Washtargeted development of the airport’s layout At the end of 2017, Frapor t USA was ington D.C., the Baltimore/Washington to accommodate new passenger flows as well operating in a total of three airport sites: Airport (IATA code: BWI) received over as marketing oriented toward target groups, Baltimore/Washington, Cleveland, and Pitts26 million passengers in 2017 – a record the company achieved a new record revenue burgh. Almost 46 million passengers used for the third year in a row. A large share of in 2017 of US$10.71 per passenger. the terminals of these three aviation hubs these passengers are passengers of the largin 2017. Over two dozen new businesses est low-cost carrier in the USA, Southwest In December 2017, Fraport USA signed the were opened in 2017 as part of the airport’s Airlines, which uses Baltimore/Washington renewal until 2024 of its contract for the retail projects. In total, Fraport USA manages over as an important hub on the east coast. In concession program at Cleveland Hopkins 2017 Compact Company Portrait 41 Lillian Tan, Vice President, Fraport USA at JFK Airport »We are thrilled to begin our journey with JetBlue at its state-ofthe-art home terminal T5 at JFK. Our collaboration will provide a world-class airport experience that reflects the best of Fraport USA’s innovative approach, JetBlue’s operational excellence and New York City’s vibrant culture.« International Airport (IATA code: CLE). Since can be advertised cost-effectively in a small nizing training or networking events. In this 2008, Fraport USA has revamped the retail retail space and tested without significant way, the company meets the requirements of and restaurant program at CLE Airport by financial risk for the business involved. This the national ACDBE guideline (Airport Condoubling the area for concessions to around will support local brands and facilitate market cession Disadvantaged Business Enterprise) 5,600 m² (just over 60,000 ft²) with 51 units, entry. and is currently one of the leading US comincluding new and local brands. The number panies in this area. And the engagement is of employees engaged in concessions rose From April 2018, Fraport USA will be taking paying off: For example, at Cleveland Airport by 60 %, and sales per passenger grew by over the center management at Terminal 5 45 % of the revenue is generated by ACDBE 88 % to US$10.46. of John F. Kennedy International Airport in companies. New York, and thereby the responsibility for At Pittsburgh International Airport (IATA the entire restaurant and shopping offering at At all airports where Fraport USA is active, code: PIT) revenue per passenger is well the home base of the American airline JetBlue. the company offers opportunities to young above the country’s average. In 2017, this Fraport USA and JetBlue are working together entrepreneurs, women, and members of figure was US$14.53, making the airport one to further improve the range of shops and minority groups from across the entire of the top earners in North America. This restaurants, which is expected to include a country who are managing or would like solid development is the result, among other selection of offerings inspired by New York to start a business. The aim is to promote things, of the customer surveys conducted City. Fraport USA will be managing 86 units small business owners with entrepreneurial by Fraport USA and the subsequent adjustin Terminal 5. potential who are highly motivated and to ment of the product portfolio. Continuous help them to develop their business idea. capital expenditure in the development The innovative LaunchPad program at BWI of passenger areas also contribute to the Support for young entrepreneurs Airport offers opportunities to owners of very increase in revenue. In addition to the small businesses and supports future ACDBE premium brands introduced at PIT Airport, Fraport USA promotes small businesses, comoperators. The program will be extended to Fraport USA integrated a large number of panies managed by members of a minority, other airports in 2018, starting with CLE. local concepts and expanded its successful and companies whose owners belong to “POP-OPPs” program. In this way, products a disadvantaged population, e.g. by orga42 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Airports Sickness rate Fraport USA Inc. Baltimore/Washington Cleveland Pittsburgh 1.85 % New York (Terminal 5) (–) Awards –– ACI-NA Excellence in Airport Concessions Awards: Best Retail Program, large airport, 2nd place: BWI –– Revenue News (ARN) Best Management Team: PIT –– Greater Baltimore Urban League: David M. Sampson Corporate Award 2017: BWI –– Thrillist: Best Airport Restaurants in America: Obrycki’s Restaurant & Bar/BWI –– Travel + Leisure: 10 Best Domestic Airports: PIT –– USA Today/ARN 10 Best Readers’ Choice Travel Awards: Best Airport for Dining: BWI Best Airport Sitdown Dining: Gachi/BWI Best Airport for Shopping: PIT Best Airport Grab-and-Go: The Strip Market/PIT Baltimore/Washington 2017 Compact Economic enhancement 43 Economic enhancement We see our economic enhancement as the continuous improvement of our corporate value, securing and improving profitability, while maintaining a financial balance. The goal of economic enhancement is to achieve profitable growth and the long-term generation of a positive value added in all non-regulated business fields. We control the development of the Group according to the principles of value-oriented management in this respect. Our main parameter in this regard is Fraport value added. 1) 1) Fraport value added means the difference between EBIT and capital costs (= Fraport assets × cost of capital). 44 Economic enhancement 2017 Compact Customer satisfaction and product quality Continuous improvement of our services, reflected by a high level of customer satisfaction. Safeguarding of the Frankfurt hub function and preservation of the Group’s competitiveness. Together we offer the best service The customer comes first for Fraport. This overload of terminal infrastructure due to time until departure as very good or good. is also reflected by our mission statement, traffic growth in the next few years, Fraport With 85 % passenger satisfaction in terms of “Gute Reise! We make it happen.” The AG aims for a target of at least 80 % global cleanliness of the terminal, Frankfurt Airport Group aims to establish itself as Europe’s satisfaction at Frankfurt Airport. With the inaucan still improve significantly in this area of best airport operator and also to set global guration of the Pier G, passenger satisfaction great importance to customers. standards. This ensures the development of should be at least 82.5 % as of 2021. From the company’s value and competitiveness 2025, Fraport AG’s goal is 85 % based on the Passenger satisfaction is important for internain the long term. The objective is to win capacity increase from Terminal 3. tional Group companies, too. The fully conover our main customers, i.e. passengers, solidated Group airports that are operated airlines, the freight community, and retail through concession agreements (see also the concessionaires, with attractive offers and Passenger satisfaction rises to “Situation of the Group” section of the 2017 the best service. Fraport works closely with 85 percent Annual Report) are contractually required to the Federal Police in particular to ensure that carry out surveys on passenger satisfaction. security and passport control processes are In Frankfurt, passenger satisfaction is mainly Passenger satisfaction is measured at the difefficient and that a high volume of passengers recorded using surveys. The global satisfacferent sites using various key figures (see also is handled in sufficient time. tion of passengers at the Frankfurt site was the “Non-financial Performance Indicators” 85 % in 2017, three percentage points above section of the Group management report). Passenger satisfaction is considered the main the level of the previous year (previous year: Where appropriate, this system of collecting indicator for all customers. It is therefore the 82 %), setting a new historical record. This data is to be harmonized in the medium term. most important criterion for service quality. value of 85 % was reached in all four quarters Global satisfaction describes passengers’ (previous year: Q1 81 %, Q2 82 %, Q3 83 %, Frankfurt Airport, the site with the most satisfaction with the services offered and the and Q4 82 %). Numerous service and inpassengers, is in particular the focus in the overall service at Frankfurt Airport. Fraport is frastructure measures had a very positive Group portfolio. The following will therefore committed to the objective of maintaining impact on individual satisfaction criteria. For discuss the service quality management and increasing customer satisfaction conexample, more than three out of four responimplemented at that site. tinuously. Despite the expected temporary dents evaluated opportunities to pass the 2017 Compact Economic enhancement 45 “Great to have you here!” is the name of the keep a good impression of Frankfurt Airport flights that were not always on time, weather service program launched in 2010, which has in addition to improving overall satisfaction, conditions, and an IT malfunction in Decembeen able to increase passenger satisfaction the willingness to recommend us, satisfaction ber had an impact on the on-time loading of at Frankfurt Airport significantly. The service with the hospitality, and improving the sense baggage. In order to stabilize connectivity at program was further developed at the start of security. its current high level in the future coupled of 2014 with the aim of offering passengers with increasing number of baggage items, a better and more tailored service. As part of Fraport is constantly working on optimization five sub-initiatives, directions and signpostBaggage connectivity stable at high level measures that are closely coordinated with ing, ambience and comfort, and the range of airlines within the scope of regular perforrelaxation, work and entertainment options The reliable loading of luggage for departing mance discussions. on offer in the terminals were all significantly flights and the fast delivery of luggage to improved. At the same time, employees unthe baggage claim for arriving flights have a The area manager receives daily reports dergo systematic training in direct passenger major impact on customer satisfaction. The about the development of baggage concontact in a separate program, in order to baggage connectivity figure provides infornectivity so that in the event of a decline in further improve hospitality and service orimation about the percentage of departure performance short-term countermeasures entation at Frankfurt Airport. baggage at Frankfurt Airport that is loaded can be taken to restore the quality. Twice a on time in relation to the total departing year, Fraport AG holds a Committee meeting Deutsche Lufthansa, the security companies baggage. A high level of connectivity proves with all airlines on the use of the infrastructure working at Frankfurt, retail concessionaires, the good quality of baggage processes, and presents any quality assurance measures Deutsche Bahn, and others have also been which is one of the main responsibilities of if necessary. As the main customer at Frankdirectly exchanging ideas on service, hospiGround Services. This is particularly importfurt Airport, Deutsche Lufthansa receives a tality, and customer satisfaction in the Service ant because Frankfurt has a high proportion monthly report as per agreement. Quality Committee since 2016. The first of transfer baggage with a transfer share of important milestone was the definition and more than 55 %. The objective is to achieve Other parameters for measuring and increasapproval of the Service Guidelines for FRA. baggage connectivity in the long term of ing customer satisfaction and service quality In these guidelines, the partners reiterate more than 98.5 %. This key figure has been at Frankfurt Airport include quality audits by their desire and their joint responsibility to stable at a high level since 2012. In the past the consultancy Skytrax. Frankfurt Airport was strengthen the Frankfurt site and to further fiscal year, connectivity at the Frankfurt site ranked 10th in 2017 in the annual ranking develop service quality and trusting coamounted to 98.5 % and was therefore worse of the top 100 airports worldwide, based operation. The objective is to ensure that than the previous year’s figure, 0.2 percenton online passenger surveys. As recently as common passengers, customers, and guests age points below the target. In particular, 2007, Frankfurt Airport placed 94th. 46 Economic enhancement 2017 Compact Individualized guidance An important element of digitalization throughout the travel process is the Interactive Airport Desk (I-AID). The touchscreen offers passengers customized information about shops, restaurants, and services digitally and individually in German, English, and Chinese. With five locations in both terminals, the 46-inch multitouch display is available both landside in the check-in halls as well as in the security areas to passengers, people who are picking up arriving passengers, and visitors. Thanks to a scan function for boarding cards and the intuitive operation of the touchscreen, all the relevant information can be accessed quickly. Passengers are able to transfer their route, taking into account real-time information, to their smartphones. German Design Award 2018 gave I-AID first place in the category “Excellent Product Design/Retail”. The prize was awarded by the international jury of the Frankfurt Design Council. The jury highlights innovative products and projects that set the trend in German and international design. The clear, futuristic design of I-AID was assessed positively. 2017 Compact Economic enhancement 47 All-round service and innovation for airlines We offer our airline customers support for all their needs related to the Frankfurt Airport (FRA) site. This includes strategic questions regarding flight operations recording, route potentials, frequency increases, or slot allocation. In addition to the simulation of passenger flows or advice regarding possible collaborations and distribution channels, it also primarily includes the implementation of joint marketing actions in the services portfolio for airlines. Furthermore, a program to give incentives for new passenger traffic was established. For example, in this way, we were able to gain Ryanair, Wizzair, and Easyjet as new customers in 2017. Existing customers such as Lufthansa and Condor also benefit from the offers and expanded their offering of international routes departing from FRA. The Customer Service Center offers all airline partners a direct point of contact for any Fraport measures success of the measures for more predictable and transparent. Errors in questions regarding operations. In addition the airline customers by using the Customer documentation and the associated delays to early information about construction works Service Index Airlines KPI. The aim every year and costs are therefore avoided. A portal for or changes to operations, the CSC primarily is to achieve at least the level of the previous public authorities is also under construction. provides professional support to the airline year. Due to changes in the survey system, Together with the Air Cargo Community stations through regular visits to customers. which results in limited comparability, the Frankfurt, we will connect all EU border infigure for the past year has stayed at the spection points at the airport. Processes can The ground services improve the ground same high level of 75.4 %, slightly below the be made even more efficient by automating handling processes through selected techniprevious year’s figure of 77.2 %. The survey the submission of official and customs apcal innovation projects and digitalization. This primarily includes the airline-relevant areas plications. should, for example, encourage passengers of the airport, i.e. the baggage checking to make more use of the self-service checkperformed by ground services, flight and In addition to numerous events with our local in so as to avoid any waiting times at the terminal management services, and corpopartners, we have been organizing conferbaggage counter. The passenger checks in rate security. ences with carriers and consignors both in independently online and prints his or her Germany and abroad since 2017 in order to baggage tag at home or at the airport. The address this target group and understand baggage is then checked in independently at Successful digitalization of their needs. one of Fraport’s patented check-in counters. freight processes In the analysis of the satisfaction of cargo Another project is the automation of around We are also driving forward digitalization and customers, a large majority of the airlines, 120 passenger bridges. First, the bridge is automation at FRA cargo airport with new carriers, general sales agents, and cargo hanretracted by an employee at the bridge’s supproducts and solutions. This has enabled dlers surveyed said that they were again very porting pillar on the apron. Camera images us to become a leading innovator in the air satisfied with the site. The general satisfaction are used to check whether any passengers are freight industry. Over 50 carriers now take rate improved compared to the previous year. still in the bridge. The aim is for bridges to be part in the FAIR@Link cargo community The cargo site of Frankfurt Airport remains retracted from a central location by members system, as well as many providers of cargo very attractive and the future prospects are of the operations management. In the future, preparation services and Lufthansa Cargo. also seen to be positive. the docking of the bridge to the aircraft could 25 % of all consignments at the site are alalso be controlled remotely. The advantage ready being executed via FAIR@Link. In addition, the website innoFRAtor.com, for the people controlling the bridge is that which addresses the topic of innovation, has their process is easier because they no lonIn addition, Fraport is working on a shipper been online since 2017. Information about ger have to be on-site. Last-minute changes platform for hazardous goods. Since the current topics related to innovation in the such as pre-positioning can be reacted to in portal transfers all consignment data elecair cargo, transport, and logistics industries a faster and more customer-friendly way, and tronically through just one interface from are published on this website. The annual additional sensors and cameras increase the the consignor to the other parties involved Frankfurt Air Cargo Innovation Lab provides safety of ground personnel. These changes in the process chain, the hazardous goods a framework of exchange within the industry will not be noticed by passengers. process is completely digitized and thus regarding these topics. 48 Economic enhancement 2017 Compact Economic efficiency Income-oriented utilization of present and future assets while securing profitability and liquidity. Group result in € million 297.0 400.3 359.7 2015 2016 2017 Revenue growth within and outside of Frankfurt Financially, the Fraport Group had an overall at the Greek regional airports and the higher of Group EBITDA (over +€117 million). The positive performance in fiscal year 2017. In personnel expenses at the Frankfurt site. Group companies Lima and Fraport Slovenija addition to the strong passenger growth, Start-up costs of €12.3 million led to an together reported an EBITDA contribution of positive factors at the Frankfurt site were the increase in expenses within the scope of at least €11 million due to significantly higher increase in airport charges, increased income preparations for the operational take-overs passenger numbers. The Group company Anfrom security services and higher proceeds in of the airports in Fortaleza and Porto Alegre, talya, which is accounted for using the equity connection with the sale of land. Outside of without any sales to offset these. method, recovered in 2017 and contributed Frankfurt, significant contributions to revenue around €32 million to the financial result due growth came from Fraport Greece and the A changed passenger mix and a disproporto the significant increase in international Group company Lima. While the Group revtionate increase in passenger numbers on passenger traffic. enue grew by 13.5 % to €2.9 billion, Group European routes, as well as the fall in various EBITDA declined by 4.8 % compared to the currencies against the euro, resulting in loss In connection with the Group-wide traffic previous year to around €1 billion because of purchasing power, led to a decline in the growth expected for fiscal year 2018 as well of the compensation payment received from net retail revenue per passenger to €3.37 as the year-round operation of Fraport Greece the Manila project in the previous year as well (previous year: €3.49). and the first incorporation of the operating as the sale of shares in Thalita Trading Ltd. results of the Group companies Fortaleza and Porto Alegre, the Executive Board Operating expenses (materials, personnel, Positive contribution of Fraport Greece expects a 2018 Group result of between and other operating expenses) of around around €400 million and about €430 million. €2 billion were higher than the previous The take-over of operations at the 14 reWith regard to the asset and financial posiyear’s figure (+5.6 %) by €106.9 million, gional airports in Greece on April 11, 2017 tion, the Executive Board expects significantly primarily due to the take-over of operations contributed to the positive development higher cash flow used for property, plant, and 2017 Compact Economic enhancement 49 equipment in Frankfurt and for the airport €3.51 billion (previous year: €2.36 billion). ment principle). In the past fiscal year, assets operating projects in Brazil, Greece, and This development is due to the increased of €6.97 billion (“Fraport assets”) were offset Lima, totaling to just under €1 billion, which need for funds in connection with the by an EBIT including earnings before taxes of will lead to a significantly lower and negative acquisitions in Greece and Brazil. Relative the Group companies accounted for using free cash flow. to the shareholders’ equity (excluding the the equity method of close to €697 million. minority interests and the amount planned Using a pre-tax cost of capital (WACC) for Detailed information about the development for dividends), this means that leverage Fraport of 6.7 % (previous year: 8.6 %), in of earnings in the past fiscal year as well as the (gearing ratio) is around 94 %. Compared 2017 the ongoing capital costs to achieve forecast for 2018 can be found in the “The to the previous year, this was an increase the adjusted EBIT amounted to approximately Group’s Results of Operations” and “Business of almost 29 percentage points. Based on €467 million. Outlook” sections of the 2017 Annual Report. the operating result before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, i.e. EBITDA, The EBIT beyond this amount of approximately this was a 3.5× increase (net financial debt in €230 million means that Fraport once again Group debt increased the previous year was 2.2× EBITDA). earned its capital costs in the past fiscal through acquisitions year and “created value” Group-wide. This The Executive Board is expecting operating development is due, among other things, to At €790.7 million, the operative cash flow in cash flow for fiscal year 2018, subject to the lower WACC as well as the take-over of the past fiscal year was significantly higher changes in working capital, to be significantly operations at the Greek regional airports and than the previous year by €207.5 million. higher than the figure of fiscal year 2017. The the recovery of Antalya, a Group company Compared to the previous year, this increase financing of the expansion measures at the accounted for using the equity method. was due primarily to the significant improvesites in Brazil, Greece, and Lima will result The economic enhancement is also visible ment of the operating activities based on the in an increase in net financial debt of up to in the “ROFRA”, the return on Fraport assets, operating contribution of Fraport Greece as €4 billion. Despite the expected higher inwhich was 10 % in the past fiscal year and well as the positive operational development debtedness, the Executive Board continues to exceeded the pre-tax cost of capital by at the Frankfurt site. assess the Fraport Group’s financial situation 3.3 percentage points. as stable. After deducting capital expenditure in The Group segments Retail & Real Estate and Frankfurt and the airport investments – International Activities & Services recorded a taking account of dividend inflows from ROFRA of 10.0 % signals economic sustained high ROFRA of 15.5 % and 14.1 % Group companies – the company still had enhancement respectively in 2017, whereas the Aviation free cash flow of around €393 million (preand Ground Handling segments did not earn vious year: around €302 million). In 2017, To permanently increase the company’s their cost of capital in the past fiscal year with these funds were once again mainly used value, Fraport specifically draws parallels bea ROFRA of 4.9 % and 2.9 % respectively. to service the dividend payment for the tween the development of the results of op2016 fiscal year (just under €139 million) erations and the asset and financial position. Selected key financial figures can be found and to repay financial liabilities. In this context, Fraport calculates the ratio of starting on page 85 of this report. the operating result achieved before interest In total, net financial debt increased in the and taxes (EBIT) to the capital that is used to past year by around €1.16 billion to around generate the result (value-oriented manageROFRA 20 % Value-creating area 15.5 % 14.1 % 10.0 % 10 % WACC 6.7 % 4.9 % Value-destroying area 2.9 % 0% Group Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling International Activities & Services 50 Economic enhancement 2017 Compact Growth and development in the Group Growth, consolidation, and expansion of the Group’s portfolio. Record year for the air traffic industry After a difficult and challenging 2016, growth growth. Unlike in the previous year, China, 30.1 million metric tons, they could not keep rates of double-digits in some instances were India, Japan, and South Korea contributed to up with the development of aircraft moveagain recorded in passenger traffic across the a further increase in passenger numbers. At ments, since airlines prefer lighter aircraft. entire portfolio in the past year. The Frankfurt the same time, demand for holiday travel to site set a new passenger record of approxiNorth Africa recovered. In the tourist market mately 64.5 million passengers. The previous segment, the Caribbean, owing to limited More passengers in all year’s total was exceeded by over 3.7 million bed capacity, was the only region that did of the Group’s sites travelers, i.e. 6.1 %. Unlike in previous years, not post growth. there were no significant cancellations due At Ljubljana Airport, passenger numbers in to strikes. Thus, Frankfurt Airport was also Cargo volume grew by 3.8 % in 2017 to fiscal year 2017 were up 19.8 % compared to able to benefit from the record year for the around 2.2 million metric tons. The economic the previous year at around 1.7 million. This entire global air traffic industry in 2017. A new upturn caused high demand for air freight. In growth was due to, on the one hand, the record was set in passenger traffic in ten out particular, the North American market develentry of new airlines and, on the other hand, of twelve months last year. A historic monthly oped positively: After a decline in tonnage in a significant increase in capacity utilization by high was set in July with almost 6.4 million the previous year, there was dynamic growth Adria Airways. While there were more paspassengers. This was caused in particular by in transatlantic flights in 2017. sengers on routes to London Gatwick, Amgrowth in traffic to tourist-oriented destinasterdam, and Istanbul, passenger numbers tions, which was higher than expected at the 2017 saw a turnaround in the trend in the decreased on routes to and from Frankfurt beginning of the past year. development of aircraft movements at Frankand Belgrade. furt Airport. After years of declining figures, Drivers of growth were primarily European there was significant growth of 2.7 % for the Lima Airport once again recorded strong traffic (+7.4 %), followed by intercontinental first time with approximately 476,000 takegrowth in the number of passengers in fiscal traffic (+4.9 %) and domestic traffic (+4.5 %). offs and landings. The tailwind was due to, year 2017 of 9.3 % to over 20.6 million. Both The southern and south-eastern European among other things, the lack of strike-related domestic traffic (+8.8 %) and international countries benefited from weak travel to Turcancellations. Overall, airlines responded traffic (+10.0 %) grew in the reporting period. key as well as from significant – and in part to the increasing demand by expanding Cargo throughput was around 284,000 early – expansion of services offered in the supply. In addition, the entry of low-cost carmetric tons. This figure is slightly below the low-cost segment. In intercontinental traffic, riers to the Frankfurt market provided more previous year’s level (–1.4 %). the traffic regions of the Middle and Far East growth. Although maximum take-off weights in addition to Africa reported significant also increased by 1.3 % to approximately 2017 Compact Economic enhancement 51 2017 passenger and cargo development at Frankfurt Airport percentage change compared to 2016 on monthly basis +1.8 +1.0 +1.8 +10.0 +5.7 +5.3 +4.4 +5.0 +5.4 +6.4 +21.1 +7.3 +5.8 +1.8 +10.5 +2.5 +5.5 +5.1 +4.5 +5.5 +4.3 +0.7 +5.0 – 5.1 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Passengers Cargo The 14 Greek regional airports welcomed With nearly 5.9 million passengers, the Hafor growth given its favorable geographical approximately 27.6 million passengers nover site experienced an increase of 8.5 % location in northern Brazil with proximity to (+10.3 %) in the past fiscal year. The high in the 2017 fiscal year. This growth was North America and Europe as well as a relagrowth rate resulted mainly from heavy traffic mainly attributable to the addition of new tively underdeveloped region economically. for foreign tourism and the rise of low-cost routes by Wizz Air and Norwegian as well as and package-deal travelers. In addition, the a higher overall aircraft capacity utilization. In Porto Alegre Airport, located in the southoperating hours of the airports were extendaddition, the negative development due to ern part of the country, also offers solid ed significantly, which increased the number Air Berlin was almost fully compensated for potential for growth, albeit at a lower level. of available slots. by the growth of Eurowings. Traffic to Turkey In the past fiscal year, Fortaleza Airport was also developed much better than expected. the twelfth-largest airport in Brazil with over The Bulgarian airports in Varna and Burgas 5.9 million passengers. The largest airline at served some 5.0 million passengers in the With over 16.1 million travelers, passenger the site is the Brazilian company TAM with reporting period, thus around 8.4 % more traffic at St. Petersburg Airport saw a 21.6 % a market share of 36 %, followed by GOL at than the same period in the previous year. increase in the reporting period compared 31 % and Avianca at 13 %. Significant capital Travelers from the UK, Poland, and Germany, with the previous year. While international expenditure is being invested in modernizing in particular, but also strong domestic traffic traffic increased significantly by 29.0 % due and expanding the terminal. contributed to growth in traffic. However, to the economic recovery in Russia as well the number of Russian passengers, mainly as the resumption of charter traffic in Turkey, Porto Alegre Airport is the ninth largest in as a result of traffic increasing again between domestic traffic also experienced a significant the country with approximately 8.0 million Russia and Turkey, was down. jump by 17.4 %. passengers. The largest airline at the site is GOL with a market share of 33 %, followed At Antalya Airport, around 26.3 million by TAM at 27 % and Azul at 26 %. Capital passengers in fiscal year 2017 signified an Two new sites in Brazil expenditure priorities will be to modernize increase of 38.5 %. While the number of and expand both terminals and the apron passengers traveling within Turkey increased In a public bidding process by the Brazilian areas as well as to extend the runway. by 5.0 % to over 7.3 million, the number of Government to privatize among others the international passengers fell significantly by two airports in Fortaleza and Porto Alegre, Selected key financial figures can be found 57.8 % to around 19.0 million. The passenger Fraport was awarded the tender in March on p. 85 et seqq. of this report. growth was primarily due to travelers com2017. Fraport took over the operations at ing from Russia who had stayed away in the these airports on January 2, 2018. Both previous year because of the sanctions from airports have a similar traffic structure, with the Russian government. Figures for travelers over 90 % domestic traffic made up mostly from Germany were down by 11.5 % due to of originating passengers. Fortaleza Airport, the geopolitical situation. in particular, offers above-average potential 52 Economic enhancement 2017 Compact Ideas and innovation Development of new products or approaches that solve a problem more efficiently or fulfill a need better than existing solutions while bringing a significant (added) benefit. Artificial intelligence and autonomous driving at the airport At Fraport, promoting innovation is an The financial benefit of the implemented In addition, new approaches have been sucintegral part of the Company’s goals and ideas is expected to be at least €300,000 per cessfully implemented: An open innovation its management principles. The practical year. Over the past three years, the company space as well as a Design Thinking Lab were implementation poses management and has succeeded in increasing this figure or set up in the company’s premises in Frankfurt employees of our company major challenges maintaining it at the target level. For example, in the reporting year. Since then, these have because, for us, innovation is not an end in many employees had useful suggestions as been continuously used to generate ideas, itself. The aim is rather to meet a wide range to how to improve processes or save energy. including with external partners, and to deof both customer and business management This demonstrates the important role played velop initial prototypes. In almost six months requirements through the introduction of by the experience and internal knowledge of of development work, a start-up product was new technology and the ongoing optimizathe staff. Through improved communication turned into a prototype that can talk to and tion of complex processes. In order to make measures, a focus on specific issues, and the inform people with a certain degree of emooptimum use of all potential, the company’s growing number of ideas submitted by the tional intelligence. A first test run is planned idea management system brings together Group companies, we were already able to for 2018 in one of the terminal buildings. employee creativity, while innovation manachieve a benefit of around €557,000 at the agement is oriented towards projects with Frankfurt site in the reporting year. Out of partners or customers as well as close coop596 ideas that were submitted, 81 were imeration with scientific institutions. plemented, thereby increasing the previous year’s benefit by close to 40 %. 2017 Compact Economic enhancement 53 Top: In the Design Thinking Lab, new ideas are developed in an unconventional environment Right: Self-driving minibuses tested in the grounds of Frankfurt Airport. Fraport took a significant step toward autonoTest drive for commercial vehicles tractor combinations and defines it as the mous driving at the airport. In 2017, Fraport, “leading truck”. They then use an operating in partnership with R+V Versicherung, After two years of development with inpanel in the vehicle to program the number successfully tested a self-driving minibus for dustrial partners, a successful test drive of and sequence of the other trucks, thereby the transport of employees on the company automated commercial vehicles was also forming “their” convoy. Both the company’s premises. The test did not take place in a completed for the first time for the clearing own clearing machines and the functions of closed area but on a 1.5-kilometer section of a and gritting of the runway system required the following vehicles are operated from the busy street. Around 2,600 vehicles pass Gate in winter weather. For this purpose, four leading truck. Fraport obtained important 3 daily, which is where the bus was used. brand-new tractors, which pull the sweeping information from this project, which it will use Of these vehicles, almost half are trucks. In and blowing machines, were equipped to to plan the use of the machines, especially in addition, vehicles and transportation for the carry out the automated clearing function in the event that winter spontaneously starts, in company’s internal operations, e.g. close convoy. Functions are remotely controlled, a more precise and efficient manner. to 1,000 freight tugs, pass through a gate and data exchanged via an interface in the located on the road to the apron every day. vehicle. All the vehicles are connected by The highly automated minibus proved that it means of telematic systems so that they can can maneuver itself in a realistic, busy street drive automatically and both lead and folscenario with pedestrians and a wide range low in the vehicle network. A convoy driver of different types of transport. selects their vehicle from a fleet of available 54 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Portrait Fraport Slovenija, d.o.o. Fraport Slovenija, d.o.o. operates Ljubljana passengers in fiscal year 2017, making it In addition to growth in the passenger Airport (IATA code: LJU), the largest intera record year in the history of the airport. and freight sector, the new strategic goals national airport in Slovenia and the home Passenger growth was over 20 % compared of Fraport Slovenija include the long-term airport of the Slovenian airline Adria Airways. to 2016. This makes LJU the fastest growing development of the airport into an airport The company was founded in 1963 under the airport in the region. city, including a business park and a hotel, name Aerodrom Ljubljana, and has been a as well as the successful development of the 100 % subsidiary of Fraport AG since 2015. In The 2017 summer flight plan included 29 Fraport Aviation Academy. Important mileApril 2017, Aerodrom Ljubljana was renamed destinations in 23 countries with over 220 stones were reached in 2017 for the future Fraport Slovenija in the last step of the comflights per week. In winter, direct flights were expansion of the airport. The construction pany’s integration into the Fraport Group. carried out to 23 destinations in 19 countries of the new bypass road was completed, and The management team around Managing with over 180 flights per week. The Dutch the road will start operating in 2018. The Director Zmago Skobir is responsible for airline Transavia has been offering flights to opening of the new passenger terminal is around 400 employees. Amsterdam since the 2017 summer flight planned for the summer of 2020. plan, while Adria Airways added Kiev as a The airport benefits from its strategically new flight destination. Low-cost carriers also favorable geographical location at the crosscontinued to expand their presence. For the roads of the streams of traffic between the 2018 summer flight plan, EasyJet announced Carpathian Basin and the Po Valley as well flights to Berlin starting in August, while Adria as the corridor from the Middle East over Airways announced six new flight destinathe Bosporus towards the European Union. tions: Hamburg, Bucharest, Sofia, Geneva, Fraport Slovenija served close to 1.7 million Dubrovnik, and Brač. 2017 Compact Company Portrait 55 Robert Mulej, Senior Manager Passenger Handling »While top management is responsible for the adoption of the sustainability strategy and the corresponding initiatives, we all participate in the implementation of the sustainability program as part of our tasks and responsibilities. Sustainability and social responsibility will definitely become an important pillar in the development of Fraport Slovenija, and I am delighted and proud to take part in this.« Surveys show its employees to balance work and family. In Fraport Slovenija has been working constantpotential for improvement April 2017, the company received the “Family ly since 2013 to improve its carbon footprint. Friendly Company” award for its efforts in As part of the ACI Airport Carbon AccreditaFraport Slovenija also strives to achieve this area. tion, the worldwide standard for the carbon continuously higher levels of quality with reporting and management of airports, the regard to customer satisfaction. The aim is company’s Level 2 Certificate (“Reduction”) to further develop the airport in accordance Noise barriers for Šenčur was extended. The aim is to reach Level 3+ with the requirements of passengers, air(“Neutrality”) by 2025. lines and other business partners. Regular Fraport Slovenija is actively committed to surveys show where improvements are improving the noise abatement measures in required. the area around the airport. In 2017, a noise protection barrier for Šenčur, a city in the The qualifications and motivation of emimmediate vicinity of the airport, was preployees are a prerequisite for the long-term sented to the public. The project was carried successful development of any company. The out in collaboration with the local authorities management of Fraport Slovenija is aware and the infrastructure ministry. The barrier that the continuous education and training surrounds an area of 7.52 hectares, in which as well as measures to improve occupational approximately 13,000 trees and bushes have safety are essential elements in this regard. In been planted. The aim of this measure is to addition, Fraport Slovenija makes it easier for protect Šenčur from more noise pollution. 56 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Airport Passengers Fraport Slovenija, d.o.o. Ljubljana Jože Pucnik Airport ~1.7 million (+21.4 %) CO2 emissions Sickness rate Employee satisfaction 1,207 5.89 % 3.44 metric tons (+31.5 %) (+7.0 %) Awards –– 18. “Business and Financial Reporting Competitions” of the Slovenian “Finance” magazine: Best annual financial statements in terms of sustainability –– “Reputable Employer” award (for the fifth time) –– Awarded most reputable employer in the field of transport, delivery, and logistics 2017 Compact Employees 57 Employees In light of the growing challenges, such as international competition in the aviation industry and the expectations of our passengers and airlines together with an ongoing focus on earnings, the objective is to support the personal, specialist, social, and methodological expertise of our employees. In this way, we can ensure the high quality of our services and also secure long-term, attractive jobs. 58 Employees 2017 Compact Attractive and responsible employer Protection of jobs across the Group and provision of a working environment that is characterized by diversity, equal opportunities, fairness, and respect. Creating good labor conditions and development opportunities to recruit, qualify, and retain dedicated personnel. Promoting diversity Fraport AG has a long tradition as a company ness. The program was initiated to support tegic relevance of employee satisfaction is with a social perspective and a partnerthe foreseeable staff restructuring required also clear given it is taken into account in the centered approach. Group-wide, Fraport and to improve the overall cost structure of Executive Board’s remuneration (see also the aims to remain competitive at all sites and personnel expenses. The program focused in “Remuneration report” section of the 2017 in all areas and thereby secure jobs with fair particular on the operational areas at Frankfurt Annual Report). and just working conditions. This involves Airport, especially the labor-intensive Ground providing fair wages and salaries, and a Services. Employees can voluntarily choose The key figure is calculated from nine aspects package of benefits that goes beyond pay. available options such as partial retirement, of satisfaction and the detailed analyses show Fraport offers a high level of job security, early retirement, part-time arrangements, potential areas of improvement. Fraport aims good working conditions based on collective or resignation with severance pay. By using to maintain employee satisfaction at a stable bargaining agreements, career and personal the Group structures, new jobs that offer fair level Group-wide and continually improve development options, and a highly develremuneration and individual development the rating in the long term to exceed 3.0 oped corporate ethic. opportunities were also created in the Group (index value in line with German school gradcompanies in particular. In this way, Fraport ing system). The average grade for satisfaction Fraport Group has over 20,600 employees. takes account of the fundamental change by the employees of the Fraport Group was Given the growing challenges, such as and increased competitive pressure in the 2.87 in fiscal year 2017, and therefore slightly increasing international competition in the aviation industry. better than the previous year’s figure of 2.91. At aviation industry and passengers’ and airlines’ Fraport AG, the figure should be better than increasing demands, and the continuous in the previous year. The figure in 2017 focus of the Group on revenue, the aim is Employee satisfaction slightly was 2.88 (previous year: 2.90). Fraport has to organize the personnel structure in such higher stepped up its recruitment activities in this a way that this competitive pressure can area to meet challenges such as the tangible be withstood. Employees’ personal and Fraport aims to provide good working conimpact of demographic change at the many professional skills are boosted Group-wide ditions and high levels of employee satisfacairport sites and the increased burden on by training measures. This allows Fraport to tion. This key figure is calculated annually by operational employees in particular due to ensure a high service quality. surveying employees of Fraport AG and the the growth in traffic. Group companies. All Group companies in Fraport AG offered its employees an attracFrankfurt with a high demand for personnel As a responsible employer, Fraport respects tive, voluntary personnel restructuring proas well as the Group companies Fraport Sloand promotes personal diversity, and attachgram in fiscal year 2016 in order to keep lavenija and Twin Star took part in the survey in es great importance to ensuring that this is bor-intensive business fields in the Group and 2017. In future, the survey will be expanded reflected in the way employees interact with to improve marketability and competitiveto all other key Group companies. The straeach other. Diversity is a key goal for Fraport, 2017 Compact Employees 59 which the Group systematically tackles as part AG. This corresponds to the objectives in the Assessment Center and development meet­ of its diversity management. As far back as “Act on Equal Participation of Women and ings for positions within departments and 2007 Fraport published its “Diversity charter” Men in Management Positions in the Private across departments. This also includes point– a company initiative to promote diversity and Public Sector” (FüPoG). The objective ing out systematic development and career in companies and institutions. The Group is to increase the proportion of women in paths to suitable female candidates. agreement “Conduct of Partnership, Diversimanagement positions in Germany at both ty and Equality in the Workplace” formed the levels to 30 % by 2021. Fraport respects naImproving the diversity of its employees is platform for principles such as freedom from tional laws and does not want to impose any also very important to Fraport. Diverse culdiscrimination and equal opportunities. The quotas based on German law at the foreign tural backgrounds, international experience shop agreement includes explicit definitions Group companies. and gender aspects enrich the collaboration of values as well as specific internal regulaand promote innovation and creativity. This tions and structures. From an organizational In 2017, the proportion of women in manenables us to flexibly respond to the changperspective, responsibility for diversity is agement positions in Germany was 28.0 % ing requirements in the international markets assigned to the Executive Director Labor (previous year: 30.5 %). In fiscal year 2017, and benefit from them. Relations with corresponding resources. the proportion of women in management positions in Fraport AG was 27.1 % (previous year: 29.2 %). The slight decline of the ratio Objective: Increasing women in is due to organizational changes and vacant management positions to 30 percent executive positions as at December 31, 2017 that were previously held by women. Fraport places particular focus on promoting women in management positions at the two Measures to this end include programs where levels directly below the Executive Board experienced managers within the company as well as at the respective management act as mentors for women with particular levels at the German Group companies. For potential. For job vacancies, suitable female reporting purposes, executives who report candidates are also actively approached directly to the Executive Board are categoat the same time that advertisements are rized as level 1. Executives who report to this published. In principle, it should be possible first level of leadership are listed as level 2. to offer management roles with reduced Regarding the Group companies in Germany, working hours at least temporarily. Succesthe levels of management are categorized sion planning should increasingly make use based on comparable positions at Fraport of the findings of the company’s Potential 60 Employees 2017 Compact Occupational health and safety Maintaining and promoting the physical and mental performance of our employees by means of suitable measures in the areas of safety at work and health. Personal responsibility and motivation Occupational health management in the Germany. From an organizational perspecwere developed as well as training, includFraport Group has always focused on preservtive, responsibility for health management ing with regard to labor law. Discussions in ing the health, performance and therefore is assigned to the Executive Director Labor individual teams will follow in order to derive productivity of employees in the long term. Relations with corresponding resources. and implement group or individual measures. With its preventive nature, Fraport contributes to maintaining employee performance and Fraport evaluates the effectiveness of the prevents work-related health risks. Employees Campaign against motivationmeasures by continuously analyzing the are regularly informed about health-mainrelated absenteeism sickness rate, among other things. The caltaining measures and conduct, and their culation excluding absences beyond sick workplaces are ergonomically designed in the The effects of demographic change in the pay (extended sick leave) primarily reflects operational and administrative areas. Group and the increase of the average age of the development of shortand medium-term employees contribute, among other things, illnesses. Fraport focuses on limiting or reFraport AG’s multi-award-winning occupato a continuous linear increase in the number versing the sickness rate, which is increasing tional health management initiates a wide of illnesses. However, high levels of absendue to seasonal and age-related absences, range of health-promoting activities and teeism, especially in the operational units among other things. The target is to have a measures with various focal points. In 2017, and Group companies in Germany, cannot maximum rate of 7.2 % in both the Group for example, cooperation with gyms made it be attributed only to health issues, workload and at Fraport AG by 2025. possible for employees to exercise close to and age-related effects. It can be seen that abtheir place of residence. Those who exercise senteeism in the operational areas decreases In 2017, the sickness rate in the Group was regularly are rewarded with a contribution to significantly on public holidays, which leads 7.5 % (previous year: 7.9 %). The sickness membership fees. For 2018, a “Fitbox” with to the conclusion that there are motivarate particularly improved at Fraport AG and suggestions for improving your own health, a tion-related absences on other days, as holi­ the Group companies FraSec and FraGround, thank-you campaign for employees that have days are compensated by special bonuses. which both have a large number of employnot been absent from work and the expanA Group-wide communication campaign was ees. The sickness rate deteriorated slightly, sion of supplementary occupational health launched in 2017 as a countermeasure. For however, at the Group companies Fraport insurance are planned for all employees in managers, new ways to evaluate sick leave Slovenija and FraCareServices. At Fraport AG, 2017 Compact Employees 61 Top: Strict safety provisions apply on the apron. Speed is also regularly controlled. Right: The management of occupational health and safety offers regular lectures and training sessions. the sickness rate improved from 7.7 % to Driver safety training is offered to employFraport measures the effectiveness of occu7.6 %. In the security division, the sickness ees whose work involves driving. There pational safety measures by the number of rate decreased significantly, while it worsare special occupational safety seminars for accidents at work, among other things. The ened only slightly in the Ground Services managers, for example on transferring obliobjective is to continually reduce the total Strategic Business Unit. gations of the business operator. Targeted number of accidents at work per year and to and temporary measures and projects are achieve a “rate per 1,000 employees” (numintended above all to raise employees’ awareber of reportable accidents at work per 1,000 Strengthening personal responsibility ness of safe conduct in operational areas. For employees) of less than 25 within the Group example, the project “Mindful through ’18” by 2020. While the total number of accidents A strong prevention culture means that, in is on the agenda of Fraport AG’s Ground dropped significantly (– 136 accidents), there addition to health management, occupationServices for 2018. were 554 reportable accidents at work in the al safety is systematically integrated into the year under review, which translates to an company’s processes and structures as well. In accordance with the Occupational Safety increase of 34 reportable accidents at work Accident prevention not only serves personal Act, Fraport has implemented an occupation(previous year: For all Group employees, the safety, but is also of great importance from al safety unit under the Executive Director rate per 1,000 employees is 25.5 (previous an economic point of view, for example if Labor Relations, which advises and supports year 24.3). Fraport AG’s target for the rate ground-handling equipment is damaged. departments in the further development of per 1,000 employees is a figure under 20. Strengthening the personal responsibility of occupational safety. The key principles for In 2017, it was 22.8 (previous year: 21.9; as all employees and, in particular, the managethe Group companies can be found in the a result of late submissions, there may be ment is a top priority. Comprehensive meaOccupational Safety Management Handbook. changes to the figures in both years). In the sures to guarantee high occupational safety They are to be implemented independently Strategic Business Unit Ground Services, in standards are required, for example, when by the Managing Directors. These specificaparticular, more accidents occurred due to handling hazardous materials, in Ground Sertions are described in a separate handbook weather conditions at the beginning of fiscal vices’ handling processes, in maintenance, for Fraport AG. year 2017 in comparison to the previous year. in internal transport and traffic, and during infrastructure construction activities. 62 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Portrait Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. Jorge Chávez International Airport (JCIA) was tional standards as part of two capital exincreasing demands of passengers and airofficially opened on December 30, 1965. penditure programs. In 2017, Jorge Chávez lines, LAP has begun an extensive expansion 35 years later, in 2001, the government of International Airport reported a record 20.6 program. It includes, among other things, the Peru awarded the concession for the operamillion passengers and over 186,000 aircraft construction of a new passenger terminal, a tion, management, and development of the movements, constituting a five-fold growth second runway, and the requisite infrastrucairport for a period of 30 years to Lima Airport since the granting of the concession. In ture. At the end of 2016, the Peruvian governPartners S.R.L (LAP), in which Fraport AG is 2017, LAP employed around 500 employment extended the term of the concession by the majority shareholder. The first activities ees under the management of the CEO, an additional ten years. In 2017, the Peruvian to modernize the infrastructure include the Juan José Salmón. Ministry for Transport and Communication renovation of sanitary facilities, electrical (MTC) signed an addition to the concession and communication systems, and technical agreement regarding the preparation of the equipment. Capacity limits reached areas required for the expansion as well as additional terms. The project team at LAP Since the start of the concession, the area The airport is currently running at the limits responsible for the expansion have been of the airport has almost doubled, and its of its capacity at peak times. To ensure a primarily occupied with putting together the operation has been aligned with internaconsistent quality of service and to meet the documents required for the tender process 2017 Compact Company Portrait 63 Luis Yonashiro, Social Responsibility Analyst at LAP »The work of LAP is especially interesting in the transitional phase of the expansion of Jorge Chávez International Airport. It is particularly important to promote sustainability projects during this phase in order to ensure the continuity of operations and to maintain the satisfaction of passengers at an optimum level. It is a great challenge to ensure that sustainability is seen as a responsibility of the company across all divisions and in all areas. Our values play a major role in achieving this goal.« in the past few months. Three international environmental impact study of the airport. ees working in operations were given greater companies are participating in the tender. The first health campaign for residents in the flexibility to exchange shifts. The company The winner will be responsible for the entire vicinity of the future runway area has already also offers nutritional advice for employees expansion project. taken place. Around 1,300 examinations were and promotes sports. In addition, other social carried out in various medical specialties benefits were improved for employees folImportant projects in 2017 included work such as pediatrics, ophthalmology, and skin lowing the conclusion of a two-year collective with the public and the strengthening of diseases. agreement with the labor union. relations with the neighboring communities around the airport. The focus of these was In occupational health and safety, all operainformation about LAP’s compliance with More flexible working hours tional employees and 60 % of management environmental obligations and about the employees were provided with personal expansion of the airport. Thirteen workshops The “Club LAP”, a company social program, safety equipment. To ensure the quality of the with external participants were conducted, also focused on health issues and a better management system, LAP teams performed in which 46 neighboring municipalities work-life balance in 2017. As part of this around 1,800 unannounced inspections of took part. Carrying out these workshops initiative, LAP introduced the “Flextime LAP” the works being conducted by contractors is a requirement to obtain approval for the model for management employees. Employin various areas of the airport. 64 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Airport Passengers Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. Aeropuerto Internacional Jorge Chávez ~20.6 million (+9.6 %) CO2 emissions Sickness rate 10,012 3.98 % metric tons (+4.2 %) (– 0.7 %) Awards Skytrax World Airline Awards: Best South American Airport 2009 – 2015, 2nd place 2016, 3rd place 2017 2017 Compact Community 65 Community Fraport is internationally one of the leading companies in the airport business and, with Frankfurt Airport, operates one of the world’s most important aviation hubs. Over 81,000 people work at Frankfurt Airport and 19,500 1) of these work solely for Fraport. As an active partner for the region, we support sports, social and cultural clubs, and institutions. Fraport has also always been committed to contributing to the reduction of aircraft noise pollution. We are continuously attempting to reduce noise pollution through active and passive noise abatement measures. 1) as at balance sheet date 12/31/2017 66 Community 2017 Compact Value generation and engagement in the regions: Positive contribution to the economic development of the regions. Charitable involvement in the neighborhood of the airport and dialog with our stakeholders. Participation in economic success Airports are important business locations and around the airport also benefit from this. consignors benefit from the connections contribute directly and indirectly to economThey not only benefit from the short journey offered at Frankfurt Airport, enabling them ic and social value creation. For example, to the airport; many of them also work at a to get their goods to the destination faster. Frankfurt Airport is the largest local workcompany whose success depends on being This is why FRA is also one of the world’s most place in Germany with almost 81,000 direct close to the airport. important sites for air freight and is number employees (as at December 31, 2015). The one in Europe. This benefits the export-orisurvey provides an insight into the sectors The total catchment area of Frankfurt Airport ented German economy, which needs the in which employees at the site work. Acincludes approximately 38 million people connection to other markets. cordingly, two thirds of employees surveyed within a radius of about 200 kilometers. The work for an airline, in an operational capacity central location and the high demand mean Even at the individual sites of the internaat the airport or in freight forwarding and that more international and intercontinental tional Group companies, regions close to transport operations. Other sectors include destinations can be reached from here than the airport benefit from donations made and the authorities and institutions, catering, from many other airports. The hub function sponsorship activities undertaken by each security services, personnel services, consultplays a decisive role: More than half of pascompany independently, as well as from their ing, hotels and restaurants, freight handling, sengers change planes in Frankfurt. That also economic performance. Local companies cleaning and retail. There is predominantly makes the airport attractive as a cargo transfer and their value chains, as well as employee potential for growth in companies that offer location. About 40 % of the over 2 million consumption, contribute directly and indisecurity services and at authorities. The metric tons of freight per year is transported rectly to the positive economic development people who live in the metropolitan region in the “belly” of passenger aircraft. Cargo of the respective regions. 2017 Compact Community 67 Our corporate performance (gross value generation) in € million Net value added distributed to: 193.9 1,092.9 Employees Other operating expenses 401.0 Capital expenditure Shareholders 150.1 (dividends) 3,084.8 2,170.5 140.5 State (taxes) 720.4 Cost of materials Lenders 137.2 (interest) Acquisition of 1,477.3 concessions Financing through –1,228.5 higher debt Aid for flood victims in Peru Relentless rain and dramatic floods devastated many areas of Peru in the spring of 2017. In remote regions of the country in particular, inhabitants did not have access to clean drinking water. Fraport and the Peruvian subsidiary Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. took joint action to respond to this humanitarian crisis and sent 25 water-filtering containers (Portable Aqua Unit for Lifesaving – PAUL) to Peru. The containers were flown to Peru from Frankfurt with the generous support of LATAM Cargo. Every PAUL filters up to 1,200 liters of contaminated water per day. This is enough to keep 400 people alive. The system purifies contaminated water by filtering out 99.99 % of bacteria and pathogens. It works without energy, chemicals, or other external help. This self-help technique allowed those affected to provide their own clean drinking water. 68 Community 2017 Compact Fraport’s direct value generation includes Supporting the neighborhood integration of marginalized groups in society. payments for personnel, capital expenEmployees can also apply for donations as diture, tax, interest, and dividends to its The so-called “neighborhood framework” patrons of their clubs. shareholders. The total amounted to around describes the geographical boundary for €2.2 billion in the past fiscal year. support activities. The area is based on disSports sponsorship in the Rhine-Main region trict and state borders taking into account includes both recreational and professional Frankfurt Airport is the site in the Group with the most important approach and takeoff sports. Well-known names that have conthe largest traffic volume by far and is also the routes. If these change, the neighborhood cluded long-term contracts with Fraport AG location of the company headquarters. Social framework will also be modified – as it was include the FRAPORT SKYLINERS and Einresponsibility has been a corporate principle most recently when Runway Northwest was tracht Frankfurt. In the area of basketball, of Fraport since its founding, and so Fraport inaugurated. The expansion allowed other Fraport sponsors not only the Bundesliga AG has supported many clubs and institucities and municipalities to participate in the team but also gives donations to support tions for years, especially in the Rhine-Main company’s economic success. the project “Basketball goes to school”. At region. Fraport AG’s funding concept for its the soccer club Eintracht, the club is procommunity, cultural and social engagement Donation priorities include the promotion of moted and Eintracht AG is sponsored with is “Active for the region”. It primarily serves social and charitable institutions, particularly the affiliated soccer school. In the fields of to boost clubs and support volunteer work in those that encompass measures relating to culture and education, Fraport is involved in the region around Frankfurt Airport. education, social equality, health, and the the Rheingau Music Festival, among other 2017 Compact Community 69 Experience the wilderness in your own city park The “Culture Promotes Nature?” activism campaign will be organized jointly with other partners from Senckenberg Gesellschaft für Naturforschung und BioFrankfurt e. V. The events will offer high school students the opportunity to get involved in different stations on a circular route set up according to biological, geological, and socio-economic themes. This is already the fourth time that Fraport will be participating in this environmental event via the environmental fund. In focus at upcoming events will be Nordpark Bonames, which has functioned as a leisure and green space since 1970, and since 2016 as the area for the “City Wilderness Adventure” project, which is concerned with “wild” natural life and species conservation. Here, schoolchildren can explore the biological diversity of the park and discover first-hand the value of the cultural landscapes and natural spaces. Experts in science, forestry, and nature conservation will offer first-hand knowledge. things. There are also long-term partnerships available training capacities in the region, as between Rüdesheim, Wetterau, the Kinzig with the Frankfurt cultural institutions Städel well as improvements in the training infraValley, and the Hessian Ried. Since the enviMuseum, Schirn Kunsthalle, and Liebieghaus structure. This includes support for projects ronmental fund was established, more than sculpture collection. Overall, in 2017 Fraport and institutions that help to improve the 1,000 projects have been funded with a total supported more than 1,540 projects run by trainability and employability of youths and of almost €38 million. various clubs and institutions by making doyoung adults. As one of the largest employers nations and providing sponsorships totaling in Hesse, Fraport also focuses on helping Fraport is also involved in the Wirtschafts€5.3 million. young refugees to gain professional qualinitiative FrankfurtRheinMain (Frankfurtifications and integrate as part of its social RhineMain Business Initiative), which 150 responsibility. In the past 18 years, funding companies participate in. One outcome of Foundations for educational and of around €8 million has been awarded, this cooperation is the House of Logistics environmental projects including €451,000 for 25 projects in 2017. and Mobility (HOLM) competence center at Frankfurt Airport. Fraport has financially supported youths’ and Fraport has supported nature and environyoung adults’ integration into working life mental conservation projects, research, and since 1999 with the ProRegion Foundation. environmental education since 1997 with the The foundation subsidizes the creation of environmental fund. Its best-known project is additional training places or the securing of the RhineMain Regional Park, which extends 70 Community 2017 Compact Noise abatement Noise abatement in nearby residential areas and reduction of those affected by aircraft noise. Growth as quietly as possible Airports located in the vicinity of metroclose to the airport, which is why two bodies The key task of the Airport and Regional Fopolitan areas are a burden for many local at Fraport AG work with the region affected rum (FFR), which is assigned to the Hessian residents. At the Group airports, noise by aircraft noise, representatives of the state State Chancellery, is to foster dialog between abatement measures are implemented acgovernment and other members of the avithe region and the aviation industry and to cording to the national requirements on noise ation industry. facilitate discussion of the effects of air traffic, protection and, where appropriate, based on with a particular focus on Frankfurt Airport more specific local regulations. The airports The Aircraft Noise Commission (FLK) is a and the Rhine-Main region. The FFR includes comply with the relevant national laws and legally appointed body that advises the Hesthe “Active Noise Abatement” expert group, have correspondingly implemented their sian Ministry of Economics, Energy, Transport which advises on measures that may help to own monitoring systems where required. and Regional Development (HMWEVL), the reduce aircraft noise and the impact on the Deutsche Flugsicherung and the Federal area around the airport. At the Frankfurt site, Fraport AG is responsible Supervisory Office for Air Traffic Control. for tens of thousands of jobs and is therefore The FLK advises the aforementioned bodies a key driver of economic prosperity for the on measures to protect against aircraft noise entire Rhine-Main region. This goes hand in and air pollution resulting from aircraft exhand with noise pollution for those living haust gases. 2017 Compact Community 71 Fraport wants to grow further at its main site the aircraft noise in the last three months. It procedures. An important objective was to and ensure this growth generates as little also reports the approaches and takeoffs at develop GBAS-based approaches with an noise as possible. For Fraport AG, this means Frankfurt Airport. The information system for approach angle of 3.2 degrees for all runways. that, in addition to the legal requirements, aircraft noise issues, FRA.Map, is available onFraport AG supports airlines’ use of GBAS it is constantly working towards measures line and allows local residents and interested technology with special subsidies within that reduce aircraft noise pollution. The parties to find information for their location the framework of the applicable charges development of aircraft noise pollution or place of residence on an interactive map. regulation. The aim is to further increase the in the area around the airport is subject The system also displays the areas that are rate of use of the GBAS. The development of to continuous monitoring. Measurement targeted by noise abatement measures or the noise-dependent charging system serves analyses and the results of comprehensive entitled to compensation payments. active noise abatement, as the use of lowsimulations are regularly reported to the sunoise aircraft is rewarded by comparatively pervisory authority and the FLK, and are also As regards measures to reduce noise pollumore favorable rates of charges. publicly disclosed on the company’s website tion, a distinction needs to be made between www.fraport.de. Municipalities where there active and passive noise abatement. are Fraport aircraft noise measurement stations receive additional detailed analyses In active noise abatement, noise is reduced on request. directly at the source or by noise-reducing operating concepts and takeoff or landing procedures. An example of this is the comFollowing arrivals and departures missioning of the Ground Based Augmenonline tation System (GBAS). Together with the project partners Deutsche Flugsicherung Fraport Noise Monitoring, FRA.NoM, tracks (DFS) and Deutsche Lufthansa, Fraport AG the level values continuously measured at hopes that GBAS will increase efficiency and stationary measuring stations and indicates result in additional noise-reducing approach 72 Community 2017 Compact Number of average takeoff and Distribution of aircraft movements landing procedures per day by direction of operation 675 693 Direction of operation east = BR 07 Direction of operation west = BR 25 32 % 675 693 23 % Summer flight plan 2016 Summer flight plan 2017 68 % 77 % Since May 2016, the so-called noise absence tutions and companies involved will jointly measures. If the limit is repeatedly exceeded, model has been applied at night for flights come to an agreement on the continuation any stakeholder in the partnership is free to operating to the west of the airport, the of the model in sufficient time before each take action outside of the partnership. As part main direction of the airport’s activities. This summer season. of monitoring, Fraport has adopted a KPI of means that early in the morning (5 – 6 a.m.) Leq per day = 55 dB(A) for the noise area, and late in the evening (10 – 11 p.m.), As an additional voluntary measure introto be determined annually, within the noise individual runways are alternately not used. duced in 2017, a partnership for a noise emiscontour. The aim is that the figure for the The “DROps Early Morning” procedure sion ceiling was created. This should ensure area should not exceed the noise ceiling of (Dedicated Runway Operations) is used in that, despite the rise in aircraft movements, 22,193 ha. In 2017, this figure was 16,952 ha. the operating direction east. The alternating the daytime noise impact at Frankfurt Airport use of runways in the comparatively low-trafdoes not increase, as would be permissible fic shoulder hours is intended to extend the according to the zoning decision. The traffic Passive noise abatement for nighttime quiet period by one hour. volume and traffic structure of the zoning 86,000 households approval for the expansion result in noise Use of the noise absence model is voluntary. contours with continuous sound levels of Passive noise abatement measures are intendIt is sometimes the case that the procedure 55 dB(A) and 60 dB(A). These contours have ed to reduce the noise level inside buildings cannot temporarily be used consistently due been reduced by 1.8 dB(A) across the board. by way of structural modifications. Fraport AG to infrastructure requirements or weather The total areas within the reduced contours has extensive statutory obligations to take conditions. As the traffic volume increases in define the noise emission ceiling. If the limit measures in around 86,000 households close shoulder hours, further use must be reviewed is exceeded, Fraport AG and the airlines are to Frankfurt Airport. Eligibility is defined by and the model revised if required. The instiobliged to assess further noise abatement a noise protection area determined by the 2017 Compact Community 73 Hesse State Government in accordance with for passive noise abatement from the regional (wake turbulence prevention) have been the strictest regulations of the Aircraft Noise fund. The application deadline for financing submitted and work on 2,570 properties has Act. Fraport AG satisfies these requirements from the fund was December 31, 2017. been completed so far. in full. In this connection, structural noise abatement measures beyond statutory reIn order to support local residents in the dequirements were brought forward. Roof protection against wake turbulence termination of their rights and to assist their applications, Fraport provides an extensive The state government promised affected resDamage repeatedly occurred on roofs in range of information and services on the idents additional, more extensive efforts than the direct vicinity of Frankfurt Airport in the company website. those previously made in the vicinity of the past and wake turbulence from landing airairport in announcing the “Together for the craft could not be ruled out as a cause. The Region – Alliance for Noise Abatement 2012” HMWEVL subsequently issued supplemenprogram in February 2012. That same year, tal planning zoning decisions on May 10, a regional fund was set up to this end with 2013 and May 26, 2014. They regulate the €265-270 million. The funds are predomirequirements for protecting roof coverings nantly provided by the State of Hesse and on buildings from gusts of wind caused by Fraport AG and can be used for both private wake turbulence and clarify the relevant prehouseholds and public facilities qualifying for requisites. The HMWEVL defined an area with protection, such as schools, kindergartens, around 6,000 buildings as an eligible area or hospitals. Some 17,300 households in the in the decisions. Including fiscal year 2017, airport region may receive additional support some 3,200 applications for roof protection 74 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Portrait Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD In 2006, the German-Bulgarian company training and improving the qualifications of In July, a record was set in Burgas with 262 Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD employees, improving service quality and aircraft movements and in Varna with 130 received the ongoing concession, with a general passenger comfort, modernizing aircraft movements over a 24-hour period. term of over 35 years, for the operation, the airports’ equipment, introducing new management, and development of the two technology, and modernizing and expanding Seasonal dependency continues to be the Black Sea airports Burgas (BOJ) and Varna the airport infrastructure. biggest challenge for the airports. Thus, (VAR). Fraport holds a majority ownership of the main aim is to increase traffic in spring, 60 % in the joint undertaking, which employs Together, VAR and BOJ welcomed 4.9 million autumn, and winter. Twin Star is well on its over 630 permanent employees and up to passengers (+8.2 %) in 2017 and served well way to achieving this aim thanks to the new 1,200 seasonal workers. Ulrich Heppe is the over 37,000 flights by around 99 airlines for destinations served all year round by lowChairman of the Executive Board. charter and scheduled flights to around 181 cost carriers. For the first time, Varna was destinations in Europe, the Middle East, and able to serve the low-cost carriers Ryanair Varna Airport serves the north east and BurNorth Africa. In the past year, Fraport Twin and EasyJet, while Wizz Air has its second gas the south west of Bulgaria. The responStar reported growth in flights of 4.8 % with operations base in Bulgaria at the airport sibilities of the concession company include approximately 37,400 takeoffs and landings. on the Black Sea. In 2018, Ryanair will be 2017 Compact Company Portrait 75 Iva Ivanova, employee for 22 years at Varna Airport »The new passenger terminal at Varna Airport is extremely customer-friendly. The large and colorful design helps to keep passengers in a holiday mood throughout their stay at the airport. We recently launched a graffiti competition, which is expected to brighten and freshen up the appearance of a building facade. In general, in all of our activities, we strive to fulfill our new corporate vision to place the airport in the travelers’ heart.« using Burgas Airport as the departure point environmental standards at European level. The noise of aircraft traffic will be monitored for eleven new international routes (two of At the end of 2017, both airports received using the integrated surveillance system which are year-round). The new strategy will their airport licenses. with eight monitoring points in the cities of also help to create a positive impression on Burgas and Varna. If the limit of 85 dB(A) for passengers in the future and to make the sites flights over the cities is exceeded, the airlines more attractive. Natural gas instead of heavy oil will be contacted and required to determine the cause and to take action to avoid noise In 2017, Fraport Twin Star made a series of Fraport Twin Star has set itself the goal of pollution. Airport operators and airlines regcapital expenditure measures. The system for reducing CO2 emissions from airport operularly exchange information in order to avoid managing and controlling the lighting system ations. As such, the boiler systems which or mitigate future deviations and negative at Varna Airport was replaced for €1.5 million. supply Burgas Airport with heat have been effects on local residents. At Burgas Airport, the renovation works for operated using natural gas instead of heavy the Alpha runway and the installation of the oil since 2017. Wherever possible, company To protect the drinking water, in 2017 the new lighting system were completed for cars with high CO2 emissions are replaced company started the construction of underaround €5 million. Future projects include the by more environmentally sustainable cars or ground wells for the irrigation of the green expansion and rearrangement of the airport’s electric cars. The lighting in the terminals at spaces of Burgas Airport, which have a caapron, thereby increasing airside capacity. In Varna Airport was replaced by fluorescent pacity of 10,000 cubic meters per year. New the first ten years of the concession, Fraport and LED lamps. The aim of this action is to waste separation sites were set up at both Twin Star invested €179 million in the two reduce energy consumption by 30 %. In adairports. Through the separate collection and airports, with an additional €130 million of dition, an area for standing aircraft is being sorting of mixed waste, Fraport Twin Star was capital expenditure expected by 2027. planned at Varna Airport where aircraft can be able to reduce the amount of waste sent to supplied with electricity via underground calandfills by 25 % and to recycle 66 metric tons Varna and Burgas were the first airports in Bulbles. This allows the engines to be switched of paper and plastic in 2017. garia to be certified by the European Aviation off completely. This reduces fuel consumpSafety Authority (EASA). Its task is to define tion and the associated CO2 emissions. and monitor consistent and high safety and 76 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Airports Passengers Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD Burgas Airport Varna Airport ~4.95 million (+7.6 %) CO2 emissions Sickness rate Employee satisfaction 7,877 2.11% 2.48 metric tons (–3.2 %) (+6.9 %) Awards –– “German Economy in Bulgaria Burgas Award” –– “Investment & Contribution to the Growth & Development of Burgas Region Award” Varna Training in the Aviation The new aviation training center was opened Through this, the Career Development Training Center in 2017. In addition to professional training, Center aims to promote employees with employees can also take part in personal demanagement potential and to preserve the The continuous training and education of velopment courses. The company employs culture, values, and specific know-how of employees is a key element in the company’s over 50 internal instructors in basic aviation Fraport Twin Star. More than 65 % of the success. The newly built career development disciplines and is investing in the developparticipants were able to develop their skills center is another component in this effort. ment of new internal trainers in the area of in the company program. The center also One of the main objectives of Fraport Twin “soft skills”. In 2017, more than €200,000 was offers a trainee program, which more than Star since it received the concession is to invested in the training program. 300 young professionals have completed in increase employee motivation. As part of the last ten years. Around 25 % of them went this, the company has initiated numerous on to become company employees. projects. 2017 Compact Environment 77 Environment Operating an airport and air traffic have an effect on the environment. Fraport considers itself responsible for taking the environmental challenges arising from this appropriately into account. Our activities focus on targeting the conservation of the climate and nature, and the careful use of resources. 78 Environment 2017 Compact Climate protection Increase in energy efficiency, monitoring and minimization of the emission of climate-relevant gases caused by airport operations (e.g. CO2). Climate protection target anchored throughout the Group The management activities at Fraport AG at level 2 (“reduction”) or higher requires which is recorded in a sophisticated manner mainly deal with the emissions the company proof of both a CO2 reduction target, a CO2 by building, system or equipment, serves is directly responsible for, but it also looks at management program in accordance with as the database. All energy sources, such as emissions that it is only indirectly connected international requirements, and of annual electricity, district cooling, district heating, to and which it can therefore only indirectly emission reductions verified by external gas, fuel for vehicles, and other fuels, are influence. Based on the Federal Government’s experts. Frankfurt Airport reached level 3 taken into account. climate protection plan 2050, Fraport AG (“Optimization”) back in 2012. Ljubljana wishes to reduce the CO 2 emissions at Airport achieved level 2 in 2015 and is aimSince 2014, all decisions relating to Fraport AG’s Frankfurt Airport to 80,000 tons by 2030. ing for level 3+ (“neutrality”) in the medium energy management at Frankfurt Airport have This corresponds to a reduction by 65 % term. Lima, Varna and Burgas airports do not been prepared in a separate body, known compared to the emissions in the base year of currently participate, nor do the airports of as the Energiezirkel, which is chaired by the the international climate change agreement Fraport Greece and Fraport Brasil. Airports Executive Director Controlling and Finance (1990). In the past fiscal year, Fraport AG’s that choose a different management apand reports to the Executive Board. Such CO2 emissions amounted to approximately proach must also have their CO2 footprint decisions mainly concern improvements in 190,065 tons of CO2, 9.2 % less than in the assessed and tested by external experts. building, system, and process energy effiprevious year. For the Group as a whole (inciency. For the vehicle fleet and aircraft hancluding Frankfurt), the Executive Board has dling equipment, the specialist departments set a climate protection goal of a reduction Transparency regarding energy assess the opportunities to use alternative to 125,000 tons of CO2 by 2030. If necessary, consumption forms of propulsion, in particular electricity, the goal will be adjusted for changes within as an alternative to petrol and diesel. the Fraport airport portfolio. The target is Fraport has used its own monitoring instrubased on the national reduction rates agreed ment, the CO2 and energy consumption Fraport AG has been involved in the Carbon to at the United Nations Climate Change monitoring system, since 2013 to depict, Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2006, which Conference in Paris. In 2017, emissions in analyze, and manage energy consumption analyzes companies and their strategies with the fully consolidated Group companies at the Frankfurt site. It creates transparency regard to climate change and CO2 reporting. amounted to 209,668 tons of CO2. about consumption and consumers, helps to The CDP manages the world’s largest dataimprove energy efficiency and reduce energy base on this topic, which is used by investors A way of successfully managing CO2 is to costs. It also allows qualified statements to and also by political decision-makers. A participate in the Airport Carbon Accredibe made at any time about the current CO2 score assesses a company’s transparency tation program of the ACI (Airports Council emissions at Frankfurt Airport and allows and activities. Fraport AG achieved level C International), which Fraport played a major any undesirable developments with respect (“Awareness”) in 2017. This is evidence of role in developing. Since 2010, it has evolved to the strategic CO2 targets for Frankfurt transparent reporting and the company’s into the world standard for CO2 reporting Airport to be detected at an early stage. The awareness of its influence on climate change. and management at airports. Participation company’s monthly energy consumption, 2017 Compact Environment 79 Fraport parent company Frankfurt Airport carbon footprint carbon footprint 58.9 % Electricity consumption (scope 2) 2.3 % 17.1% Scope 1 (own consumption of District heating consumption (scope 2) Fraport parent company) 190,065 17.1% Operation of vehicles and equipment metric tons (scope 1) 9.7 % 1.58 million Scope 2 (external procurement – 9.2 % of energy by Fraport parent in comparison to the 4.8 % metric tons company) previous year District cooling consumption (scope 2) 2.1% – 1.5 % Other (scope 1) compared to Operation of grid replacement previous year facilities (0.5 %) Operation of fire drill facilities (0.1 %) Operation of combustion facilities (1.5 %) 88.0 % Scope 3 (third parties at airport, including air traffic in landing and take-off cycle) More charging possibilities for e-cars E-mobility plays a big role beyond the apron. An increasing number of passengers and visitors of Frankfurt Airport drive electric cars. As such, initial possibilities for charging electric cars were already set up back in 2010. Now, additional parking spaces have been created with charging stations. They are located in the public car park P2 at Terminal 1 of the airport. For the time being, 16 parking spaces have been equipped with a 3.7 kW connection. With the charging station in the car park P4 at Terminal 1 and the nine rapid charging options in Gateway Gardens, Frankfurt Airport now has a total of 26 charging stations. Additional stations will soon follow: 17 at Terminal 2 and a further 23 at Terminal 1. The challenge posed by the existing car parks and garages is not, as is often assumed, the installation of the charging stations themselves, but the adjustment of the existing infrastructure so that larger volumes of electricity can be made available. These requirements have already been taken into account in the plans for the car park at the new Terminal 3. A large number of parking spaces will be created there especially for electric cars. 80 Environment 2017 Compact Conservation of nature and resources Conservation of natural resources; minimization of waste and emissions of air pollutants caused by airport operations as well as maintenance and improvement of the biodiversity on the airport grounds. Certified environmental management As transport hubs, airports make extensive Green areas as living space of the new reporting system for air traffic use of resources. The objective is to equip all that entered into effect with EU Regulation environmentally relevant, fully consolidated Comprising an area of around 22 square No. 376/2014, the wildlife strike statistics in Group companies with a certified environkilometers, Frankfurt Airport is among the Germany were restructured and adapted. As mental management system. Environmental most compact major airports in the world. a result, the bird strike rates from 2016 are management systems serve to systematically Around half of this land is unsurfaced. The not comparable with those from previous organize, manage and monitor corporate largest open continuous area is located close years. The calculations no longer distinguish environmental protection within the relevant to the runways. In nature conservation terms, between aircraft registered in Germany and company. In addition, they support those this extensively maintained permanent grassthose registered abroad. Furthermore, the responsible for operational activities and the land is a high-quality habitat that is home to statistics now include collisions with mammanagement with regard to the performance many rare and endangered animal and plant mals. The bird strike rate has thus become the of their respective duties and improvements species. Frankfurt Airport has since become wildlife strike rate. In 2017, Frankfurt Airport in environmental performance. The functiona nationally significant retreat and protection had a wildlife strike rate of 5.59 incidents per ality and effectiveness of the environmental area for some species, such as the skylark. 10,000 aircraft movements, just below the management systems is reviewed and national average of 5.8. certified by external certifiers (ISO 14001) However, collisions with individual large or environmental verifiers (EMAS) on an birds or flocks of birds are a hazard for airThe Wildlife Control, Forest and Biotope ongoing basis. craft. Because statistically around two-thirds department is responsible for preservof all bird strikes take place at airports or ing and further enhancing the value of At the end of the past fiscal year, 89.3 % neighboring areas, as an airport operator the area as much as flight operations alof the fully consolidated environmentally Fraport is obliged to minimize this risk. In low. Its success in this task is monitored relevant Group companies were equipped contrast to many international airports, in extensively. Wherever possible, Fraport AG with such a system. Fraport AG’s employees’ Frankfurt we focus on special biotope manextends the green areas. For example, the many years of experience in environmental agement. This involves making the airport new buildings in CargoCity South are inmanagement benefit all Group airports, for area unattractive to relevant animals, i.e., creasingly being planned with ecological example in the form of training and technical minimizing or avoiding nesting, resting, and green roofs. support, including on site. feeding opportunities. With the introduction 2017 Compact Environment 81 Reusable cups preferred for “to go” Every day, around 25,000 hot drinks are purchased in the restaurants and cafés at Frankfurt Airport – most of them to go. To lower the consumption of disposable cups, in 2017 the restaurant and café operators of both terminals joined together to provide a bonus for the use of customers’ own reusable cups. Depending on the restaurant, there is a discount of up to 50 cents on the ordered drink. Whoever needs the right container can buy a practical and environmentally friendly bamboo cup with an airport design on-site. Over 1,000 plastic cups for hot drinks are also consumed every day by the ground services in Frankfurt. To avoid this garbage, the humorously named “Ground Power Unit” bamboo cup has been available for employees to buy since 2017. Not only are they significantly more environmentally friendly, they also make your drink taste better. Some 2,300 hectares of land in the immeService water for toilets South and at Terminal 2, and supplement diate and wider vicinity of the airport will this with our own groundwater wells or with be upgraded from a nature conservation Operating an airport requires a lot of water treated water from the Main river. We use the perspective as a legal requirement under the and simultaneously generates a large amount raw water in sprinkler systems, toilets, and zoning decision. High-quality habitats such of waste water. When dealing with the legally for irrigation of green areas. In CargoCity as deciduous forests, orchards, marshes, and protected resource of water, Fraport takes all South, the supply of service water has been nutrient-poor grassland are being developed. aspects of modern water management into expanded to the entire area. In the north, Measures to counterbalance the Expansion account. This includes control of consumpTerminal 2 is supplied with service water, South, in particular Terminal 3, are included tion and quality control of the water entering Terminal 1 and the nearby office buildings are in this extensive package of measures. the ecosystem. At Frankfurt Airport we use 70 % connected. The share of service water water sparingly and use saving techniques, in the total consumption at Frankfurt Airport On a voluntary basis, Fraport AG also supamong other things, in sanitary facilities and is approximately 18 %. ports projects to preserve and promote ecorecirculation systems in vehicle washing systems and biodiversity in the Rhine-Main facilities. In addition, where possible we use region using funds from the environmental raw water instead of drinking water. For this fund. purpose, we collect rain water in CargoCity 82 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Portrait Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Fraport Regional Airports of Greece (Fraport responsible for operating the airports of Thesbeen associated through a multi-year partGreece) was founded in 2015. As of April saloniki (SKG), Aktion/Preveza (PVK), Kavala nership since the joint project to expand, 2017, Fraport Greece took over the respon(KVA), Chania/Crete (CHQ), Kerkyra/Corfu maintain, and operate Pulkovo Airport in the sibility for the operation, management, and (CFU), Kefalonia (EFL) and Zakynthos (ZTH). Russian city of St. Petersburg. Alexander Zinell development of 14 Greek regional airports Fraport Greece B operates the airports on Kos (CEO) and his management colleagues are for the concession term of 40 years. (KGS), Mytilini/Lesbos (MJT), Mykonos (JMK), responsible for around 170 employees in the Rhodes (RHO), Samos (SMI), Santorini/Thira company headquarters in Athens. An addiFraport Greece is made up of three com(JTR) and Skiathos (JSI). tional 400 full-time employees are involved panies: Fraport Regional Airports of Greece in the operation of the 14 airports. Management Company S. A. (Frapor t The shareholders of Fraport Greece are Greece ManCo), Fraport Regional Airports Fraport AG (73.4 % of shares), the Greek The 14 regional airports are located in attracof Greece A S. A. (Fraport Greece A), and business development firm Copelouzos tive tourism regions and national economic Fraport Regional Airports of Greece B S. A. Group (16.6 % of shares), and the 2020 Eucenters. They were used by over 27.5 million (Fraport Greece B). While all essential adminropean Fund for Energy, Climate Change and passengers in 2017, which corresponds to istrative functions are carried out within the Infrastructure, Marguerite (10 % of shares). an increase of 10.3 % compared to 2016. management company, Fraport Greece A is Fraport AG and the Copelouzos Group have In future, it is expected that even more pas2017 Compact Company Portrait 83 Ioanna Kouri, Fraport Greece EASA Compliance Manager »Safe airports and high-quality services for customers form the basis on which Fraport Greece is turning the 14 airports into modern and user-friendly gateways to some of the most popular travel destinations in the world. They were certified according to the EASA rules and correspond to the latest and strictest European aviation standards. I am very proud to be part of a team that creates safe and optimized conditions for passengers, airlines, and local communities through a process designed for long-term growth. We are convinced that our focus on these values will make Greece an even more outstanding travel destination.« sengers, most of them tourists, will benefit five terminals will be renovated and expandthe respective airport sites and promotes from the extended travel season and the ed, four terminals refurbished, and five new local businesses and service providers. professionally run airports. terminals built at various airports. Fraport Greece only took over operations The concession of the 14 Greek regional at the start of the 2017 summer season. As €400 million for further infrastructure airports is one of the biggest capital expendisuch, no customer satisfaction surveys have development ture measures in Greece and strengthens the yet been conducted. Starting in 2018, the national economy. It supports the important company will be conducting ongoing annual Fraport Greece is also responsible for the Greek tourism industry, makes the latter passenger surveys during peak times at all maintenance and expansion of the airports, more competitive, and creates new jobs. 14 regional airports. In addition, employee and is investing around €400 million in Many other sectors of the economy such as satisfaction surveys will be conducted as modernization and further infrastructure construction, retail, services, and the real eswell as an assessment of diversity issues and development until 2021. The planned meatate market, agriculture, and fisheries benefit environmental and sustainability issues. sures range from the renovation of existing from the stable and continuous growth of terminals to the construction of new airside airports. Fraport Greece works closely with and landside facilities. As part of these works, the local communities and municipalities at 84 Company Portrait 2017 Compact Company Airports Passengers Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Thessaloniki, Aktio/Prevezka, Kavala, Chania (Crete), Kerkyra (Corfu), Kefalonia, Zakynthos, ~27.6 million Kos, Mytilini (Lesbos), Mykonos, (+9.1 %) Rhodes, Samos, Santorini (Thira), Skiathos Sickness rate 0.41 % (–) Thessaloniki 2017 Compact Key Figures 85 Key Figures 86 Key Figures 2017 Compact Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at December 31, 2017 Assets in € million December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Non-current assets Goodwill 19.3 19.3 Investments in airport operating projects 2,621.1 516.1 Other intangible assets 132.4 146.7 Property, plant, and equipment 5,921.5 5,954.2 Investment property 96.4 79.6 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 268.1 209.7 Other financial assets 488.6 561.7 Other receivables and financial assets 190.9 173.3 Income tax receivables 0.0 0.2 Deferred tax assets 41.0 36.9 9,779.3 7,697.7 Current assets Inventories 29.3 37.9 Trade accounts receivable 143.5 129.6 Other receivables and financial assets 245.5 259.7 Income tax receivables 5.4 11.9 Cash and cash equivalents 629.4 736.0 1,053.1 1,175.1 Total 10,832.4 8,872.8 Liabilities and equity in € million December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Shareholders’ equity Issued capital 923.9 923.6 Capital reserve 598.5 596.3 Revenue reserves 2,345.7 2,220.4 Equity attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 3,868.1 3,740.3 Non-controlling interests 160.6 101.1 4,028.7 3,841.4 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 3,955.6 3,236.9 Trade accounts payable 42.4 41.8 Other liabilities 1,090.1 408.0 Deferred tax liabilities 203.8 173.6 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 34.2 33.2 Provisions for income taxes 70.3 71.8 Other provisions 147.2 147.2 5,543.6 4,112.5 Current liabilities Financial liabilities 575.4 366.5 Trade accounts payable 185.9 146.7 Other liabilities 249.7 145.7 Provisions for income taxes 33.1 42.9 Other provisions 216.0 217.1 1,260.1 918.9 Total 10,832.4 8,872.8 2017 Compact Key Figures 87 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in € million 2017 2016 Profit attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 330.2 375.4 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 29.5 24.9 Adjustments for Taxes on income (in previous year not including Manila) 146.4 112.9 Depreciation and amortization 360.2 360.4 Interest result 157.5 106.9 Gains/losses from disposals of non-current assets 6.9 – 31.4 Others – 23.2 – 8.9 Effect on profit/loss Manila project (including taxes on income) 0.0 – 121.4 Changes in the measurement of companies accounted for using the equity method – 30.9 4.6 Changes in inventories 8.6 4.9 Changes in receivables and financial assets – 4.1 12.6 Changes in liabilities 66.0 – 10.0 Changes in provisions 8.9 – 21.0 Operating activities 1,056.0 809.9 Financial activities Interest paid – 137.3 – 113.8 Interest received 12.5 10.9 Paid taxes on income (in previous year not including Manila) – 140.5 – 123.8 Cash flow from operating activities 790.7 583.2 Investments in airport operating projects – 1,579.0 – 32.2 Investments for other intangible assets – 9.0 – 6.2 Capital expenditure for property, plant, and equipment – 287.1 – 266.9 Capital expenditure for “Investment property” – 0,2 – 0.7 Capital expenditure in companies accounted for using the equity method – 3.0 0.0 Sale of shares in companies accounted for using the equity method 0.0 40.1 Dividends from companies accounted for using the equity method 3.4 24.5 Dividends from other investments 2.2 0.0 Revenue from disposals and repayments of loans to investments 0.0 57.1 Proceeds from disposal of non-current assets 3.5 4.3 Payments Manila project (including taxes on income) 0.0 138.9 Cash flow used in investing activities excluding investments in cash deposits and securities – 1,869.2 – 41.1 Financial investments in securities and promissory note loans – 68.8 – 129.8 Proceeds from disposal of securities and promissory note loans 182.2 260.6 Decrease/increase of time deposits with a term of more than three months 151.3 – 111.9 Cash flow used in investing activities – 1,604.5 – 22.2 Dividends paid to shareholders of Fraport AG – 138.5 – 124.6 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – 9.1 – 5.7 Capital increase 2.5 2.5 Capital contributions for non-controlling interests 47.1 5.6 Cash inflow from long-term financial liabilities 1,304.9 295.0 Repayment of non-current financial liabilities – 356.3 – 513.7 Other financing activities 48.4 0.0 Changes in current financial liabilities – 19.3 – 6.7 Cash flow from/used in financing activities 879.7 – 347.6 Change in restricted cash – 32.5 0.0 Change in cash and cash equivalents 33.4 213.4 Cash and cash equivalents as at January 1 448.8 230.7 Foreign currency translation effects on cash and cash equivalents – 21.2 4.7 Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 461.0 448.8 88 Key Figures 2017 Compact Consolidated Income Statement in € million 2017 2016 Revenue 2,934.8 2,586.2 Change in work-in-process 0.4 0.4 Other internal work capitalized 36.3 34.9 Other operating income 38.9 332.9 Total revenue 3,010.4 2,954.4 Cost of materials – 720.4 – 621.9 Personnel expenses – 1,092.9 – 1,066.7 Depreciation and amortization – 360.2 – 360.4 Other operating expenses – 193.9 – 211.7 Operating result 643.0 693.7 Interest income 29.0 32.0 Interest expenses – 186.5 – 138.9 Result from companies accounted for using the equity method 30.9 – 4.6 Other financial result – 10.3 -0.8 Financial result – 136.9 – 112.3 Result from ordinary operations 506.1 581.4 Taxes on income – 146.4 – 181.1 Group Result 359.7 400.3 thereof profit attributable to non-controlling interests 29.5 24.9 thereof profit attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 330.2 375.4 Earnings per €10 share in € basic 3.57 4.07 diluted 3.56 4.06 EBIT (= operating result) 643.0 693.7 EBITDA (= EBIT + depreciation and amortization) 1,003.2 1,054.1 2017 Compact Key Figures 89 Key responsible corporate governance figures (marked KPIs correspond to the non-financial performance indicators in the 2017 Group management report) Economic enhancement Area of application Unit 2017 2016 Global satisfaction of passengers FRA site % 85.0 82.0 Baggage connectivity FRA site % 98.5 98.7 Customer Service Index Airlines FRA site % 75.4 1) 77.2 Group Result Group € million 359.7 400.3 ROFRA Group % 10.0 11.4 Net financial debt Group € million 3,512.4 2,355.9 Free cash flow Group € million 393.1 301.7 Frankfurt passengers FRA site million 64.5 60.8 Benefit of implemented ideas FRA site in € 557,133 395,891 Employees 2) Area of application Unit 2017 2016 Employees – total Group 22,024 21,009 of which women Group % 25.0 24.2 Average age Group Years 43.6 43.5 Employee satisfaction 3) Group School grading system 2.87 2.91 Women in management positions 4) Group in % of managers 28.0 30.5 Number of permanent employee Employee turnover Group leavers in % 9.1 10.4 Employees with collective bargaining agreements Group in % of employees 95.8 98.7 Training days Group Days per employee 4.57 2.94 Traineeships Group 360 317 Sickness rate Group % 7.5 7.9 Work accidents per 1,000 employees Group 25.5 24.3 5) in % of relevant jobs Percentage of persons with severe disabilities Group (all employees) 7.9 8.3 Community Area of application Unit 2017 2016 Corporate performance (gross value generation) Group € million 3,084.8 2,934.9 Cost of materials € million 720.4 621.9 Other operating expenses € million 193.9 211.7 Direct value generation € million 2,170.5 2,101.3 Employees € million 1,092.9 1,066.7 Capital expenditure € million 1,878.3 306.0 Shareholders € million 150.1 132.8 State (taxes) € million 140.5 123.8 Lenders (interest) € million 137.2 113.8 Retention (retained generated value) € million – 358.2 Acquisition of concessions € million 1,477.3 – Financing through higher debt € million – 1,228.5 – LOG noise area: Area affected by a Leq of 55 dB(A) day FRA site ha 16,952 – Environment Area of application Unit 2017 2016 Absolute CO2 emissions 6) Group t CO2 209,668 228,389 Absolute CO2 emissions Fraport AG t CO2 190,065 209,257 Relative CO2 emissions Fraport AG kg CO2 per traffic unit 2.2 2.56 Total energy consumption (scopes 1 and 2) Group TJ 2,995.7 3,032.4 Proportion of fully consolidated Group companies with an environmental management system Group % 89.3 7) 95.0 Total water withdrawal Group million m³ 1.873 1.782 Group Liters per traffic unit 16.1 16.2 Waste water Group million m³ 2.432 2.606 Group Liters per traffic unit 20.9 23.8 Waste Group 1,000 metric tons 26.32 25.29 Wildlife strike rate 8) FRA site Number per 10,000 aircraft movements 5.59 – 1) Some change in survey content for flight and terminal services (limited comparability). 2) Reported as per the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (employee figures incl. temporary staff, apprentices, and employees on leave as at December 31). 3) Includes Fraport AG, 12 Group companies at the Frankfurt site, and the Group companies Twin Star and Fraport Slovenija. 4) Includes Fraport AG and the German Group companies. 5) Figure for 2016 adjusted due to new information. 6) Includes Fraport AG and the Group companies GCS, FraGround, Fraport Slovenija, Lima, and Twin Star. 7) Decrease compared to previous year because of the first-time consideration of Fraport Greece. The environmental management system of Fraport Greece is still in the process of expansion. 8) Calculation changed with the introduction of the EU Regulation No. 376/2014. For more information, see page 80. 90 Key Figures 2017 Compact Employees in the Fraport Group Employees of the fully consolidated companies as at the balance sheet date December 31. 2017 2016 Fraport AG 10,747 11,164 Fraport parent company 10,747 11,164 Subsidiaries Media Frankfurt GmbH 49 48 Airport Assekuranz Vermittlungs-GmbH 12 12 Airport Cater Service GmbH 132 137 GCS Gesellschaft für Cleaning Service mbH & Co. Airport 689 657 Flughafen Kanalreinigungsgesellschaft mbH 23 21 FAS GmbH 4 – Air IT Services AG 19 20 FraSec Fraport Security Services GmbH 3,697 3,538 FraGround GmbH (APS Airport Personal Service GmbH) 3,331 3,025 Fraport Passenger Service GmbH 163 118 FraCareServices GmbH 582 448 Fraport Casa GmbH 2 2 FRA-Vorfeldkontrolle GmbH 94 94 Fraport Casa Commercial GmbH 1 1 Fraport Group at Frankfurt site 19,545 19,285 Fraport Peru S.A.C. 8 7 Antalya Havalimani Uluslararasi Isletmeciligi 10 10 Twin Star Airport Management 694 613 Fraport Slovenija 428 399 Lima Airport Partners S.R.L 493 500 Fraport Saudi Arabia (FSA) Ltd. 2 2 Fraport USA Inc. 30 34 Fraport Regional Airports of Greece A S. A. 216 30 Fraport Regional Airports of Greece B S. A. 180 26 Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Management Company S. A. 168 103 Fraport Brasil Porto Alegre 159 – Fraport Brasil Fortaleza 91 – Fraport Brasil Operadores 0 – Fraport Group outside the Frankfurt site 2,479 1,724 Fraport Group total 22,024 21,009 You can find many other key figures in our GRI Report at www.fraport.com/responsibility. 2017 Compact About this Report/Imprint 91 About this Report The “2017 Compact – Gute Reise! We make Fraport respects and supports the ten prinOur reports are published annually in both it happen” report informs our stakeholders ciples of the UN Global Compact, develops German and English, and cover the reporting and the interested public in brief form about and implements actions to implement period from January 1 to December 31 of the economic development of Fraport Group them, and contributes to their recognition, the year concerned. The editorial deadline and its objectives, activities, and progress including beyond the company itself. This for this report was April 2018. The previous relating to responsible corporate goverpublication, alongside the GRI report, is report was published on May 10, 2017. nance.* We publish further information on also used as a progress report relating to our website at www.fraport.de/verantworthe implementation of the ten principles in tung in accordance with the standard of the corporate management. The reports are also * Where the statements made in this document relate to the future rather than the past, these Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in a report the basis and source of our statement of comstatements are based on a number of assumpof our own in the core version of the GRI G4 pliance with the German Sustainability Code. tions about future events and are subject to a guidelines, including the industry-specific number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Fraport AG additional indicators for airport operators. The information in “2017 Compact” covers all Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide and which Group activities, products, and services and could have the effect that the actual results will The selection of the report content is based all companies that are consolidated accorddiffer materially from these statements. These on the regular exchange of views with our ing to the regulations on financial reporting factors include, but are not limited to, the competitive environment in deregulated markets, stakeholders and a comprehensive materialissued by the International Accounting regulatory changes, the success of business ity analysis. In this regard, we have defined Standards Board on the relevant balance operations, and a substantial deterioration in the areas of activity which are significant for sheet date or have significant environmental the underlying economic conditions in the Fraport and positioned them in a materiality effects within this framework. Since it is by far markets in which Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide and its Group companies matrix according to their importance for the largest site of the Group, Frankfurt is the operate. Readers are cautioned not to rely to the stakeholders and the Group. As part of focus of our reporting. You can find detailed an inappropriately large extent on statements a program, Fraport has set objectives and information about our data collection in the made about the future. performance figures for all areas of activity GRI Report. as well as defined measures for achieving the objectives. Imprint Editor Photography Fraport AG Michael Gernhuber, Essen Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide Photo archive, Fraport AG 60547 Frankfurt/Main Germany Printing Telephone: +49 (0) 1806 3724636 1) WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG, Website: www.fraport.com Essen-Kettwig Contact Investor Relations Publication Date Telephone: +49 (0) 69 690-74840 May 2018 Fax: +49 (0) 69 690-74843 Website: www.fraport.com/responsibility Editorial Deadline E-mail: verantwortung@fraport.de April 2018 Concept and Design 1) 20 cents per call from a German landline; heureka GmbH, Essen no more than 60 cents per call from a German mobile. Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide Finance & Investor Relations 60547 Frankfurt/Main www.fraport.com
