Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 Organizational Profile GRI Ref. No. 2.1 Name of the Organization Hinopak Motors Limited Assembly, manufacturing and sales of Hino Trucks and 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Buses and Sales of Hino Genuine Parts. Operational structure of the organization, Hinopak is a subsidiary concern of Hino Motors Limited 2.3 including main divisions, operating Japan and Toyota Tsusho Corporation. companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Karachi, Pakistan Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5 major operations or that are specifically One (Pakistan) relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Public Limited Company The company serves markets of Pakistan and some of the Middle East & African countries. Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Types of customers include: customers/beneficiaries). 1. Institutional customers 2. Commercial customers Number of Employees as on March 31, 2018 = 371 (978 including contract and contractor’s employees) For following refer to Annual Report 2014-15 available at: http://www.hinopak.com/finance.htm  Net sales (2017-18) = Rs. 26.6 billion 2.8 Scale of the organization  Total capitalization = Rs. 5.3 billion (0% Debt, Surplus funds)  Quantity of Products Produced (2017-18) Hino Chassis (including exports): 4,310 Bus and other specialized bodies (including export): 478 Hilux Frame: 10,328 Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 None period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 1. EFP/ILO 13th OHS Best Practices Award in Processing & Allied Sector Awards / citations received during the 2.10 2. Horticultural Society of Pakistan/Annual Award reporting period 2018 ISO 14001:2004 Certified Management Systems ISO 9001:2008 Certified OHSAS 18001:2007 Certified Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP) Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce & Industry (OICCI) Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) Management Association of Pakistan (MAP) Affiliations / Memberships Pakistan Automotive Manufacturers Association (PAMA) S.I.T.E. Association Pakistan Japan Business Forum (PJBF) Pakistan Society for Training & Development (PSTD) Marketing Association of Pakistan Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC) Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 1 June 2017 ~ 31 May 2018 1. UNGC Communication on Progress (COP): 16 June 2017 3.2 Date of most recent previous report/s 2. Annual Report 2017-18 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 1 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 Ahsan Waseem Akhtar Deputy Divisional Head HR, Admin & HSE ahsan-waseem@hinopak.com Nabila Mujahid Faisal Contact point for questions regarding the Manager Health, Safety & Environment 3.4 report or its contents nabila-mujahid@hinopak.com Sabira Agha Executive HRD & OD sabira-agha@hinopak.com Governance, Commitments and Engagement Board of Directors (Highest Governance Body) Board Committees: The Audit Committee is responsible for: a. Determination of appropriate measures to safeguard company’s assets; b. Review of quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Company, prior to the approval of the Board of Directors; c. Review of management letter issued by external auditors and management’s response thereto and monitor the action plan to improve the control environment; d. Review of the scope and extent of internal audit and ensuring that the internal audit function has adequate resources and is appropriately placed within the Company; e. Ascertaining that the internal control system including financial and operational controls, accounting system and reporting structure are Governance structure of the organization, adequate and effective; including committees under the highest f. Instituting special projects, other investigations on 4.1 governance body responsible for specific any matter specified by the Board of Directors, and tasks, such as setting strategy or to refer any matter to the external auditors or to any organizational oversight. other external body; g. Monitoring compliance with relevant statutes and best practices of corporate governance. The Human Resource & Remuneration Committee is responsible for: a. Recommending human resource management policies to the board; b. Recommending to the board the selection, evaluation, compensation (including retirement benefits) and succession planning of the CEO; c. Recommending to the board the selection, evaluation, compensation (including retirement benefits) of CFO, Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit; and d. Considering and approving on recommendations of CEO on such matters for key management positions who report directly to CEO. Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 for details on the BOD and the Audit Committee. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Chairman (Non-Executive Director) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 4.3 members of the highest governance body that The Board of Directors has 9 members; where 6 are nonare independent and/or non-executive executive directors. members. Shareholders: Annual General Meeting (AGM) Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to Employees: the highest governance body. Suggestion Boxes (located at conspicuous places around the company premises) 2 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Commitment: Hinopak Motors Limited is committed to respecting Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. and protecting the dignity of people in all its areas of operations. All stakeholders are assured of sincere efforts to uplift conditions with regard to health and safety, provide sound labour-management relations and participate in human resource/community development. Furthermore, Hinopak is committed to avoiding complicity of human rights abuses in all its areas of operation. Picture 1: Group Photo on 8th Health & Safety Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Conference Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the Human Rights principles: A. HEALTH & SAFETY SYSTEMS  Healthy & Safe Working Environment Picture 2: Health Awareness Session on “Chikungunya Its Cause & Control” 6,315 training man-hours achieved under staff and Stake Holders training on Health, Safety & Environment Issues. Two Health & Safety Conference was held in May and November, 2017, in order to motivate workers to build & enhance safety culture in HPML. (ref picture 1) HSE department had arranged a Health Awareness Session for workers on “Chikungunya Its Cause & Picture 3: HSE Department arranged a Medical Control” with the collaboration of 'Dr. Essa camp in both plants for Eye & Diabetic test. Laboratory. (ref picture 2) In collaboration with “PAKISTAN EYE BANK SOCIETY” (PEBS) HSE department arranged a medical camp in HPML for workers and management staff. (Around 640 employees were facilitated in this activity). The medical camp includes the facility of:  Eye Testing Picture 4: Safety orientation With collaboration of  Testing of Diabetes & Hepatitis (ref picture 3) Supply Chain for our HPML vendors in DOJO. To promote the HPML safety culture, HSE department has started safety orientation program in DOJO for all vendors and dealers with Supply chain & Customer support Division. In FY2017-18, around 751 stake holders participated. (ref picture 4) Announced mock drills held for both manufacturing facilities and the head office staff to assess Picture 5: Mock Drill By Fire department 3 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights organizational readiness to cope with emergencies. ERP teams include rescue, firefighting, spill etc (ref picture 5) To raise knowledge, awareness and skills amongst school students about road safety issues, road safety awareness session titled “Hino Aagahi” was conducted at S.I.T.E. Model School. Total 100 students and 4 teachers participated in this program (ref picture 6) Picture 6: Road Safety Awareness Session in school  Monitoring & Awareness Top management conducted monthly Safety Gemba in both plants in order to check safety issues and to show their commitment towards safety. (ref picture 7) HSE team also conducted comprehensive Safety Picture 7: Top Mgmt. Safety Gemba Gemba of each shop in both plants in order to minimize risk factors at work place. Daily monitoring and morning awareness session by safety administrative team (SAT) is one of the factor in improving safety culture at HPML. (ref picture 8) SAT member’s highlight safety issues on daily basis. They send Daily Safety Reports (DSR) to concern for taking proper actions. All Accident reports received from HML Japan are Picture 8: Awareness sessions & Morning shared with the concerned dept. SAT Members also meeting by SAT team. conduct one time inspections. Before any kind of non-routine job in HPML premises HSE team inspect third party tools, equipment’s work area and conduct safety awareness session regarding their work. (ref picture 9) During FY 2017~2018, No major but 2 minor accidents were reported. (ref picture 10) From April 2017 till Mar 2018, a total of 1986, Picture 9: HSE team is giving Safety awareness to Workers Feedback Cards were received out which third party contract workers at VPS. 1804 have been rectified. 20 Accident Details 2011~17 B. TOTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT 10 8 11  Continuous Improvement 4 6 5 0 2 2 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2017-18 MAJOR MINOR Kaizen initiatives, involving manufacturing and nonmanufacturing functions, being implemented and Picture 10: Occupational Accident Trend monitored and are also participated by top management. Kaizen meetings are held periodically. 4 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Recertification of Quality Management System ISO 9001:2008 successfully completed this year. C. EMPLOYEES  Labour-Management Relations 9 laptops were distributed amongst permanent workers through lucky draw in order to serve the Picture 11: Laptop Distribution commitment of continual computer literacy of workers and their children. (ref picture 11). Nine employees (7 workers and 2 officers) were sponsored ($2,126/each; 90% of the total amount) for their religious pilgrimage (Hajj) in 2017. Identification of the recipient workmen and officers under this scheme was also through lucky draw. No strike or cessation in work or loss of work hours due to strike, go-slow or lockout reported during the reporting year. Picture 12: Vendor’s Convention 2017  Security & Safety Security measures around the company (for all local and foreign employees) tightened owing to the security concerns confronting the city. A complete ‘Security Guidelines’ document has been prepared detailing step by step guidance on security management. On the directives of our principal, a policy on data security / confidentiality management has been prepared along with a detailed guide book for day to day reference for employees. To ensure and promote road safety among our employees, use of seat belts in cars and safety helmets / side-view mirrors for motorbikes is being encouraged. D. STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION & ENGAGEMENT  Supplier/Contractor/Vendor Engagement Vendor’s Convention was held on 13th December, 2017 and was attended by 102 representatives from 88 vendor companies. (ref picture 12). Awareness programs on ‘Workplace Safety’ organized for vendors on regular basis. 5 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights  Education / Community Development & Welfare This year 152 workers’ children were recognized for their academic achievement through scholarships and a certain amount for course books. The children ranged from grade three to graduation level. The students of Mehran University of Engineering & Technology were provided support in their study Before project title 'Implementation of Industrial Management Tools at Warehouse'. SITE Model School (which was earlier renovated by Hinopak in 2008) children were continued to be given assistance from Hinopak. Whitewash and renovation work was done at the SITE Model School in March 2018. (ref. picture 13) Medicines costing $130/were provided to Hinopak After Community Health Centre (HCHC). Picture 13: Paint & Renovation in school 10 NED University engineering scholars (belonging to Mechanical, Industrial & Manufacturing and Automotive technologies) were given scholarships this year as tuition fee. Poster Competition was held to highlight importance of Safety in our daily routine. 50 students and at least 20 employees were engaged in the activity. (ref. picture 14) Free medical camps and awareness programs were organized in various schools and less-privileged areas Picture 14: Poster Competition of Karachi in collaboration with Pakistan Eye Bank Society. (ref. picture 15) Free Computer Course was conducted for Government school students in less privileged area. To support literacy at doorstep of poor children of our society who have no other place for learning, school bus of Citizen Education Development Foundation was completely repaired and renovated. (60% expense was borne by Hinopak Motors Picture 15: Free Medical camp Limited). (ref. picture 16) This year again medical expenses of Darul Sukun (Center for Disabled Children) were born by Hinopak Motors throughout the year. On the occasion of Independence Day of Pakistan, Hinopak organized an event dedicated to orphans and special children (physically and mentally disabled) at Darul Sukun. Picture 16: Free Computer Course 6 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights E. CODE OF CONDUCT  Code of Conduct Adherence The Whistle Blowing Committee regularly meets to check compliance to the code of conduct through the whistle blowing procedure. The J-SOX Audit was successfully completed for this year ensuring fair and transparent corporate governance. Newly inducted employees oriented to the code of conduct during the company-wide orientation program.  Credo, Mission, Values, Practice Training on company’s values – The Hino Spirit – is conducted for newly hired employees. Planned Initiatives for the Coming Years (under principles 1 and 2): Kaizen, Quality Circle, Housekeeping trophies and challenges; Review of the Code of Conduct to make it more detailed and comprehensive. Awareness sessions on Human Rights protection for Hinopak Vendors. 7 Hinopak Motors Limited Labour Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Commitment:  We uphold freedom of association and the right of workers to Principle 4: the elimination collective bargaining. of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  We are committed to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour in all areas of our or business partners' operations. Principle 5: the effective  We prohibit engagement, in any form, of child labour in all areas of abolition of child labour; and our business operations or our business partners' operations. Principle 6: the elimination of  We advocate equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion discrimination in respect of in employment and occupation and prohibit any form of employment and occupation. discrimination in employment terms and conditions. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the four principles on ‘Labour’: A. INDUSTRIAL & EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Picture 17: 32nd Anniversary  Freedom of Association Hinopak workers are represented by a registered Labor Union, namely Hinopak Motors Limited Employees Union, existing since the company's pre-Japanese ownership from 1969. Current membership to-date is 154, represented by the Collective Bargaining Agent.  Collective Bargaining as a Tool for Addressing Working Conditions, Terms and Employment and Relations Six trust building meetings were held during the reporting year which was attended by representatives from the labour union (mostly CBA officials) and representatives from the management.  Engagement & Participation During the reporting year 9,593 training man-hours were achieved for training and awareness activities of workers (technical & nontechnical courses – including training of apprentices). Hinopak celebrated its 32nd anniversary on 2nd February, 2018 at Chassis Assembly Plant. All Management and non-management employees were invited in cake cutting ceremony to celebrate the occasion. (ref picture 17) 8 Hinopak Motors Limited Labour B. ERADICATION OF CHILD LABOUR  Underage Hiring Prevention Process We continue to follow the under-age employment clause of the Factories Act 1934 for our workers and apprentices. We have no record of underage employee/apprentice; youngest apprentice on board is 18 years old (minimum age is 14 years old according to Apprenticeship Rules 1966 (Sindh).  Vendor / Contractor Evaluation and Engagement Non-employment of child labor is ensured/checked through our ‘Internal Vendor Evaluation Report’ (refer pictures 18-A/18-B). Hinopak employees interacting with vendors/contractors and visiting their premises are to report any observation of engaging child labor. Picture 18-A: Front Page of the Vendor Evaluation Report C. EMPLOYEES  Workforce Diversity Refer to GRI Indicator LA1 for Workforce profile (including workers).  Gender Harassment Program Gender Harassment Program under act “The Protection against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act 2010” had been implemented successfully. Committee of 3 members had been formed for catering to harassment cases. Picture 18-B: Page 5 of the Vendor Evaluation Report including the area of 'Welfare / Environment' 9 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake Commitment: initiatives to promote greater environmental  We take precautionary approach in meeting environmental responsibility; and challenges in all areas of operations; we are committed to Principle 9: Business should encourage the avoiding and mitigating negative impact of all our activities development and diffusion of on the environment. environmentally friendly technologies.  Guided by our mission and social responsibility principles, we are committed to promoting environmentally responsible thinking within the Hinopak family, marked by sincere demonstration of better environmental-friendly practices. We strive to increase our sphere of influence beyond our company by including all other stakeholders and ensure greater positive impact.  We are committed to the adoption of environment-friendly technologies that reduce environment impact from our products and day-to-day operations. We ensure effective environment risk management and compliance across all our business activities, from product design/development to product sale. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the three principles on ‘Environment’: A. Environment Management Systems  Leadership Guidance & Legal Compliance  HPML fully complied with applicable legal and other requirements. No complaint received from Neighbors related with Odor, Noise, and other Environmental issues.  We are complying with the following regulations under ‘THE SINDH ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT, 2014’. E PA/ T E CH/ 7 3 9 / 2 0 1 4 (Sind Environmental Quality Standards (Self-Monitoring and Reporting by Industry) Rules-2014), S.R.O. 72 (KE) 2009 (NEQS for Motor Vehicles Exhaust and Noise), S.R.O. 1062(I)/2010 (NEQS for Ambient Air), S.R.O. 1063(1)/2010 (NEQS for drinking Water Quality), S.R.O. 1064(1)/2010 (NEQS For Noise), S.R.O 549(I)/2000 (NEQS for Municipal & Liquid Industrial Effluents)/ (NEQS for Industrial Gaseous Emissions.),EPA/TECH/739/2014 (Initial environmental examination & Env. Impact Assessment), EPA/TECH/739/2014 (Handling of Hazardous substances). 10 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment Environmental Key parameters such as (energy consumption, material discard, and water conservation) are reported to HML, Japan on monthly basis.  Maintenance & Monitoring A comprehensive study is conducted on yearly basis to identify and evaluate Environmental & Safety Risks involved in our business processes, products and services. Picture 19: OHS Best Practices Award Based on the scientific method, their severity is then calculated and appropriate action programs are set to control these high risks through ERIC-P approach. Analysis of Air Emissions from combustion stacks, generators, engines, exhaust emissions, noise monitoring and ambient air are done on predefined intervals.  Auditing, Certifications & Awards Surveillance Audits against both OHSAS 18001:2007 Standard and ISO 14001 were held by Bureau Veritas to verify our management systems. As required by Factories Act-1934, Inspection of Hoists, Cranes, Fork Lifters and other lifting equipment’s were carried out in both CAP & BMP by Bureau Veritas for fitness certificate HPML has participated in OHS best practice award among companies, organized by Employers Federation of Pakistan (in Collaboration with ILO). For FY-2017-18, the company got 2nd position in the Allied sector category. (ref picture 19)  Hazardous Substance Control All hazardous substances/ waste are disposed-off in environmental friendly manner according to EPA/TECH/739/2014 (Handling of Hazardous substances). Hazardous substance includes Asbestos, Hazardous waste include Degreasing Sludge, Paint Sludge, Batteries, Hazardous Material Effective Gloves, Paint Booth Filter, FRP Waste, Printer Cartridge, infectious Material Disposal, WWTP Sludge, Transformer oil and Used E/G Oil. New Chemical passes through Chlorinated Organic Compound (COC) assessment before entering Hinopak premises. Any chemical containing this substance is carcinogenic in nature and is included in TOYOTA Banned Material List. 11 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment  Communication, Awareness, Training  Keeping our pledge for “Zero Sai”, ‘Safety Dojo Center’ was established few years ago. ‘Dojo’ is a Japanese name for a training center. This training center is equipped with 10 Safety Simulators which were fabricated inPicture 20: MD, DMD & Director production are house. Employees used to learn about hazards and planting trees on the occasion of World Environment Day (5th June) importance of obeying safe working rules via simulators on ‘Usage of Hard Helmet, Safety Shoes, Importance of Earthing, Slip/Trip hazards, Use of Hand Rails, Protection against Rotating Machines, Fall from Height hazards, to name some.  The environmental performance of plants is reported on an annual basis through our annual report.  We celebrate June as Environment Month and submit comprehensive report to Hino Motors Limited, Environmental Division in mid-July. Key parameters are Picture 21A: Tree plantation & cleaning activity at monitored and reported to Hino Motors Ltd., Japan different Schools Environmental Division on monthly basis.  June Month Activities: As per our normal practice, HPML observed June Month as Environment Month. Top management showed their commitment towards Environmental Conservation through Symbolic Tree Plantation activity, held at Head Office on 5th June. (ref picture 20) Picture21B: Celebration of “World water day” (22 HSE department had also prepared different March’18) with Site Model School students environmental Posters / banners that have been displayed at different locations in both CAP and BMP. Beside June Month we had also celebrated “World water day” & “World Earth day” with School students at their premises. This year we have targeted to aware our new generation. We have organized awareness sessions, poster competition, tree plantation and cleaning activity at different schools. (ref picture 21A/21B/21C) Picture 21C: Celebration of “World Earth Day” in a This year 2017-18. We planted 1200 plants. Govt. School  Environmental Posters and Banners were displayed throughout HPML. 12 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment  Stop Global Warming Our target for this year (2017~18) was ▼1% CO2 reduction with respect to Year 2016~17.Currently we are ▼2.1 % ahead from the target of CO2 that is 497.5 Kg/unit. We are at 487.1 Kg/unit. We are continuously decreasing our energy usage by adopting several strategies regarding energy conservation. These include: Installation of LED Lights in Offices. To maintain temperature up to 26ºC for air conditioners. To utilize sunlight where possible to maintain the appropriate light levels. To switch off the LCDs / monitors when not on seat. To minimize the energy consumption of compressor by removing air leakages. To minimize gas & electricity consumption by placing third frame on IMV frame trolley. To minimize electricity consumption by placing of control switch at PTED Facility. Controlling of unnecessary light at offices and plants. Louvers replaced with glass window (Energy saving FRP and window shop Ongoing project). Minimization of energy consumption of compressor by removing air leakages. Installation of energy meters to monitor the energy consumption reading in different areas of plant. Every year, we conduct air and water leakage inspections to identify seepages and take appropriate actions to mitigate the problems. Moreover, equipment and machineries are constantly checked / maintained via preventive maintenance to ensure efficiency. B. Environmental Responsibility Guidelines  Hino Credo – Corporate Mission, CSR Charter, Hino Spirit Hino Motors' mission statement explicitly indicates environmental responsibility: To make the world a better place to live in by helping people and goods get where they need to gosafely, economically and with environmental responsibilitywhile focusing on sustainable development. Hino's CSR Chapter reiterates this commitment… We strive to provide products that are safe and environmentally-friendly, pursuing a responsible balance with the environment in all of our corporate activities. Hino Spirit enjoins all employees to practice the Spirit of Contribution – where it further elaborates that With a 13 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment deep respect for all people, we approach our work with openness and honesty, and a true dedication to fulfilling our social responsibilities. Our employees are trained on the Hino Spirit principles. C. Environment-friendly Technology  Manufacturing Vehicles that Burn Cleaner Fuels and Emit Less Fuel Euro-II engine technology fitted in some Hino products, despite the absence of local regulations on the same Figure 22: A picture from free service camp mainly because of absence of clean fuel.  Use of Environment-Friendly Parts / Raw Material Use of environment-friendly gas R-134a & R-404a for air conditioning of buses and refrigeration of trucks is ensured. We monitored and reduced use of diesel in our generator sets and other machinery used for production processes. Quality of fuel, lubricants and other components are being checked by standard specification.  Environmental-friendly Processes Production/Manufacturing processes reviewed regularly. For proper maintenance of vehicles, Hinopak provides authorized service stations/workshops. Paint sludge, FRP and glass wool incineration are done by third party to reduce hazardous waste. D. Disaster Recovery Management and Capability Enhancement  Disaster Management and Recovery A complete risk assessment was performed this year to assess human and capital risks associated natural calamities especially earthquake followed by a comprehensive emergency response plan in case of natural disaster. E. Stakeholder Engagement  Promotion of Vehicle Maintenance for Environmental Preservation Through free service and tune-up camps Hinopak promoted culture of vehicle maintenance among Hino customers and users. Proper and timely maintenance of vehicles ensures fewer emissions of harmful gases. (ref picture 22) 14 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should Anti-Corruption work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment:  We support the anti-corruption principle and are committed to continue our 'no-tolerance' policy to any corruption practice. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the four principles on ‘Anti-Corruption’: A. Ethical Guidelines  UNGC Subscription Hinopak is very vocal about its UNGC subscription and commitment Picture 23: Whistle Blowing Procedure to all 10 principles. This commitment is communicated through publications, press releases, presentations, displays, annual report, COP report etc.  Hinopak Code of Conduct Our basic Code of Conduct is still under revision to make it more comprehensive and explicit, as per the observation of the board of directors. However, Principles 2, 3, 8 and 11 are clear on our pledge to work against anti-corruption practices. The Code of Conduct was circulated again among all management employees to reiterate the standards of ethics presented in the Code. Orientation of new hires includes briefing on basic Code of Conduct, Picture 24: Whistle Blowing Form Whistle Blowing procedure and the UNGC's principles. The code of conduct is displayed on conspicuous places (e.g. notice boards) for our non-management staff. Same has been translated in Urdu for better comprehension and understanding of workers.  Hinopak Whistle Blowing System The Whistle Blowing Committee (WBC), leading in the oversight of our anti-corruption commitment, meets monthly as minimum requirement (ref. pictures 23/24/25). Similar to the previous years, during 2017-18 employees sent in their suggestions/grievances through the Whistle Blowing procedure and/or suggestion box. Accordingly, our MD/Chairman Whistle Blowing Committee addressed our employees' concerns. Picture 25: Suggestion box located at the Head Office entrance 15 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption  Hino Credo, Mission, CSR Charter Trust is invoked twice in the Hino Credo containing overall company mission, core principle and CSR charter, whereby complying with laws and regulations and maintaining high ethical standards is a major focus. As indicated by our CSR charter which forms a part of the Hino Credo reflects on our commitment to good corporate citizenship, comply with laws and regulations and maintain high ethical standards.  Hino Spirit Hino Spirit is a set of 6 key corporate values emanated from our principal Hino Motors, Japan. The new Hinopak family members were trained on Hino Spirit (corporate values) year. B. Risk Assessment System  J-SOX Internal Control Framework guides Hinopak in following the J-SOX (Japan's version of Sarbanes-Oxley Act). During the reporting year fourteen (14) reportings were done on JSOX covering areas on financial reporting, ITGC, and control environment. Three (3) internal audits were conducted within period April 2017 to March 2018 and two follow-up reviews were held. For this reporting year, internal controls / value additions were provided in the following areas:  Review on HR Manual  Selection & Evaluation of vendors/suppliers in progress  Controls over inventory (stock check twice a year) For the reporting year, Hinopak's MD/CEO again declared compliance with the J-SOX requirements in a report sent to our principal in Japan.  Audit Committee An independent Audit Committee ensures monitoring of compliance activities. All five out of five members of the Committee are nonexecutive directors. Newly appointed chairman of the Audit Committee in an independent member of the board of directors. The independent audit committee reports directly to the Board of Directors. 16 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption  Corporate Governance / Compliance External auditors publicly attested Hinopak's financial reporting integrity as contained in our Annual Report 2017-181. Hinopak's MD/CEO publicly affirmed compliance with corporate governance regulations as indicated in our Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2018. Other compliances: SECP’s Code of Corporate Governance, Stock Exchange regulations, International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Companies Ordinance 1984 and other taxation laws, etc.  Process Improvement Continuous process improvement activity is underway through ‘Business Process Reengineering’ objective mostly driven by automation of various processes to minimize human error and risks. Improvements underway through the implementation of Oracle R12 (replaced with previous version R11i).  Vendor Pre-qualification Our vendors are subjected to a pre-qualification assessment through the Initial Vendor Evaluation Report before they are inducted as business partners. Tender bids are opened in the presence of internal auditor to make the process transparent. 1 Available on our website http://www.hinopak.com/finance.htm 17 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators GRI G3.1 Performance Indicators Human Rights Ref. Number Performance Indicator Performance HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, All significant vendors and contractors undergo Human contractors and other business partners that Rights screening (both at the time of induction and have undergone human rights screening, and during the service tenure) actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination None and corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers None identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers Suppliers: None* identified as having significant risk for Vendors: 100%** incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of * Due to the nature of the procurement process through child labor. suppliers currently in effect ** Vendors are assessed through the ‘vendor evaluation report’; ensuring no significant risks for incidents of child labour which is evaluated / ensured by regular visits by our team to the vendor’s premises. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations None involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations 100% company processes confirm with the human that have been subject to human rights rights requirements and the standards set forth by The reviews and/or impact assessments. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Note: Comprehensive internal and third party external audits of company systems (e.g. J-SOX, ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 etc.) all endorse compliance with the set standards, including human rights. HR11 Number of grievances related to human None rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Note: The grievances reported / filed through the formal grievance mechanism relate to other areas of operations but not human rights. Labour LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering formal joint management–worker health and Committee: safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety General Secretary of CBA is a member of this committee programs. and the General Secretary represents 100% workers (contractor’s workers/permanent workers) to review compliance with the company policies relating to occupational HSE. 18 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, 3,315 OHS training man-hours were achieved during the and risk-control programs in place to assist reporting year. workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious Training and education of the workforce on risks diseases. associated with their concerned section/ shops. Moreover, different health programs held to identify medical issues associated with employees. Some of the programs include: Comprehensive Medical Tests of Chemical Handlers and their appropriate treatments. Medical Tests of Plant/ Admin Drivers, including Eye Testing, ECG, and CPC. Medical tests are conducted for Food Handlers to identify whether they are suffering from any contiguous disease. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, and Total workforce: 978* employment contract, broken down by Non-management contract / contractor’s employees: gender 530 (all males) Non-management permanent: 164 (all males) Apprentices: 29 (1 female, 28 males) Management contract: 48 (males= 47, females= 01) Management permanent**: 207 (males= 197, females= 10) Pakistani Nationals: 972 (females= 12, males= 960) Japanese Expats: 6 (all males) * As on May 31, 2018 ** Including top management LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires 2013-14 * and employee turnover by age group, Total Hires: 09 where females= 0, males= 9 gender, and region. Total Separations: 15 where female= 1, males= 14 2014-15 * Total Hires: 20 where females= 0, males= 20 Total Separations: 17 where female=0, males= 17 2015-16 * Total Hires: 8 where females= 0, males=8 Total Separations: 10 where female=3, males= 7 2016-17 * Total Hires: 8 where females= 0, males=8 Total Separations: 9 where female=0, males= 9 2017-18 * Total Hires: 12 where females= 0, males= 12 Total Separations: 7 where female=0, males= 7 *Data for management staff only. 19 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Males*= 100%, Females*= 100% parental leave, by gender. *Reporting period: June 2017 ~ May 2018 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 15% collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Followed as per the requirement of applicable laws and operational changes, including whether it is terms of employment specified in collective agreements. LA10 Average hours of training per year per Management Employees: 62 (males and females) employee by gender, and by employee Non-management Employees: 35 (all males) category. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Board of Directors: All males; 9 Japanese, 2 Pakistani breakdown of employees per employee nationals. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, The following practices relating to customer satisfaction including results of surveys measuring are in place: customer satisfaction. 1. Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Survey; done annually. 2. “Knocking the Door Project”; done monthly to visit customers at their door step. 3. Routine service camps 4. Training of Hino customers and drivers Economic EC4 Significant financial assistance received from None government. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure The following amount was expanded by the Company investments and services provided primarily (since 2008) for public benefit: for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or probono engagement. Year Actual Spending (PKR) 2008-09 7,164,000 2009-10 1,024,000 2010-11 838,000 2011-12 1,023,000 2012-13 2,855,000 2013-14 1,597,250 2014-15 24,766,000 2015-16 3,936,000 2016-17 5,696,000 2017-18 4,480,285 Details on impact assessment mentioned in Human Rights-Stakeholders Participation & Engagement. Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8900 kg approx. per unit (for our standard bus model) 20 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 1971 kg energy consumption during for production energy source. process. Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business 100% Divisions (currently nine) have been assessed for units analyzed for risks related to risks related to corruption. corruption. The Audit Committee, headed by the BOD chairman, is responsible for periodic reporting on such risks to the Board of Directors. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of No incidents of corruption have been reported to date. corruption. SO8 Monetary values of significant fines and None total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 21
