ENTEC INTERNATIONAL Communication On Progress Submitted in October 2018 Communication On Progress: October 2018 CEO Statement : We are pleased to confirm that ENTEC International reaffirms its support to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. We are proud to participate in the United Nation Global Compact, a call to companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles on Human rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. The United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) As the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, the Global Compact is concerned with demonstrating and building the social legitimacy of business and markets. “In an address to the World Economic Forum on 31 January 1999, United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan challenged business leaders to join an international initiative – the UN Global Compact – that would bring companies together with UN agencies, international labour organisations and civil society to support universal environmental and social principles.” Entec joined this purely voluntary initiative in 2016, with the willingness to implement a culture of a responsible corporate citizenship throughout the scope of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. We also support the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by committing to monitor them in a continuous improvement methodology, at each level of our day to day activities. In 2018, Entec decides to reinforce its support to the UN Global Compact and more broadly to the United Nation objectives, such as the Sustainable Development Goals, by joining the UNGC Network UK. Communication On Progress: October 2018 The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. They are spread out in four main categories: ▪ HUMAN RIGHTS ▪ LABOUR STANDARDS ▪ ENVIRONMENT ▪ ANTI-CORRUPTION Communication On Progress: October 2018 Statement of Support to the UNGC “Entec understand that corporate sustainability starts with our company’s value system and having a principled approach to doing business. In practical terms this means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet our fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. As a responsible business we must enact the same values and principles wherever we have a presence, be that a company or local staff, and we know that good practice in Mike Robinson CEO one area does not offset harm in another. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into our strategies, policies and procedures, and by establishing a culture of integrity with our staff, Entec companies are not only upholding their basic responsibilities to the people we interact with and our environment, we are setting out to ensure we deliver compliant long-term success”. About us Based in the heart of the UK, Entec International has become one of the world’s leading authorities on MRO and indirect spend category spend, supply chain and inventory management (3PMRO), offering a professionally managed single source, multiple supplier procurement process, with global reach. Entec International manage complex supply chains, for some of the world’s largest manufacturers, in over 70 different shipping destinations. Our client base includes customers in the food and beverage packaging industries, oil, gas production, textile processing sectors and mining & minerals. Entec 3PMRO value proposition delivers best cost, by leveraging global scale; Reduced Co2 emissions, through consolidated global logistics and optimized MRO stock, improving clients operational cash flow. Communication On Progress: October 2018 ENTEC COMMITMENTS TO THE 10 UNGC’s PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Entec Management will always review these principles in their dealings with staff and clients, they should ask themselves 4 key questions during negotiations: 1) Is what I propose fair and considerate of those I work with? 2) In what I propose likely to create hardship or enforce illegal labour practices through my negotiations? 3) Is what I propose likely to reduce or add to waste and carbon emissions? 4) Have I been clear that no inducement or personal benefit has been offered, in what I propose? Communication On Progress: October 2018 THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (or Global Goals for Sustainable Development) are a collection of 17 global goals set by the United Nations General Assembly. The SDGs are part of Resolution 70/1 of the United Nations General Assembly: Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Sustainable Development Goals are a call to all countries and organizations, lucrative or non-lucrative, regardless or their size or incomes to promote prosperity, tackle poverty and preserve environmental resources. By being a UNGC Network member, Entec is already contributing to support and apply some of the SDG’s throughout its organization and is encouraging all of its partners to engage into it and to promote this initiative across their own scope. The formalization of these 17 SDGs constitutes for Entec a real opportunity of self-assessment and delivers the route to follow for the achievement of measurable progress. Communication On Progress: October 2018 ENVIRONMENT A high percentage of the firm’s business serving blue-chip companies is conducted in Africa, which according to Pollution & Waste Management magazine, has the “particularity of being the second most polluted continent on the planet”, largely due to inadequate waste management infrastructure. As a result, Entec International has implemented a zero plastic packaging policy at its Midlands based warehouse in the UK, stripping out all plastic packaging from incoming products and replacing with biodegradable alternatives before shipping overseas to clients. A short video has been self-produced to summarize our action in favor of tackling plastic wastes and share best practices. It is available for watching on our web-site on the link below: http://www.entec-int.com/entec-removes-plastic-packaging-from-supplychains-to-africa/ Chris Syner, Managing Director : “We have been doing business in Africa for almost 30 years, most of the plastic pollution we see originates from outside the continent, so we felt that removing this plastic from our shipments was something we could do that was both ethically and environmentally responsible and also puts something back into a continent in which we’ve built a very successful business.” *Some examples of the waste stream being captured by Entec for recycling treatment Communication On Progress: October 2018 Waste Recycling More broadly and in addition to the “zero plastic policy” which has been implemented throughout our main Birmingham warehouse in 2018, Entec has committed to recycle all its industrial wastes by signing a partnership with one of the waste management industries world leaders. Waste collection facilities for industrial and wood waste have been set up on site and collected periodically. Entec will be kept informed of the recycling usage of its waste stream and figures will be monitored and communicated to our stakeholders within an annual statement. *Wood waste *General waste collection container collection container Communication On Progress: October 2018 HUMAN RIGHT & LABOUR STANDARDS ➢ We are an equal opportunities employer and do not discriminate on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age. ➢ Those working at a management level have a specific responsibility to set an appropriate standard of behaviour, to lead by example and to ensure that those they manage adhere to the policies and procedures and promote our aims and objectives with regard to equal opportunities. ➢ We are committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all staff and job applicants. We aim to create a working environment in which all individuals are able to make best use of their skills, free from discrimination or harassment, and in which all decisions are based on merit. ➢ The company provides each employee with corporate work wear suitable for all seasons. Employees are given the option to wear their corporate work wear on a day to day basis. ➢ The principles of non-discrimination and equality of opportunity also apply to the way in which staff treat visitors, clients, customers, suppliers and former staff members. Communication On Progress: October 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION ➢ It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. ➢ We will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. However, we remain bound by the laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act 2010, in respect of our conduct both at home and abroad. The purpose of this policy is to: (a) Set out our responsibilities, and of those working for us, in observing and upholding our position on bribery and corruption; and (b) Provide information and guidance to those working for us on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues. 2019 Plans: Entec are engaged in several local regional and global supply projects which have the potential to reduce the number of air and sea freight shipments made weekly to our global clients. Entec will work with industry and specialist bodies to calculate and report c02 reduction through these optimised ways of working. ENTEC INTERNATIONAL LTD October 2018 Communication On Progress: October 2018
