SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability Approach SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE CEO CCI AT A 02 ABOUT THE REPORT GLANCE 01 04 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS AWARDS RECEIVED 08 10 SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 12 EXTERNAL CORPORATE RECOGNITION GOVERNANCE INTEGRATING 13 AND ETHICS SUSTAINABILITY 25 14 102-45; 102-46; 102-48; 102-50; 102-53; 102-56 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 1 ABOUT THE REPORT CCI’s 10th sustainability report shares report on how we incorporate Structure our practices and performance the United Nations Women results obtained during the Empowerment Principles (WEPs). The year 2017 was a transition period between January 1 and period for sustainability practices December 31, 2017 for six of the 10 Verification at CCI. In our efforts to update our operating countries: Turkey, Jordan, 2025 Road map and our reporting Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan For the seventh consecutive year, approach, we changed the report and Kyrgyzstan. Please note that ‘CCI certain data in this report were structure to reflect the value we Operating Geography’, ‘Summary independently audited. The create for our stakeholders. To of Financials’ and ‘Key Financial and GHG emissions of CCI Turkey further enhance the reporting Operating Indicators’ include all Operations’ manufacturing, sales practice, we developed our reporting operating countries. and distribution operations for approach that illustrates “our 2017 were audited, as in the last pledge to create value” through CCI The coverage of the report reached five years, by a third-party auditing operations in line with our 2025 87% of CCI’s total production organization, and verified in sustainability vision and strategies. volume and 85% of CCI’s employees accordance with the International as of December 31, 2017. In Organization for Standardization’s This year, we prepared three full order to meet the information ISO 14064-3 2006 Standard as sections that represent our different disclosure requirements of various meeting the requirements of ISO stakeholders’ interests. The first sustainability indices, we added 14064-1. CCI Turkey Operations section, Sustainability Approach, new content to our report as we did successfully passed the audits. Both includes general information about in the previous year’s report. We GHG Protocol’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 CCI and sustainability governance. also included results and related emissions were verified as a result of In the second section, Sustainability information of projects initiated at this process. The level of assurance in Review, we summarize our the reporting period but that will was deemed “reasonable” and programs and efforts to create value continue in 2018. the uncertainty was considered to for our stakeholders. Finally, the third be below 5% by the verifier. The section, Performance Indicators, Standards Used assurance statement of Bureau provides supplementary technical Veritas is included in Performance and numerical information about our The three principles of the AA1000 Indicators section of this report. operations for relevant stakeholders. Assurance Standard, namely materiality, inclusiveness and Selected information, as defined Feedback responsiveness, guide the content in the Independent Limited development process of this report. Assurance Report in Performance Receiving feedback from our In addition, we measure and Indicators section of this report, stakeholders is vital to help us report our social, environmental received limited assurance from improve both our practices and our and ethical performance using the independent audit company reporting processes. We evaluate leading principles, standards and EY. In 2017, we obtained, for the 7th every issue that comes to our methodologies such as those time, limited assurance on Selected attention and use any feedback from adopted by the Global Reporting Information for our operations in our stakeholders to continuously Initiative (GRI) Standards, CDP Turkey. The Selected Information improve our practices. Programs, the International Labor covered total energy data, perOrganization (ILO), the United product energy use, total water We invite our stakeholders to share Nations Convention Against withdrawal and consumption their opinions, suggestions or Corruption (UNCAC) and the data and per-product water complaints by sending an e-mail to Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol use, as described in the CCI corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr developed by the World Resources Reporting Guidance included in the Institute (WRI). Performance Indicators section of or by calling the Corporate Affairs this report. Within the context of this Department at The content of this report has been audit, 2017 data from CCI’s Turkey +90 216 528 40 00 prepared in accordance with the plants were assessed to reach a “core” option of the GRI Standards conclusion of Limited Assurance in or through the Contact Us tab on our Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. accordance with the International website The report also serves as our Standard Assurance Engagements cci.com.tr Communication on Progress (COP) to Other Than Audits or Reviews of the United Nations Global Compact Historical Financial Information (ISAE (UNGC) as well as our progress 3000 (Revised)). 2 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-14 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear stakeholders, We are delighted to present our contributing to the growth and being the trusted brand for our 10th Sustainability Report covering have registered the highest consumers. our 2017 performance. Around net revenue, EBIT and EBITDA growth of the last five years while We are embedding sustainability the globe, we experienced a significant rebound in global delivering 2017 guidance. principles in all our processes. trade with a 3.8 percent increase This year, we developed our 2025 We are focused on reaching sustainability vision & framework in world growth. CCI; operating in our goal to become the best as we advance towards our Turkey, the Middle East, Central FMCG company across our Asia and Pakistan with 26 plants growth targets set by our 2025 markets. However, while we work and close to 9,000 employees vision. Through our effective feverishly to accomplish this, we performed even better. Our sales water management practices, we never compromise on being a volume was up by 4%, reaching saved about 200,000 m³ of water responsible corporate citizen. 1.24 billion unit cases, while in our six reporting countries. We We are committed to delivering our net sales revenue increased sustainable growth, and we strive also increased waste recycling by 21% to ₺8.5 billion and our to create sustainable value for rates in our production and EBITDA by 26% to ₺1.4 billion. We our stakeholders along our value reduced the materials used and are also distributing ₺200 million chain. We commit to transfer this GHG emissions generated from dividends to our shareholders value to the community through packaging operations in the for 2017. We are satisfied with corporate citizenship; by being a value chain through sustainable the growth momentum we great place to work; by being our packaging projects designed to achieved in 2017 with all regions customers’ preferred partner and make our bottles lighter. 102-14 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 3 In 2017, we saved almost 31 awareness of Pakistan. I am delighted and proud to million MJ of energy and reduced announce that our commitment our CO2 emissions by 3,305 tons While we outperformed most to reaching perfection bore through efficiency projects at our of our sustainability goals in its fruits in 2017. Our excellent plants. Our cooling equipment 2017, we did not keep up to our work was recognized and accounts for around 43.5% of our expectations on empowerment awarded by many governmental GHG emissions. Our cooler EMD of women leaders within CCI. organizations and NGOs. program solely made it possible We reviewed the reasons for to save about 468 million kWh our shortcoming, and we will be Our commitment to UN Global of electricity in our six reporting taking the necessary actions. Compact and contribution to countries, thus reducing CO2 Sustainable Development Goals We believe that inspiring our will be ongoing. emissions by 78,711 tons. That value chain and disseminating equals to an amount that would our sustainability vision are our On behalf of all the CCI require 6.6 million trees to essential missions. Therefore, we organization, I sincerely thank extract from the atmosphere. you for your positive response, focus on our suppliers to spread Based on our previous learnings, our positive impact and raise the input and support in making our we focused heavily on our route bar in society. To this end; we journey towards sustainability to market safety in 2017, and with had developed Supplier Guiding successful. the safety campaigns, we had no Principles (SGP) to strengthen employee or contractor fatalities the sustainability pillars and to occurring. Our dedication will comply with CCI. Also, we conduct continue in 2018, with best-inWorkplace Rights Policy (WRP) class practices like Road Safety audits. To achieve full compliance Collaboration Pakistan project at all 17 WRP and SGP Audits, where we are pioneering other performed by the independent Burak Başarır multi-national organizations in auditing companies authorized by Coca-Cola İçecek, CEO Pakistan to create a collaborative TCCC, in 2017 was an important impact on the traffic safety success in that term. 4 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-1; 102-2; 102-4; 102-6 CCI AT A GLANCE CCI is the sixth-largest bottler in CCI employs close to 9,000 people CCI’s shares are traded on the Borsa the Coca-Cola system in terms and has a total of 26 plants, offering Istanbul (BIST) under “CCOLA.IS”, of sales volume. CCI produces, a wide range of beverages to a American depositary receipts (ADR) distributes and sells sparkling and consumer base of 400 million are traded over the counter in the still beverages of The Coca-Cola people. In addition to sparkling United States under “COLAY”, and Company (TCCC) throughout Turkey, beverages, the product portfolio Eurobond is traded on the Irish Stock Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, includes juices, waters, sports and Exchange under “CCOLAT” tickers. Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Jordan, energy drinks, teas, coffees and iced Iraq, Syria and Tajikistan. teas. Our Vision “Be the best FMCG company across our markets.” Customer centric organization Total beverage mindset Value-added customer solutions Commercial excellence Competitive cost to serve Customer & Consumer Being the preferred partner of our customers, offering our consumers a BU wide choice of products fit for every S IN Y lifestyle and occasion OG E SS T E C HN O L PR OC E SSE S CREATE VALUE Community People Being a good Great place to corporate citizen work Corporate governance Capability and leadership Environmental footprint Workplace rights IN N O V A T IO N Engaged, diverse and inclusive High performing One Team culture Social license to operate SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 5 6 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-7; 102-45 Our Values n abilit y rk it y sio nt wo gr Pa Team Inte Accou s We put our We act with high We collaborate We are open, honest, hearts and mind sense of responsibility for our collective ethical and we trust and into what we do. and hold ourselves success. respect each other. accountable. CCI Operating Geography Percentage of GDP per capita Per-capita CCI’s market CCI’s ranking Population (2017) population (thousands $) consumption of share in sparkling in sparkling (millions)(1) under 30 (2015)(1) (2017)(3) NARTD (L)(4) beverages(5) beverages Turkey 80.8 50% 26.5 57 63% 1 Pakistan 207.7(2) 64% 5.4 26 37% 2 Iraq 38.3 68% 17.0 47 2 Jordan 9.7 64% 12.5 49 2 Syria 18.3 65% Kazakhstan 18.2 51% 26.1 71 49% 1 Azerbaijan 9.8 49% 17.4 26 75% 1 Turkmenistan 5.8 58% 18.7 51 61% 1 Kyrgyzstan 6.0 59% 3.7 35 68% 1 Tajikistan 8.9 65% 3.1 16 Source: (1) UN, (2) Pakistan Bureau of Statistics, (3) IMF, (4) CCI and TCCC estimations, (5) Nielsen & Ipsos as of December 2017 (for Turkmenistan as of October 2017) GDP per capita based on purchasing power parity (PPP). Key Financial and Operational Indicators (1 January 31 December 2017) 2016 2017 International Consolidated International Consolidated International Consolidated International Consolidated Turkey Turkey Turkey Turkey 3.3% 4.9% 4.1% 11.7% 30.4% 20.9% 49.6% 48.5% 36.4% 37.3% 31.4% 26.2% Unmarked set by cinlar Net Sales Revenue EBIT EBITDA 1,237 million unit cases Increase 4.1% 8,521 million TL 20.9% Increase 874 million TL 36.4% Increase 1,379 million TL 26.2% Increase 102-2; 102-4; 102-6; 102-7; 102-45 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 7 Operating in 10 Countries with 26 plants, 8,097 employees and 780,000 sales points to 400 million consumers with more than 25 brands. KAZAKHSTAN AZERBAIJAN KYRGYZSTAN TURKEY TURKMENISTAN TAJIKISTAN SYRIA IRAQ JORDAN PAKISTAN Financial Highlights Brands Consolidated (million TL) 2016 2017 Sales Volume (million UC) 1,189 1,237 Net Sales Revenue 7,050 8,521 EBIT 641 874 EBIT Margin 9.1% 10.3% EBITDA 1,093 1,379 EBITDA Margin 15.5% 16.2% Net Income -28 238 Net Income Margin (0.4)% 2.8% Total Equity 4,997 5,440 Total Assets 10,456 13,394 Net Debt 2,293 2,093 8 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2017 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS We succeeded in identifying and Women Community Programs implementing improvements that resulted in an annual saving of O u r wo m a n e m p l oye e ra t i o i s • 12 volunteer activities have been approximately realized in 17 different cities 16.3%_ for Turkey, under the program targeting $5.74 million disadvantaged women, children and families, people with with 217 5.8%_ for Jordan, disabilities, refugee children and the elderly, with the participation of more than 1.000 CCI Operational Excellence projects. 17.7%_ for Kazakhstan, • volunteers in Turkey. My Sister Project is a part of 14.2%_ for Azerbaijan, the 5By20 initiative launched by The Coca-Cola Company with the goal to economically 6.2%__ for Pakistan, empower 5 million women entrepreneurs around the world by 2020. As of end of 2017, 19.5%_ for Kyrgyzstan. the project has reached over 2,000 women, including ladies from a variety of backgrounds, including housewives, engineers, entrepreneurs and university students. • The 3.2.1 Move! Program supported approximately 152 Physical Education teachers from 131 public schools and engaged more than 125,000 young people in sports and group activities in 15 cities of Turkey. • We reached 700,000 young people with our projects. • Within the scope of the Paani Training Project, 24 filtration plants have generated more than 15 Million We provided liters of safe drinking water and enabled water access for 436 training sessions with 850,000+ individuals. 4,716 participants to our distributors in Turkey. We provided 45,392 person-hours of OHS training to our employees in the operations. We provided 8,574 hours of environmental training to our employees. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 9 GHG Sustainable Packaging • With our EMD program we saved • We saved a total of 2,732.5 • 91,900 tons of glass is saved by approximately 468 million tons of resin in six countries of returnable bottle practices. kWh electricity in six countries of operation with our sustainable • Our efficiency projects and the OE operation. We achieved 78,711 packaging program. Program conducted throughout tons of CO2 reduction which is • PlantBottle resin was used in all our CCI plants led to a savings equal to the amount of CO2 that Damla 330 ml and 1 lt bottles of 26,9 Million MJ energy and 6.6 million trees annually produced in Turkey. reduced 2,806 tons of CO2. extract from the atmosphere. • The total waste recycling throughout all our plants was Water 96.0% in Turkey, 91.90% in Jordan, 90.0% in Kazakhstan, • We saved about 199,862 m3 97.8% in Azerbaijan, 94.44% of water in the six countries of in Pakistan and 97.7% in operation. Kyrgyzstan. • The water replenishment rate for • We reached a 54% postTurkey has reached 150%, equal consumer recycling rate for to about 4,271 million liters of plastics, glass, metal and water. aluminum-packaging waste in Turkey. 10 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 AWARDS RECEIVED 2003 2013 2015 • CCI Ankara plant wins the “TCCC • CCI receives an “Ethics Award” • The 3.2.1. Move! Program is Eurasia Africa Group Presidency from the Ethical Values Center awarded a “Bronze Stevie Award” Quality Award”. Association. in the 12th Annual International • CCI wins three prizes in the Business Awards. 2010 2013 TCCC EAG President’s • CCI Turkey Operations receives Sustainability Awards: The three awards, including the Grand • CCI İzmir plant wins the “Best Grand Prize for “Best Country Prize of “Best Country Bottling Performing Plant for the Bottling Operation”, “Best Operation” of Coca-Cola Eurasia Environment Award” by the TCCC Performing Plant for Quality”, and and Africa Sustainability Awards. EAG President’s Environment the “Best Performing Plant for the In addition, CCI Azerbaijan and Awards. Environment”. CCI Kazakhstan are voted among • CCI Turkey Operations wins the the 10 finalists nominated for this “Best Country Bottling Operation 2014 prize. CCI Turkey Operations also Grand Prize” by the TCCC EAG receives the “Excellence Award” President’s Environment Awards. • CCI is the first and only company in the individual Well-being from Turkey and the Coca-Cola category and İzmir plant receives 2011 system to be included in the the “Best Performing Plant for the UNGC 100 Index. Environment” award. • CCI Jordan wins an “Occupational • CCI İzmir plant receives an award • CCI Bursa plant receives the Health and Safety Management in the “Water Management” “EFQM Excellence Award in Award”. category from the Green Business the Developing Organizational Platform. Capability” category. 2012 • CCI receives the second-highest • CCI Mahmudiye plant is given score and wins second place in the “National Quality Excellence • CCI Ankara plant is awarded the the transparency category in the Grand Prize”. EFQM’s (European Foundation for “CDP Turkey Climate Leadership Quality Management) “Taking Awards”. 2016 Responsibility for a Sustainable • CCI is awarded the Grand Prize Future Prize”. in the “ÇEVKO Green Dot Industry • CCI is ranked among CDP Turkey’s • Turkey, Azerbaijan and Jordan Awards”, which recognizes climate change leaders and once operations are among the companies with environmentally again received the “2016 Climate finalists in TCCC EAG President’s sustainable practices. Leadership Award”. Sustainability Awards. CCI • CCI Ankara plant is awarded as • CCI was awarded by Pakistan Turkey Operations wins the “Best the “Best Performing Plant for Red Crescent on the occasion of Country Bottling Operation Quality” and CCI İzmir plant as Presidental visit with a plaque of Grand Prize”. CCI Ankara plant the “Best Performing Plant for the appreciation for its cooperative is recognized as the “Best Environment” in the 2014 TCCC approach during the times of crisis Performing Plant for Quality” Eurasia & Africa Group (EAG) and natural disasters. and CCI İzmir plant as the President’s Sustainability Awards. • CCI Turkey Operations receives “Best Performing Plant for the • CCI Bursa and Mahmudiye the “Waste Management Award” Environment”. plants receive “National Quality due to its recycling performance Excellence Awards”. of packaging waste and waste management achievements in FMCG sector. As a member of ÇEVKO, CCI became the 2nd Company in waste collection, recycling and recovery, achieving 48% packaging waste recovery. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 11 2017 CCI Turkey Operations CCI Receives Water CCI Kyrgyzstan Receives Recycling Efficiency Award from Receives Award from the Turkish the Sustainability Best Tax Payer Ministry of Environment Academy in Turkey Award CCI receives a recycling award CCI receives the grand prize in CCI Kyrgyzstan receives from the Turkish Ministry of Water Efficiency category at the 4th “Kyrgyzstan’s Best Tax Payer Award” Environment and Urbanization in Sustainable Business Awards in as a result of significant contribution appreciation of its efforts to recycle Turkey. The awards are organized to the economic growth of the product packages. The award every year by the Sustainability Kyrgyz Republic and conscientious came as a recognition of CCI’s Academy to award Turkish execution of tax legislation following successful practices to reach waste companies that apply the most the result of 2016 and 5 months in management targets for the FMCG sustainable business models in 2017. The certificate was presented sector in Turkey. various fields of activity. by the Deputy Prime Minister. CCI Turkey Operations CCI Mersin Plant Receives Efficiency Award Receives International In May, CCI Mersin plant receives the second prize in the Midsize Enterprises Safety Award category with its Tetra Lines Automatic Pallet Truck System project at the 2017 Efficiency Projects Competition organized by the Turkish Ministry of Science, CCI Turkey Operations receives an Industry and Technology. International Safety Award from British Safety Council. This award is issued for 2017 performance, improvements and good practices implemented. 12 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CCI’s SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 2012 2002 2009 2011 2010 2007 • CDP recognizes CCI as one of Turkey’s top two carbon CCI’s 1st environment performance leaders. policy • CCI İzmir and Mersin CCI’s 2020 Vision and plants complete the Top 10 Strategic Framework is Energy-Saving Challange of announced. • CCI ranks 1 st in Turkey’s TCCC and the WWF (World Accountability Rating. • CCI becomes a signatory CCI ranks 5 th in Turkey’s Wildlife Fund). to the United Nations Accountability Rating. • CCI is named among the companies with the best Global Compact. sustainable development • CCI becomes a charter practices in Turkey, and member of the Climate represents Turkey in Change Leaders Group. the Rio+20 innovation • CCI becomes Turkey’s • CCI continues to be listed competition. first food and beverage in the BIST Sustainability company to participate in Index. disclosure leaders. • CCI joins the MSCI Global • CCI signs the 2 0 C Sustainability Index. Communiqué regarding • CCI joins the FTSE4Good climate protection. Emerging Index. • CCI is ranked among Turkey’s climate change leaders by CDP’s “Climate 2018 2013 2015 Change Report 2016”. 2017 • All plants in all operating 2014 countries complete the Top 10 Energy-Saving 2016 Challenge Program and CCI Turkey Operations becomes the first multi-plant country operation in the Coca-Cola system to complete the program. • CCI is the first and only • CCI continues to be • CCI will announce • CCI announces its new company listed in the BIST its 2025 Code of Ethics, Workplace from Turkey -and within • CCI is the only company Sustainability Index. Sustainability Rights Policy and Ethics Turkey the Coca-Cola from Turkey that is • CCI continues to be Commitments. Service. systemto be included in included in the UNGC 100 • CCI Turkey Operations listed in the FTSE4Good the UNGC 100 Index. Index (as of May 2016). receives the first ISO 14064-1 Emerging Index. • CCI receives the • CCI’s 2025 Vision and certificate for its greenhouse • CCI continues to be second-highest score Strategic Framework is gas emissions. listed in the MSCI and wins second place announced. • CCI becomes the first and Global Sustainability in the Transparency • CCI is quoted in the BIST 50 only company in Turkey Index. category in the CDP • Sustainability Index. and within the Coca-Cola • CCI joins ECPI Emerging Turkey Climate • CCI is quoted in the system to be included in Markets ESG Equity Leadership Awards. Euronext Vigeo Emerging the UN Global Compact index. • CCI becomes the first 70 Index. 100 Index. • CCI joins Vigeo Eiris and only company in • CCI becomes a signatory • CCI is named one of Best Emerging Markets Turkey to participate in to the UN Women’s Turkey’s carbon disclosure Performers Ranking. the CDP Water Empowerment Principles. and performance leaders • CCI joins 30% Club Program. • CCI’s Corporate Turkey. by CDP in its Turkey 100 • CCI’s Corporate Governance Rating Climate Change Report 2013. Governance Rating score score as measured by • CCI Turkey Operations as measured by SAHA SAHA increases from receives a Gender Equality increases from 8.8 to 9.25. 9.25 to 9.40. Certification from KAGIDER. 102-12 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 13 EXTERNAL RECOGNITION Our efforts and successes in the field of sustainability are acknowledged and awarded by various Turkish and international institutions. In 2017, we marked many important successes in sustainability both on a national and an international scale. CCI Listed in the MSCI ESG Leaders CCI Participated in CDP Turkey CCI is the First and Only Turkish Index Climate Change and Water Company in the UNGC 100 Index • Following the evaluation of Programmes • Since its launch by the United our environment, society • CCI participates in CDP Climate Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and corporate governance Change and Water Programmes in 2013, CCI continues to be the performance for 2016-2017, every year. CCI was honored with first and the only company in CCI was selected by Morgan the Climate Leadership Award by Turkey to be included in the UNGC Stanley Capital International to CDP Turkey in performance and 100 Index. The 100 companies be included in the 2017 MSCI transparency categories three listed in the index are selected ESG Leaders Index, receiving an times, in 2012, 2014 and 2016. from the eligible UNGC members AA score in our evaluation. CCI around the world. first joined in the MSCI Global • These members have Sustainability Index in 2016. implemented and demonstrated an executive commitment to CCI Joined the ECPI Emerging the 10 principles of the UNGC, Markets ESG Equity Index for which companies that • As of December 2017, CCI became continuously improve and disclose a constituent of ECPI Emerging their sustainability performance Markets ESG Equity index. ECPI is a and maintain baseline profitability leading rating and index company are selected. CCI Listed in the FTSE4Good dedicated to environmental, social Emerging Index and governance performance • CCI joined in 2016 and continued research. ECPI Indices are used to be listed in 2017 in the for benchmarking, thematic FTSE4Good Emerging Index due investment, risk management to its high performance in the purposes and to create indexfields of environment, society and tracking investment strategies or CCI Listed in the BIST Sustainability corporate governance in 2016. The exchange-traded funds. Index FTSE4Good Emerging Index was • Based on the evaluation of its launched in 2016 by FTSE Russell, a sustainability practices and global leader in indexes and data performance in 2016-2017, CCI that are used by investors globally. was selected among the Borsa • It is an extension of the FTSE4Good CCI Included in Vigeo Eiris Best Istanbul (BIST) companies to be Index Series, which is designed Emerging Markets Performers included in the BIST Sustainability to measure the performance Ranking Index for the period between of companies demonstrating • In December, CCI was included in November 2017 and October 2018. strong environment, society and Vigeo Eiris Best Emerging Markets CCI had become one of the first 29 corporate governance practices. Performers Ranking, chosen as companies to be included in the one of the 100 most advanced BIST Sustainability Index in 2015. companies within the Equitics Emerging Markets Universe that consists of 850 companies from 37 sectors and 31 countries. Companies included in this index achieve the highest scores, as determined by a review based on 38 criteria, divided into six key areas of corporate environmental, social and governance matters, assessed by Vigeo Eiris. 14 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-9; 102-49; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Our 2025 vision is to be the best sustainability principles into all our Within each of these areas, FMCG company across our markets. processes. during the course of our various While we grow our business in operations, we work hard towards line with this vision, we want Value creation is at the heart of creating value for our stakeholders. to ensure being a responsible our 2025 Vision, which is built on; Offering a wide beverage portfolio corporate citizen. Therefore; we are ‘Customers & Consumers’, ‘People’ in high product safety and quality committed to sustainable growth. and ‘Community’. Our sustainability standards to our consumers Consequently; we strive to create strategy focuses on the issues that has a crucial importance in our sustainable value for our diverse are material for our stakeholders. business model. In addition to group of stakeholders along the We closely evaluate and manage that; we are determined to go for value chain. To materialize this these issues under six major areas: high customer satisfaction through commitment, we developed our Consumer Well-Being, Customer our customer-centric approach. 2025 sustainability vision and Value, Human Rights, Human Therefore, we remain limitless in framework. As we advance towards Capital, Environmental Footprint and our sustainability practices with our growth targets set by our Community Development. regards to our own operations and 2025 vision, we are embedding implement them within all phases SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 15 in our value chain. While we strive an equal opportunity workplace 10 countries. While growing for Operational Excellence among where all our employees feel valued our business, we also work to our wide geographical presence and included regardless of their ensure that we create value for by our continuous improvement gender, nationality, age, language each and every member of these and innovation culture, we put best and religion. These Diversity & communities. Our community effort to spread it to our supply Inclusion policies not only help to investment focuses on 3 areas, chain. On the other hand; in an boost the synergy created within which are youth and women approach of Superior Execution, the CCI, but also be the light for the empowerment, volunteerism, and ensuring best customer experience positive transformational change economic impact. by accompanying the sustainable in the society. To disseminate these development of our distributors approaches, Workplace Rights and On the other hand; minimizing our and interacting actively with our Supplier Guiding Principles are our environmental footprint by using customers is our main focus. main tools. The source of the power fewer natural resources, operating that creates and delivers the value efficiently and generating less waste For our people; we are committed to is our employees. Our employees’ are among our main priorities. This creating a value and positive impact skill sets and expertise have approach is essential not only for on the geography we operate in crucial importance on the creation the sustainability of our business, and the world as well. Pioneering in of sustainable value. Therefore, but also for the sustainability and human rights policies & practices, we refer to it it as our Human welfare of the communities in while, at the same time, investing Capital and manage it through which we operate. Consequently, in the development of our human employee engagement and talent we are intensely focusing on capital is how we consolidate our management programs. water and energy management, value created and shared by people. climate protection and sustainable While putting the Health & Safety We proudly serve a population packaging practices. in the first order, we aim to foster of more than 400 million across 16 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 What We Achieved For Our Value Chain During 2017 Customers& Ingredients Manufacturing Packaging Logistics Refrigeration Consumers TCCC focused on We saved: approximately We used 23,060 tons We reduced 3,500 We achieved 78,711 As a means of sustainably sourcing 200,000 m3 of water, of PlantBottle tons of CO2 tons of CO2 reduction communication with key agricultural 31 million MJ of energy packaging, which is emissions as a result in 6 countries of our consumers; CCI ingredients by 2020 and 3,305 tons of CO2 which is 30% plant of route optimization, operation through our Turkey Operations and developed emissions through based. Additionally, product distribution EMD Program, which is continued its Open to Sustainable efficiency projects in six 2,732.5 tons of resin and fleet equal to the annual Curiosity platform in Agriculture Guiding countries of operation. and 1,286 tons of improvement extraction of 2017 and this year Principles. As CCI, we glass savings were practices in last three 6.6 million trees. 604.868 users made initiated a sustainable achieved in six years. 717.793 visits and sourcing program for countries of operation. 873.360 pages were sugar and sweeteners. viewed in total during the visit sessions. Ingredients Packaging Manufacturing Logistics Refrigeration Customers& Consumers SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 17 CCI’s Next Generation Sustainability Commitment Areas Value We Create For Our Commitment Areas Relevant SDG’s Customer Value Customers& Consumers Consumer Well-Being Human Rights People Human Capital Environmental Footprint Community Community Development 18 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The Way Forward The year 2017 assumes critical sustainability commitments and their Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), and importance in the process of setting contribution to SDGs. the United Nations Global Compact next generation targets. Aligned (UNGC) and is one of the We Mean with the TCCC, we identified our The next steps in our sustainability Business Coalition commitments. top performance areas. We linked agenda will focus on topics such our company goals with the UN as life cycle evaluation of our With an integrated thinking Sustainable Development Goals in environmental impacts, human approach, we plan to share our order to broaden the scope of the rights and circular economy. By 2019, 2020 sustainability performance in value we create for our stakeholders. we plan to become a signatory to an Integrated Report that will link the Science Based Target Initiative, together our strategic focus, financial 2018 will be the year that we a collaboration between CDP, World and non-financial goals. communicate intensely on our 2025 Resources Institute (WRI), the World 2018 2019 2020 Setting goals for 2025 Focusing on life cycle of our Issuing integrated report environmental footprint (Carbon footprint and sustainable agriculture) Identifying top performance Become a member of Science Broadening geographic scope areas aligning with SDGs Based Targets Initiative of reporting to all CCI countries Communicating 2025 goals Extending assurance scope to other CCI operations and human rights indicators *Science Based Targets Initiative is a partnership between CDP, UN Global Compact, WRI and WWF, which helps companies determine how much they must cut emissions to prevent the worst impacts of climate change. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 19 Sustainability Organization The CCI Board of Directors Until May 2017, İzzet Karaca CCI function heads both at the is actively engaged with the chaired the Corporate Governance group and country levels integrate Company’s sustainability issues Committee as an independent, the sustainability targets set by the and its commitment to integrate non-executive Board Member. SSC into their respective functional sustainability into our business The Sustainability Organization objectives. All CCI function heads strategy. The CCI Board of Directors’ described above is as of December play a critical role in making sure Corporate Governance Committee 31, 2017 and the members of Board that sustainability priorities and has the ultimate responsibility in of Directors will change in 2018. targets are embedded in the field determining and implementing operations. The strategic orientation the sustainability strategy. This The main responsibilities of the and objectives that are determined responsibility is undertaken by the SSC are: by upper-level management are CCI Executive Committee, which is • To set the long-term sustainability then transformed and integrated by steered by the CEO, and by the CCI vision, strategy, plan and goals, them into the field practices. Sustainability Steering Committee and submit these for CEO (SSC) that became functional in approval; The Climate Protection & Energy 2015. The CCI Executive Committee is • To make decisions on capital Management and the Environment & comprised of senior management, expenditures regarding Water Management working groups and the SSC is composed of CCI’s sustainability; support the SSC. The Corporate Finance, Corporate Affairs, Legal, • To review performance and Affairs function is responsible Human Resources and Supply Chain quarterly progress on key for the disclosure, reporting and Directors. Since 2015, CCI Corporate performance indicators (KPIs); and communication of sustainability Affairs Director Atilla D. Yerlikaya • To give final approval for targets and performance results. has also been serving as the Deputy sustainability disclosures. Finally, our employees are key to the Chairman of UNGC Turkey Network. integration of sustainability into our overall business. CCI EXECUTIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMIT TEE COMMIT TEE CCI Sustainabilit y Steering Commit tee Operational Sustainabilit y Group Climate Environment & Water Protec tion & Energy Management Working Management Working Group ( TR) Group ( TR) 20 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-12 Sustainability Communication Communicating with our CCI’s Sustainability Report is the indices, positive relationships with stakeholders with regards to our most significant tool for us to stakeholder groups that appreciate sustainability performance is an communicate our efforts to our transparency on environmental and integral part of our corporate stakeholders. As our sustainability social matters and enhancement to citizenship understanding. Our reporting evolved, we have realized our reputation. objective is to establish CCI a number of benefits from our as the leader of sustainability, reporting efforts such as our accountability and transparency. inclusion in global sustainability Sustainability Reporting Trend 2007-2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 • 1st GRI Checked • 1st GRI B • 1st GRI B Report in Level Report Level Report Turkey • Scope: Turkey, • Scope: Turkey, • Scope: Turkey Kazakhstan Kazakhstan, • Accountability and Jordan Jordan and rating 2008 • GC COP Azerbaijan 1. Ranking • GC COP Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report (Turkey) January 2007March 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility Report March 2008 March 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 2012 2013 2014 Report • 2 nd A+ GRI SUSTAINABILITY • G3.1 Guidelines SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 • GRI G4 • GRI G4 1 January 2011 31 December 2011 Level Report REPORT GRI A+ Level Guidelines SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guidelines Sustainability Report 2014 2012 • Scope: Turkey, Report • Scope: 2014 • Scope: Turkey, Kazakhstan, • Scope: Turkey, Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan, Jordan, Azerbaijan Jordan, Jordan and Azerbaijan and + Best Practices Azerbaijan • Azerbaijan Pakistan of Pakistan + Best Practices • GC COP • External Review • CCI 2011 CSR of Pakistan Independent Esenkent Mahallesi Deniz Feneri Sokak No.4 / 34776 Dudullu Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 365 84 67-68 • Independent Report • GC COP www.cci.com.tr Assurance on assurance on finalist • Independent Water, Energy Water, in two Assurance on and Waste Energy of categories at Water, Energy (Azerbaijan, Turkey the “2013 CRA” and Waste Kazakhstan, & Pakistan • Independent (Azerbaijan, Jordan and • Readlines Assurance on Kazakhstan, Turkey) and GHG Audit Water & Energy Jordan and in Turkey for Park TR Turkey) and GHG in Turkey 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2016 2017 • GRI G4 Guidelines REPORT 2016 • New GRI • New GRI Standards • Scope: Turkey, Standards • 6 countries of Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Extension in scope: Turkey, 2015 Kazakhstan, reporting scope Jordan, Jordan, and boundary Azerbaijan and by including Kazakhstan, full data from Azerbaijan, Pakistan our Kyrgyzstan Pakistan and • Independent operations Kyrgyzstan assurance on • Independent • Independent OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 Water, assurance on assurance on Water Energy of Turkey www.cci.com.tr Water & Energy & Energy data of & Pakistan data of Turkey Turkey • Verification on • Verification on GHG emissions • Verification on GHG GHG of Turkey of Turkey emissions of Turkey • GC COP & WEP • GC COP & WEP for Scope 1 & 2 • Sustainability • Sustainability • GC COP & WEP Index Index • Sustainability Index requirements requirements requirements In accordance with our increased and accountability, which are sustainability indices as stated efforts in sustainability and integral to our sustainable way under the External Recognition title reporting, we have achieved a of doing business. CCI is now in the ‘Sustainability Approach’ serious track record for transparency recognized by national and global section of this report. 102-12; 102-13; 102-46; 102-49 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 21 Our Memberships • ÇEVKO (Environmental • SUDER (Packed • TGDF (Federation of Protection and Packaging Water Manufacturers Food and Drink Industry Waste Recovery and Association) Associations of Turkey) Recycling Trust) • MEYED (Fruit Juice • UNGC Network Turkey • TÜSİAD (Turkish Industry Industry Association) (United Nations Global and Business Association) • TEİD (Turkish Ethics and Compact Network Turkey) • YASED (International Reputation Society) • Brand Protection Group Investors Association) • TÜYİD (Investor Relations • 30% Club Turkey • MEDER (Beverage Association) Industry Association) • TOBB (Union of Chambers • KALDER (Turkish Quality and Commodity Association) Exchanges of Turkey) • DEİK (Foreign Economic Relations Board) Initiatives to which we are Signatories • CDP Climate Change • Turkish Climate Platform of Program the Turkish Climate Change • CDP Water Program Leaders Group • Equality at Work Platform • United Nations Women’s • United Nations Global Empowerment Principles Compact (UNGC) Materiality Analysis We place strong emphasis on our material sustainability concerns, In 2017, the Sustainability Work Group reviewed our issue universe While we because they have significant impact on the value we create for our in light of our risk management practices, the data and information determine material stakeholders. While we determine requested by our stakeholders, as issues, we consider material issues, we consider well as CCI’s and TCCC’s priorities. the broader social, economic The graph below illustrates the the broader social, and environmental impacts they results of the material assessment create both for our business and conducted in 2017. While conducting economic and value chain. We also consider relevant risks and opportunities this assessment, we took into account our direct and indirect level environmental and stakeholder expectations with regards to specific issues. This of influence on the issue. Issues on the top right are the focus of this impacts they evaluation process is a continuous report since they have relatively create both for our and consistent process for us during significant impact on the value we which we review our progress and create. business and value assessment results every year. chain. 22 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-40; 102-42; 102-43; 102-46; 102-47; 102-49; 103-1 Materiality Analysis Chart At the beginning of 2017, we conducted a materiality analysis as shown below. High • Product Quality • Consumer Health and Safety and Well-being • Occupational Health and Safety • Energy Efficiency and GHG Emissions Inﬂuence on Stakeholder Assessment and Decision • Packaging and Waste • Water Use & Wastewater • Corporate Governance • Compliance • Anti-competitive Behavior • Business Ethics • Economic Performance • Supplier and Distributor Assessment • (Raw) Materials Sourcing • Indirect Economic Impact • Transport • Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Labor Conditions • Community Engagement • Child Labor and Forced Labor • Training and Education • Lobbying • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining • Biodiversity • Enviromental, Human Rights and Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms • Customer Privacy • Indigenous Rights • Security Practies • (Human Rights) Assessment • Investment and Procurement Practices • Equal Renumeration for women and men • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society • Financial Assistance Received from Governments Low Low Signiﬁcance of Environmental, Social and Economic Impact *The issues that are written in blue are also material for our supply chain (e.g. our suppliers, distributors, customers, consumers and TCCC). Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is the • Investors and financial institutions, basis and share our sustainability cornerstone of our corporate non-governmental organizations, efforts through various methods. responsibility. Building an effective opinion leaders, shareholders, Besides corporate publications such and strong stakeholder dialogue is employees, and the Coca-Cola as the annual report or sustainability at the foundation of our business, system. report, we communicate with sustainability reporting initiatives • For business continuity, we also our stakeholders through various and our sustainability performance. engage regularly and intensively platforms such as Stakeholder with other stakeholders, Days, Stakeholder Days, the In 2013, we prioritized including distributors, customers, external report review committees, our stakeholders and our customers, and suppliers. factory visits, investor calls and communication methods by means questionnaires, distributor meetings, of a comprehensive stakeholder To evaluate both our material issues supplier days and audits, and mapping study pursuant to and sustainability performance, stakeholder reputation surveys. AccountAbility’s AA1000 SES we seek alternative ways to collect Further information on how we Standard and the EFQM Business our stakeholders’ opinions and respond to stakeholders’ questions Excellence Model. We identified our feedbacks. We engage with each and concerns is provided on the key stakeholders as: stakeholder group on a regular following table. 102-40; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 23 Engagement with Stakeholders Frequency of Stakeholders Engagement Platforms engagement Issues that were brought up by stakeholders Investors Annual report, investor conferences, analyst meetings, investor presentation, Every year CCI’s financial, operational and sustainability performance; and financial webcast, e-mail distributions, special caseannouncements, Public Disclosure future investment plans. institutions Platform, direct feedback forms through the corporate website, sustainability report, CDP Climate Change Report, CDP Water Report, Sustainability Index Assessment. NGOs Project partnerships, corporate and individual employee memberships, Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, quality and communityparticipation in conferences and presentations, reputation survey, Stakeholder related performance; transparency and reporting. Day. Opinion leaders Reputation Survey, sustainability report, External Stakeholder Review Committee, Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, quality and communitystakeholder engagement panel. related performance, environmental impacts in the value chain. Shareholders General Assemblies, corporate website, Public Disclosure Platform. Regular Financial and operational performance and reporting. Employees Employee engagement and satisfaction survey, Newsline, Newsletter, CokePort, Regular Business results, environmental performance, community press releases, CCI training programs, leadership development trainings, projects, awards and recognitions, compensation and reputation surveys, CCIdea, Volunteer Programs, CEO Meetings. benefits topics. The Coca-Cola Regular meetings, TCCC’s Sustainability, Public Affairs and Communication Regular, very CCI’s and its suppliers’ sustainability performance. System Summits. often Distributors/Sellers Customer Interaction Center, Distributor Satisfaction Survey, distributor meetings Periodic Business performance, commercial plans, satisfaction and trainings, regular visits, plant visits, distributor portal. scores. Customers Trainings, support programs, regular visits, plant visits, Coca-Cola Customer Periodic Business performance, commercial plans, products, Road Show, Customer Satisfaction Survey, CCI Interaction Center, focus group marketing plans. studies, business development meetings. Suppliers Training programs, improvement audits, plant visits, supplier days, supplier Regular Quality of materials and services, future plans, strategic performance scores, supplier satisfaction surveys, cooperation portal, industrial initiatives, business performance, sustainability, workplace development and pilot activities. rights, innovation in cooling equipment. Public Institutions Information for contribution to sector development, compliance with laws Annual CCI’s operational, environmental, quality and communityand Organizations and regulations, support for infrastructure investments, Reputation Survey, reputation survey, related performance; compliance with regulations. Environment Days, Presentations, expertise sharing in public conferences, plant regular meetings visits. Consumers Coca-Cola Open to Curiosity Platform, Coca-Cola Social Interaction Center, Regular Product quality, consumer satisfaction, lowand noinformative publications, plant visits, product labels. calorie product alternatives, nutritional labeling, product ingredients. Union Union representation, collective labor agreements, representative meetings, Regular Human and workplace rights. plant visits. Sector Groups Corporate memberships, joint projects, meetings, conferences. Regular Industry-wide issues, regulations, legal compliance, speaking engagements at conferences, benchmark visits to plants. Local community Stakeholder Survey, voluntary practices, donations, plant visits, field studies, Annual CCI’s operational, environmental, quality and communityneeds analyses for community investment projects, economic impact related performance; sponsorship and donation requests. assessments. Society Coca-Cola Open to Curiosity Platform, donations, plant visits, voluntary practices, Regular Product quality, product ingredients, marketing and product labels, advertisement and marketing activities, social engagement promotion campaigns, sports tournaments. projects, field studies, meetings, surveys and eliciting opinions, sustainability report. Media Regular updated, statements, support programs, regular visits, plant visits, Regular Products, marketing and promotion campaigns, product reputation survey. ingredients, sustainability performance, community development projects. Universities Conferences, career days, plant visits, sponsorships, volunteering for community Regular Sustainability performance, career development development projects. opportunities. At an international level, we are individuals. Our Corporate Affairs Additionally, we are a member of signatory to and member of multiDirector A.D. Yerlikaya who is on TUSIAD Environment and Climate stakeholder initiatives such as UNGC the board of UNGC Turkey Network Change Working Group. We and GRI. We are proactively working since 2012, has been selected to participate in regular meetings of together with our external partners GRI’s Global Sustainability Standard this Working Group. We are taking in order to bring together the Board(GSSB) for a term of 3 years part in TUSIAD Environment and expertise of many organizations and until 2019. Climate Change working group to engage with public authorities on climate change issues including the Paris Agreement, national policies and positions. 24 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-40; 102-42; 102-43 Stakeholder Day Series CCI and TCCC developed the in April 2017, where CCI and TCCC provided very useful feedback Stakeholder Day series as a new representatives had the opportunity related to our performance on local engagement platform to to come together with the local sustainability, social investments, further improve relations with key stakeholders and share information governance practices and local stakeholders and to raise on the operations in the region, communication platforms, which can awareness of TCCC’s economic CSR efforts, and the sustainability provide improvement opportunities and social impacts, sustainability vision. 39 representatives from across CCI’s sustainability efforts. efforts, and manufacturing public institutions, academia, capabilities in CCI’s operating NGOs, business and educational We will be organizing 4 additional regions. The first Stakeholder Day institutions and local suppliers Stakeholder Days in 2018, the first of event was held at the Mersin Plant attended the event. Stakeholders which will be held in Elazığ. CCI Reputation Research At CCI, we periodically measure our reputation among our managers and employees, local communities and opinion leaders. This way, we form action plans with regards to the expectations of our stakeholders and create a roadmap for our corporate reputation strategy. Through the research conducted between December 2015 and February 2016 via a third party in accordance with EFQM and AA1000 standards, we questioned our product and service quality, brand, working environment, financial durability, management quality, environmental impacts, corporate social responsibility and transparency performance. More details on the 2015-2016 reputation research results can be found in our 2016 Sustainability Report. We decided to conduct the next reputation research in 2018. 102-11; 102-18; 103-1; 205-2 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals ERM website has been updated. To continue to update and further Transfer of ERM website to new Ongoing develop the ERM website. portal is ongoing. Risk To continue to update and further develop the ERM Management website. To integrate the ERM process into ERM Process became a part of Achieved strategic planning. the Strategic Planning. • To increase production plants’ industrial control systems security. To further implement Information Information Security Standards Information • To increase security monitoring capabilities. Security Standards in our other have been implemented in all Achieved Security • To add more topics to the awareness program. country of operations. CCI countries. • To implement additional processes, technology solutions for compliance with the laws & regulations. To continue to give our training on Training has been given to To continue to give our training on Code of Ethics and Code of Ethics and anti-bribery all newcomers as part of the Achieved anti-bribery policy to all management teams and all policy to all management teams in orientation program. newcomers in all CCI countries. all CCI countries. Business Ethics To continue to review and update We started, but it will continue To continue to review and update Code of Ethics and Code of Ethics and anti-bribery Ongoing in 2018. anti-bribery policy in line with TCCC practices. policy in line with TCCC practices. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CCI’s strong corporate governance we publish an annual Corporate Detection Committees operate. structure plays a vital role in Governance Principles Compliance Determination and implementation achieving our strategic goals. CCI Report that includes information of our sustainability strategy conducts all its operations within corresponding to Corporate is managed by the Corporate the framework of established Governance Principles. Governance Committee. For regulations in operating countries further information on Corporate and the Corporate Governance Corporate governance is managed Governance, see CCI 2017 Annual Principles as outlined by Turkey’s and represented by the Board Report and our investor relations Capital Markets Board. To of Directors, under which Audit, website on cci.com.tr. transparently inform stakeholders, Corporate Governance and Risk RISK MANAGEMENT manages these according to the Board of Directors. CCI employees CCI’s management has the primary Company’s risk appetite using a are regularly trained on risk ownership of the Risk Management systematic and disciplined approach management. and Internal Control System. that is integrated into the Strategic Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), Business Planning process. CCI management uses the pillars which directly reports to the CEO explained in the company’s strategic and the Risk Committee, act as the The ERM investigates risks business plan to evaluate business facilitator and provide assurance on country and group levels risks. Each country’s management and consultancy services in the risk and shares opinion with the periodically assesses these risks and management area. management on identified risks. prepares mitigation plans, which are Risks that are assessed as highmonitored by the top management Under the ERM framework, CCI’s priority are reported to the Risk and the Risk Committee. CCI’s management identifies critical Committee along with mitigation principal risks and key mitigations threats and opportunities and action plans, to be reported to the are given below: 26 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-11; 102-16; 102-18; 103-1; 205-2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS / RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Pillar Principal Risk Key Mitigations Community & • Implement locally relevant projects with local and international project partners. Stakeholder Relations • Drive stakeholder perception through transparency and reporting practices. • Water reduction activities at plants. Water Scarcity • Continue local replenishment and access to water program. • Sustainable sourcing. • Waste water treatment systems. Wastewater • Periodic analysis. • ISO 14001 EMS and KORE Audits. • OE Projects, Behavioral Energy Program. Energy Sustainability • Improve energy efficiency (achieve energy use ratio targets) • Energy efficiency and GHG emission reduction programs at plants, logistics and cooling operations. • Post-consumer packaging programs to reduce packaging materials and GHG Climate Change emissions. • Policy making and engagement with NGOs and legal authorities. • Investigate alternative clean energy sources. • Conduct SVA studies. • Follow-up of Source Water Protection Plan. Water • Implementation of water efficiency projects. • Improvement of WUR (water use ratio). Food Safety • Implementation KORE audits and International Standards. • Implementation of sustainable packaging and waste solutions. Maintaining Packaging packaging innovation, Lightweight, PlantPet, recycling activities. Coordination with Supply Chain local authorities for waste collection and recycling. Supplier Management • Follow-up of SGP audit findings. Quality • KORE audits and International Standards. • Establish an early warning mechanism for critical draft and recent regulations. Compliance Risks • Lobby as an industry against unfavorable regulatory and tax initiatives of the government. Legal & Compliance • Train employees on the Code of Ethics. Ethics-Bribery & • Encourage effective use of Ethic HotLine. Corruption • Implement ethics program. • SGP Audits. Human & Workplace • Follow-up SGP audit results. Rights • Ethics Hotline. • Hand in Hand Safety Program. • KORE Compliance Implementations. Work Life Health & Safety • Distributor safety process implementations. • Contractor safety process implementations. • Driving Safety Program. Sustainable Talent • Continue with talent development forum. Capability • Effective cooperation with respected universities to build employer branding. Besides financial risks, rated as Throughout 2017, we participated in In addition to operational activities CCI’s top three risks for 2017 are the Coca-Cola system ERM Exchange performed, we informed all our slowdown in economic activity, law virtual and face-to-face meetings employees of these activities via the & order, and corporate reputation & with TCCC and other bottlers. This ERM website, which is accessible public sentiment. These are followed enabled us to observe and track the through the internal CCI Portal. The by category health perception, collective ERM program progress website provides an ERM tool along exchange rate uncertainty, across the Coca-Cola system. The with guidelines, leading articles, sustainable talent capability, volatile annual ERM Exchange also helped useful links and an ERM awareness tax & regulatory environment us advance an enterprise-wide training presentation. and cyber security. CCI’s principal culture of risk management that environmental risks are assessed as enables and equips us to proactively water scarcity, climate change and address risks, seize opportunities post-consumer packaging. and deliver business objectives. 102-16; 103-1 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS / RISK MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY According to the Global Risk Report Security Awareness: Regulatory Compliance: by World Economic Forum; cyber risk Every CCI employee has a critical role CCI has designed and implemented is one of the leading and rising risks to play in protecting CCI’s sensitive many initiatives aimed at ensuring in the world. Therefore, in today’s information because Information compliance with the requirements digital world of information every Security is everyone’s business. CCI of: corporate business is struggling has been continuously running a • Turkish Personal Data Protection to mitigate information & privacy mandatory cybersecurity awareness Law no. 6698 (KVKK) risks. To address this challenge and program for all employees • Communiques published by mitigate risks, CCI has a durable since 2014, thereby promoting Capital Markets Board of Turkey focus in securing its information cybersecurity awareness across • Authorized Economic Operator assets. the company. Awareness program program of Turkish Ministry of reports are also submitted to top Customs and Trade CCI is maintaining robust information management to make them aware • The Law of the Republic of security and privacy program with of any risk. Kazakhstan on Personal Data and the following key elements. Their Protection Awareness program includes, but is Information Security Governance: not limited to the following activities: Privacy and Data Protection: CCI is running company-wide • Online training on different CCI takes preventive measures to information security governance subjects, i.e., phishing, travel secure the personal information of structure that enables the effective security, URL security, e-mail its employees and customers. Our management of potential risks security, physical security IT environment, security measures, and incorporates security and • Awareness posters on different policies and cyber security privacy controls into our information topics, i.e. paswword security, awareness program contribute to systems and services. Information phishing, mobile security, clean complying with privacy and data Security Steering Committee, which desk & screen, are displayed protection requirements. is composed of top executives and in working areas of CCI and security management team, acts as our distributors. i.e., password Cyber Risk Insurance: a governing body since 2009. CCI security, phishing, mobile security, CCI has cyber risk insurance to has implemented a comprehensive clean desk & screen mitigate cyber-related security Information Security Management • E-Mail notification on different breach or events. Cyber risk System (ISMS) based on the ISO topics insurance covers the cost of 27001 ISMS standard to achieve restoring loss to business income security objectives. CCI complied or reputation caused by damage to to and was certified with ISO 27001 computers and computer networks. certification in 2016 and completed the surveillance audit in 2017. BUSINESS CONTINUITY CCI implements the TCCC’s Incident To ensure that we prevent or As part of the IMCR program, Management and Crisis Resolution reduce the impact of incidents on each country conducts the IMCR (IMCR) program, which is designed our business, we have incident Validation program, which aims to to create and maintain an efficient management teams in each country create readiness for crisis situations, and integrated structure for of operation. Each team joins our build awareness, identify gaps preventing and managing incidents. annual training sessions, and and develop action plans to make Implementing the IMCR program is collectively they work on simulations improvements. a key management activity, and it is of complex incidents. We will provide everyone’s responsibility at CCI. further training in Turkmenistan, and Kyrgyzstan in second phase of 2018. 28 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 205-2; 103-1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS / RISK MANAGEMENT ETHICS Integrity and honesty are CCI’s corporate website: Audit Executive. fundamental to our business. Since www.cci.com.tr/en/investorour reputation is a reflection of our relations/corporategovernance/ There are several channels available integrity and honesty, it is our duty to code-of-ethics. for our employees to express their protect our most valuable asset: the concerns on ethical issues. They Coca-Cola brand. CCI’s Corporate Governance can direct their concerns to their Committee ensures full managers or Local Ethics and The CCI Code of Ethics guides our implementation and enforcement of Compliance Officers, or can use employees to live our values and the Code of Ethics. Implementation the CCI Ethics Service, which is run “do the right thing.” It outlines the of the Code is under the by a completely independent third behavior expected from every responsibility of the CCI Ethics and party and is available 24/7 to all employee and its scope applies Compliance Officer and the Local employees. There are translators to all CCI countries of operation. Ethics and Compliance Officers. CCI providing translation services online Our CCI Code of Ethics and Code Ethics and Compliance Committee, in Arabic, English, Georgian, Russian of Ethics Handbook are available is composed of CCI’s CFO, Human and Turkish. for everyone to further review and Resources Director, General Counsel, understand, and can be reached on Corporate Affairs Director and Chief CCI Ethics Service communication channels are: 1. E-mail: employee’s name and e-mail address are kept confidential. 2. CCI Ethics and Compliance websites www.ccietikhat.com (in Turkish) and www.cciethicsline.com (in English, Russian and Arabic): employees can login to the page anonymously and enter their message. 3. Dedicated phone number. The Corporate Governance of each Code violation. Letters assigned by CCI and third parties Committee has also developed of reprimand are issued for less doing work on behalf of CCI may necessary mechanisms for significant, first-time offenses. also obtain a copy of the Code and stakeholders to report any illegal or Violations of a more serious nature learn therein about their obligations. unethical practices in the company may result in suspension without to the Corporate Governance pay, loss of progress payments Committee or the Audit Committee. and bonuses or termination of In 2013, our employees began CCI Internal Audit Department employment. receiving trainings on the revised handles investigations concerning Code of Ethics, the Code of Ethics Code of Ethics violations and the CCI All newly recruited employees must Handbook and procedural Ethics and Compliance Committee sign an acknowledgement form provisions. In 2017, to ensure that makes decisions based on the confirming that they have the Code of Ethics was rolled-out findings of the investigations. Certain read the Code of Ethics and effectively in all CCI countries, Code categories of decision-making agree to abide by its provisions. of Ethics trainers were trained in authority may be delegated to Local All employees are required each country to introduce local Ethics and Compliance Committees to periodically make this training sessions. in accordance with the Guidelines acknowledgement. The Code of for Handling Code of Ethics Matters. Ethics Handbook and Guidelines In this scope, 1,197 person-hours for Handling Code of Ethics Matters training was provided to trainers We impose disciplinary measures are shared with our employees in six country operations in the that fit the nature and circumstances in electronic format. Moreover, reporting scope. representatives and consultants SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 29 30 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 31 32 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-3 CONTACT CCI Burcu Coşkun Group Corporate Affairs Manager corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr REPORTING CONSULTANT & DESIGN www.esgturkey.com LEGAL DISCLAIMER This sustainability report (the Report) was prepared by CCI within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the United Nations Global Compact. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. This report is printed on recycled paper. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability in Review SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW CONTENTS CUSTOMER VALUE HUMAN 04 RIGHTS CONSUMER WELL-BEING 01 08 HUMAN CAPITAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 17 22 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 40 103-1; 416-1; 417-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 1 CONSUMER WELL-BEING While we offer our consumers a our commitment to well-being. portfolio with a “total beverage” wide range of products fit for every We aim to meet the ever-evolving mindset. We provide affordable, lifestyle and occasion, product safety preferences of our consumers and ready, innovative products for all and quality remain the priority of provide more choice in our beverage occasions. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals Product To continue to have zero major Only one unconformity is To continue to have zero major findings in food safety safety and findings in food safety and quality Partial reported in a plant. and quality audits. quality audits. To continue with the Open to In 2017, 604.868 users made Consumer Curiosity platform as a means 717.793 visits and 873.360 pages To continue with the Open to Curiosity platform as a Achieved Well-being of communicating with our were viewed in total during the means of communicating with our consumers. consumers. visit sessions. Total Beverages Portfolio At CCI, we offer beverages to a with labeling regulations of the component of our engagement with consumer base of 400 million countries where our products are consumers. In addition to adherence people. We aim to meet the sold and provide our consumers with the legal requirements of our ever-evolving preferences of our with nutritional information about all countries of operation and the consumers, provide more choice our products, allowing them to make expectations of our stakeholders, in our beverage portfolio with a choices that fit best to their lifestyles. TCCC’s standards and policies total beverage mindset. We provide At a minimum, our labels provide serve as an integral roadmap to affordable, available, admirable, basic nutritional information about advertising and marketing practices. innovative products by leveraging all the beverage, such as the amount In line with TCCC’s Global School occasions. of energy (kilocalories, calories, Beverage Guidelines, we do not As part of our efforts for a more kilojoules), protein, carbohydrates, sell our sparkling beverages in transparent relationship with our fats, total sugars and sodium. elementary schools. Specifically, consumers, we launched the online to honor the rights of parents and We offer more than 25 brands to our Open to Curiosity platform in Turkey, caregivers to make the appropriate consumers. We are ensuring our which provides a direct forum for choices for their children, we do not growth by building and bringing to our consumers to address their engage in advertising or marketing market “consumer-centric” brands. concerns regarding our products. activities targeting children under In order to meet the ever-changing Furthermore, stakeholders who are the age of 12. Our stakeholders can preferences of our consumers and to interested in seeing our production reach further information regarding build a stronger business, we offer processes can easily attend our our responsible marketing policy at a wide choice across our beverage plant tours – in person or virtually portfolio that includes low or nohttps://www.coca-colacompany. – to learn about the production calorie beverage options. com/content/dam/journey/us/en/ phases of Coca-Cola products. Our private/fileassets/pdf/our-company/ stakeholders can visit Our strategy is powered by a leaner responsible-marketing-policy.pdf . merakettim.coca-colaturkiye.com operating model and a digitized and coca-colafabrikasi.com for business enterprise. Key to driving further information. this new strategy forward will be a more agile operating structure We provide our consumers with that drives quick action in the clear, understandable and scientific marketplace. We will adopt more of information regarding our products. a tech company modus operandi At the core of our efforts for rather than inventing the perfect transparent consumer engagement thing. lies comprehensive and clear Responsible advertising and nutritional information. We comply marketing form another important 2 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1; 416-1 CONSUMER WELL-BEING Product Safety and Quality At CCI, we conduct bottling system, forms our main reference of relevant and applicable operations in 26 plants throughout point in managing food safety and certifications and engagement with 10 countries. The sustainability of our quality, environment, and health approved excellence programs. business lies first and foremost in and safety performances in our Please refer to “Management the excellence of these operations. plants. Annual KORE audits and Systems Standards and Principles” assessments are carried out in each in Performance Indicators section KORE (The Coca-Cola Operating plant by TCCC’s internal auditors of the report for an explanation of Requirements), the set of operating to ensure our compliance with the compliance with regards to internal requirements in the Coca-Cola requirements as well as possession policies, external standards and principles. 103-1; 416-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 3 CONSUMER WELL-BEING External audits Quality, Environment, Energy & GHG Food Health, Safety & Food Packaging conducted at our Quality All our plants, sales operations and offices in All our plants plants verify our All our plants in 10 Turkey are certified with ISO that produce compliance with countries of operation 50001 Energy Management preforms hold ISO 9001, ISO and ISO 14064-1 Green hold PAS 223 relevant standards. 14001, OHSAS 18001 House Gases Standards. Our Packaging As of the end of and FSSC 22000 Burundai plant in Kazakhstan certificates. certificates. also holds the ISO 50001 reporting period; certificate. KORE Audits Compliance with product safety and quality requirements both by our suppliers and our own plants is regularly monitored through unannounced audits by TCCC. During the reporting period, 6 CCI plants were audited in this regard and only one unconformity is reported in a plant. All other plants passed the audit without any unconformity. In addition, third-party external audits on compliance with the FSSC 22000 standard were carried out, resulting in either re-certification or follow-up. As of the end of the reporting period, all plants hold FSSC 22000 certificates. The sustainability of our business lies first and foremost in the excellence of these operations. 4 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1; 416-1 CUSTOMER VALUE In line with our 2025 Vision, we aim is “winning with the customer” hotels and other retail outlets. We to build a company that creates via delivering joint initiatives and deliver products from 26 plants while value and delivers sustainable superior execution. ensuring that we offer the highest long-term growth as the preferred quality products to our customers. Across our operating geography, we partner of our customers. To create We keep on investing in coolers to have almost 400 million consumers this value for them, we are delivering ensure our consumers access cold and we work with approximately best-in-class commercial strategies products. We have more than 1 780,000 sales points, including and solutions to create the perfect million coolers across our geography supermarkets, restaurants, shopper experience every time they and we work to upgrade to more convenience stores, visit the outlets. Our key motivation innovative and energy efficient coolers with less carbon footprint. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals We conducted customer satisfaction studies We aim to conduct the study for Customer To repeat satisfaction in Turkey, Iraq and Achieved Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Turkey Satisfaction studies. Azerbaijan with more and Jordan. than 3,500 customers. To continue providing We provided 436 Distributor occupational health and training sessions with To continue providing trainings to our Achieved Trainings safety training to our 4,716 participants to our distributors. distributors. distributors in Turkey. Superior Execution We aim to offer a sustainable Route distributors. While managing provide an effective, efficient and to Market (RTM) model for delivering distributors we involve them and sustainable RTM model. One of superior customer service through contribute to their operations, our RTM sustainability strategies perfect commercial execution. investing in their operational is optimizing the daily number Turkey’s indirect RTM model serves capabilities. We constantly of vehicle movements and the the “Best in Class Customer Service” check and improve customer kilometers driven daily and the time based on the market dynamics. satisfaction levels by supervising in field. We listen to both customers and each distributor’s results. All these RED Practices The Right Execution Daily (RED) and follow merchandising standards points. In 2017; following Turkey, system helps us offer products and practices at our sales points. In we carried this technology to our to our customers and consumers the traditional channel, we further other operations; Iraq, Kazakhstan in the optimal way. In 2017, we succeeded with the aid of the image and Azerbaijan. In 2018, we aim to successfully continued our RED recognition technology implemented complete this transition in all CCI project with increasing performance. in 2016. This technology allows us countries. RED project enables us to monitor to cover all our traditional sales Joint Business Plan Meetings entertaining concept (aligned with Customer Trainings In Turkey, to increase customer 21 the marketing plans, e.g. football collaboration; Modern Channel Joint concept in the stadium) is created customer Business Plan (JBP) meetings are development and cross functional teams from held every year by creating a joint agenda which is constituted with top both customer & CCI sides get training sessions for 214 together to ensure co-marketing & local & national account customers’ participants were operational plans are aligned from priorities & annual marketing plans. Every year, an engaging & both parties. organized in Turkey. 103-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 5 CUSTOMER VALUE The CCI Customer Customer Satisfaction Surveys Interaction Center surveys in Turkey since 2005 and at To “win with the customer”, it is CCI Customer Interaction Center’s crucial to understand the key drivers other operation countries (except mission is to understand and of satisfaction and dissatisfaction Syria, South Iraq and Tajikistan) since satisfy customers’ and distributors’ of our customers. To understand 2012. By conducting this study at expectations and exceed them with the dynamics and take necessary least once every two years, we are best service approach. steps for stronger and sustainable following closely our ability to meet relationships, we conduct Customer and exceed our customers’ needs • We make our potential customers, and prepare action plans for areas Satisfaction Studies in all of our existing customers and of improvement. During 2017, more countries of operation. These studies distributors satisfied with many than 3,500 customers responded not only allow us to judge our own different and flexible work flows to our customer satisfaction studies performance relative to that of other created. in Turkey, Iraq and Azerbaijan. For players’, but also enable us to focus • We conduct issue-based customer on the gaps between our customers’ 2018, the study will be conducted satisfactions surveys and take expectations and our current for Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, proactive actions. service performance. We have been Pakistan, and Kyrgyzstan. conducting customer satisfaction • We call back most of our incoming callers about their service Customer Satisfaction Survey (Turkey) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 requests to ensure they are satisfied with our solution. In 2017, Customer Satisfaction Score 61 68 64 60 54 we realized 80.000 outbound calls. • We analyse all our calls instantly and do issue based reportings. • We follow up our service level and quality level day by day and take actions if needed. In 2017, we welcomed 275.000 service requests, 42% increase from last year on different issues regarding customers (both existing and new), distributors, fleet and finance. In addition, our Customer Interaction Center performed 80.000 outbound calls to check the satisfaction levels of service Integrating with Distributor Network requesters. Every year, we conduct Distributor Satisfaction Surveys via a third-party service provider to evaluate the satisfaction level of our distributors. As an We welcomed evaluation of our company reputation, surveys help us become aware of our strengths and weaknesses about our partnership with our distributors and 275,000 ability to manage our distributor network. In 2017, we conducted distributor surveys with a total of 209 distributors in Turkey and the results of the Distributor Satisfaction Surveys illustrate a clear increase in satisfaction score according to last year. service requests Distributor Satisfaction Survey (Turkey) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Distributor Satisfaction Score 84.0 84.9 84.5 84.3 86.0 In order to accompany the sustainable development of our Turkey distributors, we support their sales capability developments. Therefore, we have provided the supervisors and presellers of our Turkey distributors with 436 training sessions on various sales and professional development topics with 4,716 participants. 6 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1; 308-1; 414-1 CUSTOMER VALUE Excellence in Supply Chain Due to our broad regional presence, it as our responsibility to diligently to our own operations, and to we manage a large value chain with follow our sustainability approach, implement them within all phases in significant social, environmental and remain limitless in our sustainability our value chain. economic impacts. Thus, we see policies and practices with regards A Case of Success In Turkey In OE Projects Throughout our organization, we strive to incorporate a culture of Operational Excellence (OE) with the long-term intention of diligently improving our business processes and systems. The OE Model is based on Lean Six Sigma methodologies and applied to all company functions. While the model focuses on maximizing quality and efficiency and minimizing failure, it also aims to decrease the environmental impacts that arise from our bottling operations. TURKEY Since Implementation In 2017 (2008 to 2017 Cumulative) 758 610 $ 61 80 40 $ 1.5 0 25 OE projects certifications million savings OE projects certifications million saving blackbelts greenbelts CCI COUNTRIES (Excluding Turkey)* Since Implementation In 2017 (2008 to 2017 Cumulative) 608 157 $ 6.24 137 0 $ 4.24 0 57 OE projects certifications million savings OE projects certifications million saving blackbelts greenbelts * CCI countries excluding Turkey in the reporting scope are: Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan. ALL CCI COUNTRIES (Including Turkey)** Since Implementation In 2017 (2008 to 2017 Cumulative) 1,366 767 $ 67.24 217 40 $ 5.74 0 82 OE projects certifications million savings OE projects certifications million saving blackbelts greenbelts ** CCI countries in the reporting scope are: Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 7 CUSTOMER VALUE CCI Turkey Operations Innovation Day provides an opportunity to all impact on our communities and employees for sharing their ideas business operations. The Innovation EFQM Model’s fundamental and fostering the innovation culture Day brings together CCIdea, goal, “harnessing creativity and among CCI. This dynamic event OE projects and the Innovation innovation,” was the inspiration offers us an opportunity to recognize Competition within a single for the establishment of CCI Turkey and reward innovation and activate framework. Operations Innovation Day. It new ideas that can lead to a positive Received 2,422 ideas Out of 3 proposals, 1 was presented as finalist, and 2 were 25 from our employees within employees were the scope of presented as semi-finalists at nominated for green-belt CCIdea Bi’ Fikir Festivali certificates. Anadolu Group’s Bi’ Fikir Festivali (An Idea Festival) is attended by Group companies and the festival rewards companies that are successful in the area of innovation. Among our 2017 innovation projects; 2 were selected as semi-finalists and 1 was as finalist in ‘Explorer’ and ‘Inventor’ categories. In 2018, we aim to integrate the CCIdea to Anadolu Group’s Bi’ Fikir Platform, so as to gather more ideas from all Anadolu Group employees for CCI and create a synergy. 8 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1 CREATING VALUE FOR PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS Workplace Rights Our employees are vital for our As a part of our commitment to protect United Nations Universal Declaration success. It is our main responsibility our employees and safeguard our of Human Rights, International Labor to create a workplace environment value chain, we hold our suppliers to Organization Declaration of Basic in which they feel valued, the same standards and require that Work Principles and Rights, and encouraged, and where their they comply with the Supplier Guiding United Nations Global Compact. workplace and human rights are Principles (SGP), which provides the We have updated our WRP as in recognized and respected. As one same coverage as WRP. following topics and will be reof our priorities, the CCI Workplace The CCI Workplace Rights Policy is launching in 2018. Rights Policy (WRP) is our guide to based on international standards sustain these values within all our of human rights according to the operations for our collective success. Topics covered in The CCI Workplace Rights Policy CCI’s Workplace Rights Policy is available online at http://www.cci.com.tr/Portals/3/Documents/PDF/CCI_WPR_2017.pdf Working Hours Freedom of Association and and Wages Collective Bargaining Commitment to not Employ Prohibition Child Labor of Forced Labor A Safe Healthy Workplace Workplace Prevention of Community and Security Arbitrary Stakeholder Discrimination Engagement 103-1; 407-1; 412-1; 102-41 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 9 HUMAN RIGHTS In addition to practices we conduct have set a clear target of achieving table below shows the WRP and SGP in-house at CCI, independent “green code” status; in other words, audit performance results for all CCI auditing companies authorized by 100% compliance for all WRP and operations for the year 2017: TCCC routinely audits CCI plants. We SGP audits with zero findings. The 17 Plants in All CCI Countries GREEN GREEN GREEN GREEN GREEN GREEN CCI Turkey CCI Turkmenistan CCI Azerbaijan CCI Tajikistan CCI Kazakhstan CCI Pakistan Operations The CCI WRP is available in English our trainings are available as a 2017; 1,473 hours of training as well as in all local languages part of the online onboarding and dedicated to Workplace Rights. throughout all our operations and orientation program. Throughout Collective Bargaining Agreements We respect our employees’ right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining and commit to constructive dialogue with employees who are members of legally recognized trade unions. We consider Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) and our relationship with unions in general as important employee engagement mechanisms. As of 2017-year end, 91.14 % of our blue-collar employees in Turkey operations and 100% of our bluecolor employees in Pakistan operations are covered by CBA. Parental Leave Our women employees take paid maternity leave per laws and regulations set within their respective countries of operation. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals To maintain “green scores” We obtained Green Scores at Workplace To maintain “green scores” on WRP audits on WRP audits for all CCI all audits performed in all CCI Achieved Rights for all CCI operations in 10 countries. operations in 10 countries. countries. We managed to achieve a serious To encourage all employees decline in unused accumulated To keep encouraging all employees to use Work-life to use their 2017 annual leave leaves in CCI operations in 2017. Achieved their 2018 annual leave as well as 20% of balance as well as 20% of prior years’ Accordingly, the number of prior years’ accumulated annual leave. accumulated annual leave. unused leave days dropped from 107,000 to 73,600. 10 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 412-1 HUMAN RIGHTS Supplier Guiding Principles We create economic impact both effective supplier development advancements from Ruggie, OECD upstream and downstream. Our practices. and UNGC standards, as well as suppliers play an important role guidance provided by the Danish in creating this impact. Our local As part of our supplier agreements Institute for Human Rights study of procurement policy supports since 2002, the Supplier Guiding TCCC policies and practices have the sustainable development of Principles (SGP) determine the been reflected to SGP standards. local economies and we support social, environmental, ethical and At a minimum, our suppliers are our suppliers to improve their economic minimums, which TCCC required to meet these standards sustainability performance with and its bottlers expect from their with respect to their operations. suppliers. The latest human rights Compliance with Freedom of Health and Laws and Regulations Association and Collective Bargaining Safety Demonstration Work Hours Wages and of Compliance and Overtime Benefits Environment Non-discrimination ZERO TOLERANCE ON Child Labor Forced Labor Abuse of Labor You can access the SGP from the TCCC corporate website: http://www.coca-colacompany.com/content/dam/journey/us/en/private/fileassets/pdf/unknown/unknown/SGP_Brochure_ENG.pdf Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals To conduct a Supplier To conduct a Supplier Satisfaction Survey every Supplier Satisfaction Satisfaction Survey in Achieved two years and increase Survey is performed. 2017. our supplier satisfaction Sustainability of our scores. Suppliers To attain a success To attain a success rate of 93% for the SGP The realized success rate of 85% for the SGP Underachieved audits in all countries of rate was 68%. audits in all countries of operation. operation. We consistently cultivate effective workforce. We attach the SGP Policy material and cooler suppliers, it is communication, and conduct audit to our supplier contracts when obligatory to undergo SGP audit and and development practices in applicable with the expectation that comply with SGP standards before order to ensure that our suppliers they will develop and implement making contracts. adhere to our principles. Our appropriate internal business Third-party audits include suppliers receive a copy of our SGP processes to safeguard compliance confidential interviews with at the beginning of the business with the SGP requirements. Supplier employees and on-site contract relationship and are expected to audits are conducted by TCCC’s and workers. A supplier who fails to meet transfer these principles to their CCI’s own trained personnel as well any aspect of the SGP requirements stakeholders, in particular, to their as by third parties. For our direct is expected to implement corrective 412-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 11 HUMAN RIGHTS actions. If a supplier fails to adhere with SGP without any major issues. audit, a remediation action plan to our principles,Jordan Turkey sanctions that Kazakhstan While this was Pakistan Azerbaijan below our goalKyrgyzstan that covers Turkmenistan specific matters such North Iraq Iraq include termination of the contract set for 93%, we have made an as working hours (especially night applicable. Green are Green Green effort Green with these to work closely Green Green Green rest dayGreen shifts), violation, overtime N/A suppliers so that we can resolve and health and safety, were sent to During the reporting period, their issues and bring them back to the relevant suppliers and follow-up with enlarged scope of SGP by SGP compliance. We have revised audits were organized. In the last trademarked Tertiary Packaging our target for 2018 as 85%, however three years, TCCC has audited all suppliers like crates, pallets, printed we keep the ambitious target for of CCI’s ingredients and packaging shrink, etc. 68% of our suppliers 2020 as 95%. As a result of the SGP suppliers. passed the audits for compliance SGP Audit Targets for Years 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Target Target Target 88% 91% 92% 93% 85% 90% 95% Local Procurement Local procurement is a significant practice that enables us to contribute to local economies. The proportion of spending on raw materials from local suppliers (within the same country) is provided in the table below. Local Procurement (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey* 96 98 95 95 99 Jordan 68 65 55 95 95 Azerbaijan** 48 54 47 47 49 Pakistan 97 98 95 97 97 * Concentrate is not included. 11.6% Women 23.4% Women Senior 15.3% ** There are no approved suppliers in these local markets for some product and service categories. (There are no local suppliers available for some of the product categories with high spend. Selection and approval of the suppliers are done by TCCC.) Women New 30.0% Women First Employees Managers Employes Hires Level Managers 33.4% Gen Y in 51.8%Gen Y Management Employees Roles Average Age 35 – Seniority 8 years 12 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1; 405-1 HUMAN RIGHTS Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Turkmenistan North Iraq Iraq Green Diversity and Green Inclusion Green Green Green Green Green Green N/A Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals • To increase women in the • Women in workplace was Achieved workplace by 1%. increased by 1%. • To sustain 32% women in • Women representation in managerial positions. managerial positions and in the • To define our D&I Executive Committee (Excom) constitution. • To maintain 62% Generation across CCI was sustained and Y & Millenials in the total increased. • Launch Women in Leadership workforce. Program for CCI. 2014 2015 2016 • Percentage of the Generation Y 2017 2018 & Millenials in the workforce is 2019 2020 • Design pilot project to build Diversity and maintained. Target Target Target external talent pipeline to increase women hiring 88% Inclusion (D&I) • 91% To establish Women Clubs 92% • in CCI Pakistan, Kazakhstan, 93% Women Clubs in CCI Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and 85% Achieved 90% in Supply Chain95%(plant) & Kyrgyzstan and Turkey. Turkey were established. Commercial side (field). • To create Women Leadership • The work group has been • To review diversity friendly Development, Mentoring established for Women policies and implement in & Gender Sensitization Empowerment as part of D&I selected countries as a pilot. Programs. strategy. It led the industry • To start cultural D&I benchmark, internal surveys and programs. senior stakeholder interviews. CCI Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey were established. 11.6% Women 23.4% Women Senior 15.3% Women New 30.0% Women First Employees Managers Employes Hires Level Managers 33.4%Gen Y in 51.8% Gen Y Management Employees Roles Average Age 35 – Seniority 8 years At CCI, from recruitment to feel valued as respected members and our sustainable growth. As a compensation and promotion, of CCI, regardless of their gender, result, we aim for an inclusive culture our equal opportunity approach nationality, age, language or where all employees feel confident applies to all human resources religion. We embrace differences in speaking their mind, sharing their processes. We aim to foster a and consider them significant for the ideas and opinions. workplace where all our employees synergy created in our workplace 103-1; 405-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 13 HUMAN RIGHTS Diversity & Inclusion for us at CCI: • CCI values all employees for Women Empowerment Principles • Gender and generational diversity their contribution to sustainable (WEPs) and multi-generational hiring whereby more women and Gen growth regardless of their gender, efforts. We believe that forming a Y/Millennials are part of our nationality, language and role. talent pool that is reflective of the workforce. diverse marketplace we serve is While we aim to recruit and • All employees feel confident to crucial to the success we achieve. retain a competent and dynamic openly share their thoughts, ideas As a company that faces major workforce, we foster gender, and opinions, and act with respect challenges with regards to women generational and cultural diversity and cooperation in their efforts to employment due to its operational in our workplace, as expressed by meet business needs. geography, we unequivocally invest our signature support of the UN’s the energy to overcome these barriers with concrete, mid and Women Employee Ratio By long-term objectives. Countries of Operation (%) Since 2015, Diversity and Inclusion on how they can achieve the gender diversity in our workforce. Women Steering Committee is led by our goals and to pioneer in creating members of senior management Human Resources Department and an inclusive culture throughout our make up 40% in Azerbaijan and is comprised of representatives organization. Jordan, operations, 33.3% in from various branches of our Kazakhstan, 20% in Kyrgyzstan and Women representation in leadership organization. Meeting every six 28.6% in Turkey operations of the positions is another challenge we months, the Committee’s main total senior management. face as we work towards gender objective is to advise senior leaders ls nia -35 ille 20 M es ag 6 % 0 . 6 X it on 1 a ner 6-5 3 Ge es ag . 5% 3 6 s er -71 om 52 Bo es ag 9 % 2. 14 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS Women’s Clubs CCI Women’s Clubs are platforms The Women’s Club is an example for woman employees to interact of CCI’s commitment to women and organize various activities to create new job opportunities, focusing on networking, capability increase capacities, create networks development, leadership skills and and inspire the next generation’s empowerment in the workplace and women leaders. community. 103-1; 403-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 15 HUMAN RIGHTS Health and Safety It is our primary responsibility to • Protect the most valuable and • Protect the Company from any provide our employees a safe and important resource of our legal challenges by complying healthy working environment. company – our human capital – with (at a minimum) local legal By doing so, we can improve our from any occupational health and requirements and applying employees’ work-life balance, and safety risks or hazards. industry best practices to set positively impact their motivation higher standards than such legal • Ensure that OHS is an integral part and our productivity and business requirements. of our business and is actively performance. supported through management • Protect all other resources and leadership and commitment. assets from any losses that may be caused by work-related risks and hazards. Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals OHS policy, To have no major To have no major findings We had one major procedures and findings from KORE and Partial from KORE and local legal finding across CCI systems local legal audits. audits. To have the online The online system To apply the online system system tested in Turkey, Partial tested in Turkey. in Jordan. Jordan and Pakistan. Safe Driving It is decided to To apply the telematics To have the system postpone running of system for the countries running in CCI Turkey the system in CCI Turkey Delayed with high Vehicle Crash Operations. Operations due to Rates. budget replaning. The overall LTIR score to The overall LTIR score Reduce the last year’s OHS performance Achieved be reduced to 0.5. was reduced to 0.28. overall LTIR score by 20%. To control the maturity The maturity of the To improve supervision of the system system is controlled Achieved system for contractors. periodically. periodically. OHS Along the Supply Chain To spread reporting to all remaining countries in the To spread reporting to No country is added to Underachieved scope, which are Jordan, all countries. the reporting. Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan. Health and safety issues are collective bargaining agreements assigned to all CCI plants where managed through the Cocasigned with labor unions. we operate. The CEO is the topCola Operating Requirements ranking executive who has ultimate Country Health and Safety (H&S) (KORE). All our operating plants responsibility and the HR Director is committees and the Group H&S are certified with OHSAS 18001 at the top in the chain of command Manager coordinate H&S matters Management System certification for H&S management. throughout all CCI countries. H&S by 2017. Furthermore, OHS issues managers and/or specialists are are handled within the context of 16 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 401-1; 103-1; 403-1 HUMAN RIGHTS Hand in Hand Safety Program Progress In 2016, we established the Hand in Based on previous learnings, Hand Occupational Safety System CCI had focused heavily on the in order to standardize occupational RTM safety and with the safety health and safety practices at campaigns, we had no employee or CCI. Below are some examples of contractor fatalities occurring in 2017. progress that were made in 2017 to Our dedication will continue in 2018, support our targets: with best-in-class practices like Road Safety Collaboration Pakistan project • Hand in Hand Safety maturity has where CCI is pioneering other multibeen improved and total number national organisations in Pakistan of lost time accidents halved. to create a collaborative impact on • The H&S performance reporting the traffic safety awareness of the system has been changed and Pakistan. the performance improved +20%. To expand and strengthen our • We adapted a more proactive occupational health and safety and accurate approach to risk culture, we provide targeted analysis. and periodic OHS trainings to our employees and contractors • Number of major accidents and conducting work on behalf of CCI. incidents decreased, the number of near misses increased. In 2017, we provided 45,392 person-hours of OHS training to A significant improvement is our employees throughout our expected in the 2018 performance operations. The main topics of the trends with the improved maturity of training sessions included first aid, 0.28 45,392 Hand in Hand Safety Management, confined space, working at height, the Safety Maturity Index (SMI) emergency response, CCI’s Golden culture-focused and proactive Lost Time Person-hours OHS Rules, defensive driving and forklift Injury Rate Training Provided reporting methodology and focused safety. to Employees H&S leadership along with a focus on unsafe behaviors. 60,000 51,228 50,000 45,481 45,392 40,000 30,000 22,726 18,557 21,284 20,000 16,159 12,062 10,000 10,271 6,603 4,581 6,843 3,198 4,525 2,996 2,235 4,392 2,902 0 679 992 1,096 2015 2016 2017 Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan OVERALL SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 17 HUMAN CAPITAL We are committed to creating for our employees to develop employees so that they are able value and the main source of this themselves. In fact, our employees’ to improve their skills, knowledge, value created is our employees. development is fundamental to competency, and raise their living & We see ourselves as one, diverse, our success. With this in mind, working standards. engaged and inclusive team and we believe it is our responsibility Detailed data on our employee consider it as our Human Capital. to provide our employees with a demographics is provided in the Our employees’ diversified skills and workplace that is productive, happy Performance Indicators section of expertise are critical to our creation and safe. the report. of sustainable value. We seek ways We have established systems and to provide different opportunities programs that offer support to our Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals Talent • To raise the Talent Readiness Index (TRI) from New Management 41% to 55%. • To implement leadership development programs for Excom, general manager, To implement country leadership teams and extended targeted leadership teams. leadership CCI leadership development Leadership development programs were designed • To design programs for GM pipeline and Ongoing future leader development. Development programs for top targeting top executives, executives, senior senior leaders. • To design CCI coaching program. leaders and midlevel managers. • To design leadership development program for mid-level manager and create CCI internal trainers pool. To define the Employee engagement engagement dipstick survey has been action plans in carried out in Pakistan and • To execute the Pakistan Dipstick Survey. Employee detail function by results show a tremendous Achieved Engagement • To pulse check survey for other countries. function, based increase in the engagement on the Survey score. It jumped to 83% from conducted in 2016. 47%. 18 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HUMAN CAPITAL Talent Development CCI Talent management strategy In 2017, through our E-Talent “CCI Career Navigation ensures that it has “objectively Management Platform, we Framework”, a structured tool identified and diversified talents” to have introduced “Talent and created to support employees contribute whilst achieving business Development Profile” and and managers in career planning results. We strongly believe that “Individual Development Plan” and development, is a resource the talents of our employees and (IDP) within our ‘Talent Management for thinking through “Critical hence their individual expertise Process’. With Talent Profiles, Experiences” and “Opportunities” are paramount to our success. our employees will create their that an employee should pursue in We provide opportunities to our own personal career pages lieu of their career aspirations. employees so that they harness including their career aspirations their potential. Our ability to identify Our talent management approach, and international mobility and develop talent is one of our accompanied by our Performance preferences. IDPs are their individual Strategic Priorities. CCI Leaders have Management System, ensures that development plans to help them a duty and responsibility to help all we remain equipped and maintain reach their career aspirations and employees foster their strengths and fairness and transparency. We guide their preparation of future empower them to meet their career aim to deliver successful results career paths. Both tools contribute aspirations. by improving performance whilst as great Talent Data sources for developing capabilities of both In 2017, we continued to conduct prudent talent decisions. teams and individuals. The CCI and review our Talent Development In order to support and be more Performance Management Process Forum to identify our talent pools, effective in the career planning facilitates smart goals and secures create bench strength and fill process, we also continue to use that our organization delivers positions with the right people the platform “My Career Talk”. successful results by improving accordingly. We facilitated transfer This platform helps CCI employees the skills and performance of of crucial knowledge, experience identify their career goals, establish teams and individuals. At CCI, and talent by offering opportunities a plan for pursuing them and take performance assessment processes through international and local personal responsibility for achieving are implemented for all employees career moves. Talent Readiness those goals. regardless of position or seniority. Index (TRI) is an index that shows the usage of internal talent pool “My Career Platform” provides ratio. It is a recently introduced and end-to-end information and is a customized index to trace and track one-stop solution to a career at CCI. the overall succession readiness We encourage all our employees to (indexing bench strength) across CCI. take charge of their career and get In 2017, we achieved 41% at TRI for the support available to them from the critical positions and for the next internal tools and resources. year; we target 55%. Action @ field In 2017, we organized the second by a 3-day company orientation Action @ Field project for university program. They then developed team students in Turkey. With this project, projects and presented them to our we created a candidate pool of Senior Management competing new college graduates and further for awards. At end of the project, 9 strengthen our employer brand. participants joined the CCI family as The project participants, consisting trainees, 4 as Sales Representatives, of senior students, went through a 2 as Assistant Product Manager and special selection process, followed 1 as HR Specialist. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 19 HUMAN CAPITAL CCI Talent management strategy ensures that it has “objectively identified and diversified talents” to contribute whilst achieving business results. 20 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 403-2 HUMAN CAPITAL Learning and Development At CCI, we promote a work Manager on Board (MOB) Program program was launched in Pakistan, environment where continuous is a program for new managers with Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and learning is achieved. We carry out the goal of supporting participants Kazakhstan in 2015 and continued in our learning and development to become more effective managers all CCI countries in 2016; reaching its activities under the main headings by focusing on the balance between entire target audience as of February of Commercial Development, business and people management. 2017. Leadership Development and It was initially launched in 2015 in Finance Leader Certification Functional Development. Pakistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Program was designed for finance Turkmenistan and Jordan, and was Collaborating for Value Program employees up to the managerial spread to all CCI countries in 2016. helps increase our employees’ level. The program, accredited by As of February 2017, the program commercial capability across Boğaziçi University, is continued in reached its target of 467 people. our geography. We conduct 2017 and reached 125 employees. standardized and country-specific Supervisor on Board (SOB) In addition to these programs, a customized training sessions in Program is a program prepared variety of learning solutions are also the classroom, the field and on for employees who are already offered to employees, including the job throughout all our country managing a team with less than a but not limited to, coaching and operations. In 2017, 462 sales year of experience. The program mentoring, research articles, colleagues completed our basic aims to improve the participants’ books, conferences, seminars, sales training “Collaborating for basic team management skills and business English language Value” succesfully. and also informs them about development. All of these resources the necessary HR procedures for are structured under CCI UNI, which managing people. With a target is supported through Learning audience of about 905 people, the Management System software. 403-2 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 21 HUMAN CAPITAL Employee Engagement People are one of our key pillars CCI’m Value Play Shop of our vision and employee engagement is one of the A forum where our fundamental focus areas to effectively manage our human values come alive capital and create value. Creating CCI’m Value Play Shop (VPS) is a underwent the experience a stronger sense of belonging culture and value transformation delivered through 31 sessions at CCI by connecting the people initiative led by CCI Pakistan in and covering 17,160 training and business strategy with our 2017. The program will cover the hours. Within the first year of its core values is the driving force for entire CCI Pakistan employee inception, VPS has resulted in an employee engagement. Beyond base by the end of 2018. Each increase in Engagement Score that, we believe including our people session of VPS aims to engage from 47% to 83%. Having received with diversified talents in all parts all employees across different appreciation at the Group level, of our business processes and locations, levels and functions. VPS received participation from community development programs By experiencing real life CCI Leadership Team members is key to our success. situations simulated through as well as other CCI countries. It is A best practice, CCI’m Value different exercises, this platform currently in an expansion phase Play Shop (VPS), is shared here allows the participants to rewith VPS session being conducted and more information about our live their values and commit to at One Team Conferences in employee engagement practices sustain positive behaviors at Turkey and will be cascaded to is provided under the “Community their workplace. During 2017, the country level. Development” heading of this report. 1,430 employees successfully 22 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1; 413-1 CREATING VALUE FOR COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CCI conducts bottling and As a company operating in 10 Furthermore, CCI invests a certain distribution operations and creates countries with 780,000 sales points ratio of its annual pre-tax profit in a positive impact both directly & and serving to 400,000 million local economies. indirectly. Additionally, CCI invests consumers, CCI creates an economic in community in various ways. ecosystem along its value chain. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals To train at least 2,000 women and provide 10 applicants with To train at least 2,000 women grants while expanding the We trained 2,050 women and provide 10 applicants with Achieved geography of the project beyond and allocated 10 grants. grants in Belestery Program will the 3 regions established in cover 3 regions in Kazakhstan. Women Kazakhstan in 2016. Empowerment The project is completed; We aim to help set up a total of We helped to set up 13 therefore, we will not set goals 15 Tabeer stores by the end of Tabeer stores within the Partial for 2018. We will be supporting 2017. scope of The Project Zarya. a new women empowerment project. We reached more than To reach 120,000 students in 18 To reach 140,000 students in 18 125,000 students in 17 cities Achieved cities in 150 schools. cities in 150 schools. in 131 schools. Youth Include 50 youth aged 17 to Empowerment 22 from all over Kazakhstan We received 80 applications To include 60 youngsters, aged in the project aimed at from all over Kazakhstan between 18 and 29, in the social the development of social and the 10 best participants Achieved entrepreneurship program and entrepreneurship and conduct are deemed worthy to train the best 10. training for the 10 best participate trainings. participants. 15,000 more trees were Community To plant 15,000 more trees in planted in Baku and by this To plant 4,000 more trees in Baku Achieved Development Baku. 46,000 trees were planted and reach 50,000 in total. in total. We set up 4 additional To provide clean drinking water plants and provided clean To provide clean drinking water to additional 100,000 people and drinking water to additional to additional 50,000 people and Water Achieved bring the total number of people 100,000 people. The total bring the total number of people reached to 850,000. number of people reached reached to 900,000. to 850,000. 103-1; 203-2 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 23 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Economic Impact Our products are produced, sourced taxes to governments; paying an output multiplier of 5, which (where possible), distributed and suppliers for goods, services and means that an injection of Rs 1 by sold locally. A bottle of Cocacapital equipment; and supporting CCI Pakistan generates Rs 5 in the Cola creates added value for community investment programs. Pakistan economy. Additionally, CCI’s multiple sectors during its journey tax multiplier in Pakistan is 2, which We reach close to 780,000 sales from the production line to the means for every Rs 1 tax paid by CCI points with our extensive sales consumer. Many sectors, including Pakistan, almost Rs 2 are generated and distribution network. We agriculture, energy, production, in the taxation for government. For support local retailers to build their transportation, distribution, retail, our Turkey operations, according to businesses through providing assets cooling, advertising, media and the recent economic assessment, and trainings. Finally, through strong packaging play a role in the every 1 TL generated by the Cocasupplier contributions, we also production of a single bottle of Cola system in Turkey yields 9.7 TL support our suppliers to increase Coke. Our business stimulates job in the economy. Additionally, our their international competitiveness. creation throughout our value cycle. operations enable 4.1 billion TL An independent economic impact We contribute to the economic value added in retail business and study conducted for CCI Pakistan success of each community by also generate income for 160,000 showed that the CCI Pakistan has employing local people; paying farmers. The Economic Impact of Coca-Cola In Pakistan For every Rs. 1 tax paid by An injection of Rs. 1 by CCI Pakistan, almost Our CCI Pakistan yields almost Rs. 5 employment rate is Rs. 2 are Generated for the 13.6% in the economy. government. Rs. 1 Rs. 2 Rs. 5 Rs. 5 Rs. 1 The Economic Impact of Coca-Cola In Turkey Every 1 TL generated by Enables The Coca-Cola system the Coca-Cola system in Turkey yields 9.7 TL in the 4.1 billion TL enables a direct and indirect employment impact of value added in the retail 30,000 economy. business, supporting the industry. Generated income for 160,000 farmers people. 9.7 TL 1 TL 24 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 203-1 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT While growing our business, we areas: volunteerism, youth & women community challenges and needs, also work to ensure that we create empowerment and water. and develop and implement projects value for each and every member to address them. We work closely We care about the needs of the of these communities. Our goal is to with the Anadolu Foundation on local communities where we be recognized as a good corporate projects addressing the different operate. Through partnerships and citizen by all our stakeholders. Our needs of our stakeholders. collaboration with both local and community investment focuses on 3 international partners, we identify The Anadolu Foundation Development Agency’s Financial In 1979, the founders of the Anadolu Support for Children and Youth Group established the Anadolu program, young entrepreneurs Foundation with the aim of creating have the possibility to develop lasting solutions for social needs. their capacities and develop joint The foundation’s mission is to make projects with universities, local a difference by improving people’s governments and NGOs. The My quality of life through supporting Dear Teacher project, conducted by development in education, health the Foundation on a national scale, and social issues. offers opportunities for youth and Through the Foundation’s Young teachers to develop sustainable Social Entrepreneurs project, which solutions for their communities. received funding from the Istanbul For more information and to see the Annual Report of the Anadolu Foundation www.anadoluvakfi.org.tr/en. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 25 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Volunteerism Encouraging and supporting on women’s empowerment, youth social responsibility into our employee volunteerism is one development and environmental company culture and encourage of the building blocks of CCI’s protection. In doing this, CCI employee volunteerism in support of organizational culture. CCI’s main collaborates with local and community development programs. goal is to be recognized as one international NGOs and encourages We also began the establishment of of the most responsible corporate its employees to take an active role Employee and Family Volunteering citizens by all stakeholders. To reach through volunteering. Clubs in our countries of operation, this objective, CCI supports civic which in turn has created yet In 2013, we launched the CCI initiatives that help build stronger another platform for our employees Volunteers initiative to integrate communities, focusing primarily to improve internal communication. 2017 Volunteerism by numbers in CCI Turkey Operations 17 +1,000 +95,091 Cities Volunteers Beneficiaries 12 12 83,680 TL Projects Activities Donation 54 32 +3,033 Strategic Calls in Voluntary Partnerships Portal Hours Our Sustainable Packaging Strategy REDUCE PET and Glass REUSE Returnable Lightweight Glass Bottles RENEW RECYCLE Post-Consumer PlantBottle Material Collection 26 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CCI Supports Its Volunteers and They Support the Society Since 2010, CCI has organized the orphans or children at hospitals, Under the Volunteering Program, CCI Community Champions award distributing food to needy families employees can apply individually program annually to acknowledge and renovating school facilities, to or as a group to become volunteers and reward employees who name but a few. through the company’s intranet voluntarily initiate or participate in platform CokePort, indicating their In 2017, CCI took a very important social projects. In 2013, in order to preferred fields of activity. In April step by launching the CCI encourage employee volunteering, 2017, 25 employees from 9 locations Volunteering Program to CCI launched the CCI Volunteers were trained on the program’s systematically encourage and initiative and established employee mechanism and the volunteering support volunteering activities for volunteering clubs throughout its process to form local coordination all its employees. Launched first in operations. These clubs helped teams. Working Group Meetings Turkey, the program will be gradually employees organize and jointly have been realized in İstanbul, expanded to other CCI countries. engage in social projects. Every year, Bursa, Ankara, Elazığ and İzmir, with As part of the program, CCI CCI employees actively coordinate others to follow. After the meetings, collaborates with around a dozen and participate in volunteer activities CCI volunteers began individual civil associations and foundations, that serve their communities, which fieldwork or formed project groups. as well as the Ministry of Education, range from environmental cleanups universities and local governments. and planting trees to visiting 14 NGO’s 12 volunteer activities with 49 represented by 1,000+ CCI volunteers So far in 2017, 12 volunteer activities have been realized in 17 different cities under the program targeting disadvantaged women, children and participants families, people with disabilities, refugee children and the elderly, with the participation of more The Volunteering Program was than 1.000 CCI volunteers from 17 officially launched in May 2017 in the different cities. company’s headquarters in Istanbul, with the participation of 14 NGOs represented by 49 participants. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 27 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Youth Empowerment CCI serves a predominantly young population of more than 400 million and almost 60% of population is below 29 years of age. Investing in our geographical We reached regions’ young and growing population is critical to the sustainable development of our communities. We consolidate our efforts for youth development into two 700,000 key areas: youth entrepreneurship and sports. young people with our projects in 2017 28 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 3.2.1. Move! In Kazakhstan Coca-Cola İçecek’s award-winning students from an active and healthy In 2017, within the framework of legacy program 3.2.1 Move! has lifestyle. Evaluating the results the 3.2.1 – Move! project, young reawakened enthusiasm in the of the research, we conducted a people aged 17 to 22 received development of thousands of competition, the Best School Sports substantial help in implementing youth since its inception in 2013. Project, which covered 19 schools socially meaningful projects through The program continues to grow from low-income rural areas. entrepreneurial activities. With this as newly formed youth leaders We delivered sports equipment, project, identification and support spread it throughout the community board games and gymnastic of youth initiatives aimed at solving and creates impact in their local exercises to these schools and specific social and environmental communities. repaired 3 gymnasiums, allowing problems in various regions of the 3,000 students to benefit from the country have been supported. The program was expanded to renovation of sports facilities and Kazakhstan in 2014, as experts In 2017, 80 applications were donation of sports equipment. In visited Almaty and Akmola regions received from all over Kazakhstan, addition, we focused on helping PE to conduct a large-scale study and the best 10 applications were teachers develop their professional regarding the conditions of schools selected for participation in the capacities, meanwhile introducing and children. Holding meetings semifinal. All the finalists were creative and innovative learning with teachers and discussing with trained in business planning, online methods. So far, more than 40 students, the experts concluded sales, marketing and PR strategies, physical education teachers have that the materials and technical financial literacy and presentation been trained within the scope of the equipment of the schools were skills. The authors of the 3 best project. insufficient, hence demotivating projects received financing in amount of 1 million tenge. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 29 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Physical Education Teachers Take the Lead in Turkey 3.2.1 Move! set out to transform teachers from 131 public schools actively practice 30 different kinds public schools into habitats that in 15 provinces in Turkey, mainly of sports at school and have so effectively foster students’ physical by creating and renovating sports far formed 538 new school teams. and personal development through facilities and providing sports 82% of the participants express that local projects developed and equipment for students. The projects they felt more fit, self-confident and executed by Physical Education reached more than 125,000 young happier. (PE) teachers. Between 2013 and people through sports and group 2017, 3.2.1 Move! supported 152 PE activities. 3.2.1 Move! participants 30 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Coca-Cola Turkmenistan Grassroots Football Tournament Jointly organized every year by Coca-Cola, the Football Federation of Turkmenistan, Turkmenistan Sports Committee and the Ministry of Education, the Coca-Cola Turkmenistan Grassroots Football Tournament took place between April and June. Around 110,000 children from 1,874 schools from across the country participated in the tournament. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 31 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT The Olympic Moves Program The Program was launched in December 2015 in Azerbaijan with the collaboration of Coca-Cola, the National Olympic Committee of Azerbaijan, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Youth and Sport, with the mission to increase sports participation in youth and foster healthier, happier and more active communities. Until the end of 2017; 100,000 youngsters participated in the program in 4 cities and in 4 sports, which are athletics, biking, swimming and basketball. 32 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Copa Coca-Cola Football Tournament The 5th season of Copa Coca-Cola grassroots football tournament took place in Iraq. The tournament brought together more than 300 schools from seven provinces and more than 2,400 students. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 33 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 3.2.1 Move! Projects reached more than 125,000 young people through sports and group activities. 34 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Women Empowerment To foster women’s entrepreneurial potential is an excellent way for communities to prosper. Yet, women still constitute a fraction of the global labor force. Our efforts focus on offering women access to business skills training courses, financial services and connections with peers and mentors. As a sign of our commitment to this cause, we have been a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) since March 2015. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 35 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT My Sister Program My Sister Project, which has made offers women platforms where As of end of 2017, My Sister Project a considerable difference in the they can improve their business has reached over 2,000 women, lives of participants, is a part of the skills and gain competence via including ladies from a variety of 5By20 initiative launched by The training and consultancy programs. backgrounds, including housewives, Coca-Cola Company with the goal TCCC partners up with Boğaziçi engineers, entrepreneurs and to economically empower 5 million University, with the support of the university students. women entrepreneurs by 2020. Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey, governorships, This project, in Turkey, where woman and municipalities in the project labor force participation is in decline, cities. 36 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT The Coca-Cola Belestery Program Launched in 2013, The Coca-Cola Belestery Program in Kazakhstan partners with the Coalition for Green Economy and Development of G-global, and the Social Dynamics Public Fund and aims to develop entrepreneurship among women in Kazakhstan. The program provides business skills training and technical support to women in Almaty and Astana on how to start and effectively run a business specifically using green technologies. In 2017; 2,050 women from the regions of Akmola, Almaty and Karaganda were provided with business training and presented their business ideas on issues such as cultivation of agricultural and bakery products and furniture manufacturing. The program also provided grants to 10 women to be used in realizing their business concept. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 37 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT UNDP Women’s Empowerment Program CCI Azerbaijan has partnered with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Azerbaijan since 2014 to sponsor the Economic and Social Empowerment of Young Women. The project aims to create opportunities for women and youth to participate in economic and social life. The program offers trainings such as business development and effective communication and presentation skills as well as awareness raising activities to help reduce gender stereotyping. The program also provides in-kind contribution to disabled women eager to start their own businesses. As part of the program, Women’s Resource Centers have been established in Neftchala and Salyan. 700 women were trained at these centers. 38 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT The Zarya Project CCI Pakistan initiated the project Zarya with the objective of empowering women in the workplace and society. As the first phase of Zarya, the Zeenat Gari project was launched to provide microfinance opportunities to disadvantaged women in Pakistan. CCI Pakistan initiated the second phase of the project in 2016, which is called Tabeer Stores. Tabeer Stores provide microfinance to disadvantaged women to set up and run small grocery stores. 3 more Tabeer stores have been added to the stores in 2017 and those bring the total number to 13. 203-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 39 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Water Stewardship Paani – Safe Water Initiative Access to clean drinking water is Access to safe drinking water in In addition, two plants in Rahimyar a major problem in today’s world. Pakistan is a critical issue. A report Khan were installed under the We attach particular importance to by Pakistan Council of Research in banner of the Clean Water Trust. water related issues, since water Water Resources (PCRWR) reveals Each plant has the capacity to problems directly affect the welfare that 44% of the total population produce over 2,000 liters per hour of the communities where we in Pakistan is without access to and serve a community of over operate and the sustainability of our safe drinking water. Furthermore, 20,000 people every day. business. UNICEF reports that patients with In keeping with our objective to water-related diseases occupy 20provide safe drinking water, CCI Access to clean drinking water is 40% of hospital beds in Pakistan. Pakistan launched the Paani – Safe a significant health concern in our Another publication by Pakistan’s Water Initiative in 2015 with the aim geography. In Pakistan, we have Waters at Risk states that 33% of of providing clean water to more been running our Paani Clean Water deaths in Pakistan are due to water than 850,000 people across Pakistan project in collaboration with the borne diseases typhoid, cholera, by the end of 2017. The project was World Wildlife Fund (WWF). dysentery and hepatitis. launched and implemented in Addressing the safe drinking water collaboration with WWF Pakistan. needs of our communities, CCI A total of 25 plants have been set Pakistan set up its first filtration plant up over the course of three years. in Malir, Karachi in collaboration with Extensive community outreach and Rotary International Pakistan. The mobilization activities have also second plant was installed at Lari been conducted in the targeted Adda, Lahore in collaboration with areas informing people about the the Clean Water Trust. importance of safe drinking water and its appropriate usage. PAANI PROJECT 25 filtration plants 15 million liters of Water access 10-15% decrease safe drinking water for 850,000+ in the outbreak of individuals diseases 40 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT In today’s world, environmental areas, we monitor and manage hold the ISO 14001 standard problems are inevitable. our atmospheric emissions and certificates. In Turkey specifically, all Furthermore, the worsening climate wastewater discharge quality in plants, sales operations and offices change, now a globally accepted line with each country’s national are certified according to ISO 50001 reality, has a direct impact on regulations and TCCC standards. Energy Management System and environmental sustainability and ISO 14064-1 GHG Standards. Our Environment the continuity of our business. When Policy is available at CCI’s sustainability governance combined with global concerns http://ccicomtr.azurewebsites. structure is organized to support such as our growing population, net/Portals/3/CCI_Environment_ and manage comprehensive sustainability plays even a more vital Policy_Statement-07072015. key environmental concerns. The role in the continuity of our success pdf?ver=2017-07-07-131959-597 CCI Group Supply Chain Director in a globally responsible manner. has the ultimate responsibility All our operations are conducted Our primary goal is to continuously for environmental management with a vigilant awareness of our seek ways to produce more by using and is diligent with regards to our impact on the environment. In less resources. adherence to our sustainability accordance, we are consistently goals. For further details, you may Our environmental approach compliant with the local legal refer to “Sustainability Organization” includes an in-depth focus on requirements, international in the Sustainability Approach three key areas: Energy Efficiency standards and TCCC KORE section. & Climate Protection, Water requirements. All our plants in Stewardship, and Sustainable Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Packaging & Waste. In addition Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan, to these comprehensive focus Iraq, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan To improve our performance and create environmental awareness, we organized environmental training for our employees at the plants. In 2017, we provided 8,574 person-hours of environmental training to our employees in Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan. Key Performance Indicators COUNTRY YEAR Energy Use Ratio GHG Emissions Water Use Ratio Total Waste (MJ/L) Ratio (g CO2-e/L) (L/L) Recycling Rate (%) Turkey 2017 0.27* 40.43** 1.56* 96.00 2020 Target 0.28 28.54 1.35 98 Jordan 2017 0.25 38.78 1.44 91.90 2020 Target 0.23 50.00 1.41 94 Kazakhstan 2017 0.655*** 58.62 1.59 90.00 2020 Target 0.644 45.00 1.55 92 Azerbaijan 2017 0.38 55.66 1.73 97.80 2020 Target 0.35 55.00 1.70 98 Pakistan 2017 0.38 40.47 1.93 94.44 2020 Target 0.37 tbd 1.78 98.6 Kyrgyzstan 2017 0.44 54.20 1.65 97.70 2020 Target 0.45 53.00 1.57 98.50 * Figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. ** Figure has been verified by BV. *** Kazakhstan figure is Total EUR value. SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 41 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2017 Goals Performance in 2017 Status 2018 Goals Our EUR performances are as To achieve the following energy To achieve the following energy use ratios: follows: use ratios: 0.299 MJ/L – total energy Turkey : 0.27 MJ/L 0.27 MJ/L Achieved 0.262 MJ/L – core operations Jordan : 0.28 MJ/L 0.25 MJ/L Achieved 0.24 MJ/L – total energy 0.58 MJ/L – total energy Kazakhstan : 0.44 MJ/L 0.44 MJ/L Achieved 0.36 MJ/L – core operations Energy Efficiency 0.67 MJ/L – total energy Azerbaijan : 0.37 MJ/L 0.38 MJ/L Underachieved 0.37 MJ/L – core operations 0.39 MJ/L – total energy Pakistan : 0.41 MJ/L 0.38 MJ/L Achieved 0.38 MJ/L – core operations 0.66 MJ/L – total energy Kyrgyzstan : 0.46 MJ/L 0.44 MJ/L Achieved 0.47 MJ/L – core operations To expand the Behavioral Energy Efficiency program The program expanded in Turkey Achieved in Turkey and other countries of operation. and other countries of operation. Our carbon emissions ratio Our target is to achieve a carbon For CCI plants to achieve a carbon emissions ratio of: performances are as follows: emissions ratio Turkey : 26.60 CO2 g/L In parallel with EUR Jordan : 44.80 CO2 g/L In parallel with EUR Kazakhstan : 52.00 CO2 g/L Achieved In parallel with EUR Azerbaijan : 60.24 CO2 g/L In parallel with EUR Climate Protection Pakistan : 37.28 CO2 g/L In parallel with EUR Kyrgyzstan : 34.92 CO2 g/L Achieved 28.00 CO2 g/L To ensure that 95% of newly To ensure that 100% of all newly purchased cooler 96.84% of newly purchased Underachieved purchased cooler equipment is equipment is HFC-free by the end of 2017. cooler equipment is HFC-free. HFC-free by the end of 2018. We increased our EMD-equipped To increase our EMD-equipped To increase EMD-equipped coolers to 89%. coolers to 90% of the total in Achieved coolers to 90.5 % of the total in Turkey. Turkey. To achieve a water use ratio of: We achieved: To achieve a water use ratio of: Turkey : 1.44 L/L 1.56 L/L Underachieved 1.48 L/L Jordan : 1.67 L/L 1.44 L/L Achieved 1.43 L/L Water Kazakhstan : 1.63 L/L 1.59 L/L Achieved 1.57 L/L Management Azerbaijan : 1.80 L/L 1.73 L/L Achieved 1.72 L/L and Pakistan : 1.83 L/L 1.93 L/L Underachieved 1.86 L/L Stewardship Kyrgyzstan : 1.80 L/L 1.65 L/L Achieved 1.64 L/L We conducted SVA study in our To conduct SVA study in our Karachi, Faisalabad, To conduct SVA study in our Karachi, Faisalabad, Gujranwala, Achieved Gujranwala, Bishkek and Erbil plants. Hazar, Ashgabat plants. Bishkek and Erbil plants. To achieve a total waste ratio of: We achieved: To achieve a total waste ratio of: Turkey : 4.97 g/L 4.77 g/ Achieved 4.31 g/L Jordan : 2.27 g/L 1.35 g/L Achieved 1.35 g/L Kazakhstan : 1.91 g/L 1.60 g/L Achieved 1.56 g/L Azerbaijan : 0.96 g/L 1.17 g/L Underachieved 1.00 g/L Pakistan : 9.93 g/L 10.77 g/L Underachieved 11.48 g/L Kyrgyzstan : 3.65 g/L 2.93 g/L Achieved 2.90 g/L To continue assessing Packaging and To continue assessing opportunities to reduce resin We saved 1,740 tons of resin and opportunities to reduce resin Waste Achieved and glass used in the packaging we use. 1,267 tons of glass in Turkey. and glass used in the packaging we use. We conducted feasibility studies To implement Lightweight projects To continue conducting feasibility studies for for implementing Lightweight Achieved at 1 L and 1,5 L Fanta, 750ml full implementing Lightweight projects in Pakistan. projects in Pakistan. set resin and 250 ml glass bottle. We produced all 1 L Damla To continue to produce all 1 L To continue to produce all 1 L Damla water bottles in water bottles in Turkey using Achieved Damla water bottles in Turkey Turkey using PlantBottle resin. PlantBottle resin. using PlantBottle resin. 100% compliance with legal Environmental 100% compliance with legal environmental limits and No fine is received. Achieved environmental limits and TCCC’s Compliance TCCC’s standards. standards. In 2017, we will organize a workshop with TCCC Sustainable The project did not start with regarding sustainable agriculture project and Underachieved Sourcing TCCC. conduct feasibility study for this project. Note: Fines of USD 200,000 are deemed significant by CCI. 42 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 201-2; 103-1; 302-5 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Energy Management and Climate Protection Attention to climate change and its in implementing the necessary direct and indirect implications for effects on the world’s ecosystems changes to combat these risks. our business, supply chain and continue being at the forefront of communities. These potential effects Energy efficiency and climate responsible business practices. raise the need for immediate action. protection is one of our three As one of the most critical global Burning fossil fuels for energy priorities in our sustainability problems, climate change creates (electricity, heat and logistics) is one strategy. We recognize that climate significant risks for all of us. CCI joins of the largest sources of humanchange may have medium term the global business community caused GHG emissions. The focus areas of our energy efficiency and climate protection strategy are: 1 2 3 Reducing energy use and Reducing logistics-based Reducing indirect GHG emissions in our direct emissions with emissions by focusing on manufacturing operations, effective fleet and fuel our climate friendly manufacturing and sales management and refrigeration programs; offices by implementing optimization practices; energy efficiency programs; 6 5 4 Promoting climate Calculating, verifying and Increasing awareness on protection awareness by reporting accurate climate protection by engaging with our carbon footprint of our collaborating with our stakeholders in climate operations; distributors, dealers, change platforms; suppliers and other stakeholders; 7 8 9 Calculating the carbon Researching and Investigating footprint of our products in investing in clean and opportunities and line with a life-cycle renewable energy where conducting a feasibility approach; possible; study to supply sustainable sources. Throughout the CCI operations, and related GHG emissions in These efforts require both national we calibrate reduction targets our value chain (packaging, and international coordination as that directly and indirectly impact manufacturing, transportation and we aim to work in collaboration with energy use and GHG emissions cooling processes) and implement adherence to the global efforts for and track our performance. We GHG reduction programs, while climate protection. also systematically seek measures improving operational efficiency to reduce our energy consumption and quality to achieve our goals. 302-5 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 43 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT The Investigating, creating new have a direct impact on productivity, approaches and promoting effective collaborative efforts and success. change are all foundational to Our goal is to extend beyond Behavioral TCCC’s Behavioral Energy Efficiency the Energy Efficiency Top 10 by Program (Energy Excellence). This promoting a company roadmap program is designed with staff that is holistic in its approach to Energy awareness and culture at its core, “Energy Excellence” and helps and aims to reveal the ways in which spread a sense of ownership and the CCI system affects personal accountability of this central issue. Efficiency interactions and behaviors related to In 2017, the program has been work and the workplace. Indeed, our replicated in all 21 CCI plants in 10 individual relationship to systems, countries. The effects and savings Program technology, procedures, and our of the program will be calculated perceptions of that relationship during 2018. CCI Mersin Plant Receives Efficiency Award CCI Mersin plant receives the second prize in the Midsize Enterprises category with its Tetra Lines Automatic Pallet Truck System project at the 2017 Efficiency Projects Competition organized by the Turkish Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. In 2017, we saved 4.57 Million MJ energy and reduced 661 tons of CO2 throughout our efficiency projects and the OE Program conducted in CCI Turkey Operations. We supply energy needs of We increased our We saved approximately With our EMD program, we lighting and our post mix EMD-equipped coolers to 31 Million MJ energy saved approximately 468 line in our İzmir Plant from 90% of the total in Turkey. and reduced 3,305 tons million kWh electricity in six 100% clean energy of CO 2 with efficiency countries of operation. We resources. projects in our plants in six achieved 78,711 tons of countries of operation. CO 2 that 6.6 million trees annually extract from the atmosphere. 44 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-5 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Energy Management Figures Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 1.12 0.72 0.67 0.55 0.48 0.48 0.41 0.44 0.44 0.4 0.37 0.37 0.38 0.38 0.26 0.33 0.3 0.27 0.27 0.25 0.25 2006 2015 2016 2017 Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgzystan Improvements in Core EURs between 2006 and 2017 (MJ/L) 1.12 0.72 0.67 0.49 0.44 0.48 0.48 0.26 0.38 0.38 0.44 0.27 0.25 TCCC* Turkey** Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan*** Kyrgyzstan*** *2017 value for TCCC has not yet been disclosed at the time of publishing this report. **The Isparta plant in Turkey is put into service in 2017, which cause a rise in EUR. *** Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan data were included in the sustainability report in 2015 and 2016 respectively. 2006 2015 2016 2017 302-5; 305-1; 103-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 45 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Our Carbon Footprint Sustainability performance of our business is closely related to our sourcing, packaging, manufacturing, distribution and refrigeration processes. To decrease the carbon emissions created during these processes, we employ several practices. Transport and Distribution We transport millions of goods and emissions of our value chain. points in Turkey have used this products from our suppliers to our platform to date. We continued our Addressing the issue twofold, plants, and from our plants to our Road Net program in 2016, which we aim to reduce the number of customers and distributors. reduces driving by 1.35 million vehicles in transit and the kilometers kilometers, meaning approximately Our business success is dependent travelled. For this purpose, we 1,050 tons less GHG emissions and on a broad and thorough logistics choose vehicles that consume less a fuel savings of $650,000 every network that balances efficiency fuel and emit less carbon. Our year. Combined with the “Reduce the and energy reduction. As such, Route Optimization Project” is in line Carbon Footprint in The Drink in Your optimization of distribution is crucial with this specific objective. Via the Hand by 25%” program, we have to our business performance. platform “Road Net,” developed for furthered our intention to decrease Transportation accounts for about our Turkey operations in 2013, 65 fleet emission. 16.5% of the total direct GHG distributors and 5 direct distribution Cooling Practices It goes without saying that new technologies to be used in Between 2009 and 2017 our EMD refrigeration greatly improves cooling operations. Within this program in Turkey resulted in a our consumers’ enjoyment of our reporting period alone, we collected total energy savings of about 2.440 products. Again, with regards to and disposed of 38,542 old cooling Million kWh (equal to the annual protecting the environment, we need equipment. energy consumption of 420,011 to create a balance between our Turkish households) and a total efforts to please our customers and Effective since 2009, our Energy reduction of approximately 991,056 our responsibility to decrease our Management Device (EMD) tons of CO2 emissions (equal to the environmental footprint. As of 2017 Program is another feature from amount of CO2 extracted from the year-end, we have approximately which we are able to address our atmosphere annually by 82.6 million 333.000 cooling devices in Turkey. cooling equipment’s environmental trees). As we invest in technologically footprint. By using EMD equipped coolers, we were able to reduce With EMD Program, we aim to developed cooling devices, we also prevent the emissions of 1.75 million reduce our climate change impact. energy consumption by 42%. Also, new coolers (larger than 250-liter tons CO2 gas between 2010-2020. Cooling equipment accounts capacity) with EMD capacities were At CCI Turkey operations, we have for approximately 43.5% for our purchased as part of the program. been purchasing coolers with total operations. For new cooling By 2017 year-end we have 90% LED lights since 2012. By the end equipment purchases, we switched EMD ratio in our Turkey operations of 2012,11% of our coolers were to HFC-free equipment that contains (Please see the Performance equipped with LED lights. In 2017, refrigerant gases with low global Indicators section of the report for 100% of our newly purchased warming potential, we upgrade detailed data on EMD ratios for six coolers are equipped with LED existing equipment to the energy countries of the reporting scope). lights, bringing our overall ratio to efficient technology, and we continue In 2017, this program allowed us 40%. Today, every eight out of 20 to work with suppliers to innovate to save approximately 459 million coolers have LED lighting. With this and develop climate-friendly cooling kWh electricity in Turkey. EMD ratio strategy, we will keep increasing technologies. We continue to reach increased to 90%, which resulted in our ratio and minimizing our beyond our current efforts as we 77,156 tons of CO2 reduction for CCI energy consumption. collaborate with suppliers to develop Turkey operation. With EMD program across CCI, we achieved 79,000 tons of CO 2 reduction, which equals the amount of CO2 extracted f rom the atmosphere annually by 6,6 m i l l io n t ree s. 46 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-5; 305-1 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Global climate change is directly Refrigerants in cooling equipment With our climateimpacted by HFCs used as may slowly leak into the atmosphere refrigerants in coolers. Together during use or may leak completely friendly studies in six with its bottling partners, TCCC has if the equipment is not properly countries of operations, established the goal that 100% disposed of at the end of its life of new cold-drink equipment will cycle. CCI always ensures that we achieved 1,078,711 be HFC-free. Where a commercial coolers are properly emptied of any tons of CO2 emissions HFC-free solution is not currently gases. By the end of 2017, 63% of available, we collaborate with our the coolers we use in Turkey were reductions equivalent suppliers to develop alternative HFC-free. Due to our use of HFC-free to approximately 89 HFC-free solutions. This effort is vital: cooling equipment, we managed HFC-free coolers when compared to to reduce our total fugitive CO2 million trees extracted their HFC counterparts have at least emissions by 11,637 tons between from atmosphere since 1,000 times less effect on global 2009 and 2017. 2009. warming. Emissions by Regions Our absolute emissions in six countries of operation decreased from 973,954 tons to 779,028 tons of CO2 in 2017. In addition to monitoring total emissions for each country of operation, we also monitor our GHG emissions ratio, which represents grams of CO2-e per liter of product produced. A table providing a detailed overview of our GHG emissions for the six countries of operation is provided in the “Performance Indicators” section. Reduce the CO2 Emissions Embedded in the Drink in Your Hand by 25% by 2020 The Coca-Cola system launched a global initiative in 2013 called “Reduce the CO2 emissions embedded in the drink in your hand by 25% by 2020 aimed at reducing GHG emissions across its entire value chain. In CCI, we are aligning our climate protection target with this overall target in order to achieve comprehensive carbon footprint reductions across our manufacturing processes, packaging formats, delivery fleet, refrigeration equipment and ingredient sourcing. This is a comprehensive approach, since the goal covers Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Our goal for Turkey operations is to reduce our GHG emissions by 2020 covering manufacturing, fleet and cooler functions. In 2017, we decreased this amount by 7.7 % with respect to last year, without considering the decrease in emission factors change in coolers. 2017 Emissions by Scope and Region 7,533 355,893 2,643 21,800 284,649 80,570 21,898 12,068 43,800 17,943 2,866 48,562 2,024 22,682 6,694 22,717 3,038 3,738 14,053 218 51,602 63,346 176,386 291,334 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3* TOTAL Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgzystan 302-5; 305-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 47 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Our GHG Emissions in Turkey operations for the last 5 years are as follows: GHG Emissions in Turkey (tons CO2-e) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Stationary combustion emissions 14,517 14,283 16,218 14,896 17,045 Fleet emissions 15,145 16,012 9,378 8,241 7,687 Scope 1 Fugitive emissions 19,555 17,123 26,566 20,634 26,869 TOTAL 49,217 47,418 52,162 43,770 51,602 Emissions (electricity) 62,877 61,359 60,370 64,291 63,346 Scope 2 TOTAL 62,877 61,359 60,370 64,291 63,346 Cooler Emissions 328,628 321,162 299,264 369,679 126,734 Employee commuting 1,314 1,157 1,621 1,130 177 Scope 3 Business travel 9,668 4,733 5,241 4,321 1,347 Downstream transportation 37,415 33,385 38,533 39,240 48,128 TOTAL 377,025 360,437 344,659 414,37 176,386 OVERALL TOTAL 489,119 469,214 457,191 522,431 291,334 This year in CCI Turkey Operations; • Emissions from coolers; Scope 2 directly connected to the decrease our total Scope 1 emissions emission factor, which is 0.441 kg in miles traveled. increased from 43,777 tons of CO2 CO2e / kWh, was being used for • Downstream transportation; to 51,602 tons compared to 2016. the calculation of the emissions GHG emissions sourced from Eventhough the fleet emissions resulting from electricity use until leased trucks used in distribution decreased, the rise in the emissions 2017. In 2017, Scope 3 emission is added to downstream due to fugitive gases causes an factor for electricity consumption, transportation in 2017. increase in Scope 1 emissions. which is 0.168 kg CO2e / kWh, is We managed to reduce Scope 2 started to be used in relevant Consequently, our absolute emissions due to electricity use. A calculations. emissions in Turkey decreased remarkable decrease is observed from 522,431 tons to 291,334 • Employee commuting; employee in our Scope 3 emissions owning tons in 2017. commuting is provided by to our climate change mitigation, minibuses. Therefore, emission Our absolute emissions in six emission reduction activities and factor for minivans (DEFRA) is countries of operation decreased change in methodology. Emissions started to be used, which is more from 973,954 tons to 779,028 tons of from coolers at our distributors and appropriate. CO2 in 2017. customers are the main cause for the decline. • Business travel; CCI put A table providing a detailed great effort to minimize the overview of our GHG emissions For more accuracy in GHG Inventory emissions caused by business for the six countries of operation calculations, change in methodology air travel. There is no change in is provided in the “Performance in Scope 3 is as follows: methodology, the reduction is Indicators” section. 48 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-5; 305-1; 305-5 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT In addition to reducing the absolute emissions, we performed optimization to increase savings. As a result of efforts put into practice, in 2017, we achieved a GHG reduction of 87,839 tons of CO2 in Turkey resulting from emission reduction activities in cooling and manufacturing operations. Emission savings in Turkey (t CO2-e) Scope 2014 2015 2016 2017 Product distribution fleet improvement Scope 1 366 2,075 0 0 Fugitive emission reductions of coolers Scope 1 299 145 2,651 7,782 Energy efficiency and low-carbon projects in Scope 1+2 2,030 1,402 80,289 661 plants Route optimization Scope 3 1,050 1,050 1,050 1,400 Cooler EMD improvement Scope 3 175,000 172,315 217,915 77,156 IT Improvement Scope 3 840 TOTAL Scope 1+2+3 178,745 176,987 301,905 87,839 103-2 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 49 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Water Management Water is one of the most critical TCCC’s ultimate goal of “replenish partnering with governments, natural resources. It is also the main every drop of water we use.” Our NGOs and communities to ingredient of our products and a strategies in water management are assess, understand and generate vital element of our production summarized below: effective, long-term water stress processes. Since water resources solutions, and implement source • Improving the overall water-use have been affected by overuse, water protection plans; efficiency in our plants; increasing demand and climate • Replenishing the water we change, it has become a global • Implementing Source Vulnerability use back to the nature by issue that needs to be managed Assessment and Source Water implementing locally relevant consciously. Otherwise, the effects of Protection studies to protect water programs; mismanagement will harm societies, catchment basins in the regions businesses and life for all. where our plants are located; • Researching and investing in new technologies to reduce water There is a direct link between • Managing wastewater and consumption; sustainable use of water and the stormwater discharge in our sustainability of our business. plants (achieving 100% compliance • Investigating opportunities and Therefore, minimizing our impacts in wastewater treatment); conducting feasibility study to on water and sustaining water supply sustainable sources. • Mitigating risk for communities efficient operations is of the highest and for our business by priority and we fully support Our Total Volume of Water Our Water Use Water Withdrawal Recycled and Ratio Reused (m 3) We consistently decrease We strive to reduce our overall water withdrawal. We recycle and reuse the the amount of water used water in our production for producing one liter of 9,321,826 m 3 processes. product. of water 537,481 m 3 1.71L/L We replenish the Water amount of water Turkey TCCS 2020 Objective Eurasia Replenishment Rate (%) equivalent to our product volume. 150% 100% 69% Above figures are 2017 figures of 6 countries of operation. 50 98.10 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 96.00 97.80 97.70 90.99 81.60 91.90 94.67 90.00 94.44 75.55 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 70.54 We submitted our fourth annual report to the 2017 CDP Turkey Water Program Turkey* describingKazakhstanour water strategy,Azerbaijan disclosing our SVA Pakistan** study summary update, Kyrgyzstan** Jordan the results of water risk assessments, and the data on our water withdrawal, *Pakistan data was included in the sustainability report in 2015 and Kyrgzystan data was included in 2016 report. **Pakistan data is from 2015 and Kyrgyzstan data is from discharge 2016. and consumption. We received a “B” assessment score by CDP with our fourth report. We will be submitting our fifth report to the CDP Water Program in 2018. According to a study conducted by CCI Turkey Operations accounts for CCI’s water resources are wells, Waste Management Award for Turkey’s State Hydraulic Works, the CCI: 0.0044 billion m³, or only 0.089% spring water and municipal water amount of annual total usable water of Turkey’s industrial water usage. systems. Spring water is only used in Turkey is 112 billion m³, of which (Source: www.dsi.gov.tr/toprak-vein Turkey. five billion m³ is used in industry. su-kaynaklari CCI Turkey Operations received the “Waste Management). Award”in 2017 for its 2016 recycling performance of packaging waste and waste management achievements in the FMCG sector. As a member of ÇEVKO, CCI became the 2nd Plant WaterinUse Company & Minimization Turkey in waste collection, recycling and recovery, achieving 52% packaging waste recovery in 2016. Our total water withdrawal product. Accordingly, we set water 2016. At CCI operations, we started amounted to 9,321,826 m³ in six use reduction targets based on water reduction activities in 2006. countries of operation included this KPI and closely monitor our We have improved our water in the reporting scope, which performance. efficiency by 10.3% in CCI Turkey was 8,792,859 m³ in the previous Operations, 58.1% in Jordan, 24.3 Our 2020 goal for CCI Turkey Post-consumer year. Detailed data onpackaging the total recycling rate by years in Turkey% in Kazakhstan and 17.6 % in Operations is to achieve 1.35 liter water withdrawal for the last five Azerbaijan during 2006-2017, thanks use per liter product in our Turkey years is provided in a table in to2016 the efficiency 2020 projects put in the2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 operations. In 2017, our water usage Environmental Performance practice in our plants. Target ratio is realized as 1.56 L/L. Indicators section of the report. 37% 38% 40% Since 42% 44% 2006, there has been 48% a 22.7% 52% Improvements 54% 60% between 2006-2017 Another important indicator we for operations within the reporting improvement in Coca-Cola’s water monitor is the amount of water scope are presented below. efficiency on a global basis until used for producing one liter of Improvements in WURs Between 2006 and 2017 (L/L) ** 2006 2015 2016 2017 3.44 In support of our commitment to water 2.56 sustainability, the 1.96 1.74 2.1 2.1 2.03 1.93 1.88 1.59 1.73 1.65 “Top 10 Water Saving 1.56 1.44 Program” is designed to reduce water usage TCCC* Turkey** Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan*** Kyrgyzstan*** in our production *2017 value for TCCC has not yet been disclosed at the time of publishing this report. facilities and aims to **The Isparta plant in Turkey is put into service in 2017, which causes an increase in WUR. *** Pakistan data is from 2015 and Kyrgyzstan data is from 2016. support the continuous improvement in In all CCI plants, we develop, invest flushing for temperature control, and implement water saving automatic valve installation in manufacturing plants programs every year in line with washers, reduce water waste regarding water OE Culture. Some of the top water in conveyor lubricant system in saving programs in 2017 include Pakistan; elimination of leakages in use ratio. All CCI yield increase in boilers and production lines in Kazakhstan; the plants in Kyrgyzstan and Turkey; optimization of water consumption plants completed the reject water re-uses, treated water during CIP in Azerbaijan. program. 303-2; 306-5 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 51 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT CCI Receives Water Efficiency Award from the Sustainability Academy in Turkey CCI receives the grand prize in Water Efficiency category at the 4th Sustainable Business Awards in Turkey. The awards are organized every year by the Sustainability Academy to award Turkish companies that apply the most sustainable business models in various fields of activity. Source Water Vulnerability Assessment The water we use in our products This assessment is conducted every of any risks to the sustainability of and our production processes is five years in all CCI plants. As of water resources within these areas. drawn from local water sources. December 31, 2016, all CCI plants SVA studies include processes As part of our water stewardship had completed their SVA studies such as field surveys, interviews program, we conduct a local source in all countries of operation. The with plant authorities or site vulnerability assessment (SVA) and second cycle of SVA study began representatives, interviews with local develop Source Water Protection in 2016 and continued in 2017. The and national authorities as well as Plan (SWPP) to source water cycle will be completed in all CCI desktop studies. These assessments responsibly, mitigate water-related operations by 2020. inventory the social, environmental risks to our System and to the and political risks to the water During any SVA study, an analysis communities we serve. sources supplying our facilities of water basins and sub-basins and surrounding communities. We SVAs allow us to assess around our plants is conducted, evaluate the results of these studies vulnerabilities to community sources and it includes the topographical, with a SWPP and take action on a of water and help us to determine geological, hydro-geological and plant-by-plant basis. potential impacts of our water hydrological assessment of the usage and wastewater discharge. study areas as well as identification 52 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 306-5 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Replenish Every Drop of Water We Used In 2017, we saved approximately 331,785 m 3 $46,087 331,785 m 3 of water of saving Investment in the six countries of operation, where the total water efficiency investments amounted to approximately $46,087. Water Map Water Saving Projects Our plants have created water CCI Turkey Operations plants map in order to follow water minimizes their water consumption on a daily basis. consumption by projects in Operational Excellence Culture. In 2017, we achieved 11,504 m 3 reduction by implementing 11,504 m3 water saving projects at CCI of saving Turkey Operations plants. in Turkey As the water committee set a goal for year 2017. A water Water efficiency checklist and a survey conducted in all CCI Turkey Efficiency Operations plants in order to determine minimization and Survey recovery opportunities. 2020 240,000 m3 GOAL water saving 306-5 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 53 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 54 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 203-1; 306-5 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Replenish Programs TCCC began water replenishment • to improve safe access to water programs in 2005, and since and sanitation; then have been working with • to protect watersheds; communities, governments and respected third-parties to • to provide water for productive commission and support projects use; that address local water needs from • to educate and raise awareness safe water access to watershed about water issues, including protection and water for productive engagement on water policy. use. These programs have been developed with consideration of the following objectives: TCCC’s Replenishment Goal The Coca-Cola system aimed for sense, The Life Plus Environment Biodiversity Conservation Aspect “water neutrality” is defined as: Program was initiated with the aim The Agriculture of the Future Project to foster a new approach to land 1. Returning the water we use back aims to promote the “ecosystem and water management in line with to the communities we serve services” approach in agricultural adaptation to climate change and by treating all wastewater and practices in order to conserve decreasing water resources. returning it to the environment agricultural ecosystems and at a level of purity that supports Two projects have been conducted biodiversity without reducing the aquatic life. under the Life Plus Environment prosperity of the communities. The Program: Agriculture of the Future project’s ecosystem services and 2. Replenishing the amount of and Harran Night Irrigation. The biodiversity monitoring activities are water equivalent to our product Program has so far saved 6.7 billion summarized below. volume through locally-relevant liters of water on 50 million m2 of water and sanitation projects. Ecosystem Services Approach agricultural land. Some 200,000 The Coca-Cola System (TCCS) saplings were also planted as Natural ecosystems that directly or globally balanced an estimated windbreakers in the Konya basin, indirectly provide various benefits for 100% of the equivalent amount and the program has reached 2,500 human welfare are called ecosystem of water used in their finished people, including farmers, NGO services. Agriculture is a dominant beverages in 2015. The water representatives, academicians and human activity, and agricultural land replenishment rate for Turkey has the local community. covers nearly 40% of the world’s total reached 150%, equal to about 4,271 land area. The ecosystem services The water replenishment project in million liters of water in the same used by agricultural production can Konya initiated by Coca-Cola has a year. In TCCC’s Eurasia region (which be provisioning (freshwater, genetic budget of $1.99 million distributed includes CCI’s Turkey, Azerbaijan, biodiversity etc.), supporting (soil over three years, from 2014 to 2017. Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan structure and fertility) or regulating operations but excludes Jordan), Agriculture of the Future Project services (climate regulation, the replenishment rate increased to pollination, biological control etc.). Agriculture of the Future Project has 69%. We will continue replenishment In the Agriculture of the Future two objectives. The first is to improve programs in 2017 in local regions Project, the aim is to integrate the the water-holding capacity of soil, (e.g. Sapanca region) through Ecosystem Approach – a strategy ensuring efficient use of land and community water projects in line for sustainable management of water. The second is to increase the with the results of source water land, water and living resources capacity to use “ecosystem services” vulnerability assessments (SVA) – into agricultural activities. The in agriculture through direct seeding conducted for each of plants. Ecosystem Approach provides tools and windbreaks. The Project was to minimize the conflicts between Turkey is considered a “nearly realized in partnership with The nature conservation and economic waterscarce” country, with an Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, activities, thus enhancing the average allowance of only 1,520 m³ the Ministry of Food, Agriculture sustainability of socio-ecological of water per person, and more than and Livestock, and the Nature systems. 70% of the country’s fresh water is Conservation Centre. being used in agriculture. In this 203-1; 306-5 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 55 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT The project is the first of its kind to alternative to chemical pesticides over-irrigation, such as salination, use such a comprehensive approach used to exterminate the rodents in fungal diseases and pollution. in handling socio-economic activities the fields. With the implementation of this and environmental values together. project, 4.5 billion liters of water Harran Night Irrigation Project were saved in Harran. In addition, As a part of the biodiversity Harran Plain is one of the farmers achieved a 15% yield monitoring activities in the project, agricultural production centers increase. Furthermore, an irrigation 43 bird species, 18 plant species, in Turkey. During summer management scheme is developed 15 butterfly species, and 10 small months, irrigation is done at high in Geographical Information Systems mammal species have been temperatures, which increases (GIS) environment for an irrigation observed in the direct seeding evaporation. In order to reduce the union, which is first of its kind. GISareas, wind break zones and control amount of water lost by evaporation, based water management and areas. The project also develops it is important to do irrigation in night irrigation is now promoted environment-friendly solutions to the the early hours of the day, in the by the Regulation on Water Usage problems of agricultural production, evening or at night, rather than Control in Irrigation Systems and such as rodent management. As during the daytime. Reducing Reduction of Water Losses. a part of biological pest control water loss will also minimize scheme, owl and kestrel boxes environmental problems caused by are placed in farming areas as an 56 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1; 306-5 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Waste Water Management At CCI we have high standards for local authorities. TCCC requirements In 2017, we discharged a total of the wastewater we discharge in for Treated Wastewater Quality are about 3.1 million m³ of wastewater the environment. “Zero wastewater given in the Performance Indicators in six countries of operation. Of this generation and reclamation” defines section. All CCI operations are amount, we discharged 1,448,430 our wastewater management regularly audited in detail in this m³ to municipal sewage system, approach. Not only do we scope, in addition to ISO 14001 826,205 m³ in organized industrial comply with local laws regulating Environment Management System zone treatment facilities, and 834,315 wastewater treatment and Audits by third parties. We monitor m³ was discharged to surface water discharge in all the countries in our wastewater parameters with after treatment. which we operate, but we also act in periodic analyses and reduce our To monitor and manage the quality accordance with TCCC’s standards environmental impact by treating of the wastewater we discharge, that determine the wastewater wastewater prior to discharge and we also measure the amount of pollutant limits for our operations. In we develop projects to reduce wastewater discharged per liter of many cases the allowed discharge wastewater generated as a result of product for their compliance with the limits set by TCCC are much lower our activities. program. than the limits established by the 103-1 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 57 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Sustainable Sourcing Sustainable agriculture is critical for TCCC’s approach to sustainable In line with TCCC’s strategy, CCI set us to meet the expectations of our agriculture is founded on principles a goal to investigate sustainable consumers, customers and other that protect the environment, uphold sourcing opportunities for sugar stakeholders and to enable the workplace rights and help build and sweeteners, engage with continued growth of our business. more sustainable communities. stakeholders and conduct a Sourcing of CCI’s raw materials Coca-Cola is addressing the feasibility study for sustainable accounts for a large portion of our challenges of agriculture availability, sugar sourcing in Turkey in 2016. We economic, social and environmental quality and safety while also helping established a study group formed footprint. to improve livelihoods and the by TCCC and CCI PAC, Technical well-being of farming communities. and Procurement responsible for Sustainable sourcing is purchasing TCCC has focused on sustainably understanding how to comply with ingredients from farm locations and sourcing key agricultural ingredients SAGP. Related information regarding suppliers that meet TCCC-approved by 2020 and developed Sustainable the validation process, compliance standards, most preferably adhering Agriculture Guiding Principles. standards and expectations were to the TCCC’s Sustainable Agriculture discussed. In May 2017, a workshop Guiding Principles (SAGP), which, Compliance with SAGP will be was organized on the SAGP among other things, set standards to verified according to international compliance program for suppliers. be met by farm suppliers for human third-party standards such as CCI’s sweetener suppliers were and workplace rights, environmental Bonsucro, Rainforest Alliance, invited to the meeting. As a next protection and responsible farming Sustainable Agriculture Initiative step, suppliers will work on SAGP management. Platform (SAI) and Fairtrade and share their project calendar for International or equivalent. their compliance with the program. Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles Workplace and Human Rights Environment Farm Management Systems • Freedom of association and • Water management • Harvest and postharvest handling collective bargaining • Energy management and climate • Reproductive material identity, • Prohibit child labor protection selection and handling • Eliminate discrimination • Conservation of natural habitats • Management systems, record and ecosystems keeping and transparency • Work hours and wages • Soil management • Business integrity • Safe and healthy workplaces • Crop protection • Community and traditional rights 58 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1; 301-2 Sustainable Packaging Packaging is an essential aspect we not only contribute to circular lifecycle through a renewed of the quality of our products and economy, but we also reduce perspective. CCI determines its ensures safe delivery of our products our environmental impact since sustainable packaging goals taking to our customers and consumers. packaging is one of the biggest into account the packaging materials We are dedicated to packaging our sources of carbon footprint. and the recycling related regulations products in the most sustainable in the six countries of operation. To mitigate our environmental way possible. With our sustainable footprint via sustainable packaging, packaging efforts to conserve we focus on the entire packaging resources and use less energy, Our Sustainable Packaging petroleum and other fossil fuels put several practices into action Strategy to produce a key ingredient in the to reduce the amount of natural plastic, PlantBottle packaging uses resources used in packaging Using less resource for packaging materials that are up to 30% plantwhile paying close attention to not is one of the key elements of our based. Essentially, we are trading compromising the safety of our strategy and design lies beneath 2017 Volunteerism by numbers in CCI Turkey fossil Operations fuels for plant-based materials products. Our efforts began in 2008 that goal. We continuously work without sacrificing performance or when we reduced the length of to develop lighter packaging by recyclability. the bottleneck for the lightweight using less material and conduct 17 PET bottle. A standard amount of +1,000 +95,091 lightweight projects on both glass In 2013, we conducted several trials resin is used in PET bottles through and resin side. Additionally, we at our plants using PlantBottle. Lightweight and Short Neck projects. develop and use new materials that After obtaining legal permits in In 2015, we conducted a benchmark Cities Volunteers mitigate our environmental footprint, 2014, we started to produce 330such as PlantBottle. ml Damla water bottles and in Beneficiaries study covering all CCI countries of operation to map the amount of 2017 1 L Damla water bottles in PlantBottle resin used for all sizes of bottles Turkey using PlantBottle resin. In 12 12 and to share among the plants best Considering that about 60% of 2017, we used about 23,060 tons 83,680 TL practices of lightweight applications. TCCC’s beverage volume today is of PlantBottle resin in six countries delivered in PET plastic packaging of operation. Detailed information With our lightweight practices; we and that in some countries we are about PlantBottle can be found at: not only save materials, but also Projects not legally allowed to use recycled plastic, TCCC invests in alternative Activities https://www.coca-colacompany. com/stories/great-things-comeDonation reduce GHG emissions generated during the production process. We technologies to reduce its plastic in-innovative-packaging-anare reducing our GHG emissions by 54 footprint due to PET. introduction-to-plantbottleimplementing lightweight programs 32 packaging since 2010 in CCI Turkey Operations, +3,033 Developed by TCCC, PlantBottle Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and packaging replaces the traditional TCCC will continue to focus on Kyrgyzstan operations. fossil-based ingredients used to developing 100-percent recyclable make PET plastic with renewable Recycling Strategic substitutes made from plants. The Calls in packaging and reducing the amount of plastic in its bottles. Voluntary Recycling is the process of collecting Partnerships key difference between PlantBottle packaging and traditional PET plastic Portal Lightweight Hours materials that would otherwise be thrown away and converting them bottles is that instead of using As defined in our strategy, we into new products. Our Sustainable Packaging Strategy REDUCE PET and Glass REUSE Returnable Lightweight Glass Bottles RENEW RECYCLE Post-Consumer PlantBottle Material Collection 103-1; 301-2 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 59 Improvements in Total Waste Recycling Rate Between 2006 and 2016 2006 2015 2016 2017 Returnable Bottle Use in Turkey 96.00 97.80 98.10 97.70 90.99 94.67 90.00 94.44 With returnable bottle practices, glass bottles can be used up to eight times. With this 81.60 91.90 practice, not only less energy is used for bottle production, but also less resources are 75.55 70.54 consumed. In 2017, 91,900 tons of glass is saved by returnable bottle practices. Additionally, 3,824 tons of recycling glass is saved. Post-Consumer Packaging Waste Recycling Turkey* Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan** Kyrgyzstan** Our recycling efforts include for CCI’s country operations where *Pakistan data was included in the sustainability report in 2015 and Kyrgzystan data was included in 2016 report. In Turkey, there exists legislation encouraging **Pakistan data is from our customers 2015 and Kyrgyzstan data is from 2016. there is no legal, organized recycling mandating recycling of postto use returnable bottles and scheme -, was established in consumer packaging waste. The helping authorized business 2013. The Recycling Task Force system in Turkey is based on a partners collect packaging conducted an analysis of the waste concept of extended producer’s waste. We seriously consider our infrastructure, legal background, liability. In 2017, the recycling rate Waste stakeholders’ Management expectations about Award for andCCI: stakeholder expectations of CCI in Turkey for plastics, glass, waste management, listen to their regarding “recycling of packaging metal and aluminum-packaging concerns and work to implement material” in our countries of waste was 54%, which increased by projects thereof. operation. In Kazakhstan, one of 2% compared to the previous year’s CCI Turkey Operations received the “Waste CCI’sManagement priority countries Award”in 2017 for aits 2016 to establish recycling figure. performance We achieved of packagthis rate with ingRecycling The waste andTask waste Force, a crossachievements in the FMCG sector. As a member of ÇEVKO, CCI became the 2nd management recycling scheme, we commenced the help of our authorized business Companyteam functional with in in Turkey thewaste aim of 52% collection, recycling stakeholder and engagement recovery, achieving efforts to packaging partner,waste Çevkorecovery in 2016. Foundation. We aim defining CCI’s long-term recycling create a common vision for recycling to achieve a 60% post-consumer strategy for post-consumer Improvements in Total Waste Recycling in theRate Between 2006 and 2016 packaging recycling rate in Turkey by country. packaging materials, specifically 2020. 2006 2015 2016 2017 Post-consumer packaging recycling rate by years in Turkey 96.00 97.80 98.10 2020 97.70 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 90.99 94.67 90.00 94.44 Target 81.60 91.90 75.55 37% 38% 40% 42% 44% 48% 52% 54% 60% 70.54 Partnering helps us improve We also will continue to team with The above-mentioned partnership recycling rates and achieve our local communities, NGOs, industry with Çevko Foundation in Turkey is our goal of collecting 25% of our peers and consumers to help make one of the best practices to improve packaging across CCI geography. recycling easier and more accessible the post-consumer packaging waste Therefore, TCCC and its bottling for everyone by improving local collection and recycling rates. Improvements Turkey* partners utilize theirin WURs Jordan Between experiences 2006 Kazakhstan recycling systemsandand 2017 (L/L) Azerbaijan driving ** policy Pakistan** Kyrgyzstan** to help educate the public on *Pakistan data was included in the sustainability report in 2015 and 2006 change that supports a truly circular Kyrgzystan data was 2015 included in 2016 2016 report. 2017 3.44 **Pakistan data is from 2015 and Kyrgyzstan data is from 2016. what, how and where to recycle. economy. 2.56 1.96 1.74 2.1 2.1 2.03 1.93 1.88 Waste Management Award for CCI: 1.59 1.73 1.65 1.56 1.44 CCI Turkey Operations received the “Waste Management Award”in 2017 for its 2016 recycling performance of packagTCCC* and wasteJordan ing wasteTurkey** management achievements Kazakhstan Azerbaijan in the FMCG sector. Pakistan*** As a member Kyrgyzstan*** of ÇEVKO, CCI became the 2nd Company in Turkey in waste collection, recycling and recovery, achieving 52% packaging waste recovery in 2016. *2017 value for TCCC has not yet been disclosed at the time of publishing this report. **The Isparta plant in Turkey is put into service in 2017, which causes an increase in WUR. *** Pakistan data is from 2015 and Kyrgyzstan data is from 2016. 60 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103-1; 301-2 Zero Waste To Landfill Waste generated by our processes non-recyclable wastes. and recycling all the waste produced is an essential part of our All waste that can be reused is from our sites. Accordingly, one of environmental management reused, and that which can be the key performance indicators we system. We work to minimize recycled and recovered is delivered track is Total Waste Recycling%. our environmental footprint by to licensed companies in all CCI Another is our total waste ratio, minimizing the amount of waste operations. Waste that cannot be which is an indicator that shows that is disposed of safely and recycled or recovered is sorted the amount of waste generated per in compliance with legislation. according to specific, legally defined liter of product produced (g/l). We Our main strategy is based on categories and delivered to licensed investigate alternative methods and preventing, reducing, reusing, disposal facilities or municipalities strive to recycle 100% total waste recycling and recovering the waste. to be used as landfill or to be generated from our operations. To do so, we employ the ISO 14001 incinerated. According to our waste Results are carefully observed, environmental management system management standards, all waste monitored and evaluated to achieve and carry out related operations in disposal sites are evaluated before better performance. Since 2006, accordance with CCI’s environmental use, and periodically thereafter, we have managed to improve policy, legislations and TCCC’s KOREto verify and document site our performance in all countries EOSH requirements. acceptability. of operation. Detailed information can be found in the Performance At our manufacturing sites, we “Achieving zero waste production” Indicators section. segregate our waste as reusable, is our ultimate goal and we do our recyclable, hazardous, landfill and best to accomplish this by reusing Improvements in Total Waste Recycling Rate Between 2006 and 2016 2006 2015 2016 2017 96.00 97.80 98.10 97.70 90.99 81.60 91.90 94.67 90.00 94.44 75.55 70.54 Turkey* Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan** Kyrgyzstan** *Pakistan data was included in the sustainability report in 2015 and Kyrgzystan data was included in 2016 report. **Pakistan data is from 2015 and Kyrgyzstan data is from 2016. Waste Management Award for CCI: CCI Turkey Operations received the “Waste Management Award”in 2017 for its 2016 recycling performance of packaging waste and waste management achievements in the FMCG sector. As a member of ÇEVKO, CCI became the 2nd Company in Turkey in waste collection, recycling and recovery, achieving 52% packaging waste recovery in 2016. Post-consumer packaging recycling rate by years in Turkey 103-1; 301-2 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 61 2017 Sustainable Packaging Performance of CCI CCI Turkey 91,900 tons 23,060 tons Operations of glass and of 30% plant achieved 3,824 tons based material in 54% of recycling glass is saved Damla 330 ml & 1 l post-consumer Bottle packaging wastes recovery rate plastic glass metal 2,732 tons of resin Lightweight aluminium 1,286 tons of glass Short Neck saving in 6 countries due to projects Total waste recycling rate at plants Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan 96.0% 91.9% 90.0% Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan 97.8% 94.4% 97.7% 2020 PLAN 60% post-consumer packaging waste recycling rate in Turkey 62 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY IN REVIEW 63 64 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-3 CONTACT CCI Burcu Coşkun Group Corporate Affairs Manager corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr REPORTING CONSULTANT & DESIGN www.esgturkey.com LEGAL DISCLAIMER This sustainability report (the Report) was prepared by CCI within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the United Nations Global Compact. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. This report is printed on recycled paper. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Performance Indicators PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTENTS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES PERFORMANCE 07 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE INDICATORS 01 08 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX UNGC 34 CONTENT INDEX 40 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE LETTER 41 GREENHOUSE GAS VERIFICATION STATEMENT 42 302-2; 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 1 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE (RG) This document provides guidance Legal entities covered fully by Key Definitions on the indicators included in the this report include: 2017 CCI sustainability report, • Coca-Cola İçecek AŞ, Turkey For the purpose of this report, the some of which have been • Coca-Cola Satış ve Dağıtım AŞ, following definitions apply: externally assured for the current Turkey or a prior period. • Mahmudiye Kaynak Suyu Ltd. Şti., PLANT: Turkey All on-site facilities, including Indicators that have been externally • J.V. Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers LLP, production buildings, water assured for this year’s report are Kazakhstan treatment units, wastewater marked with an asterisk in the • Azerbaijan Coca-Cola Bottlers treatment units, warehouses, report. Other indicators covered Limited LLC., Azerbaijan laboratories, administration in this sustainability report are • The Coca-Cola Bottling Company buildings and technical service reported in line with the GRI of Jordan Ltd., Jordan operations. Standards of the Global Reporting • Coca-Cola Beverages Pakistan Initiative (GRI) and are listed on Ltd., Pakistan ENERGY: pages 34-39. • Coca-Cola Bishkek Bottlers CJSC Electricity, natural gas, diesel, Kyrgyzstan gasoline, fuel oil, liquefied The data within the scope of petroleum gas (LPG) and steam. For this guidance document is for For a full list of entities included in the purpose of this report, energy the financial year ending on CCI’s financial statements, please does not include alternative forms December 31, 2017 and concerns see page 98 of the CCI 2017 Annual of fuel, such as bio-waste, biomass, the relevant operations in Turkey, Report, available on: http://www. bio-diesel, or renewable sources Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, cci.com.tr/Portals/3/Documents/ of energy such as wind or solar Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan. Referral PDF/Annual_Report/2017/CCI-2017energy, which collectively represent to “The Company” covers these six AR.pdf an insignificant share of total countries, unless otherwise stated. energy consumption and carbon General Reporting Principles emissions. 2017 Assurance Scope In preparing this guidance ENERGY CONSUMPTION: The Reporting Guidance (RG) document, consideration has been The energy consumed during document covers The Company’s given to the following principles: the reporting year (January 1 to data-gathering and reporting December 31). Energy consumption obligations for the indicators listed • Information Preparation – to data covers energy used in the below. It is the responsibility of The highlight the primary principles operation of on-site industrial Company management to ensure of relevance and reliability of facilities and manufacturing that appropriate procedures are information; and processes, including electrical in place to prepare data related to • Information Reporting – to systems, heating, lighting, on-site these indicators in line with the RG highlight the primary principles transportation, air circulation and in all material respects. of comparability, consistency air conditioning (HVAC system). (especially with regards to other Manufacturing processes refer to • The total energy consumption, data, including that of previous the energy consumed in the core energy usage ratio (EUR), total years), understandability and bottling (filling) operation. Total water withdrawal and water transparency in order to provide energy consumption also includes usage ratio (WUR) of The clarity to users. preform injection for those plants Company’s Turkey operations, in that use this energy-intensive year 2017, were audited according process as well as energy used to the ISAE 3000 Standard for CO2 production processes in (Revised).1 our plants in Kazakhstan and • GHG emissions of Turkey Azerbaijan. operations were verified in line with the ISO 14064-3 Standard. 2 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-2; 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE ENERGY USE RATIO (EUR, MJ): Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and WASTE DISPOSAL (TON): MJ of energy consumed per liter of Pakistan. In Turkey, CCI has been Waste disposal has followed product produced, calculated as the reporting its GHG emissions the GRI G4 EN23 classification. sum of all individual energy sources more extensively since 2012 in To determine the method of from the filling (core) production accordance with the ISO 14064disposal, CCI has used the legal processes (in MJ) divided by 1 Standard for quantifying and categories laid out in the disposal production volume (in liters). To reporting GHG emissions at the documentation provided by its allow comparability between organization level. Consequently, accredited waste contractors. Based different CCI plants: GHG emissions reported for Turkey on the disposal documentation, • Energy consumption during also include CCI’s GHG emissions the categories of waste generated preform injection, an energyfrom its non-plant buildings, by CCI during the reporting period intensive process, is excluded e.g. offices, fleet transport and were recycling, re-use, recovery, from the EUR since only a few fugitive emissions. Where a plant incineration and landfill. Some sites employ this process. generates energy on-site, the hazardous waste is sold for use as Of those CCI operations that related energy consumption is fuel in processes such as cement fall within the scope of this defined as the energy of the fuel manufacturing. In accordance with RG, only the Turkish bottling used for generation (e.g. for on-site, the legal categories of accredited facilities in Ankara and Çorlu, diesel-fired electricity generators, waste documentation, this waste the international operations in the energy consumption would is classified as recovery rather than Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, be the diesel used rather than the incineration. and the bottling facility in electricity output of the generator). Lahore, Pakistan employed an REUSED WASTE (TON): operational preform injection WASTE (TON): Waste used again for the same process during the reporting Waste generated at a given site or different purposes without reperiod. includes waste due to production, processing, e.g., wood. • Energy consumption for CO2 construction, food services or any production processes in our other activity. Examples of the types RECYCLED WASTE (TON): plants in Kazakhstan and of solid waste generated by The Waste that is broken down into Azerbaijan is also excluded from Company include paper, plastic, raw materials, changed and the EUR calculation. corrugated cardboard, metal, glass, reprocessed for use and used for • Beginning in 2013, the electricity sludge from water, waste oils, fleet new products. Recyclable materials producing process, which is waste (tires, batteries, coolants, include many kinds of glass, present only in Kazakhstan, is oils, etc.) and damaged ingredients paper, metal, plastic, textiles, and included in EUR calculations. or products, plus all hazardous electronics. The composting or other waste such as solvents, inks and reuse of biodegradable waste – GHG EMISSIONS (TON): lab waste. Liquid waste disposed such as food or garden waste – is Emissions during the reporting of through the wastewater system also considered recycling. Materials year (January 1 to December 31). is not included in the calculations to be recycled are brought to a The GHGs reported are those as such waste is accounted for in collection center, or picked up from currently required by the United wastewater discharge volume and the curbside, then sorted, cleaned Nations Framework Convention wastewater sludge. and reprocessed into new materials on Climate Change and the bound for manufacturing. Kyoto Protocol. These GHGs are TOTAL WASTE RATIO (g/L): currently: carbon dioxide (CO2), Grams of total waste generated per RECOVERED WASTE (TON): methane (CH4), nitrous oxide liter of product produced. Non-recyclable waste materials (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), and the extraction therefrom perfluorocarbons (PFCs), Sulphur WASTE RECYCLING RATE (%): of heat, electricity or energy hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen Tons of waste recovered, rethrough a variety of processes, trifluoride (NF3). Other GHGs, used or recycled divided by total including combustion, gasification, including those regulated by the waste generated (in tons), i.e. the pyrolyzation and anaerobic Montreal Protocol, are excluded Waste Recycling Rate represents digestion. For example, if waste from GHG emissions and analyzed the portion of waste that is not is incinerated in an incineration separately. “GHG emissions” refers disposed to a landfill or incinerated. plant to generate energy, then the to emissions from all production In the six countries covered by waste is “recovered.” If there is no processes, such as bottling and the 2017 CCI sustainability report, use of energy during the process, preform injection, arising from accredited waste contractors then the waste is incinerated. There The Company’s plants in Jordan, collected tons of waste for recycling are several ways to recover energy and re-use. 302-2; 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE from waste. Anaerobic digestion WATER CONSUMPTION (LITER): INJURIES AND LOST DAYS: is a process of decomposition that All water used during the reporting Type of injury, rates of injury, lost occurs naturally whereby organic year (January 1 to December 31). days and total number of workmatter is reduced to a simpler Water consumption data includes related fatalities, by region. This chemical component in the absence water used for production, water indicator is aligned with GRI’s of oxygen. “Recovery” also refers treatment, boiler makeup, cooling Standards 403-2 indicator. CCI’s to incineration or directly controlled (contact and non-contact), cleaning main injury metric is the Lost Time burning of municipal solid waste in and sanitation, backwashing filters, Incident Rate (LTIR), which is number order to reduce waste and create irrigation, washing trucks and other of lost time incidents/occupational energy. Secondary recovered fuel vehicles, kitchen or canteen, toilets illnesses multiplied by 200,000 and is energy recovered from waste and sinks, and fire control. then divided by the total number of that cannot be reused or recycled hours worked during the reporting through mechanical and biological WATER USE RATIO (L/L): period. treatment activities. Since most of Liters of water used per liter of the waste is recovered for energy product produced, calculated as TRAINING (Hr): in licensed facilities before storage, total water use (in liters) divided by Average hours of training carried hazardous waste in Turkey is production volume (in liters). out during the reporting period per categorized as “recovery.” employee, categorized in terms WATER WITHDRAWAL (L): of OHS training, environmental WASTE STORED ON SITE (TON): Total volume of water withdrawn training and total training. This Waste stored initially before the from any source during the indicator is aligned with GRI’s final treatment. Wood waste is reporting year (January 1 to Standards 404-1 indicator. treated in different ways, and December 31), including ground the final treatment method is water, municipality water and Scope of Reporting confirmed with suppliers and collected rainwater. categorized by operations. Methods The following tables summarize for reuse, recycle and recovery of WASTE EFFLUENT (L): the activities that are currently hazardous waste are confirmed The total volume of water reported within the scope of this with CCI’s service providers for discharges during the reporting sustainability report for energy waste management. For our Turkey period by discharge and quality, consumption, GHG emissions, operations, disposal and treatment including treatment method. This water consumption and solid waste. methods are decided according to indicator is aligned with GRI’s the waste disposal codes defined Standards 306-1 indicator. in the Turkish Hazardous Waste Control Regulation. The amount of ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE: waste from coolers and two-way The monetary value of significant bottles generated by the market fines (over $200,000) and the is measured either by weighing total number of non-monetary it directly or by calculations using sanctions for non-compliance waste factors recorded after with national Environmental Laws measuring the exact weight of each and Regulations. This indicator is part of the equipment. aligned with GRI’s Standards 307-1 indicator. LANDFILLED WASTE (TON): Waste sent to landfills (of either EMPLOYEE NUMBERS: a municipality or an accredited CCI employees working in The company) and disposed of by Company’s headquarters, plants burial. and sales offices. Employee figures are categorized as permanent, WATER: temporary and contractor workers, Includes water from all sources, and these data are recorded as including wells, spring water, year-end figures. This indicator is municipality and collected aligned with GRI’s Standards 108-2 rainwater. indicator. 4 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-2; 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE Total Energy Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites where bottling processes are conducted, together with secondary Except preform Except preform x x x x operations such as preform production production injection*, bottle blowing and lift truck operations Technical service operations (e.g. x x x x x x repairing of coolers, etc.) Administrative buildings located x x x x x x at industrial sites Own transportation of materials and products within industrial x x x x x x plant sites (e.g., forklift operations) Data adjustment for preform CO2 production injection, CO2 production and Only preform Only preform Only CO2 None and preform x electricity generation processes process process process processes for energy consumption figures* *Adjustment is made to the EUR (core) to allow comparability between plants by removing certain energy-intensive processes from the EUR, but not from total energy consumption. As explained in the RG, an adjustment is made to the EUR for energy consumption for preform injection processes, electricity generation processes (present only in our Kazakhstan plant) and CO2 production processes (present only in our plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan). From 2013 onwards, energy use for electricity generation is included in the EUR data. GHG Emissions as CO2-e Veriﬁcation Scope for Turkey Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities together with secondary operations such as lift truck operations x Technical service operations x Preform manufacturing, bottle blowing processes x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x Administrative buildings located away from industrial sites and headquarters x Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant sites (e.g. forklift operations) x Own transportation of materials and products out of industrial plant sites x Employees commuting with CCI-owned vehicles and sales fleet operations x Energy used in the cooling of products (off site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling of products (off site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling system (on site) x Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers x Fugitive emissions of CO2 filling process x Fugitive emissions from off-site coolers x Fugitive emissions from on-site coolers x 302-2; 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 5 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE Water Water Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites comprising bottle x x x x x x facilities Technical service operations at x x x x x x the site Administrative buildings located x x x x x x at industrial sites Waste Waste Generation Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites comprising bottle x x x x x x facilities Technical service operations at x x x x x x the site Administrative buildings located x x x x x x at industrial sites DATA PREPARATION Energy Consumption 37.3, except for in Kazakhstan, factors. Conversion factors enable where a factor of 34.4 is used an estimate of the amount of GHGs Energy consumption data are based on the 2017 analysis released into the atmosphere per reported for electricity and primary conducted by an accredited local unit of energy consumed. Different fuel sources, including natural laboratory on the natural gas types of energy sources have gas, diesel, LPG, heavy fuel oil used on site. different conversion factors that and steam. Electricity and natural • For fuels other than natural gas reflect their carbon dioxide intensity. gas data are obtained from (diesel and heavy fuel oil), energy In future periods, conversion factors supplier meters and reconciled conversion factors (from liters or may be updated to reflect changes with internal meters (when kilograms to MJ) are obtained to, and/or improvements in, available) and/or service provider from the calculation tool provided published data. During the current invoices. Diesel, LPG, steam and by TCCC Default Factors. period, the following conversion fuel oil consumption data are • For LPG (MJ/L) a conversion factors were used: obtained from supplier invoices. factor (net calorific value) of 50.0 CCI Operations used the following was used as part of the GHG For fuels such as natural gas, published conversion factors: verification process in accordance diesel and LPG, conversion factors with the requirements of ISO are derived from calculation tools • For electricity, the unit of supply 14064-1. based on the May 2015 version is invoiced in kWh. To calculate • For diesel (MJ/L) a conversion of the GHG Protocol Standards energy use ratio, kWh is factor of 39.0 was used. found on the GHG Protocol website converted to megajoules (MJ) at a • Steam (GKAL): 4,186.8 MJ (www.ghgprotocol.org). The Global factor of 3.6. (Kazakhstan operations only) Warming Potentials (GWPs) used • For natural gas, the unit of supply to calculate the emissions of for most suppliers is invoiced in GHG Emissions different GHGs in terms of CO2m³. To calculate the energy use equivalents are taken from the ratio, cubic meters is converted GHG emissions are calculated by Intergovernmental Panel on Climate to MJ with a conversion factor of CCI using published conversion Change’s Fifth Assessment Report. 6 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-2; 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE In 2014, we began using the TCCC Default “SDW Fuel Conversion Factors”, “GHG emissions from transport Factors for CO2 Emissions which is updated every year by or mobile sources” tool, version TCCC. 2.6 of May 2015, from the GHG • Natural gas (MJ): 0.05039 kg CO2 Protocol of the World Resources • LPG (MJ): 0.0594 kg CO2 For our Kazakhstan operations, Institute and World Business Council • Diesel (light fuel oil) (MJ): since electricity is generated by a for Sustainable Development to 0.07040 kg CO2 co-generation plant at the site, local calculate the emission values for • Heavy Fuel Oil (MJ): 0.073771 kg laboratory analysis results are used employee commuting and business CO2 (Azerbaijan operations only) for the calculation of GHG emissions categories. GHG emissions of • Electricity (kWh): For electricity, in these operations. The average Turkey are taken from the report conversion factors for GHG value of external laboratory analysis verified by the auditing firm Bureau emissions are obtained from the results is used to determine the Veritas in line with the ISO 14064-1 International Energy Agency (IEA) chemical composition of samples of Standard. and shared by TCCC with the the natural gas used in the plant. entire CocaCola system. Extrapolation Method Used for Energy Use In this year’s report, we used IEA Calculation and Total Energy factors of the year 2015 (as there is a two-year time gap for IEA publish Consumption the factors for a certain year). Combined factors are used for all Since the period covered by invoices operations in the sustainability may not always fully align with report. This information is available The Company’s reporting period, in the internal document entitled adjustments are made where necessary in order to align the consumption data from the invoices with the reporting period as agreed with The Company’s verifiers. 2011 IEA Factors 2012 IEA Factors 2013 IEA Factors 2014 IEA Factors 2015 IEA Factors kg CO2 /kWh (Used for the 2013 (Used for the 2014 (Used for the 2015 (Used for the 2016 (Used for the 2017 electricity Report) Report) Report) Report) Report) Turkey 0.457314 0.4591454 0.42868 0.497 0.441 Jordan 0.637428 0.6356158 0.6393961 0.656 0.588 Kazakhstan 0.395557 0.4608749 0.4324272 0.515 0.416 Azerbaijan 0.444116 0.4936623 0.4687942 0.477 0.487 Pakistan Not used 0.417622 0.4161746 0.425 0.410 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 0.050 0.092 Water Consumption Restatements Water consumption data is obtained The measuring and reporting from internal meters where ground of assured environmental data water is utilized. Moreover, separate inevitably involves a degree data on water consumption is of estimation. In exceptional obtained from supplier meters and circumstances, restatements of then reconciled with internal meters data reported in a prior year may (when available) and/or service be required. Restatements are provider invoices where the water is considered where the data differs supplied by the network. by more than 5% at The Company level. 302-2 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 7 MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES Related External Issue Internal Policies Standards and Principles CCI Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy Environmental management TCCC HSE Policy ISO 14001 KORE EOSH* Requirements Water management KORE – EOSH Requirements ISO 14001 Energy management & carbon ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064-1, Production KORE EOSH Requirements emissions GHG Protocol Sustainable packaging & waste KORE EOSH Requirements ISO 14001, PAS223 management Quality management (Production ISO 9001, EFQM Business Excellence KORE OE process) Model, Lean Six Sigma ISO 9001, ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, Product quality & safety KORE GFSI** Occupational health & safety KORE EOSH Requirements OHSAS 18001 Sustainable supply chain Supplier Guiding Principles UNGC, GRI TCCC Responsible Marketing Policy, Marketing responsibly TCCC Global School Beverage Guideline UN Guiding Principles on Business Other Human and workplace rights Workplace Rights Policy and Human Rights CCI Ethics Code, Workplace Rights Anti-corruption UNGC Policy Community involvement TCCC’s Policy UNGC Overall Code of Business Conduct, KORE UNGC, GRI * EOSH: Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health ** GFSI: Global Food Safety Initiative 8 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS This section contains additional data on CCI’s sustainability performance. Sustainability Across Value Chain Concentrate & Materials Used in Products (tons) Sugar CO2 beverage base 2013 40,951 230,222 24,255 2014 42,169 217,892 23,508 Turkey 2015 44,095 227,812 27,072 2016 37,613 255,703 24,727 2017 32,308 220,520 26,399 2013 190 7,293 997 2014 213 8,032 1,151 Jordan 2015 229 8,744 1,094 2016 215 9,463 987 2017 257 8,999 905 2013 5,115 4,889 4,588 2014 4,672 66,914 4,815 Kazakhstan 2015 4,580 49,885 5,518 2016 2,481 42,739 4,268 2017 3,845 46,920 5,390 2013 1,809 17,555 2,706 2014 1,878 18,954 2,954 Azerbaijan 2015 1,520 17,085 2,565 2016 636 11,054 1,312 2017 832 14,149 1,633 2015 635 158,838 16,069 Pakistan 2016 5,413 180,611 19,934 2017 5,489 187,339 21,925 2016 274 8,641 941 Kyrgyzstan 2017 294 8,960 890 102-8; 405-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 9 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Employee Proﬁle Number of 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employees Turkey Group Office 166 143 132 125 2.773 Turkey Operations* 2.342 2.219 2.241 2.200 Jordan 409 397 404 398 377 Kazakhstan 749 845 950 717 651 Azerbaijan 373 390 352 296 295 Pakistan 4.491 4.175 3.564 3356 2.955 Kyrgyzstan 366 384 355 307 308 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. Employees Male Female by Gender, Country Employment 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Type (%) Turkey – Group Office 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 98.8 1.2 Turkey – Operations* 98.5 98.5 98.5 98.0 1.5 1.5 1.5 2.0 Jordan 100.0 99.5 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Blue Collar Kazakhstan 99.3 98.8 99.2 99.1 99.0 0.7 1.2 0.8 0.9 1.0 Azerbaijan 97.5 97.4 97.1 97.0 97.0 2.5 2.6 2.9 3.0 3.0 Pakistan** N/A 99.2 99.1 98.3 98.0 N/A 0.8 0.1 1.7 2.0 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 94.7 93.0 N/A N/A N/A 5.3 7.0 Turkey – Group Office 58.4 55.9 52.3 52.8 41.6 44.1 47.7 47.2 76.6 23.4 Turkey – Operations* 77.1 78.3 78.2 77.5 22.9 21.7 21.8 22.5 Jordan 91.8 90.4 89.4 89.3 89.2 8.2 9.6 10.6 10.7 10.8 White Collar Kazakhstan 75.2 77.7 76.7 70.7 67.6 24.8 22.3 23.3 29.3 32.4 Azerbaijan 77.7 78.2 81.1 80.2 79.9 22.3 21.8 18.9 19.8 20.1 Pakistan** N/A 93.2 90.8 90.4 90.8 N/A 6.8 9.2 9.6 9.2 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 64.2 64.7 N/A N/A N/A 35.8 35.3 * The Blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees, since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. Number of Outsource-White Collar Jobs (*) Outsource-Auxiliary jobs (**) Outsourced Employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey – Group Office 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 902 673 Turkey – Operations 896 857 929 890 0 227 261 350 Jordan 7 0 0 0 0 53 55 48 50 50 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 86 106 108 122 122 Azerbaijan 164 153 0 0 0 33 42 44 37 38 Pakistan N/A 806 409 271 294 N/A 865 885 579 528 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 0 0 N/A N/A N/A 49 64 * Outsource-White Collar Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in merchandising, sales, warehouse operations, production etc.) ** Outsource-Auxiliary Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are not directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in security, gardening, health services etc.) 10 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-8; 405-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Male Female Total Employees by Gender, Employment Country Type and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Contract (Number) Turkey – Group 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Office 873 11 884 Turkey – 851 830 829 829 13 13 13 17 864 843 842 846 Operations* Jordan 190 199 197 192 173 0 1 0 0 0 190 200 197 192 173 Blue Collar Kazakhstan 299 335 376 325 302 2 4 3 3 3 301 339 379 328 305 Azerbaijan 193 188 136 97 98 5 5 4 3 3 198 193 140 100 101 Pakistan** N/A 2,002 1,535 1,289 1,219 N/A 18 14 22 25 N/A 2,020 1,549 1,311 1,244 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 161 160 N/A N/A N/A 9 12 N/A N/A N/A 170 172 Turkey – Group 97 80 69 66 69 63 63 59 166 143 132 125 Office 1,447 442 1,889 Turkey – 1,140 1,078 1,094 1,050 338 298 305 304 1,478 1,376 1,399 1,354 Operations* Jordan 201 178 185 184 182 18 19 22 22 22 219 197 207 206 204 White Collar Kazakhstan 337 393 438 275 234 111 113 133 114 112 448 506 571 389 346 Azerbaijan 136 154 172 157 155 39 43 40 39 39 175 197 212 196 194 Pakistan N/A 2,008 1,830 1,848 1,553 N/A 147 185 197 158 N/A 2,155 2,015 2,045 1,711 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 88 88 N/A N/A N/A 49 48 N/A N/A N/A 137 136 Turkey – Group 97 80 69 66 69 63 63 59 166 143 132 125 Office 2,319 451 2,770 Turkey – 1,990 1,908 1,921 1,879 347 309 316 314 2,337 2,217 2,237 2,193 Operations* Jordan 389 349 377 376 355 18 19 22 22 22 407 368 399 398 377 Permanent Kazakhstan 636 726 814 600 536 113 117 136 117 115 749 843 950 717 651 Azerbaijan 329 342 307 253 253 44 48 44 42 42 373 390 351 295 295 Pakistan N/A 3,874 3,287 3,015 2,686 N/A 162 198 206 174 N/A 4,036 3,485 3,221 2,860 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 249 248 N/A N/A N/A 58 60 N/A N/A N/A 307 308 Turkey – Group 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Office 1 2 3 Turkey – 1 0 2 0 4 2 2 7 5 2 4 7 Operations* Jordan 2 28 5 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 29 5 0 0 Temporary Kazakhstan 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 Pakistan** N/A 136 78 122 86 N/A 3 1 13 9 N/A 139 79 135 95 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 0 0 N/A N/A N/A 0 0 N/A N/A N/A 0 0 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. Since 2014, employee profile for Turkey is reported in two seperate categories; Group Office and Operations. ** Blue collar employee data in Pakistan have been updated with temporary employees. *** The Blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees, since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. 102-8; 405-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 11 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 Percentage of Employees by Age (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey – Group 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 77.8 60.0 54.5 60.0 22.2 40 45.5 40.0 Office 0.0 80.0 20.0 Turkey – 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Operations* Jordan 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Senior Management Kazakhstan 4.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 76.0 76 75.0 87.5 83.3 20.0 24.0 25 12.5 16.7 Azerbaijan 0,0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100 100 100.0 80.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 20.0 Pakistan N/A N/A 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A N/A 90.0 90.0 100.0 N/A N/A 10 10 0.0 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 16.7 20 N/A N/A 83.3 80.0 N/A N/A N/A 0.0 0.0 Turkey – Group 9.6 11.9 13.2 16.5 87.3 81.8 80.2 74.8 3.2 6.3 6.6 8.7 Office 27.1 71.4 1.5 Turkey – 23.5 23.3 23.9 25.9 74.6 75.1 75.0 72.5 1.8 1.6 1.1 1.6 Operations* Jordan 35.3 30.9 38.2 42.5 41.1 60.0 62.4 56.0 53.2 54.6 4.7 6.7 5.8 4.3 4.3 Other Employees Kazakhstan 49.9 40.4 36.3 30.3 29.5 43.1 52.1 56.5 61.5 60.6 7.0 7.5 7.2 8.2 9.9 Azerbaijan 42.5 40.3 36.1 34.8 32.1 46.0 48.7 53.2 55.6 57.2 11.4 11 10.7 9.6 10.7 Pakistan N/A N/A 33.3 27.0 31.3 N/A N/A 62.7 69.3 65.7 N/A N/A 4 3.7 3.0 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 62.1 59.7 N/A N/A N/A 30.2 33.3 N/A N/A N/A 7.6 6.9 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. Number and Male Female Percentage (%) Countries of Employees 2013* 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 (%) 2013* 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 (%) by Gender Turkey – Group Office 7 8 9 8 80.0 2 2 2 2 20.0 10 4 Turkey – Operations 5 7 7 5 71.4 2 1 1 2 28.6 Jordan 4 5 6 3 3 60.0 0 1 0 2 2 40.0 Senior Kazakhstan 18 18 4 4 4 66.7 7 7 4 4 2 33.3 Management Azerbaijan 3 3 3 1 3 60.0 3 3 3 2 2 40.0 Pakistan N/A N/A 7 10 9 100.0 N/A N/A 3 0 0 0.0 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 5 4 80.0 N/A N/A N/A 1 1 20.0 Turkey – Group Office 91 72 60 58 50.4 66 61 61 57 49.6 2,310 449 Turkey – Operations 1,986 1,901 1,916 1,874 85.5 349 310 317 319 14.5 Jordan 387 372 376 373 352 94.6 18 19 22 20 20 5.4 Other Kazakhstan 618 710 810 596 532 82.5 106 110 132 113 113 17.5 Employees Azerbaijan 326 339 305 253 250 86.2 41 45 41 40 40 13.8 Pakistan N/A N/A 3,358 3,127 2,763 93.8 N/A N/A 196 219 183 6.2 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 244 244 80.5 N/A N/A N/A 57 59 19.5 12 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-8; 405-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Percentage of 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 employees by gender (%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Turkey – Group Office 59.0 41.0 55.9 44.1 52.3 47.7 52.8 47.2 83.7 16.3 Turkey – Operations* 85.0 15.0 85.9 14.1 85.8 14.2 85.4 14.6 Jordan 95.6 4.4 95 5.0 94.6 5.4 94.5 5.5 94.2 5.8 Kazakhstan 84.9 15.1 86.2 13.8 85.7 14.3 83.7 16.3 82.3 17.7 Azerbaijan 88.2 11.8 87.7 12.3 87.5 12.5 85.8 14.2 85.8 14.2 Pakistan N/A N/A 96.0 4.0 94.4 5.6 93.5 6.5 93.8 6.2 Kyrgzystan N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 81.1 18.9 80.5 19.5 TOTAL 85.4 14.6 90.6 9.4 89.8 10.2 88.7 11.3 88.4 11.6 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. Number of employees 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 by gender Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Turkey – Group Office 98 68 80 63 69 63 66 59 2,320 453 Turkey – Operations* 1,993 351 1,908 311 1,923 318 1,879 321 Jordan 391 18 377 20 382 22 376 22 355 22 Kazakhstan 636 113 728 117 814 136 600 117 536 115 Azerbaijan 329 44 342 48 308 44 254 42 253 42 Pakistan N/A N/A 3,874 162 3,365 199 3,137 219 2,772 183 Kyrgzystan N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 249 58 248 60 TOTAL 3,676 628 7,412 766 6,857 775 6,608 839 6,109 802 102-8; 404-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 13 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Number of employees per 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 employee category Turkey Group 9 10 11 10 Office 14 Turkey 7 8 8 7 Operations * Senior Jordan 4 6 6 5 5 Management Kazakhstan 25 25 8 8 6 Azerbaijan 6 6 6 3 5 Pakistan N/A N/A 10 10 9 Kygrzystan N/A N/A N/A 6 5 Turkey Group 157 133 121 115 Office 2,759 Turkey 2,335 2,211 2,233 2,193 Operations * Other Jordan 405 391 398 393 372 Employees Kazakhstan 724 820 942 709 645 Azerbaijan 367 384 346 293 290 Pakistan N/A N/A 3,554 3,346 2,946 Kyrgzystan N/A N/A N/A 301 303 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. Training Average Hours of Training Per 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employee (Hour) Turkey – Group 37.7 9.7 12.4 2.4 Office 20.3 Turkey – Operations* 8.3 4.3 4.0 5.4 Jordan 26.4 35.1 64.8 13.3 1.4 Kazakhstan 13.5 29.3 27.0 23.2 29.7 Azerbaijan 11.1 14.1 37.5 30.6 35.9 Pakistan N/A N/A 65.6 27.8 7.7 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 27.8 23.4 14 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Total number of Average hours of Total Number of Countries Years hours of training training per year per Employee (Employee*Hour) employee (Hour) Turkey 2013 56,429 20.3 2,773 2014 19,540 8.3 2,342 2015 9,596 4.3 2,219 Turkey Operations* 2016 8,976 4.0 2,241 2017 11,960 5.4 2,200 2014 6,255 37.7 166 Corporate/Group 2015 1,384 9.7 143 Office 2016 1,633 12.4 132 2017 306 2.4 125 2013 10,788 26.4 409 2014 13,916 35.1 397 Jordan 2015 26,160 64.8 404 2016 5,297 13.3 398 2017 544 1.4 377 2013 10,091 13.5 749 2014 24,757 29.3 845 Kazakhstan 2015 25,642 27.0 950 2016 16,606 23.2 717 2017 19,306 29.7 651 2013 4,145 11.1 373 2014 5,481 14.1 390 Azerbaijan 2015 13,198 37.5 352 2016 9,051 30.6 296 2017 10,592 35.9 295 2015 233,862 65.6 3,564 Pakistan 2016 93,256 27.8 3,356 2017 22,750 7.7 2,955 2016 8,546 27.8 307 Kyrgzystan 2017 7,222 23.4 308 2013 81,453 18.9 4,304 2014 69,949 16.9 4,140 TOTAL 2015 309,842 40.6 7,632 2016 143,365 19.3 7,447 2017 72,680 10.5 6,911 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 15 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES New Employee Hires Total Number and Rate of New Male Female Employee Hires Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Turkey – Group Office 179 7.7 95 21.0 Turkey – Operations* Jordan 136 34.8 5 27.8 2013 Kazakhstan 188 29.6 28 24.8 Azerbaijan 82 24.9 1 2.3 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A Turkey – Group Office 1 1.0 1 1.4 Turkey – Operations* 135 6.8 44 12.5 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 2014 Kazakhstan 206 28.3 29 24.8 Azerbaijan 43 12.6 8 16.7 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A Turkey – Group Office 4 5.0 3 4.8 Turkey – Operations* 172 9.0 32 10.3 Jordan 156 40.8 6 27.3 2015 Kazakhstan 241 29.6 41 30.1 Azerbaijan 41 13.3 6 13.6 Pakistan 79 2.3 49 24.6 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A Turkey – Group Office 3 4.3 5 7.9 Turkey – Operations* 144 7.5 38 12.0 Jordan 148 39.4 6 27.3 2016 Kazakhstan 120 20.0 15 12.8 Azerbaijan 15 5.9 3 7.1 Pakistan 137 4.5 37 18.0 Kyrgyzstan 30 12.0 4 6.9 Turkey – Group Office 6 9.1 5 8.5 Turkey – Operations* 96 5.1 36 11.5 Jordan 82 23.1 2 9.1 2017 Kazakhstan 74 13.8 13 11.3 Azerbaijan 26 10.3 5 11.9 Pakistan 80 3.0 16 9.2 Kyrgyzstan 38 15.3 10 16.7 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. 16 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Employee Turnover Total Number and Rates of Male Female Total Turnover Employee Turnover Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) (%) Turkey – Group Office 205 8.8 41 9.1 8.9 Turkey – Operations* Jordan 40 10.2 3 16.7 10.5 2013 Kazakhstan 109 17.1 19 16.8 17.1 Azerbaijan 25 7.6 5 11.4 8.0 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 11 11.3 10 14.5 12.7 Turkey – Operations* 342 17.2 64 18.2 17.3 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 13.9 2014 Kazakhstan 109 15.0 18 15.4 15.0 Azerbaijan 30 8.8 4 8.3 8.7 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 13 16.3 4 6.3 11.9 Turkey – Operations* 270 14.2 73 23.5 15.5 Jordan 53 13.9 3 13.6 13.9 2015 Kazakhstan 145 17.8 24 17.6 17.8 Azerbaijan 26 8.4 6 13.6 9.1 Pakistan 163 4.8 42 21.1 5.8 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 15 21.6 5 7.9 15.2 Turkey – Operations* 157 8.2 45 14.2 9.0 Jordan 66 17.5 4 18.2 17.6 2016 Kazakhstan 334 55.6 34 29.1 51.3 Azerbaijan 59 23.3 4 9.5 21.4 Pakistan 417 13.8 37 18.0 14.1 Kyrgyzstan 68 27.3 11 19.0 25.7 Turkey – Group Office 16 24.2 7 11.9 18.4 Turkey – Operations* 133 7.1 36 11.5 7.7 Jordan 48 13.5 3 13.6 13.5 2017 Kazakhstan 147 27.4 16 13.9 25.0 Azerbaijan 26 10.3 5 11.9 10.5 Pakistan 438 16.3 52 29.9 17.1 Kyrgyzstan 41 16.5 8 13.3 15.9 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 17 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Local Employment Local Senior Local Employment in International Local White Collar Local Blue Collar Management Operations Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Turkey 90.0 99.6 100.0 Jordan 60.0 97.0 99.0 2013 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 98.9 100.0 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A Turkey – Group Office 100.0 97.0 0.0 Turkey – Operations* 90.0 99.8 100.0 Jordan 67.0 100.0 100.0 2014 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 99.2 100.0 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A Turkey – Group Office 100.0 89.5 0.0 Turkey – Operations* 87.5 99.9 100.0 Jordan 33.3 100.0 100.0 2015 Azerbaijan 16.7 97.2 100.0 Kazakhstan 62.5 99.5 100.0 Pakistan 90.0 99.95 100.0 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A Turkey – Group Office 100.0 89.4 0.0 Turkey – Operations* 100.0 99.9 100.0 Jordan 80.0 99.5 100.0 2016 Azerbaijan 50.0 99.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 98.5 100.0 Pakistan 70.0 99.8 100.0 Kyrgyzstan 50.0 97.1 100.0 Turkey – Group Office 100.0 100.0 0.0 Turkey – Operations* 100.0 99.3 100.0 Jordan 80.0 97.5 100.0 2017 Azerbaijan 40.0 98.5 100.0 Kazakhstan 33.3 96.8 100.0 Pakistan 66.7 99.7 100.0 Kyrgyzstan 60.0 97.8 100.0 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. 18 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Employee Breakdown by Seniority (Years of Service) Employee Breakdown by Seniority (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey – Group Office 53.0 54.0 47.0 36.0 53.8 Turkey – Operations* 43.3 40.0 42.6 37.2 Jordan 55.0 53.2 55.0 57.0 56.2 0 – 5 Years Kazakhstan 61.3 60.0 63.0 56.0 50.8 Azerbaijan 58.5 55.1 56.0 47.0 47.5 Pakistan N/A N/A 54.0 42.0 40.6 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 67.0 60.4 Turkey – Group Office 32.0 31.0 25.0 25.6 24.5 Turkey – Operations* 32.4 31.0 29.1 29.7 Jordan 14.9 15.9 16.0 15.0 13.3 6 – 10 Years Kazakhstan 27.8 26.6 23.0 25.0 22.4 Azerbaijan 27.9 32.3 28.0 35.0 23.1 Pakistan N/A N/A 33.0 40.0 40.1 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 21.0 25.0 Turkey – Group Office 4.0 3.0 8.0 15.2 10.0 Turkey – Operations* 6.9 11.0 11.3 16.0 Jordan 18.3 14.6 11.0 9.0 9.8 11 – 15 Years Kazakhstan 5.3 7.9 8.0 12.0 18.9 Azerbaijan 4.6 3.3 5.0 7.0 19.3 Pakistan N/A N/A 5.0 8.0 11.6 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 5.0 7.1 Turkey – Group Office 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.8 9.4 Turkey – Operations* 13.9 13.0 11.8 10.2 Jordan 11.7 10.6 12.0 14.0 13.3 16 – 20 Years Kazakhstan 5.7 4.7 5.0 5.0 3.5 Azerbaijan 9.1 10.5 10.0 10.0 4.1 Pakistan N/A N/A 5.0 8.0 6.8 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 7.0 4.2 Turkey – Group Office 6.0 6.0 14.0 14.4 2.3 Turkey – Operations* 3.5 5.0 5.2 6.8 Jordan 0.0 5.8 5.0 5.0 7.4 20+ Years Kazakhstan 0.0 0.7 1.0 2.0 4.3 Azerbaijan 0.0 0.0 1.0 1.0 6.1 Pakistan N/A N/A 0.0 2.0 1.9 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 1.0 3.2 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. 401-2 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 19 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Employees covered by 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 collective bargaining agreements # % # % # % # % # % Turkey Group Office 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 38 4.10 Turkey Operations * 41 4.30 52 6.20 761 90.38 770 91,02 Jordan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 2,156 100 1,881 100 1,470 100 1,229 100 1,182 100 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 0 0 0 0 * Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. Benefits Provided to Full-time Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgzystan Employees in 2017 Private health insurance yes yes yes yes yes yes Private life insurance yes yes no no yes no Individual pension funds yes no no no no no Company products yes yes yes yes yes yes Seniority service awards yes yes yes yes yes yes 20 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES OHS Performance Indicators OHS Performance Lost Time Incidents (workdays lost) Lost Time Incidents (Number) Number of Fatalities Indicators Employee Contractor Total Employee Contractor Total Employee Contractor Total 2013 Turkey 208 79 287 21 12 33 0 0 0 Jordan 140 20 160 10 0 10 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 21 21 0 1 1 0 0 0 OVERALL 348 120 468 31 13 44 0 0 0 2014 Turkey 648 94 742 30 7 37 0 0 0 Jordan 146 0 146 9 0 9 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 794 94 888 39 7 46 0 0 0 2015 Turkey 146 292 438 15 15 30 0 0 0 Jordan 118 0 118 8 0 8 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan* 174 0 174 7 10 17 0 0 0 OVERALL 438 292 730 30 25 55 0 0 0 2016 Turkey 141 109 250 19 11 30 0 0 0 Jordan 296 0 296 18 0 18 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 32 16 48 2 1 3 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 220 4 224 4 1 5 1 0 1 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 689 129 818 43 13 56 1 0 1 2017 Turkey 217 6 223 15 3 18 0 0 0 Jordan 47 0 47 4 0 4 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 10 0 10 1 0 1 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 180 0 180 1 0 1 0 0 0 Pakistan 8 33 41 1 3 4 0 0 0 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 462 39 501 22 6 28 0 0 0 * 2015 vehicle accident data for Pakistan was not prepared on a consistent basis between plants. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 21 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / HUMAN RESOURCES OHS Performance LTIR LTISR Total Vehicle Accident Vehicle Accident Rate Indicators 2013 Turkey 0.55 4.75 241.00 13.87 Jordan 1.56 27.67 54.00 23.80 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 8.00 2.93 Azerbaijan 0.17 3.58 6.00 3.40 OVERALL 0.55 5.90 309.00 12.97 2014 Turkey 0.67 8.83 164.00 14.22 Jordan 1.54 24.91 50.00 22.02 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 27.00 9.89 Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 8.00 4.28 OVERALL 0.62 3.15 249.00 13.68 2015 Turkey 0.68 9.50 101.00 10.44 Jordan 1.42 20.93 74.00 32.60 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.73 Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 3.00 1.74 Pakistan 0.37 3.77 13.00 2.51 OVERALL 0.49 6.63 193.00 8.97 2016 Turkey 0.68 5.69 100.00 10.88 Jordan 3.42 56.28 65.00 28.63 Kazakhstan 0.43 6.91 0.00 0.00 Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Pakistan 0.13 5.98 13.00 2.16 Kyrgyzstan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 OVERALL 0.57 8.35 178.00 8.59 2017 Turkey 0.38 4.70 95 10.70 Jordan 0.73 8.63 39 17.18 Kazakhstan 0.16 1.55 5 3.31 Azerbaijan 0.34 60.96 0 0 Pakistan 0.11 1.15 5 0.83 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 8 9.20 OVERALL 0.28 5.17 152 7.22 22 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-1 ENVIRONMENT Energy Management and Climate Protection Fuel Plant Purchased Energy Energy Use in Core TOTAL Operations (Million MJ) * Heavy fuel Diesel LPG Natural gas Electricity Steam oil 2013 0 3.23 59.62 255.56 391.25 0 709.66 2014 0 1.75 55.69 269.10 385.69 0 712.23 Turkey 2015 0 4.07 51.95 281.96 404.47 0 742.45 2016 0 2.88 35.63 263.24 400.74 0 702.49 2017 0 3.91 25.69 306.77 422.59 0 758.96 2013 0 7.45 4.66 0 19.27 0 31.38 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35.29 Jordan 2015 4.22 1.01 2.81 0 23.41 0 31.45 2016 3.97 0.61 3.00 0 23.93 0 31.51 2017 2.47 0.39 2.35 0 21.06 0 26.26 2013 0 0.54 13.90 106.65 50.20 54.63 225.92 2014 0 0.41 16.49 93.06 61.08 63.59 230.63 Kazakhstan 2015 0 0.38 14.15 82.36 71.62 60.74 229.25 2016 0 82.30 13.39 60.69 92.38 49.97 298.74 2017 0 55.21 13.37 57.13 101.15 53.65 280.51 2013 1.07 0.96 5.87 29.70 55.87 0 93.47 2014 0 0.71 7.34 29.30 60.49 0 97.84 Azerbaijan 2015 0 0.39 7.25 21.70 48.27 0 77.61 2016 0 0.00 8.75 15.70 30.52 0 54.97 2017 0 0 5.69 24.19 37.27 0 67.15 2014 0 180.20 21.50 11.00 85.50 0 298.20 2015 0 345.83 50.08 46.39 229.22 0 671.53 Pakistan 2016 0 188.70 26.80 132.60 296.30 0 644.40 2017 0 192.13 44.63 125.93 313.57 0 676.26 2016 0 0.93 0.92 16.12 22.75 0 40.72 Kyrgyzstan 2017 0 0.40 1.39 16.70 21.20 0 39.69 2013 1.07 12.18 84.05 391.91 516.59 54.63 1,060.43 2014 5.28 186.48 105.03 402.46 615.36 63.59 1,374.20 TOTAL 2015 4.22 351.68 126.24 432.41 776.99 60.74 1,752.28 2016 3.97 275.42 88.49 488.35 866.62 49.97 1,772.82 2017 2.47 252.04 93.12 530.72 916.84 53.65 1,848.83 Note: These figures exclude energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes at plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Energy use for the electricity generation process, which is present only at our Kazakhstan plant, is included. The energy metric used in Pakistan is the Total EUR and not the Core EUR. However, for benchmarking purposes against other international plants it is included in the table above. * The figures for 2013 in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan operations and the figures for 2014-2017 in Turkey and Pakistan have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 302-1; 302-2 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 23 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT Fuel Plant Purchased Energy Total Energy Use Heavy fuel TOTAL (Million MJ) * Diesel LPG Natural gas Electricity Steam oil 2013 0 3.23 59.64 273.13 482.22 0 818.22 2014 0 2.01 55.69 284.11 466.83 0 808.64 Turkey 2015 0 4.16 51.95 297.53 492.90 0 846.54 2016 0 3.12 35.63 277.17 492.32 0 808.24 2017 0 3.91 25.69 321.21 504.74 0 855.55 2013 0 7.45 4.66 0 19.27 0 31.38 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35.29 Jordan 2015 4.22 1.01 2.81 0 23.41 0 31.45 2016 3.97 0.61 3.00 0 23.93 0 31.51 2017 2.47 0.39 2.35 0 21.06 0 26.26 2013 0 0.54 13.90 184.19 96.04 54.63 349.30 2014 0 0.41 16.49 188.45 110.62 63.59 379.56 Kazakhstan 2015 0 0.38 14.15 172.11 111.72 60.74 359.10 2016 0 96.83 13.39 134.45 119.23 49.97 413.88 2017 0 75.60 13.37 129.37 142.94 53.65 414.93 2013 1.07 49.52 5.87 29.70 84.30 0 170.46 2014 0 54.70 7.34 29.30 88.90 0 180.24 Azerbaijan 2015 0 0.39 7.25 75.58 71.61 0 154.83 2016 0 0 8.75 32.65 82.74 0 124.14 2017 0 0 5.69 60.19 54.27 0 120.15 2014 0 434.85 45.81 57.81 233.57 0 772.04 2015 0 366.47 50.08 46.39 268.41 0 731.35 Pakistan 2016 0 195.60 46.49 132.59 338.56 0 713.24 2017 0 198.88 44.63 125.93 354.13 0 723.58 2016 0 1.15 1.01 38.60 23.80 0 64.56 Kyrgyzstan 2017 0 0.40 1.39 17.94 21.28 0 41.01 2013 1.07 60.74 84.07 487.02 681.83 54.63 1,369.36 2014 5.28 495.38 129.33 559.67 922.52 63.59 2,175.77 TOTAL 2015 4.22 372.41 126.24 591.61 968.05 60.74 2,123.27 2016 3.97 297.31 108.27 615.46 1,080.58 49.97 2,155.56 2017 2.47 279.18 93.12 654.64 1,098.42 53.65 2,181.48 Note: This table includes data on energy use for all processes in the plants. * The figures for 2013 in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan operations and the figures of 2014 2017 in Turkey have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 24 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT CCI uses two main KPIs to measure energy intensity: 1. Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which relate only to the core process (filling), so that the energy efficiency of the core process can be compared between plants. (For more information please see the Reporting Guidance section of the report.) 2. Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which is the total absolute energy consumption (in MJ) from the plant divided by total production (in liters). Total Energy 2012* 2013* 2014 2015 2016 2017 Use Ratio (MJ/L) Turkey 0.30 0.30 0.30* 0.30* 0.29* 0.30* Jordan 0.47 0.41 0.41 0.33 0.30 0.25 Kazakhstan 0.69 0.68 0.64 0.65 0.76 0.65 Azerbaijan 0.74 0.75 0.72 0.74 0.70 0.68 Pakistan N/A N/A 0.59* 0.52* 0.43 0.41 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.76 0.69 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Core Energy 2012* 2013* 2014 2015 2016 2017 Use Ratio (MJ/L) Turkey 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.27* 0.25* 0.27* Jordan 0.47 0.41 0.41 0.33 0.30 0.25 Kazakhstan 0.28 0.44 0.40 0.41 0.55 0.44 Azerbaijan 0.39 0.41 0.39 0.37 0.37 0.38 Pakistan N/A N/A 0.52 0.48* 0.40 0.38 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.48 0.44 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 25 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions (tons of CO2 -e) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey Scope 1* 49,217 47,418 52,162 44,247 51,602 Scope 2* 62,877 61,359 60,397 69,697 63,346 Scope 3** 328,628 321,162 299,264 414,372 176,386 Total 440,722 429,939 411,823 528,316 291,334 Jordan Scope 1 786 866 535 331 218 Scope 2 3,412 3,990 4,673 4,464 3,738 Scope 3*** 27,073 27,202 28,062 22,550 17,943 Total 31,271 32,058 33,27 27,345 21,898 Kazakhstan Scope 1 9,597 18,734 13,942 18,009 14,053 Scope 2 10,553 10,133 13,42 14,271 22,717 Scope 3*** 34,836 42,998 36,902 41,694 43,800 Total 54,986 71,865 64,264 73,974 80,570 Azerbaijan Scope 1 5,335 9,215 6,797 6,231 3,038 Scope 2 10,399 8,817 6,789 5,985 6,694 Scope 3*** 12,716 14,092 14,438 12,578 12,068 Total 28,450 32,124 28,024 24,794 21,800 Pakistan Scope 1 N/A 35,554 31,199 21,009 22,682 Scope 2 N/A 27,095 30,653 39,270 48,562 Scope 3*** N/A N/A 237,843 251,636 284,649 Total 62,649 299,695 311,915 355,893 Kyrgyzstan Scope 1 N/A N/A N/A 2,090 2,024 Scope 2 N/A N/A N/A 3,271 2,866 Scope 3*** N/A N/A N/A 2,249 2,643 Total N/A N/A 7,610 7,533 TOTAL Scope 1 64,935 111,787 104,635 91,917 93,617 Scope 2 87,241 111,394 115,932 136,958 147,923 Scope 3*** 403,253 405,454 616,509 745,079 537,489 OVERALL TOTAL 555,429 628,635 837,076 973,954 779,028 * Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from Turkey for 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 are veriﬁed by SGS according to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. **Scope 3 emissions for Turkey operations include energy consumption of coolers by distributors, employee commuting, downstream transport and investment. *** Scope 3 emissions include emissions resulting from energy consumption of coolers by distributors.Note: Scope 1 and Scope 2 data in the table above include emissions from all processes, including ﬁlling, preform injection, CO2 production and electricity production (only in Kazakhstan) in our plants. In all CCI countries except Turkey, emissions from ﬂeet and fugitive emissions are excluded. 26 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 302-3; 305-4; 305-5 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT Energy and Emission Reductions due to EMD Energy Saving (million kWh) GHG Emissions Avoided (ton CO2) Annual CO2 Extraction (tree)* Program in Turkey. 2014 381 175,000 14.6 million 2015 402 172,315 14.4 million 2016 438 217,915 16.8 million 2017* 459 77,156 6.43 million * For more proper GHG inventory calculation for coolers, Scope 3 electricity emission factor is started to be used since 2017, as our coolers are run at our downstream supply chain. Electricity emission factor for Turkey in Scope 2 is 0.441 kg CO2e / kWh, whereas Scope 3 is 0.168 kg CO2e / kWh. Energy and Emission Reductions due to EMD Energy Saving (million kWh) GHG Emissions Avoided (ton CO2) Annual CO2 Extraction (tree) Program in the Six Countries of Operation. 2014 402 185,000 15.4 million 2015 428 184,000 15.3 million 2016 475 231,000 19.2 million 2017* 468 78,711 6.6 million * For more proper GHG inventory calculation for coolers, Scope 3 electricity emission factor is started to be used since 2017, as our coolers are run at our downstream supply chain. Electricity emission factors for countries are as follows in kg CO2e / kWh; for Turkey Scope 2 is 0.441, whereas Scope 3 is 0.168; for Jordan Scope 2 is 0.588, whereas Scope 3 is 0.209; Kazakhstan Scope 2 is 0.416, whereas Scope 3 is 0.196; Azerbaijan Scope 2 is 0.487, whereas Scope 3 is 0.172; Pakistan Scope 2 is 0.410, whereas Scope 3 is 0.192; Kyrgyzstan Scope 2 is 0.092, whereas Scope 3 is 0.054. GHG Emissions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Ratio (g/L) Turkey 28.95 30.10 28.52 28.47 27.92 27.68 29.09 40.43 Jordan 72.44 56.03 55.31 54.76 55.89 49.31 48.00 38.78 Kazakhstan 56.90 49.46 41.07 39.22 49.85 49.44 59.86 58.62 Azerbaijan 53.54 49.44 62.55 69.38 71.82 64.58 60.24 55.67 Pakistan N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 41.82 36.37 40.47 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 33.52 54.20 302-3; 305-5 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 27 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT AMOUNT Emissions Savings in Turkey (tons of CO2-e) Scope 2015 2016 2017 Product distribution fleet improvement Scope 1 2,075 0 0 Fugitive emissions reductions in coolers Scope 1 145 2,651 7,782 Energy efficiency and low carbon projects in plants Scope 1+2 1,402 80,289 661 IT Improvements Scope 3 0 0 840 Route optimization Scope 3 1,050 1,050 1,400 Cooler EMD Improvement Scope3 172,315 201,317 77,156* TOTAL 176,987 285,307 87,839 * Since 2017, ‘Cooler EMD Improvement’ saving is started to be calculated by Scope 3 Electricity Emission Factor, which is 0.168 kg CO2e/kWh; instead of Scope 2 Electricity Emission factor, which is 0.441 kg CO2e/kWh. Energy 2015 2016 2017 Saved and GHG Emissions Reduced GHG Monetary GHG Monetary GHG Monetary Energy Energy Energy due to Emissions Saving Emissions Saving Emissions Saving (Million MJ) (Million MJ) (Million MJ) (tons of CO2) (USD) (tons of CO2) (USD) (tons of CO2) (USD) Efficiency Projects in Plants Turkey 11.7 1,402 247,886 1,591.89 4,417.11 269,938 4.57 660.94 196,168 Jordan 2.5 200 40,869 2.87 372.85 95,100 1.04 169.72 71,499 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 19.60 2,265.30 199,514 Azerbaijan 0.2 28 2,655 0.39 53.82 4,403 0.18 23.70 2,576 Pakistan 12.8 1,168 387,455 16.34 1,699 19,163 1.41 99.14 85,459 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 9.09 431.07 83,831.06 3.38 86.47 30,586 TOTAL 27.2 2,798 678,865 1,620.58 6,973.85 472,435.06 30.18 3,305.27 585,802 EMD Ratio (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey 35 59 77 84 87 88 90 Jordan 5 5 5 5 5 5 60 Kazakhstan 12 19 29 29 39 41 70 Azerbaijan 50 50 50 50 50 50 87 Pakistan N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.15 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 72.5 76 28 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 301-2; 303-1; 303-3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT Water Management Water Use Ratio 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (L/L) Turkey 1.41 1.41* 1.44* 1.47* 1.56* Jordan 2.00 2.04 1.89 1.71 1.44 Kazakhstan 1.65 1.55 1.47 1.67 1.59 Azerbaijan 1.92 1.82 1.85 1.82 1.73 Pakistan N/A 2.40* 2.03* 2.00 1.93 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 1.88 1.65 * WUR figures for Turkey are assured by an independent third party. Total Water Withdrawal by 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Region (m3) Turkey 3,912,240* 3,832,252* 4,000,719* 4,130,826* 4,439,083* Jordan 153,656* 177,081 180,232 177,137 153,807 Kazakhstan 849,980* 896,218 816,221 911,071 1,005,964 Azerbaijan 436,075* 457,873 388,103 251,715 304,544 Pakistan N/A 3,138,972* 2,829,952* 3,161,737 3,418,428 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 160,373 148,610 TOTAL 5,351,951 8,502,396 8,215,227 8,792,859 9,321,826 * Total water withdrawal figures for Turkey are assured by an independent third party. Volume of Water Recycled and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Reused (m3) Turkey 284,782 40,337 80,000 341,973 345,551 Jordan 0 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 5,580 5,942 5,191 5,236 5,771 Pakistan N/A N/A 68,216 129,005 183,499 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A 720 2,660 TOTAL 290,362 46,279 153,407 476,934 537,481 303-3; 306-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 29 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT Percentage of Water Recycled and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Reused (%) Turkey 7.3 1.1 2.0 7.4 7.8 Jordan 0 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 1.3 1.3 1.3 2.08 1.9 Pakistan N/A N/A 2.4 4 5.4 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 0.5 1.8 TOTAL 5.4 0.5 1.9 5.4 5.8 Water Discharge by Destination 2015 2016 2017 Destination (m3) Surface water 421,941 530,676 677,174 Turkey Organized Industrial Zone 181,205 505,514 656,115 Municipal sewage system 489,190 191,590 121,795 Surface water 0 0 0 Jordan Municipal sewage system 84,771 73,125 46,685 Surface water 0 0 0 Kazakhstan Municipal sewage system 198,552 303,110 348,530 Surface water 0 0 0 Azerbaijan Municipal sewage system 204,397 132,284 118,654 Surface water 156,553 147,484 157,141 Pakistan Organized Industrial Zone 519,763 168,036 629,581 Municipal sewage system 735,906 1,066,204 748,482 Surface water N/A 0 0 Kyrgyzstan Organized Industrial Zone N/A 0 0 Municipal sewage system N/A 80,893 64,284 Surface water 578,494 678,160 834,315 TOTAL Organized Industrial Zone 700,968 673,550 1,285,696 Municipal sewage system 1,712,816 1,847,206 1,448,430 Water Discharge (L/L) 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey 0.39 0.35 0.41 0.39 0.47 0.51 Jordan 2.43 1.00 1.04 0.89 0.71 0.44 Kazakhstan 0.87 0.50 0.42 0.36 1.69 0.55 Azerbaijan 1.16 1.05 0.94 0.97 0.96 0.84 Pakistan N/A N/A 1.35 1.01 0.82 0.87 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.95 0.71 30 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 306-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT The Coca-Cola Company Requirements for Treated Wastewater Quality* Water Quality Parameters Maximum Allowable Limit Values 5-Day Biological Oxygen Demand < 50 mg/l pH Level 6.5-8** Total Suspended Solids < 50 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids < 2,000 mg/l Total Nitrogen < 5 mg/l Total Phosphorus < 2 mg/l 301-3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 31 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT Sustainable Packaging and Waste Aseptic Aluminum Plastic Packaging Materials PET preform Steel Crown PE Closure Glass Carton Carton Cans & Shrink & Used (tons) and resin Packaging Cans end Stretch 2013 945 4,112 55,369 25,664 458 8,481 10,866 6,667 2014 987 3,419 43,168 27,941 4,958 7,692 11,304 5,853 Turkey 2015 1,259 3,986 46,274 39,414 5,131 9,742 12,533 6,689 2016 1,385 3,966 4,758 45,844 4,825 8,924 12,008 7,082 2017 1,552 3,970 44,585 54,433 4,668 19,276 13,926 6,976 2013 62 105 1,056 7,005 0 262 1,076 237 2014 49 121 1,247 4,942 0 317 1,293 274 Jordan 2015 45 129 1,234 1,272 0 220 1,719 289 2016 28 151 1,362 200 0 417 1,874 379 2017 29 126 1,984 242 0 309 1,733 370 2013 69 1,263 16,305 6,124 694 1,329 339 1,878 2014 32 1,411 17,418 3,974 663 1,685 361 1,889 Kazakhstan 2015 44 1,367 17,464 3,674 581 1,696 325 205 2016 49 1,175 14,098 4,537 650 1,245 194 1,536 2017 50 1,475 18,234 4,638 571 1,518 160 2,169 2013 0 817 9,939 0 0 786 0 850 2014 0 896 7,171 0 0 570 0 855 Azerbaijan 2015 0 528 6,776 0 0 384 0 737 2016 0 375 4,276 0 0 275 0 465 2017 0 474 5,518 0 0 295 0 577 2015 21 237 43,783 21,762 n/a 4,263 571 4,161 Pakistan 2016 2,182 2,951 56,817 3,304 n/a 6,042 907 5,178 2017 2,066 2,525 59,082 10,431 n/a 446 1,052 5,473 2016 0 250 2,932 0 0 192 0 266 Kyrgyzstan 2017 0 254 3,068 0 0 244 0 269 32 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 301-2; 306-2 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method (Tons) Turkey* Jordan Kazakhstan* Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Reuse 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 N/A N/A Recycle 15.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A N/A Landfill 7.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A N/A Hazardous Incineration 8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A N/A Recovery 609.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A N/A TOTAL 640.8 0.0 1.0 0.0 N/A N/A 2013 Reuse 6.3 0.0 650.6 77.0 N/A N/A Recycle 12,510 467.5 85.9 212.6 N/A N/A Non-Hazardous Landfill 520.7 26.2 79.1 1.2 N/A N/A Recovery 132.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A N/A TOTAL 13,169.6 493.7 815.6 290.8 N/A N/A OVERALL TOTAL 13,810.4 493.7 816.6 290.8 N/A N/A Reuse 2.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 N/A Recycle 69.4 0.0 1.5 0.0 2.6 N/A Landfill 5.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 28.0 N/A Hazardous Incineration 8.2 0.0 0.4 0.0 122.8 N/A Recovery 415.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A TOTAL 501.7 0.0 1.9 0.0 157.4 N/A 2014 Reuse 0.0 0.0 204.9 0.0 6,221 N/A Recycle 12,032.5 260.3 757.8 486.0 10,630 N/A Non-Hazardous Landfill 407.6 0.0 89.2 31.0 422.0 N/A Recovery 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A TOTAL 12,440.1 260.3 1,051.9 517.0 17,273.0 N/A OVERALL TOTAL 12,941.8 260.3 1,053.8 517.0 17,430.4 N/A Reuse 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A Recycle 18.7 0.0 17.1 0.0 0.0 N/A Landfill 4.3 0.0 0.0 13.5 24.1 N/A Hazardous Incineration 18.6 0.0 0.4 0.0 324.0 N/A Recovery 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A TOTAL 43.6 0.0 17.5 13.5 348.1 N/A 2015 Reuse 0.0 0.0 173.5 0.0 3,303.7 N/A Recycle 7,661.7 225.3 823.6 241.1 9,511.9 N/A Non-Hazardous Landfill 283.0 0.0 71.6 17.4 320.7 N/A Recovery 144.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A TOTAL 8,089.5 225.3 1,068.7 258.5 13,136.3 N/A OVERALL TOTAL 8,133.1 225.3 1,086.2 272.0 13,484.4 N/A Reuse 78.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A Recycle 243.7 0.0 9.4 19.6 0.0 N/A Landfill 7.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.345 N/A Hazardous Incineration 33.5 0.0 0.52 0.0 148,523 N/A Recovery 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.8 TOTAL 363.6 0.0 9.9 19.6 148,523.3 2.8 2016 Reuse 2,025.2 0.0 123.1 0.0 1,945 317.6 Recycle 10,722.1 289.0 903.2 129.5 13,343 0.0 Non-Hazardous Landfill 696.8 0.0 100.5 4.6 326.2 3.5 Recovery 115.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 13,559.1 289.0 1,126.8 134.1 15,614.2 321.1 OVERALL TOTAL 13,922.7 289.0 1,136.7 153.7 164,137.5 323.9 Reuse 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Recycle 28.1 0.0 6.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Landfill 13.7 1.9 0.0 18.0 0.0 0.0 Hazardous Incineration 273.3 0.0 0.45 0.0 280.4 0.0 Recovery 116.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.3 TOTAL 432.7 1.9 7.3 18.0 280.4 2.3 2017 Reuse 1,361.8 0.0 160.5 7.0 668.6 258.78 Recycle 10,859.6 157.7 742.4 166.8 17,327.2 0.0 Non-Hazardous Landfill 677.7 12.0 105.5 0.0 779.2 3.76 Recovery 107.0 0.0 0.0 10.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 13,006.2 169.7 1,008.4 183.8 18,775 262.54 OVERALL TOTAL 13,438.9 171.6 1,015.7 201.8 19,055.4 264.8 301-2; 306-2 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 33 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS / ENVIRONMENT Total Waste Ratio (g/L) 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey 3.74 4.99* 4.77* 5.09 4.99 4.77 Jordan 15.72 6.44* 3.29 2.46 3.07 1.35 Kazakhstan 4.14 1.59* 1.82* 1.96 2.08 1.60 Azerbaijan 0.65 1.28* 2.06 1.23 0.96 1.17 Pakistan N/A N/A N/A 9.66 8.90 10.77 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A 3.81 2.93 Total Waste Recycling Rate (%) 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Turkey 90.99 96.12 96.66 95.57 94.79 96.00 Jordan 81.60 94.70 90.45 94.10 90.30 91.90 Kazakhstan 94.67 90.30 91.70 93.00 91.20 90.00 Azerbaijan 75.55 99.60 94.00 95.60 96.30 97.80 Pakistan N/A N/A N/A 70.54 93.00 94.44 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A N/A 98.10 97.70 2017 Resin Saving (tons) 2017 Glass Saving (tons) Turkey 1,740 Turkey 1,267 Jordan 1.26 Jordan 19 Kazakhstan 0 Kazakhstan 0 Azerbaijan 360 Azerbaijan 0 Pakistan 623.43 Pakistan 0 Kyrgyzstan 7.8 Kyrgyzstan 0 TOTAL 2,732.49 TOTAL 1,286 Total Hours of Environment 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Training (man-hours) Turkey 2,490 3,342 2,590 2,818 5,043 Jordan 80 34 56 95 66 Kazakhstan 63 98 344 295 446 Azerbaijan 79 224 224 188 834 Pakistan N/A N/A 1,971 1,072 1,901 Kyrgyzstan N/A N/A N/A 434 284 TOTAL 2,712 3,698 5,185 4,902 8,574 34 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-42; 102-51; 102-52; 102-54; 102-55 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization CCI at a Glance 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services CCI at a Glance 4,7 32, 64, 102-3 Location of headquarters Contact 44 102-4 Location of operations CCI at a Glance 4,7 Corporate Website, 102-5 Ownership and legal form http://cci.com.tr/Portals/3/Documents/PDF/CCI_Shareholder_Structure. pdf?ver=2017-06-05-133510-227 102-6 Markets served CCI at a Glance 4,7 Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization CCI at a Glance 6,7 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Performance Indicators 9-13 102-9 Supply chain Integrating Sustainability 14 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Corporate Website, http://cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Corporate Governance and Ethics 25, 26 102-12 External initiatives External Recognition, Integrating Sustainability 13, 20, 21 102-13 Membership of associations Integrating Sustainability 21 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from the CEO 2-3 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Governance and Ethics 26, 28 integrity Governance 102-18 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Corporate Governance and Ethics 25, 26 Stakeholder Engagement; 22-24 102-40 List of stakeholder groups How We Respond to Stakeholders’ Questions and Concerns? 23 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Rights 9 Stakeholder Engagement; 22-24 Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Engagement GRI Content Index: CCI defines all individuals and institutions that are influenced 34 by or have an influence on Company’s operations as its stakeholders. Stakeholder Engagement; 22-24 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement How We Respond to Stakeholders’ Questions and Concerns? 23 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised How We Respond to Stakeholders’ Concerns 23 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About the Report; CCI at a Glance 1; 6-7 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About the Report; Materiality Analysis 1; 21; 22 102-47 List of material topics Materiality Analysis 22 102-48 Restatements of information About the Report 1 102-49 Changes in reporting Integrating Sustainability, Materiality Analysis 14; 21; 22 102-50 Reporting period About the Report 1 Reporting Practice 102-51 Date of most recent report GRI Content Index: 2017 34 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI Content Index: Annual 34 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the Report 1 GRI Content Index: This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 34 Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 34-39 102-56 External assurance About the Report; Independent Assurance Letter 1; 40 Our report is composed of three full sections. On GRI Table; page numbers in RED indicate that referenced page is on “Sustainability Approach”, numbers in PURPLE indicate that referenced page is on “Sustainability in Review”, numbers in ORANGE indicate that referenced page is on “Performance Indicators” sections. Numbers in BLACK indicate that referenced source is CCI Annual Report 2017. 102-55; 205-1; 206-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 35 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 200: Economic Standard Series Material Topics Disclosure Page Corporate Governance Integrating Sustainability, Materiality Analysis 14; 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Corporate Governance and Ethics 25-27 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 Economic GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Materiality Analysis: Integrating Sustainability 22; 14 Approach 2016 Performance GRI 103: 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CCI Annual Report 2017 5 GRI 201: Economic 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection 42 Performance to climate change 2016 201-4 Financial assistance received from government CCI Annual Report 2017 92-97 Indirect Economic Impact Materiality Analysis: Integrating Sustainability 22; 14 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Economic Impact 23 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 Water Stewardship 39 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation 39, 54-55 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 The Anadolu Foundation 24 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic Impact 23 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Excellence in Supply Chain, Local Procurement 6; 10,11 Practices 2016 Business Ethics Materiality Analysis: Integrating Sustainability 22; 14 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Corporate Governance and Ethics 25, 27 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 “GRI Content Index: All CCI operations are assessed for risks related to GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 35 corruption.” Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Ethics 25, 26; 28 and procedures GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, there were no legal actions competitive 35 monopoly practices against us for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices. Behavior 2016 36 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-55 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series Material Topics Disclosure Page Packaging and Waste Materiality Analysis 22 Integrating Sustainability 14 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Sustainable Packaging 58-61 Management Approach 2016 Sustainable Sourcing 57 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 58-61; 301-2 Materials used by weight or volume Sustainable Packaging, Performance Indicators GRI 301: 28, 32,33 Materials 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Performance Indicators 31 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Performance Indicators 32,33 Waste 2016 Energy Efficiency and Carbon Reduction Materiality Analysis 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Energy Management and Climate Protection 42 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Performance Indicators 22, 23 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Performance Indicators 1-7; 23 GRI 302: 302-3 Energy intensity Performance Indicators 24 Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Performance Indicators 26-27 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Energy Management and Climate Protection 42-48 Performance Indicators, 25, 1-6; 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy Management and Climate Protection 45-48 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Performance Indicators 25, 1-6; GRI 305: 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Performance Indicators 25, 1-6; Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Performance Indicators 26 Performance Indicators 26, 27 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection 48 Water Use Materiality Analysis 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Water Management 49 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Performance Indicators 28 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 303-2 Management of water discharge related impacts Water Management 51 2018 303-3 Water withdrawal Performance Indicators 28, 29 102-55; 307-1; 419-1; 405-2; 406-1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 37 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX Wastewater Materiality Analysis 22 Integrating Sustainability 14 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Waste Water Management 56 Management Approach 2016 Sustainable Sourcing 57 103-2 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Performance Indicators 29, 30 Effluents and Waste 2016 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Water Management 51-56 Transport Materiality Analysis 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Transport and Distribution 45 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 Compliance Materiality Analysis 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Corporate Governance and Ethics 26, 28 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 307: Environmental GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, no significant fines* were paid 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 37 Compliance for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 2016 GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, no significant fines were paid for 37 Compliance economic area non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. 2016 Supplier and Distributor Assessment Materiality Analysis 22 Integrating Sustainability 14 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Excellence in Supply Chain 6 Management Approach 2016 Superior Execution 4-5 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental Environmental Excellence in Supply Chain 6 criteria Assessment 2016 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Excellence in Supply Chain 6 Assessment 2016 38 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-55; 410-1; 416-2; 417-3 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 400: Social Standards Series Material Topics Disclosure Page Diversity and Inclusion (incl. women empowerment) Materiality Analysis 22 Integrating Sustainability 14 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Diversity and Inclusion 12-13 Management Approach 2016 Women’s Empowerment 34 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Performance Indicators 15, 16 GRI 401: 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Employment Performance Indicators 19 provided to temporary or part-time employees 2016 401-3 Parental leave Diversity and Inclusion 12 GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Learning and Development 13 Education 2016 Performance Indicators 9-13 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees GRI 404: Diversity and Inclusion 12-13 Training and Education 2016 GRI Content Index: As CCI “equal pay for equal work” is adopted as per Pay 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Policy principles in order to reward our employees in accordance with their 38 valuable contributions to our company regardless of gender bias. GRI 406: NonGRI Content Index: During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 38 discrimination at CCI operations. 2016 Labour / Management Relations Materiality Analysis 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Workplace Rights 8-9 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 402: Labor/ Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes CCI Annual Report 2017 63 Relations 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of Association 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of Workplace Rights 9 and Collective association and collective bargaining may be at risk Bargaining 2016 GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of CCI Annual Report 2017 29 Labor 2016 child labor GRI 409: Forced 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of or Compulsory CCI Annual Report 2017 29 forced or compulsory labor Labor 2016 GRI 412: Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Workplace Rights 9-10 Assessment or impact assessments 2016 Occupational Health and Safety Materiality Analysis 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Occupational Health and Safety 15, 16 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Occupational Health and Safety 15, 16 Occupational Health and 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident Safety 2018 Performance Indicators 20-21 investigation 102-55; 417-2 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 39 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX Security Practices Materiality Analysis 23 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Health and Safety 15, 16 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 410: 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or GRI Content Index: All security personnel working in CCI operations are trained Security 39 procedures in human rights policies and procedures. Practices 2016 Community Engagement Materiality Analysis 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Community Development 22 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Communities Community Development 22 assessments, and development programs 2016 Consumer Health Well-Being Materiality Analysis 22 Integrating Sustainability 14 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Product Safety and Quality 1-4 Management Approach 2016 Consumer Well-Being 1 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and GRI 416: Product Safety and Quality 1-4 service categories Customer Health and GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, there have been no incidents 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and Safety 2016 of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and 39 safety impacts of products and services services. GRI 417: 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of Marketing and 39 communications non-compliance concerning marketing communications. Labeling 2016 Product Quality and Labeling Materiality Analysis 22 Integrating Sustainability 14 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries GRI 103: Product Safety and Quality 2-4 Management Approach 2016 Consumer Well-Being 1 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and GRI 417: Consumer Well-Being 1 labeling Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service GRI Content Index: During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of 39 information and labeling non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Sustainable Agriculture (sugar) Materiality Analysis 22 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Integrating Sustainability 14 GRI 103: Management Sustainable Sourcing 57 Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Components Integrating Sustainability 14 103-3 Evaluation of th Management Approach Integrating Sustainability 14 40 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Workplace Rights 8-13 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Community Development 22-39 Human Rights Workplace Rights 8-13 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Community Development 22-39 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Workplace Rights 9 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Workplace Rights 8-11 Labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Workplace Rights 8-11 Workplace Rights 8-13 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Diversity and Inclusion 12-13 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach and environmental Energy Efficiency and Climate 42-60 challenges; Protection Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Environment Our Environmental Footprint 42-60 and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Our Environmental Footprint 42-60 technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Anti-Corruption Corporate Governance and Ethics 25, 28 extortion and bribery. 102-56 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 41 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 42 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GREENHOUSE GAS VERIFICATION STATEMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 43 44 CCI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102-3 CONTACT CCI Burcu Coşkun Group Corporate Affairs Manager corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr REPORTING CONSULTANT & DESIGN www.esgturkey.com LEGAL DISCLAIMER This sustainability report (the Report) was prepared by CCI within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the United Nations Global Compact. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. This report is printed on recycled paper.
