The United Nations Global Compact Annual COP (Communication on Progress), 2018 Participant : The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate Date of Joining to the Global Compact : 23December 2014 COP Time period : December 2018 to December 2019. (5th Anniversary COP) COP Published : November 2018 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To our stakeholders, The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate has joined the UN Global Compact in December, 2014 when we realized the fact that the UNGC is a leader in developing and implementing corporate policies and practices to meet the then universally accepted principles. As it was in the beginning, The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate fully aware of a need for implement and these 10 universally‐ accepted principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti‐corruption, and these principles will bring the World to be better and safer living World is now and ever shall be. In this our fifth year of joining the UN Global Compact, we have maintained the practices we have achieved as standard, and we will keep continuing our best to blend the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategies, plans, cultures and to our day‐to‐day operations. Yours Sincerely, Mr. Khin Aung Htun Executive Director The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate Description of practical actions of the 4 issue areas (Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Anti‐ corruption) Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate believes that all 30 Articles mentioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are the common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations. Common understanding of these rights and freedoms are the greatest importance and realization of this pledge. Our Policies and Goals include 1. To require our employees, business partners, suppliers and our customers to understand, respect, support and adhere to the principles of Universal Declaration of Human rights. 2. To address Human Rights risk, discover incidents of Human Rights abuse within the company and to act upon the Human Rights related issues. Implementation During 2017‐2018 1. Continued training session will be given for all significant level of employees within the company to raise the awareness on 30 Articles mentioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2. Human Rights related knowledge will be distributed to our business partners, suppliers, and clients to understand, to respect, and to support Human Rights. 3. Suggestion system such as suggestion box, email complaint system will be implemented in each location for employees to submit their complaints and / or issues with regards to unfair treatment or abuses of Human Rights. These complaints well be revised by top management and will be discussed promptly. 4. Consultation with stakeholders will be made regarding Human Rights policy and implementation. During 2018‐2019 1. Effectiveness of suggestion system and resolution on Human Rights abuses will be reviewed and updated within the company. 2. Human resources, and other policies and procedures relating to Human Rights will be reviewed and updated. During 2019‐2020 1. Human Rights related concerns will be kept discovered, resolved and protected. 2. Further advanced consultations with stakeholders will be made, based on seriousness, regarding Human Rights policy, implementation, concerns, and resolutions. Measurement of outcomes During 2017‐2018, we have no significant cases of human rights violations, and we keep ourselves that we are not complicit in any of human rights abuses. For upcoming years, we will measure our progresses by: ‐ Reviewing our implementation results by senior management ‐ Internal audits of Human Rights performance ‐ Consultation with stakeholders ‐ Continued investigations of incidents of Human Rights abuses within the company ‐ Resolutions of Human Rights related issues within the company Labour Assessment, policy and goals We The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate believe that UN Global Compact’s 4 principles on Labour reflects the international Labour Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Conventions, and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, adopted in June 1998, highlights this set of core Labour principles endorsed by the international community. The Declaration covers 4 main areas. Our Policy and Goals include: 1. To require our employees and our business partners to understand to respect to support and to adhere to the 4 principles on Labour. 2. To monitor and resolve Labour‐related risks within the company. 3. To periodically review and promote human resource development. 4. To periodically review and promote employee welfare policies, allowances, bonuses and employee benefits. Implementation Every year we expect to do the following points successfully in order to fulfill our standard of living. 1. Awareness training session will be planned for significant level of employees within the company to raise the awareness of 4 principles on Labour. 2. Human Resources policies and procedures within the company supporting the Labour principles will be reviewed and updated. 3. Labour‐related issues will be assessed and monitored within the company. 4. Labour Rights related knowledge will be shared to our business partners and suppliers to understand, to respect, and to support 4 principles on Labour. 5. Suggestion system such as suggestion box, email complaint system will be planned in each location for employees to submit their complaints and/ or issues with regards to unfair treatment or abuses of Labour. These complaints will be revised by tip management and will be discussed promptly. During 2017‐2018 1. Effectiveness of suggestion system and resolution on Labour related issues able to be reviewed and updated within the company. 2. Labour and human resources related policies able to be reviewed and updated. 3. Consultation with stakeholders able to be made regarding Labour related policy, issues, and resolutions. Measurement of outcomes So far as of 2018, The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate has no known cases of discrimination in respect of hiring and employment practices whether based upon race, religion, age, nationality, social or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender political opinion, and there is no abuse of child Labour. It treats all its employees with dignity and respect, and not using corporal punishment or threats of violence or other physical or mental abuse. Management of The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate always promotes human resources development and staff welfare policies. As a matter of fact we could offer stationeries for students and teachers nearby areas as well as could support rice surrounding areas of Bagan which was damaged by flood. We could also do plastic campaign in order to keep clean the surrounding areas. As a result we could expose better future by fostering advantages of environment in the light of the better world as it was in the beginning. For upcoming years, we will keep our progresses by: ‐ Reviewing our policy, goals and implementation relating to Labour principles and Human Resource development. ‐ Keeping conforming to 4 principles on Labour ‐ Internal audits of Human Resource and performance ‐ Consultation with stakeholders ‐ Investigation of incidents of Labour abouses within the company ‐ Resolutions of Labour related issues within the company Environment Assessment, policy and goals The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate always tries to provides its employees with safe and healthy workplace and ensure reasonable access to drinkable water and sanitary facilities, adequate lighting, ventilation and fire safety. Our Policy guidelines include: 1. To maintain the environment clean & healthy, safe and enjoyable. 2. To prevent accidents and cases of work –related ill health in working environment and provide adequate control of health and safety risks arising from work activities. 3. To implement emergency procedures such as evacuation in case of fire or other significant incident at working environment. 4. To monitor safe and healthy working conditions. 5. To prrovide necesssary training tot ensure thatt employees are competent to do workk at their worrking envirronment. 6. To reduce energy usage to use renewable energy and reccycled paper,, to implemen nt efficient co onsumption of naatural resourcces and to pro otect the envvironment. 7. To keeep the enviro onment surro ounding the areas a of ancieent pagodas. 8. To prromote the ed ducation in arreas of neighbouring villagges such as do hool building, opening of onation of sch cliniccs as a part off Tharabar Ed ducation Netw work (TEN). Tharrabar Educat E tion Neetwork (TEN N) The Hotel @ Tharabar Gate participating School Building for a KG and Nursery Classroom of Htrine Taw Primary School, Bagan‐ Nyaung U. Organized by RCY, in cooperation with RC Bangkok, RC Paramus, RC Paramus Sunrise, RC of Jamestown, Trinity Church and also together with generous individual donors. The Hotel @Tharabar Gate supported students (KG to University) of Tharabar Gate Hotel staff family for school term 2018/2019 World Environment Day, beat plastic pollution. Grow the plant make Planet Earth a cleaner and greener”. The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate supported cash to the employee who continuing education at University and Diploma for job related. Donation at Hospital‐ Tharabar Free Clinic Staff family donated Oxygen & Cylinder to Myat Dana Foundation Staff family Donation of rice congee to the patients at Hospital Nyaung U. Keeping the surrounding clean Kathina Ceremony of Tharabar Family Implementation Over the past year, 1. As a part of staff social welfare programmers, cross trainings, development programmers in promoting their abilities to work, accelerating their skills on operating functions thoroughly throughout overseas trips , going trips such as Ngapali, Ngwe Saung , Maw La Myaing, Kyite Htee Yoe, Ka Law, Hpa An exchanging conversations each other were done. 2. Besides these programmers, holidays and vacation, salary increments, allowance and bonus, birthday party, annual dinner and other activities were done. Anti‐ Corruption Assessment, policy and goals The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate will undertake that none of its employees or managers will offer, pay, promise, authorize or give anything of value to any employee or manager for purposes of obtaining or retaining favors or any improper advantages. Within the company, The Hotel@ Tharabar Gate has below policies towards corruption, bribery and extortion: 1. Not to give and take any form of bribery among employees. 2. Not to give any form of bribery to management levels. 3. Not to accept any form of bribery from customers, suppliers and business partners. 4. To obey applicable local and regional legal laws. 5. To respect international legal frameworks against corruption. Implementation Over the past years, internal and external checks and balances system over transactions were audited by internal audits, external audits, finance, administration and HR department to detect and minimize anti‐ corruption risks and to respond to incidents. For upcoming years 2019‐2020. 1. We will communicate to all employees on the anti‐corruption commitment. 2. Internal and external checks and balances system over transactions will be kept audited, maintained and controlled by internal audits, external audits, finance, and administration and HR department. 3. Appropriate actions will be responded to incidents. 4. Our policies and implementations towards corruption, bribery and extortion will be reviewed and amended, based on priority and requirement.
