CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MAKING A DIFFERENCE HOW WE ARE MAKING A DIFFERENCE TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION 4 VALUE CHAIN 14 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED 14 ACTIVATED CARBON adsorbs high levels of PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY 16 volatile hydrocarbons in gasoline tank SUPPLIERS' SUSTAINABILITY 18 emissions ENVIRONMENT 20 CARBON BLACK, COMPLIANCE 21 FUMED SILICAS FUMED SILICA, enable adhesives for ADVANCED CARBON ENERGY 22 lightweighting to ADDITIVES improve vehicle improve battery performance EMISSIONS 24 fuel efficiency with longer driving range and extended run times WASTE & SPILLS 26 in electric vehicles CARBON BLACK WATER 28 creates lower tire rolling resistance and PEOPLE 30 enhances overall fuel economy OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 30 RETENTION, DIVERSITY & DEVELOPMENT 32 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 36 Our specialty chemicals and performance materials deliver a wide range of benefits across a diverse group of applications. We are leading the way with innovative solutions to many of today’s most pressing challenges, including those related to sustainability. Some great examples of how our products are being used to make a difference can be found in automobiles on the road today. A MESSAGE to our business strategy and operating model. In fact, Cabot has been a leader in this space for as long as FROM THE CEO we have been in business. Today, we are exploring additional opportunities to close resource loops SEAN D. KEOHANE President and including sourcing materials that are byproducts of Chief Executive Officer other manufacturing processes and identifying ways to repurpose or transform waste into usable inputs. A notable example of how we play a part in the circular economy is our new fumed silica manufacturing facilities As I reflect on Cabot Corporation’s commitment to in Wuhai, China and Carrollton, Kentucky, USA. Both sustainability, I am proud of the progress we have made facilities broke ground in 2017 and will deploy our latest in 2017 and am excited about the future. I am convinced technologies to promote an industry standard in energy that our unyielding pursuit of more sustainable business efficiency and recycling of byproduct streams. Our fencepractices is a source of enduring advantage for Cabot and will ensure that we meet our commitments line relationships with Inner Mongolia Hengyecheng HIGHLY MATERIAL TOPICS Silicone Co., Ltd and Dow create a closed-loop system to customers, shareholders, employees and the through the exchange of byproduct materials that As we continue on our sustainability journey, we look to the 11 topics we found to be most material as a guide. These topics are helping us focus our attention on what matters most to our business GRI 102-47 communities in which we operate. eliminates transportation risks, increases manufacturing The sustainability imperative is changing the competitive efficiencies and reduces waste. and stakeholders while supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) established by the landscape and driving us to rethink the way we develop United Nations. These material topics and their corresponding SDGs are listed below. In 2017, we also completed a comprehensive materiality new products and technologies. We are actively responding assessment in which we worked with our internal and MATERIAL TOPICS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS to this change through a focus on application innovation, external stakeholders to determine those sustainability a key tenet of our corporate strategy. topics that were most relevant to our business. This ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED In 2017, we opened our new Asia Technology Center (ATC) report reflects our focus on these key topics in order to in Shanghai, China. This state-of-the-art facility serves as ensure our efforts have the greatest potential for positive PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY a platform to collaborate with our customers to develop impact and are clearly connected to our strategy, vision truly differentiated solutions that meet current and future and values. This is further supported by our continued market needs. Our global research and development commitment to the Ten Principles of the United SUPPLIERS' SUSTAINABILITY teams are focused on harnessing the power of our Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, materials to address sustainability challenges in areas environment, labor and anti-corruption. COMPLIANCE such as energy storage, resource conservation and next Our performance and our progress are attributable to generation mobility. In an effort to broaden our range of the extraordinary efforts of Cabot employees worldwide. ENERGY sustainable masterbatch formulations in plastics, we While we are proud of the progress we have made to acquired Tech Blend, a leading North American producer date, we understand that our sustainability journey is EMISSIONS of black masterbatches. Tech Blend’s key differentiator ongoing and we will continue to challenge ourselves is the utilization of recycled plastic and this acquisition further. I invite you to explore our report to learn more WASTE & SPILLS gives us the capability to create superior products with about what sustainability means to us and how we a significant recycled material content. We are excited are embracing new opportunities to grow. If you have about the potential of this technology platform to grow WATER suggestions regarding how we carry out this vital work, our global product offering of recycled formulations. send us an email at sustainability@cabotcorp.com. As a responsible corporate citizen, we know it is our We welcome your thoughts. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY duty to relentlessly pursue more efficient production Regards, processes and reduce waste. Moreover, we recognize RETENTION, DIVERSITY & DEVELOPMENT GRI 102-14 that as our industry evolves, customers are placing an increasing emphasis on the circular economy. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Harnessing the power of the circular economy is central 4 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 ABOUT CABOT Cabot Corporation is a leading global specialty chemicals and performance materials company GRI 102-7 headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, USA, and has been providing innovative performance GRI 102-10 solutions to customers for over 135 years. We combine technical expertise with a deep GRI 102-46 understanding of our customers’ needs to deliver a wide range of solutions in a variety of industries, including transportation, infrastructure, environmental and consumer products. Our ability to deliver expert insight and innovative solutions enables our customers to differentiate themselves in the marketplace. Our operations span the globe, with 4,500 employees working in 45 manufacturing facilities, six research and development facilities, and 30 sales offices in 21 countries. Across our global footprint, we offer application development capabilities to support our customers. Most recently, in September 2017, we opened our new Asia Technology Center in Shanghai, China. This state-of-theart collaboration and experimentation center provides a space where we can work with customers to develop the next set of performance materials solutions for the Asia Pacific region and beyond. Our manufacturing network will also continue to expand in the coming years. In 2017, we broke ground on two fumed silica manufacturing facilities in Wuhai, China, and Carrollton, Kentucky, USA. These facilities are scheduled to be operational by 2019. They will be equipped with the latest ABOUT THIS REPORT technologies, which will strengthen our leadership status while setting industry standards in energy efficiency and recycling of waste streams. Historically, Cabot’s Global Reporting Initiative environmental incident tracking, greenhouse gas GRI 102-46 (GRI) reports have been produced on a biennial emissions, finance and human resources. This data GRI 102-49 cycle with update reports in the alternating years. is collected, analyzed and reviewed by subjectGRI 102-50 Beginning this year, we have made the decision matter experts within the organization and, in the Values & Ethics GRI 102-51 GRI 102-16 to use the GRI Standards for each of our annual case of our greenhouse gas emissions, undergoes GRI 102-52 Integrity, respect, excellence and responsibility are GRI 102-54 our core values. We are committed to living these sustainability publications. This report has been biennial verification by an independent third party, GRI 102-56 prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: which was conducted most recently for our 2015 values and conducting our business ethically. This GRI 103-1 Core Option. It addresses the sustainability topics and 2016 data in June 2017. is fundamental to the way we interact with our most material to the Company and also serves as customers, partners, distributors, shareholders and This report describes Cabot’s sustainability our annual Communication on Progress (COP) in colleagues from all over the globe. In addition to strategy and how it relates to our business and support of our commitment to the United Nations more focused training based on job responsibilities, the interests of stakeholders. The content focuses Global Compact (UNGC). Our last sustainability all employees are required to complete training on on 11 sustainability topics that were found to be report was published in June 2017. our Code of Business Ethics each year. The training most relevant through a comprehensive materiality is provided in 13 languages across our global The data and information covered in this report assessment completed in 2017. Dedicated network of facilities. The Code covers a multitude represents our performance across all significant sections describe our performance and vision for of topics, including the importance of treating Cabot locations for which the Company has improvement in each of these 11 areas. Throughout each other with mutual respect, interacting with operational control and majority ownership during the report, markers are provided to indicate the our customers and other stakeholders with a high the 2017 calendar year, with the exception of correlation between material topics, the GRI standard of ethics, protecting Cabot’s assets, and financial data, which reflects the Company’s 2017 Standards and the United Nations 17 Sustainable serving our communities in a responsible manner. fiscal year (October 1, 2016 through September Development Goals. The Office of Compliance, which reports to the 30, 2017). To ensure the highest level of data Audit Committee of Cabot's Board of Directors, integrity, we maintain databases for safety and oversees the implementation of the Code and helps to ensure compliance with laws and regulations. 66 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION OUR INDUSTRIES ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Maintaining positive relationships with our various facilities, during which we welcome our neighbors Transportation Infrastructure GRI 102-40 GRI 102-2 stakeholder groups plays a critical role in our ability to visit, “investor days,” where we invite investors We help manufacturers improve the We provide solutions that address GRI 102-42 performance, safety and lifespan of GRI 102-6 to be a responsible corporate citizen. We diligently to hear from our leaders about business conditions GRI 102-43 increasing energy efficiency standards. vehicles and their components. seek opportunities to engage with our customers, and strategies, and specially designed programs GRI 102-44 investors, employees, regulators and communities for our communities, in which we offer exchanges Environment Consumer and welcome their feedback on how our activities of cutting-edge science and technology research. We help address some of the world's Our performance solutions are an impact their respective interests. Our outreach to We firmly believe these types of interactions most pressing environmental issues. essential part of modern-day life. these groups can take on many different forms, are equally beneficial to Cabot as well as our including “open days” at our manufacturing key stakeholders. OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS STAKEHOLDERS TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT KEY TOPICS Reinforcement Materials Performance Chemicals Surveys, technical information, Performance, sustainability, satisfaction Rubber Blacks; Elastomer Composites Specialty Carbons and Formulations; Metal Oxides GRI 102-2 Customers exchanges, plant visits, social media, surveys, technical solutions, product quality and Carbon black to reinforce and optimize the performance Specialty additives that enable performance in plastics, wire complaint resolution, website performance, production plans, safety data sheets of rubber products, including tires, hoses, belts and and cable, toners, coatings, adhesives and sealants, electronics, molded goods batteries, inks, inkjet printing, composites, silicones, building SEC filings, quarterly earnings calls, press Performance, strategy, execution, construction materials and industrial insulation Investors releases, annual meeting, individual material disclosures, sustainability meetings, sustainability report, website Purification Solutions Specialty Fluids Activated Carbon Cesium Formate Brines; Fine Cesium Chemicals Meetings, executive briefings, Performance, strategic initiatives and vision, Activated carbon for purification in various applications Advanced cesium products for use in oil and gas well drilling Employees training sessions, surveys, regular policy and organizational structure, benefits including air and water, food and beverages, intranet communication and compensation, safety data sheets and completion fluids, catalysts, titanium dioxide, glass and pharmaceuticals and catalysts brazing fluxes Plant visits and inspections, Regulators sharing technical information Compliance and best practice exchanges OUR LOCATIONS Plant visits, open house events, Plant operations, emergency response GRI 102-4 Communities community events, sponsorships, planning, compliance programs, emissions, engagement programs, social media community sponsorships, local engagement NORWAY Audits and performance assessments, Market demands, production plans, efficiency LATVIA Suppliers supplier summits, sustainability projects optimization and sustainability opportunities UNITED BELGIUM KINGDOM THE NETHERLANDS CANADA GERMANY FRANCE CZECH REPUBLIC SWITZERLAND UNITED STATES ITALY CHINA JAPAN MEXICO INDIA UNITED ARAB COLOMBIA EMIRATES MALAYSIA INDONESIA SINGAPORE BRAZIL ARGENTINA 88 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION Promoting and Sharing Scientific Research studies, has resulted in valuable information on a portfolio of materials that helps us make informed We regularly work with customers, academic decisions on safe handling practices. Information partners, suppliers and stakeholders to broaden from our collaboration with NIOSH continues to scientific research aimed at better understanding be shared broadly through scientific publications our existing products as well as those under and conferences so that other industries and development. As part of this effort, we are also users can benefit from this important research on committed to providing relevant information about the potential for health effects associated with our materials to help ensure they are managed exposures to these materials. safely by both our workers and customers. We do not confine our interest to only our current We also work closely with our industry peers to product portfolio, but actively engage in a number continue expanding the extensive body of research of important studies into a broad class of materials on the safety of carbon black and fumed silica. and application formulations. For example, in partnership with the International Carbon Black Association (ICBA), our employees As an example, our long-standing partnership provide important contributions to research that is Engaging With the Local Community on Environmental Protection in Xingtai, China with the United States National Institute for used to assess safe exposure limits and potential In recent years, China has been intensifying its focus on environmental issues, particularly air pollution, Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), through health effects of carbon black. which has led to curtailment of production for many manufacturers. Fortunately, our team in Xingtai was which we provide graphene materials for toxicology well prepared to respond to stricter emission reduction requirements with state-of-the-art emission controls. The facility also actively engaged with the broader community on its approach to support this important effort. Part of this community engagement included the opening of an “Environmental Opening Doors to the Community in Zaandam, the Netherlands Engagement Room.” We also invited customers and visitors from the community, local government In celebration of the 100th anniversary of our Purification Solutions facility in Zaandam, the Netherlands, officials and the surrounding businesses to learn more about how Cabot is supporting local emission the site opened its doors to neighboring companies and the general public in January 2017. The facility reduction efforts for a healthier, more sustainable community. open house started with a presentation of historical photos of the Zaandam plant and the surrounding area. The site visitors were given a tour of the manufacturing facilities and were surprised to learn about the many applications that use activated carbon, including a number of customer applications such as Encouraging Academic Research pharmaceuticals, as well as food and beverage, water and air purification. The Zaandam team was proud to engage with the community and demonstrate our Company’s long-term commitment to taking care of For the sixth consecutive year, our Billerica, Massachusetts, USA, Technology Center was proud to host the the environment and the communities in which we operate. Student Materials Research Forum (SMRF) for graduate students of New England colleges and universities. This event aims to promote collaboration with the academic community as well as to connect us with potential future hires in the fields of chemistry, physics, material science, chemical engineering and mechanical engineering. During the event, students discussed their research projects with members of the Cabot technical community. The discussion allowed students to learn more about our technology, while our researchers learned more about current scientific research. Students also had an opportunity to learn more about the differences between academic and industrial research in an interactive panel session. Events like this help promote a collaborative exchange of scientific advancements and allow us to foster a network of talented students from top colleges and universities in the area. 10 10 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTING Our continued investments across our global manufacturing footprint have helped us advance As a proud signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we OUR PROGRESS towards our 2025 environmental goals. To date we have: remain committed to making progress against the 10 principles within GRI 102-12 the categories of environment, labor, human rights and anti-corruption. MARTIN J. O’NEILL u  made steady progress towards our NOX and SO2 Senior Vice President emission reduction goals, having achieved 93% Safety, Health and Environment and 26% of our goals, respectively. We have several additional projects planned in the coming years to ENVIRONMENT further these reductions. With recognition of the numerous environmental issues facing our planet, we fully accept our responsibility to mitigate our footprint to the best extent possible across our global Thank you for taking the time to learn more about u  continued investments in waste heat recovery to operations. This commitment is underscored by the fact that the majority of the topics Cabot’s sustainability journey. We are proud of our enable progress on both our energy and greenhouse identified as most material to our sustainability program are environmentally related. accomplishments and eager to update you on our gas intensity goals, where we are now 34% and 41% Guiding our efforts, we have specific goals in place for energy, emissions and waste, progress. We are especially excited to highlight several of the way to achieving our goals. and are constantly looking for ways to achieve these targets by 2025. We also recognize of our Cabot colleagues who bring our sustainability u  achieved our waste reduction goal and are exploring that we must continue to monitor our use of water and look for more opportunities program to life and truly are making a difference. options to challenge ourselves further by establishing to work with our partners across the value chain to collectively reduce our In 2017, we continued to innovate and grow, resulting in a new objectives related to waste reduction and environmental impacts. variety of achievements in the areas we have determined utilizing waste materials for beneficial use. to have the biggest effect on our stakeholders and are u  analyzed our water use and wastewater discharges LABOR most material to our long-term success. We recognize closely and are looking to establish strategic Safety is at the cornerstone of our operations as we strive to conduct business in a the potential to have an even greater impact when we objectives to ensure that water resources are way that is safe for our employees, contractors, visitors and the communities where we work across the value chain with our customers and managed with care. operate. With a belief that all injuries are preventable, we go to great lengths to ensure suppliers. Our long history and experience in the circular employees, contractors and visitors to our global facilities are well trained and equipped We view safety as a fundamental building block to the economy positions us well to provide our customers with everything they need to return home each day the same as when they arrived at our success of all our operations. We continue to focus on with innovative solutions that help them achieve their facility. In addition, we recognize the benefit of promoting wellness across our workforce. personal and process safety and while we are proud of sustainably goals. We are also making meaningful Over the past year, we have offered numerous safety training opportunities and further our results, we will not let up on our safety commitment progress in increasing engagement with our supported employees in improving their overall health and well-being. until we reach our Drive to Zero objective. At the same suppliers. In collaboration with our upstream and time, we are committed to serving as a good corporate HUMAN RIGHTS downstream partners, we have implemented several citizen and demonstrate our genuine care for the We have a deep respect for the diverse backgrounds of our employees and firmly believe sustainability projects that will reduce our collective communities where we operate through engagement every individual should treat one another with dignity, honesty, respect and fairness. environmental impacts. and volunteering efforts. Our employees once again This is explicitly covered in our Code of Business Ethics in addition to our formal Human We fully recognize our responsibility for not only rose to the challenge in 2017, volunteering in their Rights Policy, which also extends these expectations to our suppliers. As we engage in remaining compliant with environmental requirements communities and implementing sustainability initiatives understanding our supplier sustainability management practices, we will continue to but also taking a proactive approach to reduce our throughout the company. use this Policy to assess our suppliers’ activities and hold them accountable to ensuring impacts. This is a constant focus for us as we continue these fundamental rights are upheld. These are just some of the ways in which we are to challenge the status quo and improve the efficiency showcasing our commitment to sustainability. We will and optimize our operations. Our leadership in this regard ANTI-CORRUPTION continue our relentless pursuit of new and innovative can be seen in the investments we made in emissions Conducting business with integrity is critical to our business success and requires ways to improve our business responsibly and dedicate reductions in our manufacturing operations in China and the support of all employees and suppliers. All forms of corruption, including bribery our time, talent and resources to these important efforts. the United States well in advance of our competition. and extortion, are explicitly forbidden according to Cabot’s Code of Business Ethics. We are eager to hear your thoughts on the strides we These have positioned us to fully support the need for All employees are required to undergo annual training on the Code of Business Ethics, have made so far and invite you to contact us if you have cleaner technology solutions as we all work to improve through which they can practice identifying potential risks of corruption and learn how any questions regarding Cabot’s sustainability journey. the quality of the air we breathe. such matters should be addressed. Depending on employees’ job responsibilities, Regards, supplementary training may also be required as an added measure to uphold our high expectations for ethical business conduct. 12 12 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN CABOT CORPORATION FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS In addition to addressing the environmental, social and economic impacts directly resulting from (dollars in USD millions, except per share amounts) GRI 102-7 our operations, we also understand the opportunity to drive performance in these areas across Fiscal Year 2015 2016 2017 GRI 201-1 GRI 201-2 our value chain. This includes looking upstream at our suppliers and identifying ways to improve Operating Results efficiency and influence the development of responsible practices. It also means supporting our Operating revenues $2,871 $2,411 $2,717 customers downstream to help them achieve their sustainability goals and standards. The key Net income (loss) attributable to Cabot Corporation* $(334) $149 $241 to generating economic value and lasting impact across the value chain depends heavily on Per diluted common share* $(5.27) $2.36 $3.80 partnerships with both suppliers and customers, and developing innovative solutions to Adjusted earnings per share** $2.71 $3.14 $3.43 improve our collective sustainability performance. Financial Positions Total assets $3,063 $3,035 $3,314 Net property, plant and equipment $1,383 $1,290 $1,305 Stockholders’ equity $1,338 $1,372 $1,601 ECONOMIC VALUE Reconciliation of Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) GENERATED & Per Share / Fiscal Year 2015 2016 2017 DISTRIBUTED Net income (loss) per share attributable to Cabot Corporation* Less: Net income (loss) per share from discontinued operations $(5.27) $0.02 $2.36 $0.02 $ 3.80 — Net income (loss) per share from continuing operations* $(5.29) $2.34 $ 3.80 Less: Certain items per share and dilutive impact of shares* $(8.00) $(0.80) $0.38 Adjusted earnings per share $2.71 $3.14 $3.43 * Fiscal 2015 includes the impact of the Purification Solutions’ impairment charges. ** Non-GAAP financial measure, excludes financial results of divested businesses and certain items. Our stakeholders around the world expect us to deliver on our financial commitments by generating and GRI 102-7 distributing economic value. To address this, we are focused on improving earnings growth while also GRI 103-1 Our investment decisions and growth strategy contributing to long-term strategic investments for our business. We believe this approach will allow us to GRI 103-2 PEOPLE PROFILE maintain our reputation as a leader in our markets, well positioned to respond to the evolving needs of our GRI 103-3 are guided by an emphasis on sustainable customers. We were pleased to report strong financial performance and cash flow from operations during our business practices and full compliance with laws, regulations and internal standards. We often look for MAICON ANDRADE 2017 fiscal year. This success enables us to further our contributions to society and the communities where IT System Analyst we operate by generating jobs, providing fair wages, adopting the latest technology and materials to reduce opportunities to go beyond the minimum standards, our environmental impact and participating in charitable giving and community events. and one example of that has been realized in our approach and experience building manufacturing MAUA, BRAZIL facilities in China. Since 2004, Cabot has built plants in this region with state-of-the-art technology and Since 2017, Maicon has been volunteering in Maua, Brazil, $340M 9% environmental controls to ensure we can meet at the CEO Institute in São Paulo, Brazil, an organization that helps young people change the course of their future ever-increasing requirements for environmental for the better and, in turn, positively impact society. He performance and emission reductions. In recent mentors a group of approximately 12 students in the Talent OPERATING CASH FLOW ADJUSTED EPS GROWTH years, we have witnessed an increased focus on Academy Program, which is a free self-development program environmental enforcement across the industrial that gives the participants access to tools that encourage 50% $244M and chemicals landscape in China. Our leadership the development of socio-emotional skills and career in this area enabled us to better respond to the management to increase the participants' employability and growth opportunities. Since the course is offered for free, heightened focus by government agencies and to participants provide payment by developing a social project DISCRETIONARY FREE CASH FLOW DISCRETIONARY FREE CASH FLOW continue to supply our customers in constrained for a charitable organization, thus creating a cycle of giving. RETURN TO SHAREHOLDERS market conditions. 14 14 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN PEOPLE PROFILE NICOLE PETINIOT PRODUCT European Regulatory Affairs Manager SUSTAINABILITY LONCIN, BELGIUM In 2017, Nicole chaired the carbon black industry’s Applying Mulch Film for More Sustainable consortium under the European Union’s Registration, Agricultural Practices Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation. She actively participated in an industry Brazil is one of the world’s most prominent coffee trade group project evaluating the potential migration of Our business success depends on our ability to respond to our customers' needs, and we know many producers, with a total coffee bean crop area of GRI 103-1 polyaromatic hydrocarbons adsorbed on carbon black as of our customers are looking for solutions to improve their sustainability performance or tackle some of approximately 2.2 million hectares. Coffee growers well as carbon black particles when embedded in plastic GRI 103-2 today’s greatest challenges. We take pride in being a partner they can turn to for support in this regard. As GRI 103-3 in Brazil are in a constant battle with pests and or rubber, the results of which have been significant to we strive to meet our customers’ needs, we consider the impacts of our products across their lifecycle and GRI 416-1 weeds, either of which could destroy a vital crop. regulatory agencies looking to make informed decisions on utilize a stage gate process early in the development of new products to identify and manage potential Fortunately, a polyethylene mulch film containing the use of materials containing carbon black in food and safety, health or environmental risks. skin contact applications. Nicole’s expertise in the REACH our specialty carbon black offers an effective regulation and extensive knowledge of carbon black have solution. With the application of this material, been critical for Cabot and have earned her the high respect Brazilian coffee farmers have been able to reduce of colleagues across the industry. Improving the Potential for rubber product applications. Our patented mixing supplemental watering and herbicide application Recycled Plastics process for these materials allows for improved by up to 30%, thereby reducing the stress on the durability that can extend the tread life of tires by We have a deep understanding of our applications coffee crop, minimizing the overapplication of over 15%. Because tires made with CEC last longer, and how end-use product performance can be chemicals and water, and ensuring the economic the number of waste tires is reduced — ­ a benefit tailored and improved by innovating in the early success of their business. both for our customers and the environment given stages of production. The PLASBLAK® 628 black that more than 1 billion waste tires are generated masterbatch series are formulations for recycled each year worldwide. We are working to expand this plastic resins to significantly improve performance more efficient use of resources by committing a and versatility. This solution is successfully used for team of employees to the broader commercialization numerous applications, including household goods of elastomer composite products. and packaging materials. At the same time, we are continuing to advance formulations containing recycled material content, furthering our role in the circular economy. This focus is further evidenced by our recent acquisition of Tech Blend, which has demonstrated successful use of recycled plastic material in its production of black masterbatches. Extending the Tread Life of Tires with Elastomer Composites Cabot elastomer composite (CEC) products are a unique mixture of rubber and carbon black initially targeted for use in off-the-road tires, rubber tracks and mining applications and with future potential for broad adoption in many tire and industrial 16 16 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN Reducing Packaging Waste PEOPLE PROFILE A flexible intermediate bulk container (FIBC) is a large bag made of durable woven plastic commonly DANA NOHALOVA SUPPLIERS' used to package products before shipping to Production Specialist ALES MARTINAK SUSTAINABILITY a customer. The standard industry practice is to use new bags for each order, and the bags Process Operator VALMEZ, CZECH REPUBLIC are then discarded after the product is used. However, the integrity of these bags is typically Dana and Ales recognized the chemicals and process used not compromised during shipment, so there is to clean appliances, equipment and technical instruments a possibility of reusing them. Recognizing this, at the facility in Valmez, Czech Republic, could be improved our Maua, Brazil, facility explored opportunities to to reduce negative environmental impacts and the potential partner with suppliers and customers to implement for health risks. Working together, they researched suppliers As a result of our 2017 Materiality Assessment, we have refined our focus on the sustainability performance GRI 102-9 a take-back program for these bags, helping reduce offering alternative solutions and successfully found a of our suppliers. With an extensive supply chain across the globe, we believe there are many opportunities product that is not only easier to use but also utilizes a GRI 103-1 landfill waste. This project involved introducing a to improve our collective impact on the planet and society by modifying the way we do business with GRI 103-2 water-based, nonhazardous detergent. In 2017, the new our partners. new FIBC contractor responsible for performing GRI 103-3 system was introduced to the facility, which now offers a GRI 308-1 inspection and refurbishing of the bags. To ensure more environmentally sound method for cleaning, while Our Purchasing Team, which is responsible for all aspects of managing our supply chain, has been working the process was implemented smoothly, we GRI 414-1 also reducing the potential for employees to be exposed to closely with our suppliers for many years to ensure quality, continuity, efficiency and mitigation of risks. In coordinated with our customers to not only reclaim harmful cleaning chemicals. support of these efforts, the team undergoes training on an annual basis to review the terms and methods a significant number of used bags, but to also for ensuring our Supplier Code of Conduct is upheld. In doing so, we reinforce our expectations for suppliers encourage careful handling of the bags to avoid to conduct their business responsibly. In the spirit of continuous improvement, we also spent much of 2017 tears. This effort successfully led to an average a 25% reduction in the need for new wooden establishing a meaningful management approach for supplier sustainability. This effort was initiated by 91% reuse rate of FIBC bags, with most bags pallets, which translates to significant cost engaging our colleagues with expertise in purchasing, supply chain logistics and the needs of our business getting reused approximately six times before they savings, decreased waste and more responsible segments to collect suggestions for how we could fully integrate sustainability into existing supply chain are disposed. This is one example of a program management of a natural resource. This proof of management practices. We also used this as an opportunity to review existing initiatives and to catalog we hope to replicate more broadly across our concept has been compelling and has inspired us activities that had resulted in positive sustainability outcomes. These internal success stories, paired with operations, as it delivers a positive environmental to partner with a key regional supplier that would information we gathered from benchmarking industry best practices, were valuable guides for developing benefit and can also be more cost-effective. allow an expansion of the program across North our strategy for sustainable supply chain management. America in the near future. A key aspect of the strategy we devised involves rolling out an auditing program as an extension Refurbishing Used Wooden Pallets to the existing practices we have in place for supplier-quality auditing. The pilot of this auditing for Deliveries program is slated for 2018. In addition, we look forward to continuing our collaboration both internally Many of the shipments made from our facilities across departments as well as with our suppliers to uncover new opportunities to improve social and utilize wooden pallets to transport products. At environmental practices across our supply chain. our Sarnia, Canada, facility, we worked with a local supplier who now collects used pallets from our customers and performs inspections to determine if and how they might be repaired, reused or recycled. Repairable pallets are reintroduced to the supply chain, while unrepairable pallets are recycled through a secondary market for wood-based products. This effort has led to 18 18 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Many environmental issues have significant implications on a global scale and require the GRI 103-1 attention of governments and corporations alike to find solutions. As a resource-intensive GRI 103-2 manufacturing company, we are aware of the responsibility we have to not only remain compliant GRI 103-3 COMPLIANCE with applicable environmental regulations in the locations where we operate, but to also work to lessen the impacts we have on the planet. We are proud of the leadership we have demonstrated in our industry and believe our commitment to environmental performance is one key element in maintaining that position. More than half of the material topics guiding our sustainability program are related to environmental performance, and many have explicit goals associated with them. These goals describe our intent to reduce the intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in terms of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), nitrogen oxide (NOX) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions, Our commitment to 100% compliance with our environmental requirements is a demonstration of our GRI 307-1 corporate value of responsibility and a way to protect the well-being of our neighboring communities and waste by 2025. While we have made considerable progress, we remain committed to and natural surroundings. As a global company, we have seen environmental regulations evolve for a identifying ways to drive our performance further and faster. We continuously evaluate our number of reasons, including updated scientific research, shifts in priorities from governments or market environmental management practices to uncover broader opportunities that translate to both changes designed to improve the overall environment. As a result, we closely monitor the evolution of environmental benefits and increased efficiency or reduced operating costs. During 2017, we regulations affecting our facilities and diligently work to remain one step ahead of the requirements. We have been able to recognize these benefits through a number of initiatives. routinely monitor our performance in meeting these standards and have been successful in reducing our environmental non-conformances (ENC) metric over the past several years. We define an ENC as any event resulting in a reportable spill or release, a notice of violation, a public complaint or a regulatory permit deviation. In 2017 we saw a 15% reduction compared to the previous year and a 38% reduction compared ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS to 2015, which is a testament to our focus on continuous improvement and learning from events leading ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS to ENCs. We have also seen a drop in the amount of environmental fines incurred with $5,000 paid in 2017. Still, we continue our work to improve environmental performance in our drive to achieve zero environmental ENERGY GHG NITROGEN OXIDES SULFUR DIOXIDE WASTE INTENSITY INTENSITY INTENSITY INTENSITY DISPOSAL non-conformances and fines. GJ / MT MT OF CO2e / MT MT OF NOX / KMT MT OF SO2 / KMT MT OF WASTE DISPOSED OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION / KMT OF PRODUCTION ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL NON-CONFORMANCES NON-CONFORMANCES CO2 NOX SO2 117 10% REDUCTION 20%REDUCTION 20%REDUCTION 40%REDUCTION 15% REDUCTION 86 BASELINE YEAR 2005 BASELINE YEAR 2005 BASELINE YEAR 2012 BASELINE YEAR 2012 BASELINE YEAR 2012 73 TARGET YEAR 2025 TARGET YEAR 2025 TARGET YEAR 2025 TARGET YEAR 2025 TARGET YEAR 2025 2017 2016 2015 20 20 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Reducing Natural Gas Consumption PEOPLE PROFILE at Barry At our fumed metal oxide facility in Barry, Wales, GONZALO BELLO we produce steam for energy use at the site from Safety, Health and Environment ENERGY our primary boilers. To maintain system reliability, Manager a backup natural gas-fired boiler is available to CAMPANA, ARGENTINA rapidly respond in the event the main system experiences a disruption. However, to ensure the Gonzalo led the Lean Project team in Campana, Argentina, required response time, the backup boiler must to improve efficiencies and reduce the logistical costs be kept at the appropriate operating pressure and and environmental impact at the facility. Over the course temperature. Recognizing the potential to reduce of 2017, Gonzalo and his team identified many opportunities to increase process efficiency, which has this natural gas consumption, the facility installed The energy we use across our global operations comes from a variety of sources, including natural gas and led to a savings of $2.9M along with significant a new steam injection nozzle in the backup boiler environmental benefits. oil, electricity and raw materials that are used during the manufacturing process. Across our global portfolio to maintain the necessary conditions, significantly of offices and manufacturing facilities, we continuously look for ways to reduce our energy consumption reducing the amount of natural gas used. In its first and work toward our goal of reducing energy intensity, which is our energy use normalized by production, full year of use in 2017, there was a 20% reduction Applying Lean Manufacturing by 10% below 2005 levels by 2025. in natural gas used on this unit compared to the Practices in Campana In 2017, our overall production increased, which also led to an increase in absolute energy consumption. previous year. At our carbon black facility in Campana, Argentina, However, the intensity of energy per metric ton (MT) of production remained relatively stable for the past a Lean Project team was established to identify three years. We realize that to get closer to our 2025 goal, we will need to continue driving energy efficiency Responding to Energy Audits in Belgium opportunities for reducing energy consumption forward more aggressively in coming years. Energy consumption audits were conducted at consistent with the best-in-class facilities in the the two Belgian masterbatch facilities in Loncin South American region. The multi-disciplinary team, ENERGY and Pepinster in 2015. Based on the outcome of including finance, maintenance, operations and GRI 302-1 those audits, several projects were undertaken purchasing, mapped the energy use at the site ENERGY USE ENERGY INTENSITY (MMGJ) (GJ/MT production) GRI 302-3 to reduce our energy consumption, including and identified several opportunities to reduce the 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 insulating thermal oil and steam lines, upgrading consumption of energy. These included removing 131.1 126.1 123.9 62.9 62.9 62.6 lighting to LED in the production areas, purchasing unnecessary lighting, replacing old lighting with PROGRESS AGAINST GOAL more energy-efficient equipment and upgrading high-efficiency LED technology, adding capacitors 34% the oil-fired steam boiler with new, high-efficiency to reduce reactive energy use, reducing the size of natural gas boilers. Through these efforts, 500 MT of the river water pumps and encouraging employees ENERGY SOURCES annual GHG emissions were reduced by the end of to conserve energy whenever possible. The team’s 2017, nearly 10% of the total emissions from the two actions reduced the facility’s fixed energy use by facilities. Additional actions are being considered to nearly 210 megawatt-hours, or 10% of the facility’s 0.1% 0.1% 2.0% 3.0% 94.9% continue these efforts. total electricity use — the equivalent to over 900 MT STEAM LIQUID PURCHASED NATURAL RAW of GHG emissions. (MMGJ) FUELS ELECTRICITY GAS MATERIALS (MMGJ) (MMGJ) (MMGJ) (MMGJ) 0.1 0.1 2.8 4.2 131.9 TOTAL 139.1 (MMGJ) 22 22 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT GHG EMISSIONS GRI 305-1 ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS 2017 2016 2015 EMISSION INTENSITY 2017 2016 2015 GRI 305-2 SCOPE 1 (MM MT CO2e) 4.6 4.5 4.4 SCOPE 1 (MT CO2e / MT production) 2.2 2.3 2.2 GRI 305-4 CO2 GRI 305-7 EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 (MM MT CO2e) 0.3 0.3 0.3 SCOPE 2 (MT CO2e / MT production) 0.2 0.2 0.2 PROGRESS AGAINST GOAL 41% SO2 EMISSIONS NOX EMISSIONS SO2 NOX SO2 EMISSIONS SO2 EMISSION NOX EMISSIONS NOX EMISSION Considering the link between GHG and climate change as well as the health and environmental issues (KMT) INTENSITY (KMT) INTENSITY (MT / KMT production) (MT / KMT production) associated with air pollutants, it is imperative that we monitor our emissions closely and work diligently 42.2 2017 20.2 13.3 2017 6.4 to minimize our respective impacts as much as possible. Often, this means working closely with the governments in the areas where we operate as they aim to reduce industrial and commercial sources 41.8 2016 20.8 14.0 2016 7.0 of emissions in their communities. In this regard, we have been leading the industry and demonstrating 39.1 2015 19.7 14.6 2015 7.4 our support of these collective objectives. This has been especially true in both the United States and PROGRESS AGAINST GOAL PROGRESS AGAINST GOAL China, where we have continued to see increasingly stricter regulations for our industry and others. 26% 93% We are responding to these new challenges through the installation of state-of-the-art emission control technology. The emission controls and operational practices we have introduced at our facilities to reduce emissions Optimizing Boiler Efficiency to to be addressed, including using 100% of the have shown positive results. Over the course of the 2017 calendar year, we made significant improvements Draw Down Emissions by-product gas (tailgas) from the carbon black in our NOX emissions from our baseline year, realizing an 18% reduction in our NOX emissions intensity and process, reducing excess air flow to the unit and Optimization of boiler efficiency is a longan 11% decrease in our absolute emissions, which represents 93% of our overall goal from the 2012 baseline. increasing the temperature in the boiler to achieve established means of reducing natural gas use. We also continued to make progress toward our GHG and SO2 goals, achieving 41% and 26% of the goals, higher NOX removal rates from the selective nonAt our Maua, Brazil, carbon black manufacturing respectively, and we expect to see further reductions as ongoing projects are completed. catalytic reactor. By making these improvements, facility, a multifunctional team conducted a detailed the team was able to retrofit the process such review of the boiler operation at the site in an effort that 100% of the tailgas generated from the carbon to recover more waste heat, improve the operating Reducing Air Emissions Supporting Air Quality Improvement black manufacturing process could be utilized by efficiency of the boiler and reduce NOX emissions. We are actively pursuing air pollution control Programs in China the incinerator. The team identified several key areas that needed systems at several of our facilities across the In 2017, our Tianjin, China, carbon black facility globe. In 2017, we completed two key projects. At completed an upgrade of its waste heat recovery Utilizing Excess Energy to Reduce Emissions GRI 302-1 our Pampa, Texas, USA, facility, we finalized the system, which enabled us to provide nearly 45 MT GRI 302-3 installation of the NOX control system. The new of steam per hour to our neighbor in the Tianjin An important element of our GHG emission reduction efforts is the recovery of our system, designed and installed over the past three Bin-hai New Area. By using steam generated waste heat to convert it to useable energy. At many of our facilities over the past years, uses a two-stage process to remove nearly from our waste heat, our neighbor eliminated several years, we have invested heavily in equipment and process improvements 90% of NOX emissions or approximately 1,400 MT their annual use of 45,000 MT of coal, resulting to generate electricity from steam or to enable the use of our process off-gas as a per year. At our Tianjin, China, carbon black facility, in significant benefits to air quality by reducing substitute for natural gas. While we use much of this energy ourselves, we are often we completed the first phase of our NOX control annual emissions of NOX by 50 MT, SO2 by 280 able to sell any excess energy to our neighbors and partners as well, which reduces system, also achieving nearly 90% removal of MT, and eliminating nearly 112,000 MT of CO2. The their use of fossil fuels. In 2017, the energy we sold offset more than 500,000 MT NOX from that operating unit. Both projects are project received significant recognition from the of CO2e from the environment, equivalent to the annual Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG contributing significantly to our NOX goal, and we local government in support of China’s overall effort emissions of two typical carbon black manufacturing facilities. These efforts will continue to make progress at other facilities to to reduce emissions and improve air quality. continue in the future, with the completion of the energy recovery facility currently introduce similar technologies. under construction at our Franklin, Louisiana, USA, carbon black facility. *Rates calculated based on year-end census for each category. 24 24 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT SIGNIFICANT SPILLS 2017 0 WASTE & SPILLS Finding Alternative Uses for Off-Quality Product An inevitable reality of the manufacturing process is that some product yield will not meet our high standards and the specific requirements of customers. As a result, the product that does The mitigation of waste and spills is closely linked to the optimization of processes in our production. not meet these rigorous standards is considered Utilizing Sludge for Beneficial Use in Limiting waste generation and reducing volumes of off-quality product are derived from improving process “off-quality” and normally destined for disposal. Klazienaveen, The Netherlands controls. Meanwhile, eliminating spills reflects a strong attention to safe and environmentally sound work However, some of our facilities have found In 2017, our Purification Solutions facility in practices at our facilities. In 2017, we saw a significant increase in non-hazardous waste generated alternatives for the fate of this material. Klazienaveen, the Netherlands, obtained regulatory which is attributed to a dedicated sludge-removal project at one of our operating facilities. Fortunately, Our Barry, Wales, site has worked closely with approval for the beneficial reuse of over 53,000 m3 we were able to find a beneficial use of this material which supported our reduction of waste disposal a polymeric rubber compound manufacturer to of sludge that was being stockpiled on site from intensity when compared to 2016. utilize off-quality silica in lieu of titanium dioxide our wastewater collection system over several in their formulation, diverting approximately 70 MT years. Working with the local authorities, we of material from landfills during 2017. Additionally, determined that the sludge was acceptable as a WASTE GENERATION GRI 306-2 the facility has worked closely with a customer structural landfill material. After receiving the ABSOLUTE VOLUME 2017 2016 2015 WASTE INTENSITY 2017 2016 2015 GRI 306-3 to accept off-quality silica. This arrangement has required permits, the sludge was used to cover a NON-HAZARDOUS (KMT) 103.3 45.1 36.2 NON-HAZARDOUS (MT / KMT production) 49.5 22.5 18.3 diverted another 40 MT of off-quality material from nearby area which was previously contaminated going to a landfill. Together, these two initiatives with asbestos, so it can be transformed into a solar HAZARDOUS (KMT) 398.3 378.0 375.2 HAZARDOUS (MT / KMT production) 191.0 188.6 189.4 have diverted 40% of the facility’s off-quality panel array to produce renewable electricity. material and instead put it to beneficial use. A similar story has unfolded at our Tuscola, Illinois, Improving Dredging Practices at USA, facility which has been working with a partner Our Franklin, Louisiana Facility WASTE WASTE BENEFICIALLY WASTE BENEFICIAL BENEFICIALLY USED INTENSITY to utilize off-quality silica product as a binding In early 2017, our Franklin, Louisiana, USA, facility DISPOSAL WASTE USED (KMT) (MT / KMT production) recognized that dredging its oil barge intake would material in asphalt since 2013, with production TOTAL WASTE DISPOSED 2017 starting in 2015. The silica allows the asphalt to be necessary. Following a review of the required AND INTENSITY 2017 2016 2015 85.8 41.2 permits and engineering options to complete this expand and contract at the joints, thus preventing WASTE DISPOSED (KMT) 415.8 401.3 391.4 2016 cracking of pavement. As a result, materials useful project, the decision was made to implement a 21.8 10.9 long-term sustainable approach by installing a WASTE DISPOSED INTENSITY 199.4 200.2 197.6 in repairing cracks are saved and the lifetime of (MT / KMT production) 2015 20.0 10.1 roadways is extended, which also translates into dewatering levee system. This system eliminates PROGRESS AGAINST GOAL cost savings for municipalities. The partnership the need for complex dewatering equipment, waste 100% has proven to be extremely successful for both disposal logistics and unnecessary landfilling of parties. By the end of 2017, a total of 265 MT had dredge material. By collaborating with government been diverted from landfill as a result of increased agencies, we identified and received the necessary diversion rates year-over-year. permits for a new system that will deliver several environmental benefits, including improved maintenance and elimination of waste. 26 26 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Introducing a Water Treatment Facility to Address Total Suspended Solids In August 2017, a new water treatment facility was brought online at the Tanco mine site in Manitoba, WATER Canada. The treatment facility is the culmination of efforts over more than a year and a half to reduce total suspended solids contained in the plant effluent, paying special attention to nutrients that can lead to algae growth. As a result, the facility is now capable of treating 1.4 million liters of effluent per day, achieving levels of total suspended solids that are Water is essential to life, but in many regions water risks are increasing and availability is becoming more of well below the regulatory limits and eliminating the a concern. Our industry requires a certain amount of water to operate, but we recognize our responsibility GRI 303-1 nutrients that contribute to the algae problem. GRI 306-1 to use this natural resource wisely across our global footprint. As a result, we track not only the volumes of water coming into our sites and discharging from them, but we also closely track specific water quality Reducing Water Use by Recycling Fire Test Water criteria to ensure we are compliant with our local discharge permits. In 2017, we experienced a slight increase in the volume of water used and discharged in absolute terms compared to the previous year. Our Dubai, United Arab Emirates, masterbatch facility is required to test its diesel fire water pumps on a When normalized by production, the intensity of water used remained stable, while discharged water weekly basis. Historically, the water used in these tests was discharged from the facility. As part of an effort intensity decreased slightly. As we continue to closely monitor these metrics, we aim to further improve our to identify ways to reduce water use, the team looked at the possibility of capturing this water for reuse. water management practices and make the most efficient use of this resource, paying close attention to After careful evaluation of the quality of the fire pump water, the Dubai team modified their water system to water availability risks in regions where we operate. capture this water and recycle it back into the process water supply tank, which resulted in a 50% reduction in water purchased by the facility. WATER SUPPLY AND DISCHARGE GRI 303-1 ABSOLUTE VOLUME 2017 2016 2015 WATER INTENSITY 2017 2016 2015 GRI 303-3 WATER SUPPLY (MM M3) 54.0 51.9 51.8 WATER SUPPLY (M3 / MT) 25.9 25.9 26.1 GRI 306-1 WATER DISCHARGE (MM M3) 40.2 39.9 36.9 WATER DISCHARGE (M3 / MT) 19.3 19.9 18.6 GRAY WATER GROUNDWATER WATER DISCHARGE DESTINATION 2% 4% PURCHASED 26% SURFACE 68% 93% 5% 2% WATER SURFACE WATER PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SEWER GROUNDWATER / OTHER SOURCES 28 28 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE PEOPLE PEOPLE PROFILE As we focus on attracting and retaining top talent around the world, we also seek to enrich our workforce with employees from diverse backgrounds. We are committed to promoting safe work EDDI ROSMAN Plant Scheduler conditions and professional development opportunities for our employees, along with competitive Upholding Our Commitment to compensation and benefits. We also acknowledge the importance of our company values, vision Responsible Care CILEGON, INDONESIA and sustainability program to our employees, and we aim to demonstrate our commitments and We remain an active member of the American enhance our performance to help us remain a competitive employer. Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care® Program. Eddi volunteers his time coordinating sports activities for Our membership is a natural extension of the deep Cabot employees, including actively arranging weekly, commitment we have to sustained safety, health monthly and yearly activities for cycling, badminton, tennis, swimming, running and table tennis. He also promotes the and environmental improvements. In 2017, our Cabot cycling and badminton teams participating in regular Responsible Care surveillance audits resulted in no events held by the local community. He recently led the Cabot major non-conformance findings and highlighted a badminton team in a multicompany tournament, where the OCCUPATIONAL number of best practices we can share with all of our sites. team won second place. HEALTH & SAFETY Training Leaders on Safety Management GRI 102-12 We continue to invest in our employees through training in a variety of areas including safety. In 2017, we rolled out two-day workshops focusing on practical safety leadership skills to over 700 Keeping employees safe and well is at the core of all our activities. It is our ultimate goal that all employees leaders across the globe. This program was GRI 103-1 return home each day the way they arrived to work; this goal is underscored by our Drive to Zero — initiated in North America in 2016 and expanded GRI 103-2 a program guiding our belief that all accidents are preventable. While our goal is to achieve zero safety GRI 103-3 to South America and Europe in 2017, with plans incidents, we also want to be prepared to respond to events if they do happen. In 2017, we experienced to reach our entire global network by the end of a significant equipment failure that resulted in injuries to two of our colleagues and a fine from OSHA 2018. The program provides frontline leaders with a amounting to $3,396. Following the initial emergency response, we quickly took steps to locate and Sharing Process Safety Information set of employee engagement tools and coaching address similar hazards in our global manufacturing network. While the equipment involved in the incident and Strategies methods that have been proven to show superior was unique to that one location, we used this event as an opportunity to review and refresh our inspection Our Process Hazard Analysis (PHA) approach is safety results, including the use of questioning programs in the hope of preventing similar incidents in the future. another method we use to mitigate safety risks in techniques, case studies and practical exercises. our operations. PHAs are conducted regularly at our The workshops focus on topics such as the critical facilities to assess the risks and potential impacts role played by leaders, the value of personally TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT & LOST TIME RATE PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS of equipment or operational malfunctions. To take surveying the site, addressing incorrect behaviors GRI 403-2 SAFETY RATES 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 advantage of the learnings from these activities, and recognizing and reinforcing positive actions. 0.5 0 0 2 we developed an ongoing program of webinars to TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE O.5 0.5 TIER 1 TIER 2 0 2 2 connect those conducting PHAs, giving them the LOST TIME RATE 0.3 0.3 0.3 opportunity to receive training on PHA techniques, Total recordable incident and lost time rates are calculated The Center for Chemical Process Safety (CCPS) based on 200,000 person hours. defines a process safety event as a release of share best practices and discuss challenges. material or energy from a process that resulted in injury, fire, explosion or release of flammable, combustible or toxic chemicals. Tier 1 events are the most severe process safety events. 30 30 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 PEOPLE PEOPLE Promoting Balanced and Healthy Lifestyles WORKFORCE BY REGION GRI 102-8 We understand the importance of keeping our AMERICAS EMEA ASIA PACIFIC employees healthy, and many of our facilities offer specially designed programs for local employees 46% 2,067 31% 1,381 23% 1,008 in support of this objective. In 2017, our two Belgian plants implemented programs to help improve the PERMANENT 2,050 PERMANENT 1,369 PERMANENT 1,008 well-being of our employees. Some of the activities TEMPORARY 17 TEMPORARY 12 TEMPORARY 0 offered to employees included chair massages, a monthly location-wide walk, a jogging team, free healthy soup weekly, workshops on stress WORKFORCE BY CONTRACT reduction, employee development trainings and a stress levels. Two hundred and five employees TOTAL WORKFORCE 4,456 program enabling employees to shadow colleagues PERMANENT TEMPORARY GRI 102-8 in other departments. It’s clear these programs are participated by tracking their well-being activities each week to practice new methods they could 4,427 29 GRI 405-1 making a difference in the lives of our employees, use to manage their stress. Another program was a MALE 22% FEMALE MALE 28% FEMALE as both of these sites reported zero voluntary turnover in 2017. six-week team challenge involving 514 employees WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP 3,436 78% 991 21 72% 8 and spouses who logged their physical activities Additionally, our North American Human Resources by distance, with the goal of promoting more active PART-TIME FULL-TIME <30 12% 56% 30–50 team introduced programs to encourage employees to be mindful of their overall well-being. One of lifestyles. A total of 74,000 miles were logged over the course of the challenge. Both programs inspired 4,360 96 these programs was a month-long challenge for employees to be more attentive to their mental and 32% >50 MALE FEMALE MALE 79% FEMALE 21% employees to learn how to reduce their personal physical health. 3,437 79% 923 20 21% 76 Making Cabot a Great Place to Work of the feedback. Action plans were developed RETENTION, and Valuing Feedback at the global, regional and site level focusing on the key themes identified in the survey. At the DIVERSITY & Employee engagement is the extent to which employees feel passionate, energetic and global levels, these actions include advancing our DEVELOPMENT committed to their work. We understand the diversity and inclusion efforts, fostering employee growth and recognition through a redesigned, importance of creating an environment where employees feel valued and connected, and want performance-based management process and to give their best each day they come to work. launching a formal recognition program, improving Knowing how our employees feel about working communications and implementing a simplification for us and reacting to their feedback is critical to initiative to improve efficiency and effectiveness. our success. To capture employee feedback, we The success of these actions will be measured Our skilled and dedicated workforce is a source of pride. We know how important it is for employees to feel GRI 103-1 launched a pilot employee engagement survey at through future engagement surveys, which we supported in their aspirations to excel in their careers, and we continue to look for more opportunities to GRI 103-2 plan to conduct every two years. offer the resources to make this happen. We also acknowledge the importance of a diverse and inclusive our Boston and Billerica, Massachusetts, USA, sites GRI 103-3 workplace where all employees can contribute, thrive and advance. Our differences allow for better GRI 404-2 in 2016. Building on the success of the pilot, we conducted our first global employee engagement Developing Our Future Leaders decision-making, drive innovative thinking and inspire collaboration to better serve our customers. To GRI 405-1 accelerate our efforts in diversity and inclusion (D&I), a dedicated D&I steering committee was established survey in 2017. We launched a six-month Leadership Fundamentals in 2017 to evaluate best practices and identify initiatives to improve our diversity and to celebrate our Over 80% of our employees around the globe Development Program in 2017 to enhance the skills differences. Our goal is to ensure that all employees experience our workplace as a welcoming, equitable completed the survey. Results from the survey were of our frontline leaders. Thirty employees from ten and respectful environment in which everyone can achieve their true professional potential. shared with employees and focus groups were facilities across North America participated in the held at all locations to gain a deeper understanding program through a blended learning approach of 32 32 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 PEOPLE PEOPLE TURNOVER & NEW HIRE RATES AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS Rates calculated based on year-end census for each category. GRI 401-1 GRI 404-1 BY GLOBAL WORKFORCE AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BY GENDER INCOMING DEPARTING CLERICAL/TECHNICAL 28.9 13% 10% MALE FEMALE PROFESSIONAL/SUPERVISOR 37.5 MANAGEMENT/EXPERIENCED 27.7 581 INCOMING 430 DEPARTING 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 31.8 29.4 BY REGION BY GENDER AMERICAS EMEA ASIA PACIFIC INCOMING INCOMING INCOMING PERFORMANCE REVIEWS GRI 404-3 13% 13% 12% MALE INCOMING FEMALE INCOMING PERFORMANCE REVIEWS BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY DEPARTING DEPARTING DEPARTING 12% 17% NUMBER OF REVIEWS 1,338 55% 1,053 89% 807 95% 10% 9% 10% DEPARTING DEPARTING TOTAL HEAD COUNT 2,430 1,180 846 9% 13% CLERICAL / TECHNICAL PROFESSIONAL / SUPERVISOR MANAGEMENT / EXPERIENCED INCOMING 5% OVER UNDER INCOMING 9% 50 30 41% GLOBAL PERFORMANCE REVIEWS BY GENDER DEPARTING BY WORKFORCE INCOMING 12% AGE GROUP DEPARTING 17% 72% RECEIVING PERFORMANCE REVIEWS MALE 68% NUMBER OF REVIEWS 2,341 TOTAL HEAD COUNT 3,457 DEPARTING 8% 30 50 TO 3,198 FEMALE NUMBER OF REVIEWS 857 86% TOTAL HEAD COUNT 999 online training, webinars, reading assignments conflict and giving feedback. The design of the Preparing Engineers for Growth PEOPLE PROFILE and a discussion board. Participants engaged in program enabled collaborative learning across sites, in the Asia Pacific Region a variety of leadership topics, including Cabot’s functions, businesses and positions. As we facilitate In 2017, all process engineers from six reinforcement MIYO TANAKA people leadership competencies, establishing this program in coming years, we look forward to materials plants in the Asia Pacific region (APAC) Recruiting and Learning & trusting relationships, communication strategies, engaging a greater number of employees. Development Manager participated in a dedicated program designed to motivating and influencing employees, managing enhance their technical expertise, leadership skills TOKYO, JAPAN and overall performance. The engineers participated in 11, three-hour modules that included e-learning, As a member of the International Federation of Business and internal and external classroom training and study Professional Women (BPW International) Committee, Miyo groups. The outcome led to improved information inspires women to demonstrate leadership and to achieve and best practice sharing among APAC plants gender equality. She has sponsored college students so and further development of our talent pipeline. that they can attend a specially designed empowerment dinner and she regularly shares insights on trends and new approaches to issues affecting women in other countries. As part of her involvement with BPW International, she also works to promote policies that will support equal pay between women and men in Japan. 34 34 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 PEOPLE PEOPLE HIGHLIGHTS FOUNDATION-SUPPORTED ACTIVITIES COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Inspiring Young People to Tackle Climate Change The New England Aquarium’s ClimaTeens program, recognized with a 2016 Community Service Award from Youth Climate Action Network, and a 2015 Community Leadership Award from Greenovate Boston, has been engaging teenagers on the topics of climate change and Philanthropy and volunteerism are deeply engrained in our culture. We understand the importance of being GRI 103-1 ocean conservation since 2013. The Cabot Foundation engaged in the communities where we live and work and each of us has a sense of responsibility to make GRI 103-2 has proudly served as the first corporate sponsor for this positive contributions in this regard. The specific opportunities to help any one of our communities thrive GRI 103-3 year-long teen empowerment and education program are unique. Therefore, we must be involved and partner with local stakeholders to understand how we, as GRI 413-1 attracting approximately 40 teenage students each an organization and as individuals, can apply our time, talent and charitable giving to have a meaningful year with a desire to learn more about these important and lasting impact. topics. As part of the program, students design projects Our activities to offer support are organized at the local level through the leadership of individual facilities, to inspire public audiences, particularly their peers, to as well as through the Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc., the Company’s dedicated charitable giving take action in contributing to a more sustainable future. arm. During 2017, our global network of facilities donated a combined $600,000 to organizations and In 2017, a group of Boston and Billerica employees causes identified by local community outreach teams as ones that employees felt were important from different disciplines attended the students’ final and would significantly benefit their neighbors or the environment. While these donations have been presentations of their projects to show their support significant, equally impressive is the time employees contributed to these worthy causes. In many cases, and offer advice on career choices in STEM fields to a donations made from a facility were accompanied by employees volunteering their time to support these highly motivated group of students eager to make a organizations and personally giving back to their communities. positive impact. In 2017, $850,000 was gifted by the Cabot Foundation, which also works closely with members of the community to identify projects and organizations that require support to further their mission in the areas of education and literacy, science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), environmental Sharing Our Dedication to Safety preservation and community and civic needs. We consider these main areas the cornerstones of building With the Community sustainable communities that future generations will depend upon, and therefore of the utmost importance. AbSafe’s mission resonates deeply with Cabot’s Overseen by a dedicated Board of Directors for the Cabot Foundation, grants are reviewed and selected with commitment to safety. This charitable organization is a great deal of care and consideration for how our contributions can generate valuable impacts for society dedicated to educating children on the fundamentals and the environment. of personal safety through interactive and engaging lessons about everyday hazards. Topics covered include home and fire safety, drug abuse, cyberbullying, internet safety and more. In 2017, our Specialty Fluids facility in Aberdeen, Scotland, became involved with this organization when they partnered together for a Safety in its mission, the Cabot Foundation helped fund the Day at the facility. Local employees were so inspired development of water safety as a new subject covered by AbSafe’s program that many underwent training to in the program. This mutually beneficial partnership has help the organization facilitate safety training sessions allowed us to promote the importance of safety not only for children at local schools. To further support AbSafe to our employees, but to the community at large. 36 36 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 PEOPLE PEOPLE Contributing to Hurricane Relief in the United States Giving Back to the Community in Cartagena Hurricane Harvey devastated eastern Texas and the Gulf Coast of the United States in 2017. Many of the employees at our Cartagena, Colombia, With four production facilities and close to 500 employees in Texas and Louisiana, this facility participated in Mamonal Foundation projects in tragedy hit close to home and the Cabot Foundation rose to the occasion, offering support 2017. This foundation funds a multitude of community to our neighbors in this area. The donation to the One America Appeal supported recovery projects with a focus on raising the quality of life, efforts in this region, as well as areas later impacted by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. generating economic prosperity in the community and reducing the inequality gap in the population of Cartagena and surrounding areas. We were one of the founding companies of the Mamonal Foundation in Cartagena in 1975, and our Regional General Manager awarded to 12 low-income students with outstanding HIGHLIGHTS FACILITIES IN ACTION GRI 413-1 and Colombia Country Manager, Guillermo del Castillo, academic performance. In addition, 90% of the serves as the chairman. One way the Cartagena site employees made voluntary donations that were contributed in a meaningful way was through the matched by the facility to support the development sponsorship of the Boomerang Scholarship project, of a children's daycare center for a nearby community Providing Meals for Community through which bilingual technology scholarships were in need. Members in Need Our inkjet site in Haverhill, Massachusetts, USA, became Sponsoring Life Science Education in Glasgow actively engaged with an outreach program that reaches impoverished and homeless members of the Employees at our Glasgow, Scotland, facility sponsored two elementary school classes to participate in Clyde in the community. The Merrimack Valley Hope Mission is a Classroom, a hands-on project that uses a native Scottish species, the brown trout, to promote awareness of river nonprofit organization that helps feed hungry people ecology among youth from the Clyde River area. The project encourages children to engage with nature and develop a in the area, and our colleagues graciously volunteered sense of pride in their local environment. Students worked with the Clyde River Foundation scientists for several weeks with the organization across 12 different Fridays in 2017 to care for trout eggs in a specially designed classroom hatchery. The children then released the fish into the local river. to support this cause. The facility purchased supplies or in shelters. Our colleagues were pleased to lend which employees used to prepare and distribute their helping hands to those in need in the surrounding bagged lunches to individuals in the downtown area Haverhill community. Promoting STEM in the Classroom Employees from Tuscola, Illinois, USA, joined forces with local schools and visited third through eighth grade classrooms to facilitate STEM demonstrations. Some of the projects included building protective egg baskets, building rockets and creating a human energy circuit. In addition, employees participated in a collection drive for supplies that could be used for science experiments within the classrooms. With their help, every item on the wish lists of STEM supplies was collected and provided to local schools. Walking for a Cause in Dubai Our colleagues in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), regularly support charitable causes in the local community. In February 2017, representatives from each department of the facility took part in the Walk for Hope, a walkathon dedicated to raising funds for cancer patients from Pakistan, Syria, Philippines, India, Morocco and Lebanon. The event was supported by the UAE Red Crescent and Dubai municipality, and our colleagues were proud to be well-represented among several other companies operating in the area. 38 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 PEOPLE AWARDS & RECOGNITION Inspiring Boston Public School Students Employees in Boston, Massachusetts, USA, participated in a cleanup day and a 4K trail run Our vision to be the most innovative, respected and responsible leader in our markets drives our sustainability to support the Thompson Island Outward Bound program. This outlook compliments our core values, so we each feel a commitment to advance on our sustainability Education Center. The center provides adventurous journey together. When external stakeholders recognize these efforts, we are honored and appreciative. Below is a and challenging experiential learning programs selection of awards and recognition received in 2017. that inspire character development, compassion, community service, environmental responsibility SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS & RECOGNITION and academic achievement for students in communities of greater metropolitan Boston. u 2017 Best Safety Customer Award Cilegon, Indonesia, given by Perusahaan gas Negara (PGN) As a result of our efforts, Thompson Island was u 2017 Best Work Safety Performer Award Jiangxi, China, given by the County Administration of Work Safety (CAWS) better prepared to host thousands of Boston u 2017 Best Work Safety Performer Xingtai, China, given by the Xingtai Association of Work Safety Management (AWSM-XT) Public School children over the summer. u 2017 Binhai Best Energy Saver Award Tianjin, China, given by the Industrial and Information Technology Commission of Binhai New Area u 2017 Blue PROPER Rating Cilegon, Indonesia, given by the Republic of Indonesia's Ministry of Environment and Forestry u 2017 Excellence Award for Alternative Transportation Shimonoseki, Japan, given by the Shimonoseki City Global Warming Council u 2017 Excellence Award for Energy Savings Shimonoseki, Japan, given by the Shimonoseki City Global Warming Council u 2017 Fire Safety Award Jiangxi, China, given by the YongXiu County fire safety committee u 2017 Green Industry Award Cilegon, Indonesia, given by the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Indonesia u 2017 Gold Level Recognition Cabot Corporation as rated by EcoVadis u 2017 John T. Ryan Safety Award in Metal Mines Manitoba, Canada, given by Mine Safety Appliances Canada Limited Continuing a Long History of Giving in PEOPLE PROFILE u 2017 Most Responsible Companies in the Materials Industry Sector Cabot Corporation, given by Corporate Responsibility Magazine (CR) Valmez, Czech Republic u 2017 Responsible Care Chairman Award Shanghai, China, given by Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM) Our carbon black facility in Valmez, Czech Republic, ANNA CHMIELINSKI Environmental Specialist u 2017 World Class Safety Organization Cartagena, Colombia, given by SURA has been heavily involved with the local community for RICK SCHROETER u 2017 Zero Accident Award Cilegon, Indonesia, given by the Ministry of Manpower of the Republic of Indonesia many years. Exemplifying this long history of giving is Grinder Operator the Cabot Study Foundation, which was established by the Valmez facility in 1997. This foundation grants SARNIA, CANADA COMMUNITY AWARDS & RECOGNITION scholarships to university students who have u 2017 Best Contributor of the County Award for New Industrial Development Enterprises Jiangxi, China, given by the As part of our Sarnia, Canada, facility’s recognition of the demonstrated strong academic performance but require CPC Yongxiu County Committee and Yongxiu County Government Company’s Global Safety Day, several safety-oriented financial support to remain enrolled in their programs. games and activities were organized for employees. One of u 2017 Best Supporter and Contributor for University-Business Cooperation Award Asia Pacific, given by the Management School Over the past 20 years, more than $440,000 worth of of Fudan University these activities was led by Anna and Rick who organized scholarships has been awarded to approximately 300 bicycle inspections, complete with safety upgrades. These u 2017 Ď (Thank You) Award Valmez, Czech Republic, given by the Czech Ministry of Culture students, many of whom received multiple grants to 12 bicycles were then donated to a local charity, the u 2017 Top Ten Business Leaders of Jiujiang Award presented to Dong Ming, Facility General Manager in Jiujiang, China, Huron House Boys Home, serving adolescent youth with given by Jiujiang's industry committee and municipal government support them through the completion of their university complex needs. studies. In addition to this scholarship program, the facility takes a strategic approach in identifying SUPPLIER AND INDUSTRY AWARDS & RECOGNITION organizations needing support either through donations u 2016 Best Supplier Award Campana, Argentina, given by Bridgestone Argentina or volunteering; these tend to relate to public health u 2016 Supplier Award Beijing, China, given by Henniges Automotive and other civic needs, as well as educational and u 2017 Best Carbon Black Supplier São Paulo, Brazil, given by Paint & Pintura Magazine athletic programs for youth. In 2017, over $165,000 u 2017 Hall of Fame Award Godfrey Lowell Cabot, given by the Tire Industry Association was contributed to these local causes. u 2017 Supplier Award Cabot Corporation, given by Pirelli 40 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 continued Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 102-13 Cabot is an active member of the following national and international industry/advocacy Memberships of associations groups and associations: u Advanced Porous Materials Association (AdvaPor) u American Chemistry Council (ACC) u Association of Synthetic Amorphous Silica Producers (ASASP) GRI 101: Foundation 2016 u China Petroleum & Chemical Industry Federation (CPCIF) u Corporate Environmental Enforcement Council (CEEC) u Environmental Law Institute GENERAL DISCLOSURES u essenscia (Belgium) u European Masterbatchers and Compounders (EuMBC) u International Carbon Black Association (ICBA) GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 u Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity & Innovation (MAPI) Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response u Nanotechnology Industry Association (NIA) u Society of Toxicology 102-1 Cabot Corporation u Synthetic Amorphous Silica and Silicate Industry Association (SASSI) Name of the organization u United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 102-2 p. 8 102-14 p. 4 Activities, brands, products, and/or services Statement from senior decision-maker 102-3 2 Seaport Lane, Suite 1300 102-16 p. 7 Location of headquarters Boston MA 02210 USA Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 102-4 p. 8 Location of operations 102-18 The Board of Directors has five standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Executive, Governance Governance structure and Nominating, and Safety, Health and Environmental Affairs. For additional details on the Board's 102-5 Cabot Corporation is a publicly traded corporation (NYSE: CBT) composition, refer to pages 5-8 of the Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018. Ownership and legal form (www.cabotcorp.com/2018proxystatement). 102-6 p. 8 102-40 p. 9 Markets served List of stakeholder groups 102-7 Refer to p. 7 for the number of employees and operations. 102-41 Across all Cabot operations, 15% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The Scale of the organization Financial highlights are listed on pp. 14,15. Collective bargaining agreements terms of collective bargaining agreements are fully aligned with Cabot’s Code of Business Ethics Total capitalization can be found in Cabot’s Form 10-K filed November 22, 2017 (cabotcorp. (cabotcorp.com/codeofbusinessethics) and Human Rights Policy (cabotcorp.com/humanrightspolicy). com/2017annualreport). Part II Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 102-42 p. 9 102-8 p. 33 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Information on employees and other workers We regularly engage a relatively small percentage of non-employee contractors, typically hired for specific project-based work or discrete periods of time. 102-43 p. 9 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-9 p. 18 Supply chain Cabot’s supply chain predominantly consists of vendors providing raw materials, chemical additives, 102-44 p. 9 process equipment, vehicles, packaging materials, logistics services, professional services and Key topics and concerns raised temporary contractors. 102-45 Refer to Cabot’s Annual Report Form 10-K filed November 22, 2017 (cabotcorp.com/2017annualreport) 102-10 p. 7 Entities included in the consolidated Part I Item 1. Business for a description of our operations and entities in which Cabot has ownership Significant changes to the organization financial statements interest and exhibit 21 of Cabot’s Form 10-K for a list of Cabot’s subsidiaries. and its supply chain 102-46 p. 7 102-11 Throughout our operations and our product development, we are guided by the precautionary principle Defining report content and topic boundaries Precautionary Principle or approach and carefully take into account effects on the environment and health and safety. 102-47 p. 5 102-12 pp. 12, 31 List of material topics External initiatives In addition to the UNGC, Cabot participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project, and we are certified by the American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Responsible Care® program as part of our commitment to safety, health and environment (SH&E). 42 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 continued MATERIAL TOPICS — ECONOMIC Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 102-48 There were no restatements of historical financial data from fiscal year 2017, however, as we continue u ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Restatements of information to improve our systems for gathering and validating environmental data, we identified engineering estimates that were not accurate for some historical data. This data was corrected and the restated values differing more than +/-1% from what was previously reported are summarized below. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Metric Previously Reported Corrected Value % Change Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 103-1 p. 14 NOX Emissions (KMT) 15.3 14.9 14.6 14.0 -4.6 -6.0 Explanation of the material topic Refer to p. 6 for a description of the materiality and boundaries of economic performance. The Board of and its boundaries NOX Emissions Intensity 7.7 7.5 7.4 7.0 -3.9 -6.7 Directors has the primary objective of protecting the interests of shareholders by seeking opportunities (MT/KMT) production 103-2 for growth in Cabot’s core business. With support from the Executive Committee, the Board oversees The management approach and its financial performance and strategy, capital structure and market exposure, as well as the Company’s Waste beneficially used (KMT) 19.6 21.5 20.0 21.8 2.0 1.4 components overall risk profile. Our approach is guided by Cabot’s Code of Business Ethics (cabotcorp.com/ Waste beneficially used intensity 9.9 10.7 10.1 10.9 2.0 1.9 codeofbusinessethics). Cabot’s financial performance is evaluated closely by our investors and (KMT) production 103-3 the broader investment community. Cabot’s annual financial statements are audited annually by an Evaluation of the management approach independent registered public accounting firm. 102-49 p. 6 Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and Changes in reporting report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of 102-50 p. 6 Compliance or use the Cabot hot-line. Stockholders or other interested parties may contact the Board of Reporting period Directors with accounting or other concerns (cabotcorp.com/company/about-cabot/governance). 102-51 p. 6 Date of most recent report GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 102-52 p. 6 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Reporting cycle 201-1 p. 15 102-53 Inquiries or comments concerning the content of this report may be directed to Direct economic value generated For additional information, refer to Cabot’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@cabotcorp.com. and distributed (cabotcorp.com/2017annualreport). 102-54 p. 6 201-2 p. 15 Claims of reporting in accordance Financial implications and other risks and For additional information, refer to Cabot’s 2017 Carbon Disclosure Project filing (https://www.cdp.net/). with the GRI Standards opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 102-55 This complete GRI Content Index meets the intent and format required by the GRI Standards. GRI Content Index 102-56 p. 6 MATERIAL TOPICS — ENVIRONMENT External assurance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 103-1 Cabot’s approach to environmental topics focuses on operations under our direct control. See p. 20 Explanation of the material topic for an overview of materiality, our management approach, and evaluation process for environmental and its boundaries topics. This management approach applies to the following topics: energy, water, effluents and waste, emissions and environmental compliance. The SH&E Committee of Cabot’s Board of Directors oversees 103-2 environmental issues at the highest governance level. The Senior Vice President for SH&E is responsible The management approach for the technical guidance on all matters related to SH&E performance and oversees a global team and its components of SH&E professionals including regional SH&E directors. Cabot’s SH&E Policy lays out guidelines for environmentally-responsible practices, and company-wide performance goals have been established 103-3 for environmental non-conformances, energy, air emissions and GHGs, and waste. Evaluation of the management approach Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of Compliance or use the Cabot hot-line. Our manufacturing facilities have opportunities to engage the local community, including the use of a Community Advisory Panel (CAP), and “Open Days” where community members may visit sites and speak directly with Cabot employees regarding their concern. In addition, Cabot welcomes feedback from suppliers and customers should they have any concerns or questions about our products and practices. 44 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX u ENERGY u EMISSIONS GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 302-1 pp. 22, 25 305-1 pp. 24-25 Energy consumption within the organization Energy use is managed at several levels of the organization, including corporate-level strategy, analysis, Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Our greenhouse gas calculations were completed in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A goal-setting, capital programs designed to build and invest in energy efficient facilities, waste energy Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards (Revised Edition), and drawing guidance from the IPCC capture and plant-level management practices to optimize operations and implement efficiency Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories – 2006 and The Climate Registry: General Reporting measures as new technologies become available. Data is collected through energy use monitoring Protocol. Emissions were calculated using the operational control approach and IPCC Second Assessment and analyzed using standard factors and methods including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Report 100-year global warming potentials, and included emissions of CO2, CH4, N2O. We maintain Chemical Engineering Handbook, and Cabot-specific engineering calculations. databases that track monthly usage volumes of feedstock materials and fossil fuels, as well as production volume. Our 2015 and 2016 GHG emissions were verified in alignment with the principles of ISO-14064Our net energy consumption in 2017 was 131.1 MM GJ which was sourced from natural gas (3.2%), liquid 3:2006I Specifications with Guidance for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions fuels (0.1%), raw materials (94.5%), purchased electricity (2.1%) and steam (0.1%). For more information under a Limited Level of Assurance by Cameron-Cole. In keeping with our cycle of undergoing validation of about our energy and fuel sources refer to our response to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire greenhouse gas data every two years, the next validation is scheduled to be completed in 2019 for 2017 (cdp.net/). and 2018 emissions data. 302-3 p. 22 305-2 pp. 24-25 Energy Intensity Our total energy intensity for 2017 was 62.9 GJ / MT of production. Energy consumption includes all forms of Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions See Disclosure 305-1 in the GRI Content Index for a description of GHG monitoring methods. energy consumed by facilities under Cabot’s operational control and excludes energy sold to third parties, as reported under Disclosure 302-1. Refer to p.25 for a description of energy sold. 305-4 pp. 24-25 GHG emissions intensity GHG intensity is calculated as MT CO2e emissions / MT of product. The intensity of our GHG emissions is calculated for all Scope 1 and 2 emissions produced by facilities under Cabot’s operational control, as u WATER reported under Disclosure 305-1 and 305-2. 305-7 pp. 24-25 GRI 303: Water 2016 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) YY Data reported has been calculated using actual test measurements based on country specific or U.S. Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response and other significant air emissions EPA methods, Cabot engineering estimates or similar emission factors. 303-1 p. 28 Water withdrawal by source Sources of water included purchased municipal water, surface water, groundwater and gray water. u WASTE & SPILLS Gray water represents water recovered from offsite sanitary systems. Sources by Percent of Total Volume Used GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Surface 68% Purchased 26% Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Ground 4% Gray 2% 306-2 p. 26 Waste by type and disposal method The majority of non-hazardous waste Is recycled or reused, and the majority of hazardous waste is generated at one location and disposed of via onsite deep well injection. 303-3 p. 28 Water recycled and reused Three of our facilities have zero wastewater discharge, reusing wastewater which would otherwise be 2017 Disposal Methods Non-hazardous Hazardous discharged in the process. The supplied water to these facilities is among the lowest of our carbon black manufacturing operations. Reused or recycled 77.9% 0.6% Incinerated with energy recovery 2.5% 0.1% GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Incinerated without energy recovery 0.1% 0.1% Deep well injection 0.0% 99.0% Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Landfilled 19.2% 0.1% 306-1 p. 28 Other 0.3% 0.1% Water discharge by quality and destination The majority (93%) of the water discharged is to surface discharge, the remaining volume is discharged to public or private sewers (5%) or groundwater/other (2%). For all water discharged from our facilities, we carefully monitor the quality and if needed, treat outgoing water to meet local regulatory standards. 306-3 p. 26 Total number and volume of significant spills In calendar year 2017, there were no significant reportable spills of hazardous materials to the environment. 46 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX u ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE u PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 307-1 p. 21 103-1 Product health, safety and environmental impacts occur primarily downstream from Cabot's operations Non-compliance with environmental laws Adhering to local environmental laws and regulations is the responsibility of facility general managers as Explanation of the material topic through the activities of our customers and in some cases through end-use by consumers. Refer to and regulations well as site environmental managers located at each facility. In support of compliance efforts, resources and its boundaries p. 16 for an overview of materiality, our management approach and evaluation process for product include a robust database to track near-miss and ENC events and corrective actions, as well as over sustainability. The key responsibility for this effort resides with Cabot's Product Support and Toxicology $41.3MM in capital spending in FY 2017 which was dedicated to improving facilities and reducing ENCs. 103-2 Group of the SH&E Department, as well as the business and research and development teams. The management approach and its components Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of 103-3 Compliance or use the Cabot hot-line. In addition, Cabot welcomes feedback from customers should u SUPPLIERS’ SUSTAINABILITY Evaluation of the management approach they have any concerns or questions about our products and practices. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 103-1 p. 18 Explanation of the material topic Cabot indirectly contributes to upstream impacts through our relationships with suppliers. The 416-1 p. 16 and its boundaries sustainability performance of our suppliers is a topic recently identified as material and therefore an Assessment of the health and safety impacts 100% of significant product categories are assessed for health and safety impacts using area we will be looking to evolve over the coming years. Cabot’s Supplier Code of Conduct provides of product and service categories 103-2 best available information. additional details on supplier expectations (cabotcorp.com/suppliercodeofconduct). Cabot’s Global The management approach Purchasing Department is responsible for ensuring that suppliers receive and acknowledge by the terms and its components of the Supplier Code of Conduct. 103-3 Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and Evaluation of the management approach report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of Compliance or use the Cabot hot-line. In terms of supplier-specific grievances, employees are also MATERIAL TOPICS — SOCIAL encouraged to provide feedback on supplier performance criteria through a dedicated platform on the Company intranet. We also have an open door policy for suppliers and welcome their feedback should u EMPLOYMENT, DIVERSITY, & TRAINING they have any concerns or questions. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Omission 103-1 Refer to p. 32 for an overview of materiality and boundaries, our management approach and 308-1 p. 18 Information Explanation of the material topic evaluation process for the following topics: employment, training and education, diversity and equal New suppliers that were screened using Because 2017 was used to develop and introduce new management practices for unavailable and its boundaries opportunity, and non-discrimination. Reporting to the CEO, the Senior Vice President and Chief Human environmental criteria addressing suppliers’ sustainability performance, supplier audits for sustainability are Resources Officer oversees programs to recruit, retain and support employees at Cabot. The Human expected to be part of a pilot program in 2018 and rolled out more formally in 2019. 103-2 Resources Department assists managers across the company with the performance review process These audits will assess both environmental and social criteria for critical suppliers. The management approach and implementation of Cabot's Code of Business Ethics and Human Rights Policy, which establish and its components expectations for professional conduct, strict adherence to labor practices and human rights laws, and creation of a safe and healthy workplace. Refer to Cabot's Code of Business Ethics (cabotcorp.com/ GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 103-3 codeofbusinessethics) and Human Rights Policy (cabotcorp.com/humanrightspolicy) for details. Evaluation of the management approach Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response Omission Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and report violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of 414-1 p. 18 Information Compliance or use the Cabot hot-line. New suppliers that were screened using Because 2017 was used to develop and introduce new management practices for unavailable social criteria addressing suppliers’ sustainability performance, supplier audits for sustainability are expected to be part of a pilot program in 2018 and rolled out more formally in 2019. GRI 401: Employment 2016 These audits will assess both environmental and social criteria for critical suppliers. Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 401-1 p. 34 New employee hires and employee turnover By Gender Departing Company: u Male: 300 u Female: 130 New Hires: u Male: 409 u Female: 172 By Region: Departing Company: u Americas: 206 u EMEA: 125 u APAC: 99 New Hires: u Americas: 278 u EMEA: 183 u APAC: 120 By Age Group: Departing Company: u Under 30: 94 u 30-50: 207 u Over 50: 129 New Hires: u Under 30: 224 u 30-50: 290 u Over 50: 67 48 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 401: Employment 2016 u OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 401-2 Benefits packages offered to employees are designed to provide employees the tools and resources Benefits provided to full-time employees needed to thrive. Specific features of these packages differ depending on location of employment but Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response typically include healthcare, life and accidental insurances, disability, retirement and pension plans, business travel accident insurance, vacation, holiday and leave entitlement, educational financial 103-1 Cabot's approach to occupational health and safety encompasses all direct impacts occurring in facilities assistance and access to retiree medical coverage. Explanation of the material topic under our operational control, including employees, contractors and visitors. Refer to p. 30 for an overview and its boundaries of materiality, our management approach and evaluation process for occupational health and safety. Within our Board, the SH&E Committee oversees the safety of products and manufacturing processes. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 103-2 The Senior Vice President of SH&E provides day-to-day management of SH&E programs and also The management approach regularly reports to the SH&E Committee. Cabot's SH&E Policy lays out our guiding principles Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response and its components (cabotcorp.com/SHEpolicy). 404-1 p. 35 103-3 Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and report Average hours of training per year Average training hours are tracked by three main employee function categories and gender: Evaluation of the management approach violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of Compliance per employee u Clerical/Technical: 29 hours/employee or use the Cabot hot-line. Our manufacturing facilities have formal processes to engage the local u Professional/Supervisor: 38 hours/employee community, including the use of a Community Advisory Panel (CAP) and Open Days where community u Management/Experienced: 28 hours/employee members may visit sites and speak directly with Cabot employees regarding their concern. u Male: 32 hours/employee u Female: 30 hours/employee GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 404-2 pp. 32-35 Programs for upgrading employee skills Our training program is managed on a site-by-site basis, according to the unique mix of each employee's 403-1 All manufacturing locations, regional offices and service centers have joint health and safety and transition assistance programs experience and skill set, career interests and the core business objectives of the company. Career Workers representation in formal joint management committees operating at the site level and reporting up to the corporate SH&E department. These transitioning is handled with sensitivity and commonly includes outplacement services for future – worker health and safety committees committees represent all workers and contractors. employment opportunities or retirement. 403-2 p. 30 404-3 p. 35 Types of injury and rates of injury (IR), Methods for calculating each metric are provided below: Percentage of employees receiving regular 73.4% of employees received performance and career development reviews in 2017: occupational diseases (ODR), u Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR): Number of injuries (employees and contractors) performance and career development reviews By Gender: lost days (LDR), absenteeism (AR), per 200,000 person hours (~100 employees) u Male: 68% u Female: 86% and number of work-related fatalities u Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR): Number of lost time injuries (employees and contractors) per 200,000 person hours (~100 employees) By Employee Category: u Process Safety Events (PSE): Defined by the Center for Chemical Process Safety as a “release of material or u Clerical/Technical: 55% energy from a process that resulted in injury, fire or explosion, or release of flammable, combustible or toxic u Professional/Supervisor: 89% chemicals.” PSEs are subdivided into tiers: a Tier 1 event is a loss of containment resulting in consequences u Management/Experienced: 95% including worker injuries that require lost days, fatalities, or direct monetary loss of $25,000 due to a fire or explosion. A Tier 2 event is a loss of containment resulting in less severe consequences such as a recordable GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 injury or loss of $2,500 due to fire or explosion. Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 405-1 For a description of our approach to diversity of employees, refer to pp. 32-33. Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity of employees at the end of 2017: By Gender: u Male: 78% u Female: 22% u COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT By Age Group: GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 u Under 30: 12% u 30-50: 56% u Over 50: 32% Diversity of the Board of Directors at the end of 2017: Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response By Gender: 103-1 Refer to p. 36 for a description of Community Engagement materiality and boundaries, management u Male: 91% u Female: 9% Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries approach, and evaluation. By Age Group: Grievance mechanisms include the Cabot open door policy for employees to raise concerns and report u Under 30: 0% u 30-50: 9% u Over 50: 91% 103-2 violations of corporate policies or the law. Employees may approach supervisors, the Office of Compliance or The management approach and its components use the Cabot hot-line. Our manufacturing facilities have formal processes to engage the local community, 103-3 including the use of a Community Advisory Panel (CAP) and Open Days where community members may GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 visit sites and speak directly with Cabot employees regarding their concerns. Evaluation of the management approach Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response 406-1 Any potential incidents of discrimination raised by employees or managers are thoroughly reviewed and GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Incidents of discrimination and corrective investigated and used as an opportunity to evaluate our policies and practices to mitigate future risk of actions taken discrimination. Only incidents found to be substantiated are reported and there were no such incidents Disclosure Number / Disclosure Title Page / Response in 2017. 413-1 pp. 36, 38-40 Operations with local community engagement, Over half of our facilities have identified organizations and causes to support in their local communities. impact assessments, and development programs 50 CABOT CORPORATION 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51
