Communication On Progress (COP)2017 Konkan Railway Corporation Limited deploys the Best Practice in line with the 10 principles of UNGCin its business so that KRCLEmployees take pride, being part of the Team and assure Commitment to Perform its Business with Responsibility, Transparency and Sustainability. With Best Wishes & Regards, > tIS· ~ay Gupta) Chairman & Managing Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 KONKAN RAILWAY CORPORATION LIMITED (KRCL) ATAGLANCE Registered Belapur Bhavan, Plot No.6 & Corporate Office Sector 11, CBD Belapur Navi Mumbai 400614 Maharashtra, INDIA Tel: +91-22-27572015 Fax: +91-22-27572420 E-mail: general@konkanrailway.com COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 A CUSTOMER IS THE MOST IMPORTANT VISITOR OF OUR PREMISES Vision To become a world class surface transport company and infrastructure solution provider. Mission To develop economical, safe, eco-friendly and cost effective railway transport infrastructure for growth and prosperity of the Nation in general and Konkan Region in particular, ensuring financial & environmental sustainability. To promote and encourage best practices in the construction and maintenance thereof to achieve Total Customer Satisfaction . To ensure growth and professional excellence of our employees. Objectives Train Operations: To provide safe, punctual and affordable passenger and freight transportation to maximize user satisfaction. Infrastructure Projects: To leverage our talent and experience towards achieving excellence in timely delivery of challenging infrastructure projects of world class standard. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 From the Desk of Chairman & Managing Director: Global Compact Compliance Statement Dear Friends, In October 2001, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. joined United Nation Global Compact and became signatory to the 10 principles of the Compact. It is indeed a pleasure to update our Organization's Communication On Progress (COP) and compliance to the 10 principles of United Nation Global Compact. I also take this opportunity to reiterate our Corporation's commitment to the 10 universally accepted principles of UNGC and our Corporation will always continue to strive to comply with them while conducting our day-to-day business. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. is the lifeline of Konkan Region in particular and that of Nation at large. As such, the trust and faith of millions of customers, be it passengers or bondholders or general populace along this Railway Line, is interlinked to the growth of the Corporation. Through this endeavour, we would like to share with you KRCL's various initiatives in the field of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption besides highlighting progress and events in KRCL. Further, KRCL has incorporated and aligned the principles of UNGC and Corporate Social Responsibility into its business strategy and operation for its success. Since our inception in the early 1990s we have conducted our business duly taking into consideration construction and completion of the Railway Project and in the operational phase, the growth in profit and development of infrastructure to meet with the growing demand, safety, security, punctuality, passenger amenities and improvement in financial performance in an ethical and responsible manner. These form an integral part of our business planning process. KRCL achieves Financial and Business Objectives while constantly contributing to Social Cause, Organizing and Displaying over-all Responsible Corporate Behaviour in all the three areas of business Social, Environmental and Financial performance. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. deploys the best practice in line with the 10 principles of UNGC in its business, so that KRCL employees take pride in being part of the Team and commitment to perform its business with responsibility and transparency. Our efforts are towards embedding Global Compact and Sustainability into our Organization. ')'\t8' a yGupta) Chairman & Managing Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 01 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Our Human Rights Statement, through our 'Mission' articulates our values and informs how we conduct our business. Guided by our values, we support universal human rights for our employees and in the communities where we operate. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) believes that companies can playa positive role in contributing to safeguard human rights, their protection and promotion. Our principles prohibit child labour, forced labour and discriminatory behaviour as well as recognize the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We continued to inform and educate our employees about our commitment to the society and social accountability. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. is committed to the displaced people, who have lost their land for the Project One member from each project affected family is being provided job as per their eligibility and suitability through Selection Criteria. Further, the policy is relaxed in the case of reserved community (SCjST) so that now there is no restriction of number of candidates per family in reserved categories. Till date 2803 land losers have been recruited in KRCL against various posts. The Hon'ble Minister of Railways laid the Foundation Stone for the Rolling Stock Component Factory at Lotte, Chiplun, Maharashtra on 3rd December 2016. Though this is a Central Railway Project and KRCL is expected to execute the work, it will help to generate employment in the Konkan Region. Indian food is different from rest of the world, not only in taste but also in cooking methods. It reflects a perfect blend of various cultures and ages. Just like Indian culture, food in India has also been influenced by various civilizations, which have contributed their share in its overall development and the present form. To promote the local product & food items, Konkan Railway have allotted 12 Kokam stalls, 08 Ethnic Food stalls & 01 Konkan Swaad stall at various stations over Konkan Railway to the Local Self Help Groups. This also goes a long way in generating self employment to the local needy persons. There is no discrimination on the grounds of sex, religion, place of origin etc. in the Organization as all employees are treated equally. During the year 2012, Konkan Railway Credit Co-operative Society (KRCCS) was formed with the sole purpose of providing loans to the needy Konkan Railway Staff at lesser interest rates as compared to other Financial Institutions. The Society has been extending loan facilities to its employees to cater for their urgent needs with lesser documentation and procedure within a short span of time. It also encourages the members to make the habit of saving through specialized scheme designed for betterment of their future. The Central Railway Employees Co-operative Credit Society has also been permitted to operate in KRCL jurisdiction to extend financial support to the employees of Konkan Railway Corporation Limited. This Society has been looking after the welfare of Railway Employees for more than 100 years. Konkan Railway Staff Welfare Fund registered as a Trust has been extending various welfare activities to its employees and has obtained a PAN Card. Income Tax Returns are being filed every year as per the norms of Govt. of India. This Trust, in addition to other welfare activities, also distributes Scholarships and Awards to children of Konkan Railway Employees for their meritorious performance during the Academic Year. Konkan Railway Welfare Organization has also been formed. This Organization is registered with Charity Commissioner. It has been established to provide housing facilities at affordable rates to the employees. Every year ~ 1000/is being paid to all the employees as a Birthday Gift. KRCL has implemented Voluntary Retirement Scheme for its Employees. KRCL has also liberalized the Medical Policy for the benefit of its Employees. KRCL is also contemplating provision of Post Retirement Medical facility to its Retired Employees. KRCL has implemented 7th CPC for its employees working in CDA scale w.e.f 01/01/2016. 3rd Pay Revision for IDA scale has been implemented w.e.f 01/01/2017. 02 To make sure that the Organization is not complicit in Human Rights Abuses. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. ensures strict adherence to labour laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. ensures prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers to uphold human rights, for which there is a well established Grievance Redressal Machinery. The Grievance Cell no. is 09004470444. Grievances are also being received through e-mail ID i.e grievance@konkanrailway.com Konkan Railway, in principle and in action, places highest importance towards Human Rights and ensures that at no point these rights are abused. Such rights are not only ensured in the regular employment but are also ensured in contractual employment and other works as well. The Organization exercised vigil in this regard and there is no Child Labour in Konkan Railway. For the works being carried out by the contractors, it is ensured that appropriate steps are taken by the Contractors for safety and welfare of the workers including insurance. A Woman Officer is specifically nominated for dealing with cases of sexual harassment, if any, to the Working Women in KRCL. Women's in Public Sector (WIPS) Cell is also existing for empowering & encouraging the leadership quality amongst Women Employees working in KRCL. Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Konkan Railway respects human rights of all persons including offenders arrested by them. During the year 2017, RPF Personnel did a commendable job in detecting and tracing out 68 run away / missing children. They were handed over safely to their parents / Child Help Line. 03 Business should uphold the Freedom of Association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Employees of Konkan Railway Corporation Limited have a freedom to join trade unions. The trade union is recognized by the management on the basis of secret ballot election process conducted under the aegis of Ministry of Labour, Govt of India. The duration of the recognition is for a period of two years. Accordingly, Secret Ballot was held in the month of January 2018 and subsequently granted recognition to the newly elected union for a period of two years. The Management maintains contact with labour and resolves disputes and differences between Labour and the Management through Permanent Negotiating Machinery (PNM). The Management and Union have regular meetings at fixed interval. Besides, they meet as per need also. The privileges of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) community as per the Constitution of India have also been taken care of in KRCL. Various facilities have also The recognized Union as well as the All India SC/ST Railway Employees' Association have been provided with accommodation for their office. Also in the year 2011, 'Other Backward Class' (OBC) Association was formed on Konkan Railway and all like facilities are being extended to the Association. For officers of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., an association called Konkan Railway Executives Association has been formed to look after the interest of the officers also. Participation of employees has been ensured in staff welfare activities viz., Medical Camps, Cultural Competitions, Sports etc. Women's Day and Children's Day are being celebrated every year. All group 'D' Staff are being given in-house Computer training. The Children of the Employees of KRCL are also being counselled with regard to Career Guidance for their future development. INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY CelEBRATION AT KONKAN RAil VIHAR, NERUl NAVI MUMBAI (08.03.2017) 04 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. There is no forced or compulsory labour as all staff are governed by Railway Servants (Hours of Work & Period of Rest) Rules, 2005. Further, Railway Servants (Hours of Work & Period of Rest) Rules 2005, labour officials, from the enforcing authority, inspect the establishment regularly and no incidence of forced or compulsory labour has been reported in KRCL to date. Wherever employment of contract labour in non-core areas are made, it is ensured that they have been paid the minimum wages, provident fund, including meeting of all the other statutory requirements. 05 The effective abolition of child labour. KRCL ensures strict adherence to the Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Act, 1986, which prohibits the engagement of children in certain employments and to regulate the conditions of work of children in certain other employments. However, KRCL has prescribed the minimum age limit for employment as 18 years. No person below this age can be employed in KRCL, thereby ensuring that child labour is not employed. Our contractors and vendors are required to scrupulously follow the laws/rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed and ensured through our contract agreements and inspection by KRCL and enforcing authorities. 06 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. KRCL does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, colour, gender, religion or region. We firmly believe in inclusivity and strongly oppose discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion etc. at work place. However, as per policy, KRCL gives preference to the land losers in employment in certain categories. We also follow the guidelines issued by the Government of India for recruitment of persons belonging to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Castes. In Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. there are 223 Executives and 4983 Non-Executives. Out of which 18 Executives and 408 are Female Non-Executives. There is no discrimination in terms of employment, place of posting, nature of work, duty hours, training, promotions, emoluments etc. . Total No. of employees as Male Female SC/ST on 31.12.2017 Community No. 5206 4780 426 1107 % 90% 10% 21.26% KRCL does not tolerate any kind of behaviour that is threatening, abusive, exploitative or sexually coercive, including gestures, language and physical contact at the workplace. Our system is well equipped to deal with such situations, as we have a very well defined and laid out process in our Standing Orders. As per the guidelines laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, the Corporation has appointed a Special Counsellor and also constituted an Internal Complaints Committee at Corporate Office and for each Region to address any such grievances related to Sexual harassment of Women at Workplace. Also, the Liaisoning Officers for Scheduled Caste & Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Class have been nominated to monitor the grievances raised as per the various provisions of the Government Orders like Reservation Rules, Promotion etc Exhibiting compassion, medically decategorized and physically handicapped staff cases are being dealt with for ensuring suitable posting. Educational allowance of ~ 2000/ is being given to Executives & Non-Executives of KRCL who are having children with some deficiency like autism, attention deficit, hearing impairment etc. Konkan Railway in collaboration with Maharashtra, Goa & Karnataka Tourism has decided to train the local Taxi and Rickshaw drivers, for growth of tourist business and to promote employment and hospitality business in Konkan region. Training is being given free of cost to improve their knowledge on tourist places, their importance, etiquette, personality, etc. by Tourist Department at Railway stations. Till date, in all 1581 Nos. of local Taxi and Rickshaw Drivers have been given training and ID cards have been issued to them. To enhance their skill, field visits have been organized in coordination with Tourism Department. e Training Department on Konkan Railway orporation Limited is also imparting aining in soft skills to youth of the region der Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) t Ramakrishna Hegde Skills Development entre, Udupi, Mangalore, Karnataka and very year about 500 youth are trained ereby enhancing their skills and mployability prospects. Apart from the above, Literacy Program has been launched this year for the Group 'D' staff of Konkan Railway Corporation Limited who either could not undergo formal education or had to drop out in early primary classes. This program is indeed helping the Group 'D' Staff in boosting their self confidence. 07 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Right from the construction phase of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., a policy decision was taken to adopt measures for safeguarding environment. Afforestation was done in a big way throughout the Konkan Railway route. Boulder Netting and Geo-safety works have been carried out on a large scale throughout Konkan Railway route to strengthen the cuttings and to protect the environment. Railway Coach Washing is a very water intensive activity and KRCL has designed and fabricated a mechanized Coach Washing Plant at Madgaon Coach Care Centre, which uses minimum water. Also, an environment friendly water recycling plant and an Effluent Treatment Plant have also been installed for even more reduction in water requirement Konkan Railway has improvised Automatic Coach Washing Plant which was being used for the last 13 years at the Coach Care Centre, Madgaon. One such plant has also been successfully commissioned by Konkan Railway at Kolkata Metro. Surveys for feasibility studies for installing the Plant in other Zonal Railways have been conducted with positive results. Efforts have also been made to explore further reduction in overall cost with different workable options to make this product more valuable and as a result, two designs of coach washing plants have been developed. Furthermore, offering this service on Build, Own, Operate (BOO) model has also been planned. Konkan Railway Automated Train Examination System (KRATES) : KR-ATES is a Way Side Equipment (WSE) being fully conceptualized and designed by a team of Konkan Railway to detect various defects in rolling stocks of moving trains which pass through it and provide an immediate alert to avoid unplanned detachments and also fatal accidents. This system, first of its kind, developed in house using indigenous sources, has full potential to be a low-cost alternative to systems being used in developed countries, and also customized to meet the requirements of Indian Railways. The system has following components Infrared Sensors to measure temperatures of wheels and axles High Speed Infrared cameras to take video of undergear of moving train passing through it Proximity sensors to detect the direction of train and to trigger the system Microprocessors and embedded software to read and convert data and video in digital form Wi-fibased ENS system to transmit data to remote places like station office and control room Visual basic based Data Analysis and Presentation software A large screen to monitor data of passing train and also check audio visual alerts Rain Water Harvesting is being ensured in a big way at various places of Konkan Railway. Konkan Railway has abolished use of plastic in its operational areas and the same is also incorporated in various contracts. Eco-friendly shelters for passengers have been erected at all stations on Konkan Railway route. Efforts are made to reduce the use of paper in office. Taking this ahead, a decision was taken to withdraw all the individual printers and provide Network Printers in the office. Corporation has formulated an Energy Policy, which guides all our endeavours and initiatives in the direction of conservation of energy and environment Energy efficientLEDlights are being used for platform and area lighting. LED Tunnel lights which provide soothing white light, better signal visibility inside tunnels and reduce fatigue of workmen, have now replaced the over-aged yellow sodium vapour lights provided earlier. Total 78 Km tunnel length covering 66 tunnels have been provided with such LEDlights. Roll On Roll Off (RO-RO)services has been introduced in Konkan Railway since the year 1999 in which loaded trucks are transported by trains from one end to the other end which results in saving fuel and reduction of pollution caused by road traffic and also leads to safe transportation of trucks. This service besides contributing to significant savings on fuel, also reduces wear and tear of trucks' tyres and parts, with least pollution and high safety. This service is unique to KRCL. RORO TRAIN CROSSING POMENOI BRIDGE BETWEEN RATNAGIRI NIVASAR RAILWAY STATION Konkan Railways' novel experiment initiated on 26.01.1999with 'Roll-on Roll-off' of trucks over BRNwagons has been a resounding success. Introduction of Roll On Roll Off services has been a WIN-WIN situation for Railways, Road Transporters as well as to the Nation. One to two hours of terminal detention coupled with 100%loaded traffic in both directions has resulted in better financial returns for Railways. During 2017, 43061 numbers of Trucks were transported through Roll On Roll Off (RO-RO)and about 50.28 Lakh Litres of diesel was saved. The total saving of fuel from the start of this service has been approximately 884.59 Lakh Litres. This has also prevented pollution to the Environment to a considerable extent. 08 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Protection of environment is a core value as well as the motto of the organization. For conservation energy, in a First in the country, KRCL has developed and provided 'Intelligent Lighting System' for stations, platforms and circulating area lighting, which is need based, computerized, and user friendly system for switching ON/OFF of lights. It is linked with movement of trains on real time basis. The System operates automatically without any human intervention and thus provides most energy efficient solution for station area lighting. Further, for conservation of electrical energy, passive infra red occupancy sensors have been provided in the officers' chambers which automatically switch OFF the lights and air conditioners when the chambers are left unoccupied for more than a pre set duration. This saves significant amount of wastage of electrical energy. In the year 2016-17,Corporation earned an incentive reward of~ 20.95Lakhs from State ElectricityBoard for maintaining higher power factor. Promotion of Clean & Green Energy: Continuing our endeavours to promote use of clean energy, Corporation has installed 350 KWp ON grid connected Solar Park at Ratnagiri. The plant is capable of catering to full power requirement of Ratnagiri during day time. We also intend to inject surplus power to the grid as soon as net metering system is implemented by the State Government. Besides,20 KWp solar plants have been installed at Karmali station roof top, Hybrid (Wind + Solar) System at Level Crossings (LC) gate No.17& 32 (950 W each) and Vinhere station (7.5 KW) provided at Ratnagiri region. Continuing our initiatives to promote usage of clean energy, roof top solar panels of 25 KWp capacity each at Chiplun, Kankavali & Kudal, 20 KWp capacity at Sawantwadi & Karmali, 7 KWp at Thivim & Udupi and 2 KWp capacity each at Khed, Chiplun & Kankavali stations have been installed. Solar Water Heaters have been provided at most of the Rest Houses, Training Institutions, Running Rooms and Holiday Home (total cap. 8500 Litres per day). Also, Solar Panels have been provided for staircase lighting at major staff colonies. This though is a baby step towards gradually increasing reliance on non conventional energy sources to conserve the environment. In a first of its kind on Railways, Coach Roof Top Solar Power Panels using 3.5 KWp retrofittable flexible solar panel on one sleeper coach along with 6 KWp retrofittable fixed solar panel have been installed on another sleeper coach on Konkan Kanyay Mandovi rakes. KRCL has implemented Eprocurement and EAuction systems which have improved the efficiency and transparency in public dealing. It has also reduced use of paper in day-today working substantially. KRCL has system of disposal of unserviceable material by way of E-auction which has generated revenue to the tune of Rs.4 Crs approximately per annum, in addition to keeping the environment clean. Electrification of KR Route: For Railway Electrification of Konkan Railway Route having jurisdiction from Roha to Thokur spanning the States of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka on a length of 970 track km (740 route kilometers), composite tenders on EPC mode have been invited and work awarded to two well reputed agencies, namely MI s L&T and S1'5Kalpataru (JV). For taking up the work simultaneously from both the ends for expeditious completion, entire section has been divided into two parts. Contract Agreement have been signed with both the firms Section 1 from Roha to Vema awarded to Mis L&T and Section 2 from Vema to Thokur awarded to MI s STS-Kalpataru (JV). Schedule completion of the work is December 2020. At present foundation work is in progress in both the sections. Planting of Vetiver Grass has been done on a large scale on cutting slopes to prevent erosion and it is proving quite effective in arresting the soil erosion. In addition, every monsoon KRCL has taken up plantation of various local species saplings along the railway boundary. KRCL has planted 1,05,777 no. saplings in the year 2016-2017 & 1,11,311 nos. in the year 2017-2018. 09 Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. The mission statement of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. is to evolve into an economic, eco-friendly and cost effective catalyst for growth and prosperity. To achieve this mission statement, Konkan Railway has adopted cutting edge technologies which are eco-friendly and promotes sustainable growth involving less maintenance. Konkan Railway is the first Railway to provide BioToilets at its stations. Bio-toilets is an innovative technology for disposal of human waste in eco-friendly manner. The technology of Bio-Toilets is developed by Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), Ministry of Defence. As on date, KRCL has provided eleven numbers of Bio-toilets at Eleven Stations on KR route namely Khed, Chiplun, Kankavli, _ Sawantwadi Road, Kudal, Karmali, Madgaon, Karwar, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Murdeshwar and Surathkal. KRCL has also taken a decision to provide only bio-toilets in all passenger amenity facilities like Stations, Waiting Halls and on Platforms. In addition, Bio-Toilets are also being installed in Passenger trains being maintained by Konkan Railway. So far 61 passenger coaches have been fitted with 210 numbers of Bio-Toilets. The necessary arrangements for their maintenance like training of employees and executives, procurement of consumables, tools and plants have also been made. The use of Auxiliary Power Units (APUs) in locomotives is being monitored for saving fuel during halts of trains. The shutting down of locomotives while not in use has resulted in saving of 176820 litres of HSD oil during 2016-17 which is equivalent to appx. ~ 1.0 crore. A JPO has been signed by Mechanical and Traffic Department of KRCL to take intensive efforts towards shutting down locomotives to save fuel. Efforts are also being made for use of non toxic, organic solutions for pest control and cleaning of coaches. Some initiatives in this regard have been taken on experimental basis. Organic Waste Converter technology is yet another technology used by Konkan Railway, which is an environment friendly alternative to traditional means of waste disposal like landfill dumping etc. The Organic Waste Converter (OWC) is a waste composting machine which converts all types of biodegradable waste (includes kitchen waste, garden waste, waste food) into manure that can be used for maintaining the plants and gardens. Konkan Railway has provided four numbers of OWC machines, namely at Konkan Rail Vihar Colony, NerulfMumbai, Ratnagiri Station, Madgaon Station and at Karwar Station. 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. · By implementing the JRAP, Java based ERP, Financial and commercial transactions are fully computerized on a network. Therefore, the working is transparent and least susceptible to fraud. · All tenders are put up on Website to ensure transparency in action. Indian Railway E-Procurement System (IREPS) has been fully adopted in KRCL for procurement of Stores items. Also all Works tenders are processed in e-tendering system under IREPS web site of Indian Railways. · For eliminating corruption, KRCL has a lean but devoted and motivated Vigilance department which keeps watchful eyes on the functioning of the organization by conducting regular preventive checks to ensure that the employees while discharging their duties maintain high integrity and honesty. Lot of emphasis is given on Preventive Vigilance and educating the employees bringing out the areas of common mistakes, with the aim of reducing irregularities likely to be committed by the employees in their day to day functioning. · Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) is the Nodal Officer for filing complaints regarding corruption and the contact numbers of Vigilance Department are displayed in the Konkan Railway Time Table and also in the Website of Konkan Railway. · Konkan Railway has also circulated through its Standing Orders for the guidance of all, that those found guilty of having accepted and obtained illegal gratification from any person, would be meted out with stringent penalty including removal from service. · Immovable Property Returns Statement (IPRS) are collected from the executives each year and non-executives every two year so that their assets are known which is monitored by Vigilance Department. · KRCL has implemented provisions of FR(56)J and Rule 48 of CCS (pension) Rules. · KRCL has taken a landmark decision to show the answer sheets to the candidates after declaring the result and before finalizing the selection to bring more transparency in the selection. Thus, KRCL is committed to upholding the principles of United Nations initiatives and feels proud to be a part of this Global Compact, sharing the values of Good Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility. (Sidd~~/-r Chief Manager (Admin)
