Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited CMD STATEMENT Dear Stakeholders, The concept of inclusive growth and societal expenditure has been perfectly woven into the fabric of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), a premier iron & steel manufacturing company under Ministry of Steel, Government of India. The Company’s commitment to socio-economic transformation of communities in and around its Plants and Mines has been well placed even before the emergence of the concept of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and UNGC. RINL has been a Life Member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2006 and is part of a select group of 200 leading Indian Companies, who have joined UNGC, the largest voluntary CSR initiative in the World with more than 6000 Organizations from across the Globe participating, thereby adheres to the universally accepted 10 (Ten) principles of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. RINL completes more than a decade of its commitment with the United Nations Global Compact as it steps in the twelfth year of its partnership. We would like to reiterate our commitment to the ten principles of UN Global Compact in those areas. These principles have been internalized in the values as well as the objectives of our company. The CSR initiatives of RINL undertaken in several parts of India are aligned towards achieving the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals. The triple bottom line of the company is addressed in a manner wherein all the stakeholders are on board thereby ensuring a peaceful Industrial Relations environment along with sustainable processes incorporated in the plant. A production process, which is in harmony with the environment, has been our forte since inception of our company. Transparency has always been accorded the greatest importance in all the business transactions at RINL. As I present the ‘Communication of Progress’ for the year 2017-18, we hope that we move an inch closer to the better world which all of us are trying to build in by abiding by the UNGC principles in letter as well as in spirit. We, the collective of RINL, reaffirm our commitment to UNGC Principles and resolve to conduct the business with utmost care for the environment, respect for the fundamental human rights and delivering our goals with the highest standards of business integrity. Date: 10.10.2018 Place: Visakhapatnam (PK RATH) Chairman-cum-Managing Director Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited
