Eser Project And Engineering Co. Inc. Communication On Progress Report 2017 2018 This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. WE SUPPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Statement of Continued Support Letter from our CEO Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. has joined the United Nations Global Compact since 2008. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. is committed to supporting and enacting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. is regularly reporting the Communication of Progress (COP) in accordance to the UN Global requirements. We commit our actions to comply with the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc.’s business model allows her to grow and to invest in the communities where she operates, by doing good business, caring for her employees, reducing environmental and social impacts, developing the communities involved, increasing the passion for excellence, loyalty, respect, responsibility and integrity for sustainable strategy of the Company. Eser has strong ethical business values for a shared responsibility at global and at local level. We serve markets all over the world, and we have plans and goals that apply everywhere in the same way. We are proud of investing in local communities, empowering people wherever we operate. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact and endorses the future priorities and specific targets in compliance with the global targets for C emission reductions and global warming mitigations, we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labor rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In our annual report, we have summarized the progress we have made against each of these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future reports. İlhan ADİLOĞLU Chairman, CEO Company Details Company name: Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. Address: Turan Gunes Bul. Cezayir Cad. 718. Sk. No: 14 Çankaya Ankara Turkey Contact name: Can Adiloglu Contact position: Vice Chairman Contact Phone . Number: 00 90 312 408 00 00 Period Covered: 13/09/201713/09/2018 Membership date: 03/10/2007 No. of employees: 100 Sector: Engineering and Consultancy Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. is well organized, worldwide leading Engineering, project management and Technical Consulting Company. It applies its Know-How and expertise to all projects in civil engineering field in the globe, beginning with the design development phases all the way to the successful completion in compliance with the Quality & Environmental Management System, fulfilling the customer's expectations with respect to the Global Social Responsibility Policy. Eser has Environmental Qualified Company Licence by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization of Turkey, to produce EIA and SIA Reports for all Engineering and Construction Projects. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. is generating a total turnover of around 10 million dollars a year. The Group employs around 100 people worldwide in its Engineering & Design centers equipped with the most modern and advanced technologies and software with transparent and sustainable Human Resources Management Approach. Eser provides a creative working environment for its employees in the unique Eser Green Building offices and contributes their career developments and participation into the production. Eser’s low cost and quality projects are achieved by her rigorous quality control system and the technology he uses. Follows the production continuously, solves the problems on time, before turning them into customer. Besides, it's constantly improved through R&D in new design and construction technologies and through the use of innovative materials. The use of environmental friendly materials and eco-sustainable processes, and our commitment in energy saving, clean water provision, protect the environment and accomplish the projects more efficient and safe by considering the climate change effects as well. Mission: At ESER, it is our commitment to provide the latest and most modern engineering technologies for the realization of the projects we undertake, with the generation of best value and satisfaction to our customers and to our human resources for the sustainable operation and growth of the Company. As a part of this commitment, we believe that the quality of the works we realize would make us among the most respected companies for our customers. Vision: ESER aims to be the leader with the engineering and consultancy services that it offers in the region of its activity. Our long-term strategies to realize this aim are: Working in the most difficult projects, with the latest technologies Becoming a specialist of working in difficult regions and locations Continuously improving our methods, the technology we use, and our performance Using innovation to differentiate and gain competitiveness in our services Forming strategic partnerships to strongly enter into a wider area of services, and learning from partnerships to always step further. FIELDS OF ACTIVITY HYDRAULIC STRUCTURES: Dams, Water Resources, Irrigation and Drainage Systems, Planning, Weirs, Pump Stations URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE: Water Supply and Wastewater Systems, Treatment Plants, Natural Gas Distribution Networks, Landfills, Cleanup of Hazardous Waste TRANSPORTATION: Highways and Motorways, Railways and Metro Systems, Bridge, Viaduct and Tunnels, Ports, Airports, Pipelines ENERGY: Hydropower Plants, Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plants, Biomass Plants, Wind Power Plants, Solar Energy, Geothermal Energy, Energy Transmission Lines INDUSTRIAL: Industrial Plants, Depots, Hangars, Petrochemical Plants, Telecommunication Facilities BUILDINGS, GREEN BUILDINGS: Residence, Commercial Buildings, Tourism Facilities, Schools, Hospitals, Cultural and Social Facilities Social Responsibility We, as Eser Group, meet the obligations in the quality, occupational health and environmental areas of the all fields of activity and projects we perform not only for our society but also for our employers and employees. We try to pay our debt to the nature and society within the context of social responsibility. Eser Green Building Project is itself a social responsibility of the group messaging the environmental friendly material, technology and working environment. Eser introduced this building to Turkish community in the seminars as the first green building having Leed Platinium Certificate in Turkey. Membership and Certificates: Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. is a member of; TMMMB(Turkish Association of Consultant Engineers and Architects) and İMO(Chamber of Civil Engineers) in Turkey. ETS has the following Quality Certificates; ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System, ISO 14.001:2015 Environment Management System and OHSAS 18.001:2007 Work Health and Safety Management System Certificates since 2002. COMPANY’S POLICY FOR UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S 10 PRINCIPLES I HUMAN RIGHTS: 1. BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENT Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. recognizes the rule of business community in supporting and respecting human rights, that is not to infringe human rights in the context of their own activities and their business relationships. At this purpose Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. issued a Group Code of Ethics in line with the international standard of Corporate Social Responsibility, that clearly and transparently defines the values that Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. embraces in pursuing the Group’s business goals, and the responsibilities Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. assumes within and outside the Subsidiaries. The core principles of the Code inspire the management of its business are described, amongst which the following principles are cited: “Employee care and development”– Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. values its human resources and strives to instill a climate of loyalty and mutual respect by providing suitable tools and opportunities for professional growth. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. cares about its employees' health and wellbeing, ensuring dignified working conditions and a safe and healthy workplace. Relations between Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. and its employees must be based on the principles of civil coexistence and respect for personal rights and freedoms. Eser Management realizes transparent HR development policies for Employee Career Plan for the sustainability in the Company Management. “Hygiene and safety” – Personal health and wellbeing, the safety of all work environments, and of our products are top priorities for the Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. and inform all of our interactions with employees, suppliers, customers, partners, subcontractors, and third parties involved in our business. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. works hard to ensure that its working environments, services and projects fully comply with all applicable laws. This commitment applies to all areas of work and every phase of a project: from engineering to procurement to final construction. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. key principles concerning health and safety in the workplace. a) Risk avoidance; b) Measuring risks that cannot be avoided; c) Fighting risks at their source; d) Adapting work to men, especially with regard to the creation of jobs and the choice of work tools and methods and production, in particular to alleviate monotonous and repetitive tasks and reduce the effects of such tasks on staff’s health; e) Keeping account of the degree of evolution of technique; f) Replacing what is harmful with what is not harmful or less harmful; g) Planning prevention, aiming at a coherent set that integrates the same technique, work organization, work conditions, social relations and the influence of work environment factors; h) Give priority to collective protection measures as opposed to individual protection measures; i) Give workers adequate instructions. “Suppliers” All suppliers working with Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. must follow business practices that respect human rights, workers' rights health and safety procedures and the environment protection. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. requires its contact persons, customers and suppliers, other than its employees, to subscribe to and therefore respect its Code of Ethics. Specific clauses are provided for in the contracts. Health & Safety Policy Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. are committed to improve the health and safety of the workers in compliance with the sector regulations of each Country. At this scope a Quality Assurance Manager has been nominated. In Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. web site www.espm.com.tr is clearly defined the Health & Safety Policy:  Forms a creative working environment for its employees, and priorities their career developments and participation into the production,  Aims to keep the hardware and human resources necessary for its production, to develop these resources frequently, and to be the leader in its sector,  Follows the production continuously, solves the problems on time, before turning them into customer complaints.  Trying to prevent pollution  Providing training for the employees with information on environmental issues  Creating a positive environmental culture within the Company  Taking action with appropriate control measures, when environmental hazards are identified  Welcoming constructive comments from third party organizations on aspects that may improve environmental issues.  The health of the workers will be in the first priority under any circumstances. For that purpose all necessary precautions should be taken by work crews and also by the sub-contractors. Take the necessary safety measures before start of any work done by our crew or by the sub-contractors Improvement We will ensure continual improvement. ConsistencyWe will establish and maintain transparent and effective safety management systems and minimum operational standards for the good management of health, safety throughout the Group and engage all our employees. Accountability, responsibility and competency We will define and communicate everyone`s health and safety responsibilities and required competencies clearly. Monitoring We will monitor our health, safety performance and review our system for managing performance regularly be affected are properly assessed and controlled, including our contractors and suppliers. Education and training We will consult our employees and ensure that competent advice and suitable training and resources are made available to assist them in performing their duties to promote health and safety.” Actions & Outcomes In the following the details of some actions taken by Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. Subsidiaries. At the purpose of guarantee the economic livelihood of its employees Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. set in place the following actions: 1. Health & Safety. 2. Training. 3. Privacy. 1. Health & Safety. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. set in place: actions in matter of Health and Safety, actions to improve the level of knowledge with specific training and actions to protect the economic livelihood of local communities with convention in favour of the employees. We assess labor related risks with Health and Safety Management System OHSAS 18.001:2007 procedures. Employees Health Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. provides two health projects in order to sensitize the employees regarding the illnesses prevention. Prevention is Life Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. initiated the prevention project totally free eye and vision Check-up for employees. Anti-influence vaccination Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. offers the possibility of having a free anti-influence vaccination to all its employees who will go to work for Africa region. Safety at work Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc.’s corporate management considers that health and safety at work (HSW) is an aspect of fundamental importance within the correct operating and planning of the resources employed and respect of a human being in all its meaning. For that purpose the management has activated a health and safety at work management system as an integral part of its business, promoting strong awareness of safety at every level of the corporate hierarchy in a continuous perspective of prevention and improvement. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc.is committed to improving the health and safety of the workers in compliance with the sector regulations. The company assigned a part time doctor in an office dedicated to work exclusively in the work environment for daily health checks and training. According to the legal requirements for the health and safety at the office and on site, a professional Health & Safety Company was appointed for Eser Group of Companies. 2. Training. In 2017-2018 Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. developed the following training projects: Safety Training Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. periodically organize training courses in relation to the matters of prevention, protection and safety at work. In the bi-annual period 2017-2018 the training courses involved 100 Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. employees in Turkey. Training courses continued during the course of 2018 in a manner aimed more at the individual work categories. Specific courses were proposed to the office staff on. First aid Environmental management system Environmental Consolidated Act etc. With regard to the production employees, the training courses were developed on themes strictly connected to the activities of an industrial factory, for example: First aid Fire prevention Utilization of machinery (gantry cranes, fork lifts, etc.) Waste management etc. 3. Privacy. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. protects the personal data of its employees. The processing of the employees’ personal data takes place in observance of the Italian legislation on Privacy. Access is reserved only to the staff involved in the function concerned. Paper documents with the sensitive data are conserved in protected areas, locked cupboards or offices. Data conserved on electronic supports are protected by an authentication password. Data saved in server files is subjected to a planned backup, thus avoiding the risk of its loss. The employees were also trained in connection with the Privacy regulations and in this context were acquainted with the methods with which to conduct the processing. 2.BUSINESS SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES COMMITMENT Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. rejects any behavior that could lead to complicity in the commission of crimes of human rights abuses. Eser treats staff, stakeholders and subconsultants with respect and dignity. Eser evaluates her suppliers with procurement procedure of her Quality Management System. Eser deals with local community by means of her project management tools by avoiding and eliminating negative impacts, increasing positive impacts with social investments e.g. school rehabilitations, road improvements, helping to prevent powerty in the project area community. Eser provides legal working rights such as Social Security, Self Assessment Tax, National Health Insurance catering and transportation for site and office staff. Eser sets up the Health and Safety Management System on sites and Offices with the risk analysis and supply equipments and clothes for the working conditions. The training given by the experts is the main issue for the Company Workers, Suppliers and the Subcontractors. Actions & Outcomes Code of Ethics Everyone who collaborates with Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. has to respect the ethical principles in which the Group believes. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. has promoted the dissemination of its Code of Ethics to all employees, as well as customers and suppliers, asking them to sign it, and thereby approve. Follow some actions set in place by the Eser Group Companies. Training on the Code of Ethics Training sessions held in order to inform and educate them also on the principles of the Code of Ethics, in Turkey and the other Group Subsidiaries. During 2018 training was held at all subsidiaries. Reporting Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc.has set up an e-mail address for the reporting of any violations of the Code of Ethics, and therefore also for reporting hypothetical and potential human rights abuses. Reports are received by Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. HR manager, which has the responsibility to inform the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors in case Code of Ethics violations. All reports are handled in compliance with privacy regulations, safeguarding the rights of anonymity of the person reporting. During 2017-2018 they did not receive any information indicating that abuse occurred in relation to human rights. II. LABOUR 3. BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING COMMITMENT Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. recognizes the right to collective bargaining, which supports the freedom of association of workers. Eser employs her all staff in Turkey and in the Project Countries according to the Labor Law with official and transparent policies in social security, tax regulations and labor rights. Eser respects all labor rights and aims to increase employee loyalty by means of active involvement in decision making process, investing the training and on the job training for the development of her employees to provide sustainable employee resources. Eser has consultants for Judicial issues at home and also at the project Countries and her branch offices. Actions & Outcomes Where admitted by the local law, the Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. recognizes the right to collective bargaining and allows the periodical meetings. There is no such outcomes for the 2017-2018. Eser gets feedbacks from her employees to increase the productivity and to improve the working conditions for employee satisfaction. These are reported and evaluated for better working environments. 4. BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR COMMITMENT Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. recognizes the importance of respect for the psycho-physical and cultural integrity of people, guaranteeing working conditions that respect human dignity and a safe and healthy working environment. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. also recognizes its own social responsibility in ensuring the basic rights of workers on the job. Eser and her affiliates employ, the required staff officially in terms of salary, tax, social security and health issues by applying valid work law regulations in the work place. She respects the rights of the employees from the beginning to the termination process. She applies the working days from Monday to Friday for 45 hours weekly that is allowed in the Labor Law at HQs. The Employees use the weekend for their leisure time. Eser also applies legal vacation durations for her employees according to the Labor Law, in Turkey and also in other Project Countries. The overtime is not advised to the employees in the normal business working conditions unless the work needs overtime. The HR Office always welcomes the employee inquiries in case of any clearance needs for these issues. Actions & Outcomes Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. disapproves of the use of any form of coercion against staff, as well as the use of concealed labor. At this scope Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc.set in place policies and internal rules to impede it. Each Group company is obliged not to use forced labor, and to respect the working hours required by national legislation in the countries in which its individual subsidiaries operate. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. recognizes the right to overtime pay where required by law. The Company states completing its work during the business hours not to need overtime, because of the moral and leisure time of the Employees. The Companies also are required to ask to subcontractors (ex. Installation companies), before starting any kind of activities or business, evidences of tax, salaries, insurance and social security records for their employees. Eser every year organizes receptions for new year celebrations with the employees and their families, stakeholders and subcontractors in Eser Green Building for informal gathering of the staff. 5.BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR COMMITMENT In compliance with the laws of the country in which it operates and with international law, Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. respects and promotes the abolition of child labor. Eser applies Quality Management System requirements for employee provision according to the requirements in the HQ and on sites, with the job description including license, diploma requirements and cross-reference checks during the interviews with nominated employees. Eser applies internationally accepted recruitment and employment conditions fully transparent, justifiable and accountable. In addition, Eser is registered locally in the countries where she operates and becomes a tax payer and a company complied with the legal regulations and runs the offices according to the valid local law and regulations. Actions & Outcomes In adopting the Code of Ethics, Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. companies undertake to respect the principle of abolition of child labor for children of non-working age. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. does not hire children of non-working age The HR office QMS forms and evaluation procedure are used to recruit needed staff for the work places. The Management is reported for the decision process with the detailed information obtained for the proposed staff. These stages also eliminate the child labour selection. There is no case reported during 2017-2018 period. 6.BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION COMMITMENT Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc.is also working to ensure equal opportunity hiring, and to act with impartiality towards its employees. Eser employs local staff as much as possible more than the required amount stated in the Contracts to develop the local labor force to benefit from the work experience for the community sustainable development. She also trains some students from the project countries in the HQ in Ankara, for the potential work force in the future projects in their country. Eser approaches the community where she operates as a sustainable and global firm and adopts the local conditions with legal applications. Actions & Outcomes Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. formalized internal hiring and personnel management procedures to mitigate the risk of discrimination based on age, race and ethnic origin, nationality, the political opinions, religious beliefs, gender or health status of its employment candidates. These corporate procedures are applied to all candidates and employees without regard to race, age or gender. Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. selects candidates focusing on the skills of the individual in relation to the job sought. Staff management follows rules established by Staff Regulations and in internal procedures, also without regard to race, age or gender. KENYA MWACHE CHECK DAM AND DEMONSTRATION IRRIGATION SYSTEM PROJECT The Company has a diverse workforce comprising of employees of various nationalities from Turkey and Kenya. The Company employs a Local Office Staff and also Experts for topographical survey, geotechnical investigations and reports and for hydrology study. The initial interviews are conducted by the Local Managers and the final interview is conducted by Deputy/General Manager. Candidates are selected solely on the basis of their merits by matching the requirements described on the Job Description to the skills/competencies of the individual. We run annual appraisals every year to follow up personal development needs and training requirements and these are implemented with training program. IIIENVIRONMENT 7. BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES COMMITMENT Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. recognizes the environment as a primary asset that must be safeguarded, and undertakes to comply with current regulations regarding environmental protection and conservation, promoting a running of its business centered on the proper use of resources. Eser is one of the most environment friendly company in the World with holding Leed Platinium Certificate for its Eser Green Building HQ in Ankara-Turkey. Eser also has ISO 14001:2004+AC:2009 Environment Management System Certificate that provides a dedication to the Global Environment protection for its daily operating and consultancy business activities. Our policy is to be environmentally responsible in engineering activities. Minimizing any effects of our activities that may have on the environment is a prior aim. Therefore, we are committed to: Following the related laws and regulations Trying to prevent pollution Providing training for the employees with information on environmental issues Creating a positive environmental culture within the Company Taking action with appropriate control measures, when environmental hazards are identified Welcoming constructive comments from third party organizations on aspects that may improve environmental issues. Actions & Outcomes Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. is committed to reducing consumption of energy and material, especially as regards sources of energy. Technical details and system operation of Eser Green Building was given in Last Year COP Report. We have still been monitoring the building and consumptions, all the systems are in operation. Annual Energy Consumption is 50% less than the similar buildings in Ankara. 8BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. supports initiatives for the promotion of greater energy savings. Eser has a Research & Development Office based in the HQ having experts in the energy projects. This R & D office is back supported by Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. and IT Department experts to execute R & D projects. Actions & Outcomes Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. takes in place activities to promote a greater environmental responsibility, like for example the improving environmental and recycle rules. Follows details of few initiatives: ESER GREEN BUILDING Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. headquarter is located in Ankara and the Eser Green building has been a very important building in the area. This building has been opened to public excess and different projects has been implemented. With the support of TUBITAK (The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey) we are conducting Energy-Efficient, High-Performance Buildings for Rational Exergy Management Based Automation Algorithm Development and Web-Based Benchmark for the creation of Green Building Automation project With the help of this Project we plan to have some improvements for the energy consumption of the building. In this context, our Green Building systems which are not working at full capacity for various reasons have been taken into account: Ice Storage Unit Absorption Chillers Grey Water Treatment System with parts missing and some other equipment deficiencies have been corrected, the necessary technical revisions have been made and commissioned. In order to obtain accurate data, new building measuring devices are provided in addition to the required points. Two calorimeter, Three-card water meter, Meteorological station. New separated water meters installed the building to measure, consumed in rain water, gray water and main water usage. A new meteorology station with automated algorithm to be used for current outdoor conditions (temperature and humidity, wind intensity and direction, per square meter of solar energy quantity) correctly aimed to operate more accurately. 9BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. recognizes the importance of research and development regarding the environment. For this reason Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. has joined projects to encourage energy saving. Actions & Outcomes 1-Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc.is active in the development of new, eco-friendly technologies. Eser Green Building Energy Optimization Project 2-Also known as “Energy-Efficient, High-Performance Buildings for Rational Exergy Management Based Automation Algorithm Development and Web-Based Benchmark for the creation of Green Building Automation project In partnership with Baskent University and TUBITAK (The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey) With the help of the Project we plan an operating algorithm for green buildings was developed. IV – ANTI CORRUPTION 10. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY COMMITMENT Eser Project and Engineering Co. Inc. has the stakeholders relationships that are honest, fair, and have integrity, transparency and mutual respect. Honesty and transparency are fundamental principles in all Group activities and are essential elements in business management. Eser’s policy against corruption, bribery and extortion is to pursue all of its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner in doing business anywhere in the World. Company’s goal is to provide education for all level of employees up to management about corruption, as well as what to do if one should encounter it. Regarding relationships with the Public Administration, all relationships between the Group and public institutions are arranged by associates entrusted for this purpose, and are based on the principles of lawfulness, fairness, transparency, cooperation and non-interference, with respect to their mutual roles. The Group does not exchange money or other means of payment with public officials to influence activities they perform as their official duties, neither directly nor through intermediaries. Gifts, favours or conduct towards government representatives, public officials and public employees that are not transparent are not allowed. All interactions between the Group and public institutions are handled by authorized personnel based on the principles of legality, integrity, transparency, cooperation and non-interference, within the scope of each party's roles and in accordance with the law. Personnel must refrain from interfering in the decisions of civil servants: It is forbidden to give money or other forms of payment, directly or through intermediaries, to public officials, civil servants and their close relatives in order to influence them in the performance of their duties. Gifts, favours, benefits or conduct lacking in transparency with respect to government representatives, public officials and civil servants in general are not allowed. In any case, it is forbidden to give gifts, favors or benefits to civil servants or State-controlled companies or their relatives, unless the goods or services concerned are of reasonable price and it is traditional custom to do so. Fraudulent conduct (omissions, false declarations, etc.) for the purpose of obtaining subsidies, grants or government loans is expressly forbidden. Financial resources obtained legitimately from government agencies and Public Institutions cannot be used for purposes other than those declared in the application. Subject to approval from the CEO, Group companies may comply with requests for donations from non-profit entities and associations. Actions & Outcomes As an international company, Eser has an external audit company to do internal audits every year and the report directly submitted to the Board. The principles of honesty and fairness constitute a commitment by the company to refrain from illegal conduct. All projects follows the principles and adopted internal policy and procedures against bribery and extortion. Eser has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. There has been no such incident reported in the last period.
