COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JUNE 2018 CLS: MEETING THE NEEDS OF A SUSTAINABLE PLANET THAT RESPECTS HUMANKIND CHRISTOPHE VASSAL CLS, a subsidiary of CNES, ARDIAN and IFREMER, is an international Chairman of the CLS Management Board company that has been leading the way in Earth observation and monitoring solutions since 1986. CLS DELIVERS ON ITS CSR CLS is a global company, are committed to working for a KEY FIGURES passionately committed to protected, preserved, sustainably The positions of 200,000 boats devising and deploying innovative exploited and healthy planet. COMMITMENTS are determined in our data solutions for better understanding The company operates in six processing centres. Each year and protecting our planet, and strategic business sectors: for managing its resources in a sustainable fisheries management, 130 satellites provide data sustainable way. CLS has been environmental monitoring, for the products and services pursuing this goal every day maritime safety and security, fleet developed by CLS 20 JUNE 2018 for more than 30 years. The management, energy & mining, _ company’s 700 employees at and space & ground systems. 8,300 humanitarian vehicles its headquarters in Toulouse and are managed via satellite For CLS, addressing social and of sustainable development goals! reaffirming its commitment! 26 other sites around the world using CLS Group solutions environmental issues is not an While it is sincere and farThis has led CLS to join the United _ option, or even an obligation: it is reaching, our company’s Nations Global Compact and to 100 companies working in simply part of our identity. Since sensitivity to environmental take numerous initiatives over 60 nations the energy sector use the its creation in 1986, our company issues needed to be better defined the past two years, through the have placed their trust has continued to expand its and institutionalised: first by CSR working group, with all our services developed by CLS in CLS for help with the range of products and services to anticipating certain regulatory employees. And this moved us to sustainable management of protect the planet and its life. This changes, but more importantly reiterate our support for the Ten their fishing programmes. embodies a culture and a source by helping our company identify Principles of the United Nations of great pride for all our personel. new areas for improvement. Global Compact and publish WOODS HOLE GROUP From analysing climate change to For this reason, in 2016, CLS this second communication on CLS AND NOVACOM TRE ALTAMIRA Dover (DE) SERVICES HEADQUARTERS KL-TRADING observing wildlife and monitoring initiated a Corporate Social progress, which reviews the steps Vancouver Seoul FULCRUM Toulouse human activities along with Responsability (CSR) strategy we took regarding CSR in 2017. London their impact on the environment, that aims to continuously NOVACOM SIRS EUROPE ES-PAS the solutions developed by CLS optimise environment, social Moscow CLS Lille Amsterdam CLS CHINA contribute daily and materially and ethical issue management. Brest WOODS HOLE CUBIC-I WOODS HOLE GROUP Richmond (TX) GROUP TRE ALTAMIRA Pékin Tokyo to improving our grasp of These commitments are CLS MAROC Milano Bourne (MA) WOODS HOLE GROUP Rabat TRE ALTAMIRA CLS VIETNAM environmental and social issues. also a way of enhancing Hanoi Lanham (MD) NOVACOM SERVICES Barcelona In fact, 60% of our turnover is trust and performance in our CLS ASEAN Bidart Bangkok directly linked to the achievement business. Our company is thus CLS PERU Lima CLS PT CLS ARGOS La Réunion INDONESIA PROOCEANO Jakarta Rio de Janeiro CUNLOGAN SIT Santiago Melbourne CLS HEADQUARTERS 2 3 CLS ECO-FRIENDLY BY NATURE GLOBAL COMPACT From ending hunger around the world to promoting efficient and accountable institutions, the United Nations has defined 17 sustainable development goals. The recent independent audit on CLS social responsability activities, commissioned by our shareholders, highlighted that CLS is taking actions to reach almost all of these goals The Global Compact encourages companies to integrate and promote a number of principles relating to human rights, working conditions, respect for the The auditors noted that 60% If we add the nine sustainable OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT environment and the fight against corruption. As a member company, CLS is of our business was directly development goals that CLS committed to making progress each year on each of these themes. Further increase the linked to the achievement of helps to achieve through its sustainable development goals, own operations (in terms of proportion of sustainable including 41% for safeguarding governance, human resources activities in business HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION our environment: 21% for the management, environmental volume. The signatory companies Regarding environmental The Global Compact calls preservation of aquatic life practices or external relations), (monitoring and management CLS is involved and active in KEY FIGURES of the Global Compact are challenges, Global Compact on signatory companies invited to respect and promote member companies are invited to work against corruption of fishing activities), 15% for 16 out of the 17 sustainable In 2017, CLS was involved international law on human to support a precautionary in all its forms, including measuring the effect of climate development goals set by and active in 16 out rights. CLS is committed to this approach, promote greater extortion and bribery. Here change (measurement of water the United Nations! of the 17 sustainable for itself, of course, but also environmental responsibility, again, CLS has taken various levels and ice conditions), and development goals. within its sphere of influence. and encourage the sustainable initiatives to promote sound lastly 5% for the preservation _ development by propagating and transparent commercial of life on Earth (observation of wildlife and biodiversity). 60% of CLS’s business environmental friendly and institutional relations. is directly linked to WORKING CONDITIONS technologies. This is the heart of Another 13% of our activity CLS’s business, but the company serves to promote a more sustainable development. Under the Global Compact, sustainable living environment, is also committed to optimising companies commit to eliminate whether in terms of optimising its internal procedures. all forms of forced or compulsory urban networks (preventing labour and the effective abolition water pollution, urban planning) of child labour. Furthermore, or preventing natural disasters. they must uphold the freedom Lastly, 6% of CLS’s business of association, recognise the is directly linked to objectives right to collective bargaining as fundamental as fighting and eliminate discrimination in poverty (humanitarian logistics) employment and occupation. and improving individual These objectives are obvious health (management of health for CLS, but are now affirmed data, healthcare activities). publicly and conveyed through its policy of relations with its intermediaries. 4 5 CORPORATE SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS, RESPONSABILITY ENACTMENT A CORNERSTONE Corporate social responsaibility (CRS) reveals first and foremost from the Respect for human rights is obvious to each and every person at CLS. But industry of a compagny and the nature of its missions, as well as from its beyond the sincere and collective adherence of all our company’s employees ability to uphold ethics and values internally. From this perspective, the year to these major principles, we are committed to promoting them around us on a 2017 will be remembered as a groundbreaking year for CLS. daily basis. communication on the progress OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT our company makes, since its The most fundamental human Again with the constant concern Devise more refined Develop a safety policy adhesion to UN Global Compact rights are included in the 10 for safety in mind, CLS’s Code of progress indicators applicable to CLS at all in 2016. By its very nature, this document makes it possible to _ principles of the Global Compact, Conduct prohibits its employees our sites in France measure our company’s level which our company signed in 2016. throughout the world from _ Organise These include the elimination of consuming narcotic drugs in the of social responsibility and Initiate a debate within the Group-wide reporting all forms of forced or compulsory workplace and provides very how it evolves over time. company on effective methods labour, the effective abolition of precise guidelines for moderate child labour, upholding the freedom alcohol consumption. of disconnecting from work Following three years of studies, KEY FIGURES of association and the effective Observing human rights also outside office hours. 2017 was also marked by the 88/100: CLS’s CSR rating recognition of the right to collective means respecting the dignity of _ publication of the INDEFI bargaining. While these precepts, each individual. With this in mind, by the independent Update our single document on report an independent protected by labour law, are being our company undertakes not to audit commissioned by auditor INDEFI occupational risk assessment _ shared internally throughout discriminate against anyone on the our shareholder ARDIAN the Group, it is also important to basis of their actual or presumed and devoted to the social 6: the number of plenary ensure that they are respected by ethnic or racial identity, or their responsibility of the CLS Group. sessions of the CSR our suppliers and subcontractors religion, beliefs, age, disability, KEY FIGURES Its very encouraging conclusions working group in 2017 throughout the world, whether in sexual orientation, gender or gender The budget allocated to Indeed, the first CSR working gave our CSR a score of 88/100 their companies or in their supply identity, or place of residence. training accounted for group meetings, led by senior (compared to 57/100 on average chains. As for our employees, they Lastly, all forms of harassment are 2.36% of the total payroll management, were held in 2017. for a range of companies of are committed to respecting local prohibited. CLS personnel must This working group, made up of comparable sizes and sectors). cultures, laws and customs, while ensure that these requirements volunteer employees from the complying with the procedures are shared by all their contacts. company’s various departments, This 40-page document, written of the Code of Conduct that our met six times during this period. in English, was submitted to company adopted in 2017. A review was conducted and a CLS’s Executive Committee. As it affects people’s physical contact person was assigned to It is a highly informative integrity, safety must always be each of the identified themes. source of evaluation and a ensured. The working conditions valuable management tool and environment must therefore It was also in 2017 that the for the years to come. meet the necessary requirements. initiative to publish an annual Similarly, no operation contrary to this principle must be undertaken. 6 7 A CODE OF CONDUCT REDEPLOYED HUMAN AGAINST CORRUPTION RESOURCES While combating corruption has always been one of CLS’s basic principles, Corporate Social Responsability is also measured by its human resources the publication in 2017 of the company’s Code of Conduct formalised good management. In this area too, CLS launched a host of initiatives in 2017. practices in this area. A large part of the Code is devoted to this subject, with Many of these were carried out as part of the Odyssée 2018 project, a major the aim of placing trust at the centre of our commercial and institutionnal programme for functional reorganisation of the company and overhauling relations. of its decision-making processes in six sales departments. More than 200 members of our personnel were redeployed to enable them to respond more More specifically, a Charter Based on these guideline OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT effectively to our customers’ needs and better serve the markets. This also has been drafted detailing documents, which were both now gives each member a more integrated role in the company’s operation. Implement the the company’s policy on issued in 2017, an awareness Compliance programme gifts and invitations. In campaign was conducted at the addition to specifying what annual All Staff meeting with with new internal policies _ is prohibited, limits have the help of practical examples. been established in order to The procedures for reporting Set up Groupprevent any at-risk situation. breaches or submitting wide awareness/ queries were also specified. training sessions _ Asses respect for human rights among our suppliers _ Take social and environmental issues into account in purchasing policy KEY FIGURES The Code of conduct is avaibable in French, English, Spanish and Italian _ 600 copies of the Pocket Code of Conduct distributed to CLS Group employees 8 9 After a period of due Negotiations on working time OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT deliberation, the human began in 2017, with the goal Finalise negotiations resources department was of statisfying our stakeholders’ on working time fundamentally reshaped. The needs to the fullest extent _ new Human Resources Director possible, in a fair social context (HRD) was appointed in March that respects all parties. Deploy Group2017. A new strategy was wide HR policies implemented, incorporating all Another important breakthrough _ the subsidiaries for the first time. was the introduction of a Human Finalise the The HRD is now one of the five Resources dashboard in spring A MODERNISED members of CLS’s executive 2017. This mapping tool offers teleworking project committee, the company’s several indicators of sound HR _ WORKING ENVIRONMENT management body. This board management such as gender Complete the meets once a week. Likewise, diversity, mobility, remuneration, GPEC project by the HRD sits on the monthly diligence, contract types, the end of 2018 Executive Comitee. The HR replacements, training, etc. To _ representatives have been ensure efficiency, the training designated for each business and development administation Deploy a new HRIS department. The aim of this has been outsourced to allow the transformation is to make HR internal resources to dedicate KEY FIGURES more attentive to business and themselves fully to leadership. In 2017, the building housing the company’s former headquarters was renovated. staff needs, improve information 718: the number of This transformation had two objectives: to modernise the working conditions flow, and facilitate and provide In 2017, the HR assistance was CLS staff members support for decision-making. also reinforced through specific and allow the business to grow. In time, nearly 300 staff members will work in throughout the Group actions such as integration _ this completely redesigned, optimised and modernised building. Other major human programmes and assigning 50 new recruits took resources projects: mentors for each new staff • Forward-looking management member as part of the ‘ON part in the integration With the agreement of the area with an outdoor terrace. OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT of jobs and skills (GPEC). This BOARDING’ process, on one programme staff representatives and the Interior elements such as project is built around a group hand, and the launch of the _ Deploy the policy on committee on health, safety and carpets, ceilings and partitions of volunteer employees who MANAGERS’ TRAINING Around 60 managers working conditions, the premises have been chosen for their quality of life at work are working to identify all PROGRAMME specific to all were trained by the were designed and built in the sound and thermal properties. throughout the Group the company’s professions managers, on the other. form of collaborative spaces, with In terms of furniture, chair and Managers’ Training and to draft pilot sheets. This a succession of modern meeting desk heights are adjustable. Programme KEY FIGURES work is being carried out in Lastly, the economic and social rooms equipped with the latest Employees received training close collaboration with the database (BDES) was launched, audio-visual systems and isolated in how to optimise their use 4, 800 m² renovated managers and employees offering a new tool for dialogue work areas (individual offices). of this ergonomic furniture. _ in each business area. with staff representative bodies. The building’s large glass walls Lastly, silent keyboards and Zero work-related enable natural light to take insulating headsets have been accidents with lost precedence. Each floor has its made available in order to time, for the second own relaxation area, while the facilitate adaptation to this ground floor houses a catering new working environmnent. consecutive year as part of the transformation of our premises 10 11 OPTIMISED SOCIAL DIALOGUE DIVERSITY IN ACTION In June 2017, social dialogue, a source of both well-being and efficiency at work, benefited from a major innovation: the implementation of Workplace, a social network for all the Group’s employees. While the communications department has made it one of its key channels for information, employees Fostering diversity within a company is not just about helping potentially have also been invited to use it freely, and this is what we are seeing in practice. victimised or vulnerable people: it is about creating a collective that reflects the CLS Workplace is a great information exchange tool and a key cross-cutting society in which it operates, an entity in tune with external expectations, a group collaborative platform accessible to everyone. that is effective because it is open and representative. Its 750 users and 3000 posts participants) with an opportunity OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT Not such a minority: in 2017 It should also be noted that there OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT in six months testify to its to discuss predefined topics. Reshape and merge the women accounted for 42% of is no positive discrimination at Set gradual employment success. 116 discussion groups, Two staff conventions also CLS employees. If this figure is CLS: only professional criteria intranet and extranet targets for people closed or open, have been set took place, focusing mainly broken down further, women count. This conscious choice (dedicated to sales with disabilities up on different topics. There is on implementation of the represent 46% of managers and sometimes means that there representatives) obviously a predominance of Odyssée 2018 project and 60% of executive committee is still scope for improvement. subjects of professional interest the launch of our 2018_ KEY FIGURES members. These results are This is the case for people related to the Group’s activities, 2023 medium-term plan. Set up the CLS TV broadcast rather encouraging, especially with disabilities, which is why 46% of CLS managers but there are other topics as points in the new living areas since they are improving, and the company plans to take are women well. This tool is especially Lastly, two integration days are better than the averages further steps in this area. _ valuable for a Group with enabled the company to give for our industry sector. All 30 nationalities among branches on every continent. a proper welcome to 52 new KEY FIGURES generations are also represented CLS also favours outsourcing CLS Group employees Information may appear in employees, helped by an equal within the company, and there contracts with organisations for +4500 posts on Workplace are support schemes both for social and occupational insertion. English, French and/or Spanish. number of volunteer mentors. _ ALL STAFF All the newcomers were able new arrivals and members 116 discussion groups 58% At the national level, CLS to meet the members of the who are planning to leave. m e n 42% TV broadcasts audiomanagement committee and created on Workplace _ w o m e n visual messages within visit the operations centre, the MANAGERS each department. In 2018, beating heart of our company. 2 staff agreements organised m e n 54% the television broadcast 46% around the Odyssée 2018 w o m e n points were set up in the BREAKDOWN OF GROUP EMPLOYEES project and the 2018-2023 EXCECUTIVE COMMITTEE company’s new living areas. In addition, the presentation of medium-term plan m e n 40% w o m e n 60% e-mailing campaigns was revised to improve their visibility through 1.7% the use of thematic banners. 0.1% 61.1 % CANADA 12% CHINA At the same time, the year 2017 saw the introduction of a pilot UNITED FRANCE 3.2% 3.8% S TAT E S BRAZIL scheme for informal coffee 1.0% 1.5% SPAIN 0.3% get-togethers for managers. Six 3.9% KOREA JAPAN 0.3% ENGLAND sessions were held throughout 0.8% AUSTRALIA I T A LY 4.3% 0.4% the year, providing strategic PERU VIETNAM RUSSIA and operational managers 2.9% 1.1% (an average of around fifty 1.5% CHILE INDONESIA 12 13 NETHERLANDS ESTABLISHMENT OF MOVING TOWARDS AN INNOVATION MISSION ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Innovation is crucial to CLS business. To encourage and facilitate it, an Besides the ecological contribution of its activities, CLS is concerned innovation mission was set up in 2017, as part of the Odyssée 2018 project. about its own environmental footprint. For this reason, in 2017 the This took the form of a cross-cutting working group, whose members were company created an environmental database linked to its energy recruited on a voluntary basis and will be renewed over time. consumption. This approach was used to produce a zero impact image, an essential milestone in measuring future progress, whether in terms of water or electricity consumption, or carbon footprint. OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT This evaluation found that 61% of these measurements. The KEY FIGURES Participate in external of CLS’s carbon emissions were use of videoconferencing has learning expeditions 100% of the lighting in indirect (mainly due to travel) been encouraged and was _ the renovated building compared to 30% of emissions facilitated by installing the Develop targeted external generated internally. It should appropriate equipment in all of is provided by LEDs be noted that nearly half of the the company’s large meeting _ actions specifically on innovation electricity consumed directly rooms. This has enabled CLS 50% of meeting rooms _ by CLS is used to power and to reduce its carbon emissions are equipped for cool its data centres. Initial from employee travel by videoconferencing, Create an innovation steps were taken on the basis nearly 12% since 2015. proposal desk for the thus limiting travel _ permanent collection of innovative ideas 30 bicycle parking Although this mission has its In Space, Club Galaxie, Digital _ spaces and 12 own budget of €300,000 Scrum, etc.). It has also been set additional lockers (0.5% of the company’s business up Innovation Thursdays bringing Launch themed innovation CONCENTRATION OF C02 EMISSIONS have been installed competitions in line with (KG/KM/EMPLOYEE) volume), its objectives are together several outside speakers _ eminently qualitative. The idea is from related fields of expertise the Group’s strategy 2 000 000 to create a culture of innovation on topics such as Increasing Paper consumption enabling new applications to creativity and innovation 1 901 454 has been cut by 30% be explored without going CLS 4.0 , Internet of Things, KEY FIGURES 1 900 000 _ through lengthy or expensive IoT demystified , and Space Budget of €300,000 12% of carbon emissions processes. The challenge is technology against the eco-mafia , dedicated exclusively to 1 800 000 were avoided between to enhance existing knowwhich were broadcast live on the innovation mission 1 721 908 2015 and 2017 how by identifying emerging Workplace. Lastly was launched _ needs in order to develop an in-house innovation challenge, 1 700 000 3 Innovation new products and services. from which emerged of more than 60 new ideas. These included an Thursdays in 2017 1 678 606 To do this, the innovation mission application dedicated to observing _ 1 600 000 has increased its involvement in livestock health, which is currently 60 ideas from the 2017 events related to the space or undergoing a patentability study. innovation challenge 1 500 000 digital sectors (Aerospace Valley, 2015 2016 2017 14 15 In addiditon, 30 extra places batteries. Another initiative OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT have been created in the taken was default printer Provide a bike head office’s bicycle shed and settings combined with badge maintenance service additional lockers have been access, which has reduced _ installed with an integrated paper consumption by 30%! socket for charging electric Last but not least, in 2017 CLS Install charging stations bicycles. Better yet, a feasibility renegotiated its electricity supply for electric vehicles study led to the creation of an contract. Now 100% of the _ on-site bicycle maintenance electricity consumed by the head Optimise the recycling service for CLS employees. office comes from renewable of the lithium batteries sources. CLS also produces supplying beacons A major effort has also been clean energy and hot water by made to minimise and recycle means of solar panels installed and transmitters waste. Sorting bins have now on the roofs of its buildings. been deployed to extract office A STRUCTURED waste that was usually mixed, for five types of recyclable SPONSORSHIP POLICY waste: cardboard, paper, plastic bottles, plastic caps and alkaline While CLS’s social utility is primarily evident through the nature of the tasks it carries out on its customers’ behalf, sponsorship offers an additional opportunity to act. The company therefore decided to formalise this type of action by setting up a sponsorship mission in June 2017. This mission now has its own secondly the VNF, the authority OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT budget and relies on a decisionresponsible for France’s inland Increase employee making group of about ten waterways (and in particular consultation for volunteers from different the project to replant trees sponsorship decisions departments in the company. along the Canal du Midi, which _ This group helps choose is close to CLS headquarters). and define the sponsorship Increase employee partnerships established A conference was held at CLS participation in by the company (causes, in late 2017 on the future of the sponsorship events amount of aid, events, etc.). Canal du Midi, and a meeting was organised between around In fact, CLS focuses its support fifteen CLS employees and the KEY FIGURES on two emblematic players in wheelchair rugby team at the Dedicated budget of the region where the company Stade Toulousain club. Openness €25,000 for 2018 (compared was founded. These are firstly to others, commitment, with €10,000 for 2017) Stade Toulousain Rugby protection of the environment: _ Handisport (a way of displaying these are the values that CLS a competitive spirit while wishes to promote, while 10 years of support at the same time providing affirming its local roots. for disabled sports assistance to people in need) and associations 16 17 DATA PROTECTION ENSURED People are becoming far more aware of the collection, use and disclosure of personal data. Public opinion rightly demands protective measures and guarantees. It essentially comes down to preserving the privacy and interests of individuals. For example, the use of any information concerning a person’s health must be strictly regulated. EFFECTIVE INSTITUTIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT INTEGRATION Finalise compliance with the GDPR at CLS Group level _ Communication on the general data The regions in which CLS is mainly active in France are Bretagne, Hauts-deprotection policy France and Occitanie: all three are known for research and innovation. CLS decided to intensify its links with the other players in these regions in order to KEY FIGURES share success and economic development on a local level. 8 different projects in the CLS Group’s GDPR plan An initiative supported by the helped CNES, the French space which enables creators to use work Aerospace Valley competitiveness agency, organise Act In Space, spaces where they can develop cluster, Booster Nova has brought an international innovation their projects sustainably and on a together a number of space competition (Hackathon). long-term basis under favourable activities focused on creating value This event brought together hosting conditions (from 6 months Many countries have data for a specific and lawful purpose through new applications. Booster entrepreneurs, students, to 3 years). Useful to project protection and privacy legislation and that it must be adequate, Nova has been given dedicated developers and other creative initiators, this partnership is also in place, and the new EU rules relevant and not excessive. premises, the Hub Nova, located types for challenges based on a means for CLS to discover that came into force in 2018 at the heart of the Toulouse space technologies and data, with new talents and new ideas. (GDPR) are pushing these For reasons of transparency, Aerospace site (Montaudran). the aim being to imagine products requirements even higher. every individual has the right to They were handed over in 2018, and services that will be useful access personal data concerning and a user agreement for the in everyday life in the future. Naturally, CLS undertakes to keep them. CLS’s Code of Conduct Hub Nova was signed by CLS this information confidential and stipulates that such individual in 2017. Get set for a spirit of Also noteworthy in 2017 was the secure. Fundamentally, personal requests must be forwarded sharing and competition! launch of the start-up DIGIKARE OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT data are processed fairly and justly without delay to the company’s based on digital applications Multiply partnerships and only if certain conditions Data Protection Officer (DPO) Another example from 2017 dedicated to health. This emerged for innovation support are met, namely that such and ultimately dealt with by the of active involvement in its under the aegis of the partnership information must be collected company’s legal department. business sector came when CLS linking CLS to ETHICS Biotope, operations 18 19 © CLS 2018
