1|Page UNGC Principles The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, the following set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. 2|Page Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: P2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: P3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: P4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: P6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: P7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: P8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: P9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: P10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3|Page OTHER UN INITIATIVES Caring for Climate Having taken part in the Caring for Climate initiative since August 2008, MAS is one of 453 companies from over 65 countries to be a part of this movement. The world’s largest global coalition, Caring for Climate is led by UN Global Compact, UNEP and UNFCCC. Based on the consensus that climate change will affect business and society in vital ways, consultants from UNGC, UNEP and WBCSD prepared a statement titled “Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform”, which offers participants an opportunity to demonstrate climate leadership. MAS chose to endorse and implement the Caring for Climate initiative through CEO support, tactical changes within the organization and ongoing public communication. Women’s Empowerment Principles The Women’s Empowerment Principles are the end result of a collaboration between UNGC and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality (UN Women). The principles offer guidance to companies on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. The seven principles are as follows: 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work, respecting and supporting human rights and non-discrimination. 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all female and male employees. 4. Promote education, training and professional development for women. 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women. 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy. 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. MAS was involved in the consultation process when the seven principles were formulated. In November 2011, Chairman of MAS Mahesh Amalean signed the CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles. MAS Holdings (Sri Lanka) and Mahesh Amalean were awarded the Women’s Empowerment Principles Leadership Award Cultural Change for Empowerment Award 2013 for the MAS Women Go Beyond initiative, a distinctive program established in 2003 that challenges the accepted norms of garment industry employment for women in Sri Lanka and the South Asian region. Business for Peace After a decade of researching the role of business and its contribution to peace, in September 2013, UN Global Compact launched the Business for Peace initiative. The platform assists companies in implementing responsible business practices in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. MAS endorsed the initiative in September 2013, and is proud to be one of its founding participants. 4|Page MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 1 A BRIEF HISTORY 2 INTRODUCTION 3 Vision & Approach Sustainability Governance Materiality & Process Tracking our Progress Partnerships to Transform PRODUCTS MADE BETTER 11 Tools of Change CHAMPION CLIMATE ACTION 17 Critical Carbon Responsible Energy MANAGE OUR FOOTPRINT 26 Water Vigilance Waste Watch Zero toxic Difference Material Count SUPPORT A THRIVING PLANET 37 Habitat Restoration Sustainable Lifestyles LIVES MADE BETTER 45 BUILD DIVERSITY IN THE WORKPLACE 47 Women in Management Persons with Disabilities BECOME A GLOBAL EMPLOYER OF CHOICE 74 Our People Work-life Balance MAS Sports GO BEYOND COMPLIANCE 83 Compliance and Health & Safety Human Rights SUPPORT THRIVING COMMUNITIES 93 5|Page MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT For the 14th consecutive year, MAS is happy to present the Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. At MAS we believe sustainability is a core pillar of our commitment to excellence and how we operate. When we started this journey over 30 years ago we believed in listening to our own natural compass for good. This meant we were putting deep and meaningful thought into our work for the environment and our people, long before the age of strategy driven sustainability. As one of the largest manufacturers in South Asia we realise we have an equally large responsibility towards both the eco-system we have created and the natural world we thrive in. Our values, core strengths and culture, drive all what we do, and we know our size and strength puts us in the best position to make a real difference in whatever we initiate. I am proud of what we have achieved as an organization in 2017. Our community investment for 2017 was over USD 400,000 (64 Million LKR) with the participation of 7,736 volunteers from MAS. These were achieved through 521 individual projects with beneficiaries exceeding 159,000 people. We continue to drive what is right by our people. Establishing the MAS DNA the MAS Code of Conduct across the organization was a clear step in that direction. We developed a single platform through which employees can access the policies and all information related to the code. Further the development of the Helpdesk and online incident reporting and management platform operated by a globally renown, independent and confidential service provider reiterates our commitment to encourage all to do the right thing. Making good on our promise to give opportunity to all we see, the technical upskilling of our team leaders with 41 completing the certificate level in Technical training, opening the pathway to join the executive tier. We have aggressively launched into our climate action goals with one of the largest multi-site solar rooftop projects in South Asia and we are celebrating the start of habitat restoration projects across 600 acres as part of a larger biodiversity goal to replace habitats in 100 times the space we occupy by 2025. We remain committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact. As a growing organization with a global footprint we aim to influence all we can in our journey to create a self-sustained eco-system and embrace our challenges in the spirit of innovation and collaboration as we have always done. I firmly hope and believe that we as an organization can help shape a better future for all through our existence. Shakthi Ranatunga Director Group Human Resources MAS Holdings (Pvt.) Ltd 1|Page A BRIEF HISTORY 2003 Launch of MAS WOMEN GO BEYOND programme MAS joins the UN Global Compact 2006 Launch of Eco Go Beyond sustainable education model in Sri Lankan schools 2007 Women Go Beyond features in International Finance Corporation’s Market Movers Report Launch of “Garments Without Guilt” campaign in Europe 2008 MAS Fabric Park opens in Thulhiriya as World’s first clean fabric manufacturing zone World’s 1st LEED Platinum Factory “Thurulie” starts operations in Thulhiriya MAS & M&S launch 1st Carbon Neutral Bra made inside Thurulie 2010 Environmental Sustainability Steering Team (ESST) is established Environmental team begins setting baselines for data measurement Eco Go Beyond completes its of across 28 schools in 9 MAS communities 2011 Launch of Energy Management System (EMS) connecting all MAS locations within Sri Lanka. ISO 14001 Certification for all facilities 2012 Launch of Group wide Eco Tracker measurement system 2013 Development of MAS ES Calibration Tool ISO 14064:2006 audits begin for all facilities as an annual exercise MAS introduces the first Eco Bricks made from industrial ETP sludge MAS Chemical Workstream established MAS Fabric Park develops 1st privately owned Analog Forest within the zone Scoping begins for MAS Sustainability Strategy 2014 MAS Calibration Tool Ver 1.0 is deployed across all Sri Lankan facilities Implementation Planning begins for the MAS Integrated Sustainability Strategy. 2015 Sri Lanka's largest roof mounted solar solution of 1 MW unveiled at MAS FABRICS Matrix. Refreshed and relaunched all MAS policies on Waste, Chemicals and Water management MAS opens large scale state-of-the-art Solar Sludge Drying facility inside Biyagama Export Processing zone to handle ETP sludge for all its facilities. 2016 Launched a holistic Sustainability Strategy with a focus on sustainable manufacturing and ensuring better lives for our people and communities MAS becomes 1st manufacturer to become value chain affiliates of the ZDHC Foundation (Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals) MAS invests in Clean Chain chemical inventory system to ramp up transparent and efficient management of chemicals across the group Invested in a Sustainability Performance Management System 2017 40 facilities achieve ISO 14064:2006 certification MAS Eco Brick and Solar Sludge drying process shared with industry 600 acres of habitat restoration across Sri Lanka Launch of MAS Photon to install 30 MW of Solar PV on all viable rooftops Began tracking 19 performance measures in Social Sustainability through the performance management system across our Sri Lankan footprint 2|Page INTRODUCTION MAS Holdings (Private) LTD is South Asia’s largest manufacturer of lingerie. The company was founded in 1987 by Mahesh, Sharad and Ajay Amalean, deriving its name from the initials of the three brothers. MAS Holdings began as an intimate apparel manufacturer and later diversified into sportswear, performance wear and swimwear. CORPORATE OFFICE ADDRESS 10th Floor, Aitken Spence Tower II, 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02, Sri Lanka. MAS Holdings manages a portfolio of businesses with a revenue of USD 1.8bn and is positioned as one of the world’s most recognized design to delivery solution providers in the realm of apparel and textile manufacturing. It is also the largest apparel and textile manufacturer in South Asia. The organization is headquartered in Sri Lanka with 53 manufacturing facilities placed across 16 countries, with design locations placed in key style centres across the globe and over 95,000 people involved in its operation. Our global footprint spans across Sri Lanka, India, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Indonesia, China, Hong Kong, Australia, United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, Jordan, USA, Mexico, Hoduras and Haiti. Our design, innovation and manufacturing expertise has inspired the world’s leading fashion and retail brands including Victoria’s Secret, Nike, Marks & Spencer, DBA, lululemon athletica, Soma, H&M, Gap, Calvin Klein, Columbia Sportswear and Ralph Lauren to partner with us. Our products and services are enhanced by vertically integrated supply chains, and are supported by a full-scale lean enterprise platform. 3|Page MAS owns Sri Lanka’s first international lingerie brand, amanté, and has diversified through design and manufacturing to encompass lifestyle and fashion solutions. With a unique blend of manufacturing capability, inspiring people, world class products and ethical processes MAS have continued to attract premium brands and retailers to partner with us. MAS’ investments into THINX, within the feminine hygiene space producing innovative reusable underwear for periods and urinary incontinence. ‘Become’, an undergarment with cooling technology, designed to manage the most common menopausal symptoms. In Wearable Technology The Firefly illuminated running jacket under the name ’Nova’ which is revolutionizing the future of clothing using active illumination technology. 4|Page VISION & APPROACH We made 15 promises for 2025 as part of a vision to radically change how business should intervene and innovate to tackle the environmental and social challenges of our time. We committed to managing our own footprint to radical action in climate action and biodiversity. True to our values we will vowed to remain peoplecentric and continue helping our communities to thrive. MAS mapped its sustainability goals in 2016 and made several clear commitments in our quest to drive sustainable manufacturing in Sri Lanka. 5|Page As the largest apparel and textile manufacturer in South Asia we have pledged to take radical climate action in the renewable energy space, to continuously manage the footprint of our business and to directly support biodiversity by creating habitats in 100 times the area we occupy. Within these goals we made 15 promises that will help us make a real difference between now and 2025. As one of the largest employers in Sri Lanka we also want to build greater diversity in the workplace, become a global employer of choice and help all our communities to thrive. These are goals we created after a two-year conversation that involved multiple stakeholders. It is also a vision we will continue to refresh and work on as we evolve into a global organisation. Throughout the last 3 years, additional studies were carried out to understand both employee and community perceptions on both the industry and the organisation. This report is an opportunity for MAS to map, evaluate and manage our targets against the promises we have made for 2025. It is also a chance to share our stories, our inspiration and innovations from within our facilities and our people. We have committed to a future that is driven by innovation and excellence with sustainability integrated across all our functions. We know this is a moving target with increasing challenges with each passing day which is why our ethos of continuous improvement and our precautionary approach plays a key role in how we tackle these issues head on. 6|Page SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE We have a driving force within MAS that is spearheaded by the Board and our Central team that help us activate bold decisions in areas that demand such action. In 2017 we focused on driving these actions in energy, chemicals, waste and biodiversity. At the same time, we continue to strengthen our resolve and our resources to tackle the challenges in our supply chain, materials and water. The overarching responsibility of driving sustainability within MAS sits with the MAS Capital Apparel Board, whose two key members oversee the main pillars of the group’s strategy. The chairman of MAS, the Apparel Board; and heads of each division, business unit and manufacturing facility, supported by departmental heads, are responsible to ensure that the group’s policy and strategy are respected and implemented across the organization. Operational Structure Chairman/Apparel Board – The responsibility and vision for the overall strategy lies with the chairman and the Apparel Board. Sustainability Advisory Board – This includes decision makers from the Board and from each business function, as well as key sustainability heads who will help steer the strategy in the right direction. Group Sustainability Team – This is a combined team of those who facilitate work at divisional level, drive strategy and coordinate core processes. The team is also the key reporting liaison between the advisory board and divisional heads. The Divisional Heads Council – This is a team of divisional sustainability heads, and includes both environmental and social sustainability leaders who decide how to implement the group-level strategy within their own divisions and SBUs. Divisional Operational Teams – These include divisional activators and their implementing teams, including technical leaders and engineers who help the divisions implement the work. SBU Teams – These include SBU-level management and champions who implement the work at local facility level. MATERIALITY & PROCESS MAS continues with the materiality assessment done previously, which was developed according to the AA1000AS. The Key measures that are mapped and monitored are an output of this materiality exercise. At MAS, Sustainability is a key driver of its business. The organisation considering its social and environmental impacts, places great importance on sustainable development and strongly believes that its economic impact and reputation are aligned to its ethos and initiatives. As an organisation into manufacturing with over 95,000 staff, the Group focuses on maintaining a highly motivated and productive workforce while being a socially responsible corporate citizen that contributes effectively to the country’s economy. MAS continues to work towards minimising its operational impacts through the entrenchment of responsible business practices and the monitoring of key sustainability performance indicators. 7|Page Sustainability process Stakeholder engagement via a qualitative 2rd party study as per AA1000SES Sustainability Cycle Continues Material Issues Identified & prioritized Align Policies and Processes Identify Measures Internal/External Identify/Align Initiatives Reporting The Sustainability process for MAS was further refined after the results of an internal materiality assessment and external independent stakeholder engagement exercise conducted by a verified third party under the AA1000SES standard. This led to the identification of material issues that aligns best with our work and values. We established our own unique measures on top of the GRI indicators. There is continuous review of existing policies that may align with these issues and gaps identified for future amendments and development. We have strategically categorised our key Sustainability initiatives as ‘Products made better’ to tackle our environmental agenda and ‘Lives made better’ for our social impact. The monitoring of indicators would further validate and identify relevant initiatives that need to be implemented. By this MAS has in place a comprehensive Sustainability Management Framework as part of its commitment to integrate sustainability into its business strategy. 8|Page TRACKING OUR PROGRESS Every year we set Key Performance Indicators for sustainability targets which cascade down to the divisions and the facilities through a formal goal-setting structure known as “Hoshin Kanri”. Each facility is given a long-term target and an annual reduction target to align their activities with the overarching goal. Our Sustainability Management Framework enables us to embed our strategy into corporate practice by providing a systematic, step-by-step guidance. This is further supported by a Sustainability performance system which is a cloud based ERP managed by an outsourced supplier. A dedicated team of Sustainability Champions representing each Division is in charge of the relevant business units, who in turn manage data entry on a quarterly, semi-annually and annual basis, of the Group’s sustainability performance. Our process involves the establishment of benchmarks and targets for identified sustainability indicators. Over the years we will continue to measure and assess performance of previous years and establish targets and benchmarks which align with the overall global targets set by MAS. These efforts are also directly linked to the reward and recognition structure of the organization. Since 2010 MAS environmental teams have used an internally built data collection tool called the Eco tracker to collect environmental data. In 2017 we introduced a single system to collect both our social and environmental data. A new combined database has been created for the purposes of calculating energy, water and waste usage, which is connected to a Power BI dashboard for monitoring our footprint. With the launch of the new system the data fields we focused on has also increased. In 2017, MAS decided to change our environmental data collection method from consumption based to purchase based to increase accuracy, consistency and to provide verification documents. The new system has helped us to streamline and collate our social indicators such as attrition, diversity, training hours, and health and safety incidents. We have learnt through these analytics that we need to do a lot more work in building gender equality in our senior leadership and to encourage more women to want careers in governance. Information derived from this system is published in our quarterly reports which are reviewed by the Executive Committees of each SBU, Division and the MAS Apparel board. The Group’s Sustainability divisions then operationalize relevant policies and processes based on the identified gaps and opportunities. 9|Page PARTNERSHIPS TO TRANSFORM MAS is always open to collaboration on every front and in 2017 we actively embraced partnerships that have given rise to massive shifts in culture, new systems and processes and new ways to tackle seemingly overwhelming challenges. Transformation across our industry will require a massive shift in how we work together towards common challenges and MAS is proud of the peers and partners who have been part of this quest to find answers to some of the biggest challenges of our time. GLOBAL INDUSTRY CHANGE We actively continued our collaboration with the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) of which MAS became a founding circle member in 2011. We contributed to the SAC’s agenda to create a global benchmark for sustainable apparel manufacture. NON-TOXIC BY NATURE MAS became the first manufacturer to join the ZDHC (Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals) as value chain affiliates in 2016. The partnership has grown with our Chemical Team being invited to become members of the MRSL Committee which influences the global standards for ZDHC members. ZONAL LANDFILL TACKLE In 2017 MAS signed on with the Board of Investment and INSEE Ecocycle for the construction of a Material Recovery Centre in the Biyagama Export Processing Zone that will tackle the issue of waste that goes to landfill from other industries in Sri Lanka. BIODIVERSITY BATTLE In 2017 MAS partnered with the Forest Department and Wildlife Department for a nation-wide MOU to restore habitats across Sri Lanka. The collaboration has seen our teams work closely with forestry officials to achieve habitat restoration across 600 acres in 2017. OCEAN OPPORTUNITIES 2016 -MAS partnered with the Sri Lanka Navy to collaborate on finding a nation-wide solution for the problem of plastic waste. The partnership paves the way for the Navy to begin recycling and collecting coastal plastic while commandeering and supporting MAS engineered coastal clean-up operations. 10 | P a g e PRODUCTS MADE BETTER 11 | P a g e PRODUCTS MADE BETTER In 2017 we aggressively pursued our environmental goals and are proud of the results. While our work is currently limited to Sri Lanka with measurements initiated in India, Bangladesh we are confident of pushing the agenda for adoption across our global footprint. In 2017 we focused on driving these actions in energy, chemicals, waste and biodiversity. At the same time, we continued to strengthen our resolve and our resources to tackle the challenges in our supply chain, materials and water. 12 | P a g e TOOLS OF CHANGE As with all initiatives the challenge for MAS is to sustain the progress and success we have achieved. To this end we have developed a series of systems and tools which have helped us standardize and improve our environmental performance with consistency over the years. As we grow our operation, these tools have become primary weapons in our battle to instill best practices as habits and opportunities across MAS. We are now evolving these same tools to a standard that we can openly share with the rest of the industry. THE MAS CALIBRATION TOOL We shared our internal MAS Calibration Tool V 1.2 with the Sustainable Apparel Coalition as a guide for any manufacturing facility to assess, benchmark rate and improve their operations by implementing minimum requirements and additional recommended actions. Within MAS we developed Version 2.0 of the Calibration Tool into an opportunity assessment of best practices that would drive innovation inside our facilities and support key improvements inside their operations. New changes in Ver 2.0 include: Indoor Air Quality We improved on the measurement of particulate matter and Volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Emissions Management We included Scope 3 emissions, streamlined recording of biomass, and included emissions reduction projects. Waste Management Introduced industry partnerships and symbiosis as well as closed loop waste generation and paperless processing and digital signage at all facilities. Building Site & Envelope We introduced heat island reduction and thermography surveys for all buildings with a focus on reducing heat absorbed from solar radiation 13 | P a g e MAS ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT TOOL For many years, we have measured the impact of our processes In 2017 the ERA became a internally and constantly sought to improve on them. In 2016, we mandatory tool for MAS. We decided to look outward with a proactive tool called the started the community perception Environmental Risk Assessment tool (ERA) to understand potential surveys and developing a factrisks our presence and operations could cause to the environment, based indicator list to map the surrounding communities and our people. progress over the years. The ERA tool is a proactive approach that goes beyond our Community related indicators boundaries and is unique in Sri Lanka. It was created to identify and included employment and characterize adverse risks to the immediate environment from the presence and/or operations of MAS’ manufacturing facilities in Sri business opportunities, Lanka. educational opportunities. We also added indicators on the The toolkit comprises two modules. The environmental module following. monitors solid/liquid waste, wastewater, incoming water, emissions, storage of gases and liquids, and noise. Availability of Common amenities and facilities Hospitals and other The socio-economic module identifies risks by surveying medical facilities, road quality, community perception by means of quantitative surveys and key public transport, water and informant interviews under the categories of employment electricity connections opportunities, business opportunities, educational opportunities, people and community, common amenities and facilities, nature and environment, law and order, and the political environment. Nature and environment (waste management, Noise and water The results of the ERA will enable the management of each pollution, flood and drought manufacturing facility to identify the source, magnitude and impacts, biodiversity, epidemics urgency of adverse risks specific to each facility. and malnutrition, human animal conflict) Political environment Law and order (crime rates) Other community prosperity indicators support of special needs children, employment status, vehicle ownership, home improvements 14 | P a g e HIGG INDEX The Higg Index is an apparel and footwear industry self-assessment standard introduced by the Sustainable Apparel Coalition for assessing environmental and social sustainability throughout the supply chain. Over 40% of MAS facilities were reporting on the Facilities Environmental Module 2.0 of the Higg Index as of end 2017. As a strategic member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition we supported the Index Development Council in the development of the FEM 3.0 and Social and Labour Module. Our engagement with the SAC has continued since 2011, and in 2017 we supported the SAC in its work to help converge to a single tool to alleviate audit fatigue across the industry while driving it towards a more ethical sustainable future. THE ZDHC GATEWAY The Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) gateway is an advanced online search engine to find ZDHC conformant chemicals from suppliers across the world registered as members of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals Foundation. The Gateway is open to everyone in the textile and leather industry including chemicals suppliers and manufacturers and brands. As one of the first manufacturers in the world to become value chain affiliates of ZDHC, MAS has already used the opportunity to push ZDHC standards to our chemical suppliers across the supply chain. 15 | P a g e CleanChain™ Chemical Management System In 2016 MAS signed on with ADEC Innovations Solutions for a chemical management software in a first of its kind collaboration. CleanChain™ was designed to support chemical management and zero toxic activities by letting brands, suppliers and chemical companies share and report on chemical information. As well as giving MAS easy access to this data from their own operations and supply chain, CleanChain™ allows us to share data with other stakeholders and access data that other users of the platform share, increasing transparency. Rather than having to produce individual reports for every customer that requests their chemical management data, MAS can link with them directly in CleanChain™ to share their information and data, saving time and resources. Since adopting CleanChain™, we have realized significant advances in the efficiency, efficacy and scope of durability to manage chemical information across the supply chain. • CleanChain™ has been implemented at 20 chemical-intensive manufacturing facilities inside MAS. • Visibility into all chemical use throughout operations • Development of clear targets to reduce use of hazardous chemicals in the supply chain • Reduced time, cost and administrative burden 16 | P a g e CHAMPION CLIMATE ACTION As we grow our operational footprint globally we remain conscious of our energy usage across the business. Across our operation we are continuously working to improve the efficiency of the energy we use for our manufacturing processes. Simultaneously we have begun working on sourcing sustainable renewable resources that meet our climate action goals and to ensure our operational growth stays in line with our energy strategy. MAS Photon was created in 2017 to meet one such goal to generate more renewable energy than we use. CRITICAL CARBON By 2025 we want to be In 2017 our target was to ON TRACK generating more achieve 30% renewable 47% of MAS currently runs renewable energy than energy for operations on renewable energy we consume in our operations. In 2017 we launched Project Photon to cover our rooftops with 20 MW of Solar PV. MAS GHG Policies As part of Championing climate action MAS has committed to generating more renewable energy that we consume and a 50% reduction of energy intensity by 2025 with respect to a base year of 2010. On the target for renewable energy, MAS took the first step in 2017 by starting a Solar project (MAS Photon) to install panels on all viable factory roofs in Sri Lanka. All new panels will be supplying electricity to the Sri Lankan Grid under the new government program “Soorya Bala Sangramaya”. Phase 1 of the project is expected to be completed by the end of 2018 and to produce approximately 21,000 MWh of electricity annually. MEASURING OUR PROGRESS While we stopped measuring our emissions intensity in 2015 we continue to closely monitor our energy intensity as a more efficient and accurate measurement of our emissions performance and roadmap. We continued our group wide 3rd party verification against ISO14064 standard for measurement and monitoring of our footprint a journey we began in 2013. 17 | P a g e In 2016 we generated 2.2 Million kWh of energy from our Solar Projects & avoided the release of 1003 Tonnes CO2e of Carbon Emissions ISO 14064:2006 OVERALL EMISSIONS 2016 40 Facilities Measured in CO2e Metric Tons SCOPE 1 | 18,822 SCOPE 1: Direct SCOPE 2 | 74,502 SCOPE 2: Purchased Electricity TOTAL | 93,324 MAS continued to measure its emissions footprint for 2016 with total avoided emissions of 1003 CO2e. Our greenhouse gas emissions were independently verified by TÜV Nord as per the ISO 14064-3 standard. The company boundary encompasses Scope 1 and 2 of MAS Capital business operations in Sri Lanka but excludes all Scope 3 emissions. 40 of our facilities in Sri Lanka received ISO 14064-3:2006 certification with a ‘Reasonable’ level of assurance for 2016. In its verification report TUV Nord says MAS Capital has carried out a substantial number of projects to date and have further projects in the pipeline which considerably reduce their GHG emissions. Renewable % in the energy mix 60.00 46.41 47.85 50.00 42.96 40.00 33.99 35.74 31.33 30.00 20.00 12.64 14.99 10.00 0.00 % renewable energy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 GHG Improvement Initiatives GHG emissions reductions for MAS Capital is a result of continuous cleaner energy projects (ex: bio mass conversions, solar thermal and solar PV) and energy efficiency improvements. They also involved the introduction and conversion of bio mass based steam generation as well as heat generation. Energy efficiency improvements focus on use of electricity in terms of lighting, air conditioning, compressed air systems and drivers. 18 | P a g e The first fuel switching project at MAS was concluded as far back as 2008 at Stretchline. Following this, two more large steam boilers switched from furnace oil use to biomass in 2011 and 2012. Over the years Prym Intimates, Vaanavil and Synergy also shifted from fossil fuels to biomass for steam generation resulting positive impacts towards the carbon footprints of the facilities and the products they manufacture. Currently Trischel Fabrics and Noyon Lanka is using heat generated through biomass for their operations. BIOGAS ADOPTION Despite the low exposure for biogas technology in the country, similar waste to energy projects are becoming increasingly popular among MAS facilities. Biogas generation from canteen food waste has been initiated at MAS Active Asialine since 2012. Unichela Koggala facility uses a different technology than the initial unit but thanks to an inhouse innovation reduces emissions from LPG usage in the kitchen. During 2016 Unichela Panadura installed a biogas plant. Solar PV technology was introduced to MAS prior to 2008 when MAS intimates Thurulie installed solar panels on their roof. While the sustainability initiative was gaining momentum within the group several facilities have installed new solar PV units. Annually the panels produce over 2000 Mwh with Existing projects at MAS have the following capacities: more than 1000 MTCO2e saving. All electricity produced from listed Solar projects are under the Linea Aqua 1 250 KW Net metering contract with the Sri Lankan Grid in Linea Aqua 2 5 KW which Solar is internally used by the facility and any MAS Fabrics Matrix995 KW excess is sold to the grid. Linea Clothing – 100 KW MDS – 328 KW Thurulie – 25 KW Giving a total solar capacity of 1.703 MW. EFFICIENCY PROJECTS Energy efficiency in lighting systems is improved though the use of T5 fluorescent lights, CFL and LED lighting. Use of skylights further reduces the requirement for artificial lighting and the use of intelligent switching mechanisms has allowed MAS to reduce energy demand while maintaining the desired lighting levels on the factory floor and in offices. Replacing and optimizing air conditioning systems to make sure that specific indoor conditions are met has yielded considerable savings in terms of energy demand and cost. Implementation of building management systems has led to a better appreciation of system inputs, outputs and processes which have yielded further 19 | P a g e energy savings. This has also lead to standardization of AC designing and has created a technical resource pool available for consultation on similar projects within the group. By minimizing leaks and optimizing load patterns on the compressors we have been able to reduce energy use related to compressed air generation and distribution. Periodic checks to prevent leakage and minimize have allowed our manufacturing facilities to utilize systems to their full potential. Use of energy efficient motors for sewing machines has significantly contributed to our energy savings throughout the year. Use of Variable Speed Drives (VSD) and servo motors were carried as large-scale projects throughout the group Despite not being captured under the banners of scope 1 and 2, the launch of the transport management system will lead to significant emission reductions savings related to employee travel and goods transportation. The project is being rolled out across the group and will provide an insight on to tracking employee commute and will provide a basis for scope 3 transport emissions disclosure at a later stage. ENERGY SPOTLIGHT: INVASIVES TO BIOFUEL Since 2007 Linea Aqua has been removing the aggressive invasive tree Mesquite (Prosopis juliflora) from over 700 acres of the Bundala National Park which has been overrun by the species. Locally known as Kalapu andara the tree is native to central & south America & the Caribbean region. In 1880 it was introduced to Sri Lanka as a shade & erosion control tree in the dry zone. Due to its ability to withstand harsh environmental conditions, and prolific growth rate, is ranked as one of the worst invasive species in the world. In 2017 MAS Kreeda Synergy piloted the first attempt to switch from regular biomass to Mesquite cut offs from the invasive removal project. BIODIVERSITY IMPACT The Mesquite canopy suppresses undergrowth, affecting plant diversity as native species simply cannot compete. The trees have spread rapidly in protected areas such as Bundala and it is estimated that mesquite already covers one third of the Park, which is vital wetland for migratory birds and Ramsar site. ENERGY IMPACT As mesquite wood contains high calorific value, it is an ideal source of fuel. Synergy has now shared their learnings with other MAS divisions who currently use regular biomass while the Central Sustainability Team has begun working on a groupwide strategy to consider more invasive species in the group’s biomass mix while also eventually reducing overall dependence on the resource which although renewable can indirectly cause deforestation due to the scale of demand by industries. 20 | P a g e ENERGY SPOTLIGHT: THE START OF A ROOFTOP REVOLUTION “MAS plans to have a Net Positive impact in our energy space by 2025. It’s time we move beyond the simple cost benefit lens of switching to solar. We need to invest because the cost of doing nothing is far greater. Energy is no longer a right it is a responsibility. Photon is an investment that will help us reach that goal and also send a clear message that this is the new norm for industry now. And as one of the largest manufacturers in Sri Lanka, it is simply right that we commence the movement to renewable energy with an initiative that really make a difference.” Shirendra Lawrence, Apparel Board Member & Chief Operating Officer of MAS Holdings In 2017 MAS launched a new business unit ‘MAS Photon’, exclusively to manage a massive renewable energy drive to mount 27 MW of Solar PV on our rooftops across Sri Lanka. As the largest rooftop solar drive to be launched in Sri Lanka MAS Photon will see the installation of 24 rooftop Solar PV Systems covering an extensive 2 million square feet, spanning from Kilinochchi in the North to southern tip of Koggala. Photon will serve as a business unit to channel renewable energy income towards one source, thereby garnering a stable fund to support future renewable energy opportunities. Staying abreast of global environmental trends while meeting the local sustainable environmental goals, Team Photon is also preparing to venture into next generation solutions for battery storage. 21 | P a g e RESPONSIBLE ENERGY By 2025 we will strive to In 2017 ON TRACK achieve the highest Identify energy reduction level in energy pathways and build efficiency by reducing efficiency roadmap our intensities by 50% Throughout 2017 we continued to actively install energy efficient technologies and innovations across MAS in 2017. Our energy efficiency investments included several projects from large scale compressor modifications to smaller projects such as LED lighting and engineering initiatives that resulted in significant energy and cost savings. HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS Energy Intensity measurement Function Numerator Denominator Sri Lanka Apparel Total energy purchased (MJ) Standard hours Fabric Processing Total energy purchased (MJ) KG produced Apparel Component Total energy purchased (MJ) Standard hours Seamless knitted Garments Total energy purchased (MJ) KG produced Garment Accessories Total energy purchased (MJ) Turnover (USD) Knitting Under fabric production Overseas Apparel Total energy purchased (MJ) Standard hours 22 | P a g e While we continue to grow the business and our energy use most of our business functions have reduced their energy intensity since 2010 with Garment Accessories achieving a reduction of 87% and Apparel Components achieving a 47% reduction. Energy KPI Energy Intensity % reduction Measurement Intensity Intensity Intensity Function 2017/2010* 2017/2016* 2010 2016 2017 Sri Lanka 9.84 7.90 7.36 -25.14% -6.79% MJ/SDH Apparel Fabric 109.31 85.41 83.86 -23.28% -1.81% MJ/KG Processing Apparel 81.42 36.73 45.23 -44.44% 23.15% MJ/SDH Component Seamless knitted 145.44 144.51 139.41 -4.15% -3.53% MJ/KG Garments Garment 18.03 2.54 2.33 -87.11% -8.46% MJ/USD Accessories Overseas 7.04 5.92 -15.91% MJ/SDH Apparel** **A negative value denotes an intensity reduction. 23 | P a g e ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Since 2011 we have been deploying the Schneider Ion 6.0 across MAS as our overall energy management system. The system helps us monitor and record energy variations across the day in multiple locations of each facility. In 2017 we upgraded it to Schneider's Power Monitoring Expert to monitor 650 energy meters across 59 sites. The upgrade allows plant engineers to monitor usage in real time and generate trends based on the data. TOTAL ENERGY BY FUNCTION (MJ) Sri Lanka Apparel Fabric Processing 49.70% Fabric Processing Apparel Component Apparel Component 5.02% Seamless knitted Garments Sri Lanka Apparel Seamless knitted 21.65% Garments Garment Accessories 16.82% Overseas Apparel Overseas Apparel Garment Accessories 3.47% 3.33% Biomass powers a majority of our renewable energy which is why we have set up a plan to standardise its sourcing as part of ensuring our usage does not cause deforestation or supply chain issues. We have sought out a standard to ensure our biomass is sourced responsibly and that we as a business will steadily lower our usage of this resource and seek other renewable alternatives in the future. MAS TOTAL ENERGY MIX 24 | P a g e ENERGY MIX (MJ) 2017 Petrol solar power 0.12% 0.63% Electricity Diesel Electricity Biomass 43.30% LPG 47.21% Biogas Kerosene HFO Biomass Petrol solar power HFO Diesel 3.35% Kerosene Biogas LPG 3.76% 0.52% 0.00% 1.10% COUNTRY-WISE BREAKDOWN ENERGY MIX (MJ) 2017 SRI LANKA solar power Petrol 0.60% 0.02% Electricity Diesel Electricity 42.34% LPG Biogas Biomass Kerosene 48.85% HFO Biomass Petrol solar power Diesel 3.05% HFO Kerosene Biogas LPG 3.46% 0.54% 0.00% 1.14% 25 | P a g e ENERGY MIX (MJ) 2017 INDIA ENERGY MIX (MJ) 2017 BANGLADESH Petrol Solar Power Petrol 1.81% 2.32% 6% Diesel Diesel 22.25% 29% Electricity Electricity Diesel Diesel Petrol Petrol solar power Electricity Electricity 73.63% 65% 26 | P a g e MANAGE OUR FOOTPRINT While being headquartered in Sri Lanka, MAS has evolved into a global company with 53 manufacturing facilities placed across 16 countries, with design locations placed in key style centers across the globe, and over 95,000 people involved in its operation. This growing footprint demands us to be even more vigilant about our impact on the environment we operate in. It is also an opportunity for us to evolve the ethos of responsible manufacturing we have been practicing all along. While our current environmental practices and policies only apply to Sri Lanka in 2017 we have expanded the reporting system to 3 facilities in India and 1 in Bangladesh as of 2015. WATER VIGILANCE By 2025 we seek to reduce In 2017 we achieved a 30% ON TRACK our water intensities by 75% reduction in liters per Kg of We intend to introduce more product since 2011 sustainable systems to treat our waste water and to build 3.7% reduction in liters per long term solutions through person per 10-hour shift since our innovation pipeline 2013. The Fashion industry depends on water and we know it. Therefore, we are focused on the quality of our water and how we use and treat it at MAS. Almost all MAS business functions achieved intensity reductions from their baseline year thanks to efficiency targets and innovations introduced throughout the year. While our usage continues to grow we have continued our efficiency and recycling measures throughout 2017 and are developing innovations to drastically reduce this footprint and find ways to lessen our usage as well as pioneer new treatment methods that will transform how we treat water. MAS currently owns and runs a state-of-the-art in-house water treatment plant at the MAS Fabric Park in Thulhiriya which provides about 20% of the group’s total water needs. MAS also revises its strategies annually to meet its Water KPIs to achieve a 50% Water Intensity Reduction by 2020, while enhancing our final discharge qualities. 27 | P a g e Function Water Intensity Measurement Numerator Denominator Sri Lanka Apparel Total water withdrawn (L) per 10-hour shift per person Fabric Processing Total water withdrawn (L) KG produced Apparel Component Total water withdrawn (L) per 10-hour shift per person Seamless knitted Garments Total water withdrawn (L) KG produced Garment Accessories Total water withdrawn (L) KG produced Knitting Total water withdrawn (L) per 10-hour shift per person Overseas Apparel Total water withdrawn (L) per 10-hour shift per person Water KPI Water Intensity % reduction 2017/Base Function 2011 2013 2016 2017 2017/2016 year Sri Lanka Apparel 59.71 55.39 55.63 -6.83% 0.44% Apparel Component 135.31 80.90 85.65 -36.70% 5.86% Knitting ** 138.10 139.55 1.05% Overseas Apparel 59.43 64.42 8.40% Fabric Processing 259.07 251.86 190.28 184.53 -28.77% -3.02% Seamless knitted 475.93 403.93 303.32 320.75 -32.60% 5.75% Garments Garment 384.29 334.7 241.26 158.21 -58.83% -34.42% Accessories **A negative value denotes an intensity reduction while a positive value means an increase in intensity. 28 | P a g e TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWN (M3) 2017 City water 83.85% City water Tube well Dug well Bowser Water dispensers Reused water Rain water Rain water 0.17% Tube well Reused water Water dispensers Dug well 7.45% Bowser 3.31% 0.01% 2.14% 3.05% We increased our percentage of recycled water as a first strategy towards reducing usage in our Fabrics division. In 2017 our total recycled and reused water reached 90,867 M3. Our largest water users which are the Fabrics plants also became the largest water saver thanks to this recycling and reuse strategy. Fabrics achieved a 28% intensity reduction since 2011. While we continued to harvest the rain to the effect of 4,690 M3 annually we also intend to recharge groundwater at our facilities as part of our water conscious approach to groundwater replenishment. The strategy will depend on specific rainwater recharging technology and will be rolled out in 2018. WATER BY SOURCE OUTSIDE SRI LANKA WATER BY SOURCE: INDIA 2017 WATER BY SOURCE: BANGLADESH 2017 Tube well City water 38.86% 97.91% City water City water Tube well Water dispensers Reused water City Water Reused dispensers water 2.09% 35.36% water 25.77% 29 | P a g e Function Way forward MAS Apparel Plants / Hostels All existing Sewage Treatment Plants to be operationally optimized to etc. where normal Sewerage is above national discharge standards with greater focus on quality generated enhancement. All future expansions to be done via NBS technology. (for re-cycling back to cooling towers – toilet flushing & landscaping). If any SBU does not have enough land space, they are recommended to re-cycle treated wastewater using ultrafiltration (UF) and reverse osmosis (RO). MAS Fabrics and Optimize the process water use via dye cycle optimizations Apparel-other Re-use the heat exchanger hot water streams Re-cycle the treated wastewater portion back to the process use / washing. Any SBU which has unused Rainwater groundwater recharge technology to retain rainwater land above 1 acre within the complex and use their own premises to enhance water retention. WATER SPOTLIGHT: USING PLANTS TO TREAT WASTE WATER Picture credits to Ayala Water & Ecology & MAS Fabric Park Thulhiriya We constantly ask ourselves the question “How can we make our non-textile wastewater treatment more sustainable?” MAS currently has 30 non-textile Wastewater Treatment Plants across the Group within its apparel facilities also known as Sewerage Treatment Plants or STPs all of which use the regular industrial treatment method with special infrastructure and chemicals. In 2017 our engineers discovered and studied a successful system being implemented in India and Israel that uses Natural Biological Systems or wetland plants as the core method to treat waste water. 30 | P a g e Infographic credits to Ayala Water & Ecology & MAS Fabric Park The methodology uses minimal electricity, zero chemicals and purifies air and sewage at the same time with zero waste. MAS is currently testing a solution that can achieve the following impacts. • Can treat large amounts of industrial Waste water and sewage • Uses zero Chemicals and leaves no residual sludge • Minimal use of manpower & energy to maintain • A system that can be easily adopted by anyone be it industrial or residential • Poses no health hazard to people or has no adverse biodiversity impact The model developed in 2017 is currently being developed for MAS Vaanavil in Kilinochchi, the new MAS Fabric Park in Giriulla and a staff dormitory in Kandy. EFFICIENCY IMPACT With a collection tank, various strategically chosen and placed flower beds and one gardener the system can be used to treat 4,000 m3 a day. An industrial plant, hotel, or residence can cut-down about 30-40% of the monthly water bill through this system. BIODIVERSITY & HEALTH IMPACT In keeping with its biodiversity commitments MAS has selected local plant species endemic to the area of the treatment facility. The teams have also been careful not to include either invasive or imported seeds for the process. No wastewater can be seen from above removing the threat of bad odour or the breeding of disease carrying pests such as mosquitoes. 31 | P a g e WASTE WATCH By 2025 we want to value In 2017 we diverted 89% of our ON TRACK enhance all our waste waste from landfill through We also began testing a Wasteenergy recovery, recycling and to-Energy boiler as a scalable reuse. solution for Sludge, Polythene and Fabric waste. We invested in our first Material Recovery Center to tackle landfills at both SBU and Zonal levels. As one of the largest manufacturers our responsibility to manage and dispose our waste is as great as our impact. In 2017 our waste strategy prioritized generation, prevention and the 3R concepts in order to reduce the environmental impacts of waste generated by MAS. We are always seeking to exceed local and international environmental regulations, and to achieve zero waste to landfill by 2020. We also introduced several material innovations that sought to reuse our waste as a raw material and others which revolutionised how clothes are made. STP ETP WASTE BY TYPE Ash 0.02% 7.50% Contaminated fabric 1.79% 0.94% Fabrics Mixed waste Fabrics 10.15% Foam 37.16% Garments Food 13.45% Cardboard Paper Polythene Polythene 2.87% Paper Foam Cardboard Food 2.43% Garments 11.73% 11.43% 0.52% WASTE BY DISPOSAL METHOD Landfill Other Incineration 11.05% 0.17% Reuse 1.71% 25.90% Reuse Recycle Energy Recovery Incineration Energy Recovery Landfill 39.14% Recycle Other 22.03% 32 | P a g e While we know and segregate all types of waste at MAS we also believe creating a culture of waste consciousness is key to achieving real behavioral change. Across 2017 all our SBUs conducted several initiatives on waste that impacted our employees and our communities. We engineered innovative solutions within each facility that helped us reduce our waste footprint. WASTE PROJECTS & INNOVATIONS 2017 MAS Intimates Waste solutions Fabric off cuts recycling project was successfully implemented at following plants with HY Vital recyclers. • UPL, Biyagama & Koggala, Casualline • Linea Clothing, Linea Intimates, Slimtex, Vidiyal Innovated solutions to dispose hazardous waste at Silueta was collaborated with INSEE & Intimates R&D team. These waste categories are as follows: • CNC fiber off cuts >100 Kg • CCP Glass beads – 100 Kg • CNC eco oil – 4000 L • MDI (methylene diphenyl diisocyanate) MAS Eco Brick We improved our Eco Brick operation which converts our industrial sludge to bricks and tiles and gained momentum with the addition of new machinery. We made over 220,000 bricks in 2017 and processed over 1,800 MT of sludge in our state-of-the-art Solar Drying facility in Biyagama. We also sought to scale the operation to a national level with the collaboration of other industrial partners. In 2018 we will seek partners to expand this innovation across Sri Lanka. WASTE SPOTLIGHT: ZERO LANDFILL CERTIFICATION Throughout 2017 MAS Fabrics MATRIX worked towards the globally acclaimed ‘Zero Waste to Landfill’ certification by Intertek Canada. By marking this milestone, MAS Fabrics – MATRIX becomes the first to earn the prestigious certification in the sphere of textile, footwear and apparel sectors across the globe. Once a company applies for the ZWL certification, a stringent assessment methodology follows, where waste disposal records as well as waste management service providers are all subjected to close scrutiny and inspection. Moreover, ZWL recognizes and rewards the efforts taken by an organization to improve positive impact on the environment, setting the relevant organization as an epitome for others to follow. The evaluation 33 | P a g e and auditing period began on 1st January 2017 and upon completion of the assessment MAS Fabrics MATRIX received a diversion rate of 99.64%. “We are extremely proud to have achieved this certification and more so to have set the benchmark. The goal is not simply to win awards or to be certified but to validate our work and to share our stories so that others can follow suit. This change in how we think about waste needs to happen yesterday.” Ivan Brown CEO MAS FABRICS Matrix WASTE SPOTLIGHT: MAS OCEANS PROJECT The Oceans Project began with the realization that Sri Lanka’s beaches are currently being swallowed by municipal and ocean waste. The Central Sustainability Team set out to discover the scope of this problem with the Navy in 2015. An island wide location scout was carried out to determine sources of waste, the biggest polluting factors and what solution MAS can work on as a responsible business. We discovered to our surprise that the Navy was already engaged in weekly cleanups at every Naval base and was collecting 800 Kilos of waste a week. After months of studying the best solution we signed an MOU with the Sri Lanka Navy that would allow us to fund and bolster the Navy’s effort with some of our own technology and culture building expertise. The MOU signed in 2016 focuses on finding a nation-wide solution for the problem of plastic waste. The collaboration has paved the way for the Navy to begin recycling and collecting coastal plastic while commandeering and supporting MAS engineered coastal cleanup operations. On our own MAS has begun innovating solutions with our own customers and partners towards the goal of finding closed loop solutions to this universal challenge of ocean plastic. MAS has also partnered with the Beira group as a responsible recycling partner with the intention and capacity to provide a closed loop solution to plastic waste in Sri Lanka. Beira and MAS are now working with the SL Navy 34 | P a g e to set up multiple collection centers for PET Plastic and will collaborate further toward innovating products from plastic. ZERO TOXIC DIFFERENCE By 2025 we want to be zero In 2017 we got 80% of our ON TRACK toxic in product, process and chemical suppliers on the supply chain ZDHC Gateway All MAS facilities are ZDHC MRSL Phase 2 Compliant The MAS Chemical Workstream was formed in 2013 to put the group on the path to responsible chemical management. Since then we have initiated groundbreaking changes in how we want the role of chemistry to evolve in and outside the industry. Inside MAS we adopt a 3-prong approach to managing our chemicals. Input Stream Management where we consider chemicals which enter our manufacturing process Process where we implement policies conduct trainings audit and handle inventory management storage etc. Discharge – We focus on effluent generated from our facilities and remained compliant with ZDHC wastewater guidelines 2017 and MAS Calibration Tool to measure emissions inside chemical operation areas (Pad printing areas, etc.) ZDHC Compliance Since becoming one of the first manufacturers to join the global response to toxicity in the industry MAS remains a key member in deploying the standards given by the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Foundation and approaching the requirements as per the roadmap. All MAS facilities are Phase 2 compliant while all our wet processing plants are compliant with ZDHC Wastewater guidelines. As part of our Phase II compliance our products and processes are now free of APEOs, banned Azo dyes, Phthalates, Heavy metals, SCCPs, Chlorobenzenes and PFCs. We are also meeting our 2018 targets of eliminating Organotin, Chlorophenol, Flame retardants, Glycol and PAH. Supply Chain We are proud to have 80% of our process chemical suppliers registered in the ZDHC Gateway by the end of 2017. All remaining suppliers will be tested as per the ZDHC MRSL guidelines. While our final objective is to encourage our supply chain to register with the gateway we will also seek more “Level 3”products in the system as a long-term approach. We are moving aggressively on this front to get our supply chain on board ZDHC standards. All subcontractors will face detailed assessments that include quality checks of their input streams, audits of their processes to ensure storage handling and use of PPEs. By the end of 2018 all MAS subcontractors will complete the ZDHC WW testing as per ZDHC guidelines. 35 | P a g e 36 | P a g e SPOTLIGHT: World’s first APEO free Ghost Image Remover Screen printing remains the most popular method of printing on fabric. But a key part of screen printing poses a chemical challenge. Even once all inks and designs are washed away there remains a ‘ghost image’ which can only be removed by a chemical. All these years the industry has used a remover that is loaded with a toxic chemical ingredient called APEOs or Alkylphenol Ethoxylates which is among the 11 Priority Chemical groups banned by the ZDHC. APEOs can impair human fertility and turn male fish into female fish in certain aquatic conditions. After approaching all its suppliers, the MAS Chemical Team developed a safer alternative through a vendor who would give them an APEO free product. The solution meets all the performance standards and costs the same as its toxic equivalent. ZDHC Foundation Annual Meeting The MAS central chemical management team shared our Zero toxic journey at the annual meeting of The ZDHC Foundation in Amsterdam. We were one of two global players representing manufacturers in Amsterdam. As part of our contribution and input we have been invited to sit in the ZDHC MRSL Advisory Committee that recommends guidelines for the global industry. “We used our time to share our work, our perspective and made a callout for a more collective effort towards ridding the industry of toxic chemicals. MAS is proud to be influencing the industry including our partners and supply chains. It’s a role and responsibility we will continue to take seriously in the future” Sharika Senanayake – Director Environmental Sustainability MAS Holdings 37 | P a g e MATERIAL COUNT Our usage of recycled and sustainable materials has increased over the years as more divisions increased their usage of recycled polyester and organic cotton. The work to include sustainability criteria in all our products is closely aligned with our Higg commitments as we work towards finding solutions that fit the different needs of our customers. In 2017 MAS Intimates alone achieved 59 Million US$ in revenue from its sustainable materials product range. Modal / Modal Blends Organic /BCI Cotton Recycled Polyester Organic Cotton Standard MAS Intimates MAS Kreeda MAS Intimates MAS Kreeda MAS Fabrics MAS Kreeda 15,358,051 592,000 18,367,346 8,750,000 478,000 Kg 71,000 Yards Products Yards Products Yards of Yarn Fair Trade Recycled Claim Certified Standard MAS Intimates MAS Intimates 462,000 2,022 Products Products 38 | P a g e SUPPORT A THRIVING PLANET When we mapped our sustainability goals in 2016 we made three clear commitments in our quest to drive sustainable manufacturing in Sri Lanka. One key pledge was to directly support biodiversity by creating habitats in 100 times the area we operate. That’s a footprint of 250 acres which gave us a target of 25,000 acres of forest to grow, protect or conserve. HABITAT RESTORATION In 2017 we set out to achieve By 2025 we want to restore 250 acres, equal to our ON TRACK habitats in 100 times the current footprint. We space we occupy. That’s over overachieved our target to We intend to restore and 25,000 acres. complete over 500 acres protect 1,000 acres in 2018 as across Sri Lanka. part of our 1:100 goal. The idea to enter this space of biodiversity grew from a simple question we asked ourselves ‘How can we help restore the biodiversity we may have either displaced or destroyed by our physical presence?’ This simple question grew into a larger more ambitious vision – to attempt to restore and replace 100 times the physical space we occupy. The aim is not just to grow trees but to impact biodiversity and restore life. “It’s critical that business intervene to turn the tide of deforestation. The time for action is not even now – it was day before yesterday. We are losing our forests faster than we can replant them. Conservative estimates say Sri Lanka is losing 8,000 hectares of forest cover each year and more critically we are losing our precious endemic species of flora and fauna at alarming rates. This is not just about growing trees and covering acres it’s about restoring life.” Sarinda Unamboowe, Board Member overseeing environmental sustainability. In 2017 MAS set out to reforest, protect or conserve 250 acres, equal to the space we occupy in Sri Lanka but thanks to the incredible passion and dedication by our teams and the continuing support from the Forest Department, Wildlife Department and other stakeholders we have achieved double the impact. Throughout 2017 sustainability teams from all divisions of MAS collectively made an impact on over 500 acres with a 5 to 7 year commitment to maintain and ensure the projects keep growing. 39 | P a g e FACTS FROM THE FRONT LINE MAS chose 27 sites for their unique biodiversity challenges across Sri Lanka. 8.6 acres of Afforestation: Establishing forests in an area where there was no previous tree cover. 24.5 acres of Analog Forestry: An agroforestry model that has both ecosystem & human uses 149 acres of Restoration: Restore degraded land to forest level & restore biodiversity in other areas 384.2 acres of Invasive Removal & Enrichment: Remove exotic species that hinder natural forest succession 22.8 acres of Forest Gardens: Create forest habitat inside/near facilities to promote biodiversity-Butterfly, Herbal, Organic etc. 7 acres of Conservation: Protect existing climax forests from destruction In 2017 sustainability teams from all division of MAS i.e. Active, Kreeda, Intimates, Linea Aqua, Fabrics, MFP, MAS Capital, Prym, Stretchline, BPU and Bodyline collectively made an impact on over 500 acres with a 5-7-year commitment to maintain and ensure the projects keep growing. “As the division with the largest physical footprint of 83 acres MAS Intimates teams worked with great effort and commitment throughout the year to achieve above and beyond our target and reached 146 acres of habitat restoration. We will continue the work we do to do our part in covering 8,300 acres by 2025.” Vidhura Ralapanawe General Manager Environmental Sustainability MAS Intimates 40 | P a g e Connect with MAS on sustainability@masholdings.com to find out more or join the reforestation effort. In 2018 MAS has targeted habitat replacement across 1,000 acres in the journey to 25,000 acres by 2025. SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLES Building a culture inside MAS that encourages and rewards real action towards a better future is almost a daily practice within all our manufacturing facilities. We believe behavioural change comes after repeated efforts that offer both education, opportunities to act and the right tools. In 2017 we gave our employees all these and more and witnessed incredible results. Across all divisions we conducted over 40 culture changing events across MAS impacting over 75,000 employees and community members from across Sri Lanka. SPOTLIGHT: Sri Pada Summit Rescue Every year over 2 million people make the 2,200-meter climb to the holy peak of Sri Pada for all kinds of reasons and every year they also leave behind a giant mountain of trash. For several years small environmental teams from MAS facilities across Sri Lanka have been making the same journey for a different kind of pilgrimage. 41 | P a g e Nature club members from MAS Contourline, Linea Aqua and Synergy have been cleaning up the garbage on Sri Pada since 2014 … the teams climb all night and work their way down the mountain searching for the tiniest piece of trash stuck in trees, buried in soil or even sometimes floating in water. We have in individual teams collected over 500 kilos at every clean up Biodiversity workstream head Lalith Herath from Linea Aqua “In March 2017 MAS began a conversation with Rhythm World who invited us to a massive clean-up of Sri Pada as part of a drive to change attitudes about tossing garbage during pilgrimages at a sacred site like Sri Pada. We put a call out to all our facilities across Sri Lanka and we received an overwhelming response from them all – more than 2,000 people wanted to join even after they were told about 12-degree weather conditions and closed access to the peak Shahen Amaratunge from the Central Sustainability Team. In the end 750 people turned up from MAS for the job, fully understanding the task in front of them to climb the mountain from midnight and reach all the designated parts of the mountain. Five teams climbed all night and cleaned all day to collectively gather 3 metric tonnes of garbage – 80% of it made up of plastic bottles, polythene bags and toffee wrappers. AWARDS & RECOGNITION 42 | P a g e 43 | P a g e National Green awards Bronze Award Asialine has been recognized for the great efforts that they are continuously putting into the environmental sustainability and they have been awarded with bronze at National Green awards 2017 Contourline – JASTECA CSR/Sustainability Award “Eco Club” at Contourline has been recognized as one of the great initiatives which actively participates employees at Contourline to reduce the environmental footprint within the organization and externally at the JASTECA Award Ceremony 2017 and has been awarded with Merit under the CSR/Sustainability category. EARTH HOUR 2017 MAS Intimates Casualline once again impacted more than 20,000 people for Earth Hour and initiated a herbal garden competition among 32 local schools. All MAS divisions have been able to successfully organize a set of various events related to Water Day and Earth Hour 2017, engaging the employees at the plants and the surrounding communities. Almost all divisions carried out the following events for Earth Hour and Water Day • Water Day & Earth Hour awareness & Video Presentation • Water Day & Earth Hour School art competition • Environmental Poster distribution for Schools • Leaflet distribution for parents at Kengalla school • Poetry competition for employees • Visual awareness on energy & water saving • Water Day poster competition for employees' children • Electricity bill reduction competitions • Water bill reduction competitions • Earth Hour e-mail campaign COMMUNITY & STUDENT ENGAGEMENT MAS FABRICS Matrix Green Schools MAS FABRICS Matrix were recognized for their Green Schools project received a merit award for appreciation of our school programs – Young sustainability leaders building program from the Japan Sri Lanka Technical and Cultural Association (JASTECA). Started in Q3 of 2016 Matrix created an internal team lead by engineering and HR for this awareness building program. The team collaborated with both the University of Kelaniya and Center for Sustainability as part of the development and roll out plan. So far Matrix teams have worked with 10 local schools over the span of 2017 and have contacted and trained around 2,500 school children. The team is now working on monthly school programs and have extended the sessions to nearby technical colleges and the community as well. In future Matrix is in negotiations with the Central Environment Authority and Ministry of Education to obtain accreditation for the program and add greater value for its participants. 44 | P a g e Vihara Mahadevi School project MAS Active conducted a day long workshop on “Sustainability Leadership” for students of the Vihara Mahadevi Girls’ School, Kiribathgoda, with lessons on E-waste collection, workshops for A/L students, an art competition for primary students that was in collaboration with the Kelaniya University. Debate Competition for school children in Biyagama Linea Intimo has been able to successfully conduct a debating competition for school children in Biyagama. Students from Vishaka Vidyalaya in Sapugaskanda, Mahamaya Balika Vidyalaya in Kadawatha, Bomiriya Central College in Bomiriya and Biyagama Central College in Biyagama participated in this program. Waste bin donation to CEA and Tree planting at school, As an Environment Day initiative, the MAS KREEDA Intimo team prepared waste bins out of cleaned chemical barrels and donated them to the CEA to implement waste segregation programmes. Urban area cleanup with the “Parisara Mithuro” foundation The sustainability team at Sleekline organized a cleanup campaign collaboratively with the Parisara Mithuro (Friends of the Environment) organization to clean the Nittambuwa bus stop and the urban area around it in the latter part of the year 2017. The cleanup team comprised of team members, staff & executives. Shadowline – Negombo Lagoon Cleanup MAS ACTIVE Shadowline engaged local communities and the Police to clean up the Mora wala which is part of the Negombo Lagoon in March 2017. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Tree Huggers Club & Biodiversity engagement The divisional sustainability team conducted a tree distribution program for the employees at MAS Active center. This was done as part of the Nation Tree Planting Day to encourage home gardening among our employees. We distributed more than 70 saplings among employees. The team also created the “Active Tree Huggers” official WhatsApp group for the employees who took part in this program to share their tree stories and to conduct other various environmental sustainability interactive and interesting activities. A team from Asialine visited one of MAS Active’s flagship biodiversity sites and conducted a tree plantation program collaboratively with the divisional sustainability team. A set of team members, compliance and sustainability executives at Asialine and the field officers of the department of Wildlife Conservation participated for this event. MAS Intimates Rapid completed their ‘Arunella’ 1000 trees planting project with community schools Inter SBU art competition The MAS Active Divisional Team organized an art competition and exhibition for their employees’ children for Environmental day 2017. All SBUs participated and over 800 paintings were submitted by the kids. MAS Nirmaana hosted an exhibition of the work in their studio for a week and winners and all participants were rewarded. Scavenger hunt The MAS KREEDA and Active divisional sustainability teams organized a scavenger hunt for staff at its Operational Center in Nawala for Environment Day 2017. Teams of 4 participated from all departments and HR team emerged the winners of the game which covered all elements in the environment air, water, flora, fauna, waste, energy, chemicals etc. 45 | P a g e Be Drastic Cut Plastic More divisions adopted the campaign with the introduction of cloth bags and water bottles for their staff. The pioneers of the project MAS intimates MDS technical team introduced a cloth bag to replace 7,000 polythene packaging for cut kits per month. Internal Team Forum at Roonakanda MAS KREEDA conducted an environmental team forum at the Roonakanda conservation center for 2 days in May 2017 with the goal of allowing the teams to connect with nature more closely. The teams spent two days learning sustainable lifestyle practices, adaption to life in a forest and observation and appreciation of biodiversity in the area. Good Market for Employees The Good Market is a curated community of social enterprises and responsible businesses that are good for people and good for the planet. It functions as both a global site and a physical store that includes a community of vendors, artists and activists who seek to make a sustainable difference. Both MAS Active and MAS Kreeda held Good Market events where selected vendors were called in to share their products and services with employees. A Good Market promotion campaign was organized by the Linea Intimo team in the month of November to promote a sustainable home. The vendors promoted household items and fashion accessories made from recycled and up-cycled waste material. NATIONAL & INDUSTRIAL EVENTS Board of Investment Industrial Forum For Environment Day Nirmaana and Leisureline teams conducted a forum for Katunayeka BOI zone on sustainable industries with key issues such as waste management and water quality as well as sustainable communities in focus. Environmental Pioneer Programme 2017 MAS Kreeda sponsored and supported an offsite Environmental pioneer programme which was conducted by the Central Environmental Authority at the Kotagala teachers training school for 500 students for 4 days, these selected students are next examined for presidential gold Environmental Pioneer award after attending the camp. MAS KREEDA shared their learnings with the students and sponsored the national camp with t-shirts and sustainable bag for participants and participated the camp at Kotagala. NCPC Debate The National Cleaner Production Center (NCPC) organized a debate competition for several organizations. MAS KREEDA sent 5 teams from 5 separate SBUs and Nirmaana won 1st runner up in the event. The debate was held at the rubber research institute for Environment Day 2017. Participating SBUs included Leisureline, LAITC, Mihinthale, Nirmaana and Synergy. 46 | P a g e LIFESTYLES SPOTLIGHT: THE FOREST GARDENS OF MAS Linea Intimates leveraged their organic home gardening model to 30 community schools and implemented a long-term training programme. Slimline implemented an organic home gardening project as an extension of their Green Smart City and started training the community. UPL Koggala implemented an organic garden as a byproduct of their waste management system. Almost 80% of their wet/cooked food waste is being converted to biogas. Vidiyal implemented the division’s largest organic garden and partnered with Sarvodaya and Jaffna University to take the training to the community. MAS Active employees visited the Dilmah Organic garden throughout the year to learn and successful gardens initiated at participants households. Both MAS Active and MAS Kreeda created award winning herbal, organic and butterfly gardens inside their premises as part of creating forest gardens to encourage biodiversity in and around MAS facilities. The projects were initiated and completed purely with our own expertise in organic and butterfly garden systems and has been an inspirational success due to its location being inside the heavily industrial Biyagama Export Processing Zone. 47 | P a g e LIVES MADE BETTER LIVES MADE BETTER Lives Made Better’ is a vision that continues the work of over 30 years where we have considered our people our greatest asset and responsibility. We have grown to a family of over 95,000 today and we continue to thrive on the passion, discipline and dedication of each one of them. We will constantly push the boundaries of what we want from our people as well as what we want for them. In 2017 we evolved this insight, research and experience to understand how we must evolve in this space. 49 | P a g e BUILD DIVERSITY IN THE WORKPLACE Building diversity was always a part of our Women Go Beyond programme that has been a core driver of MAS over the last 15 years. In 2017 we put greater focus on Women in Management and persons with disabilities as part of our commitment to diversity. WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT In our strategy launched in 2016 we set out to drastically raise the number of women in our middle and top management tiers than their current ratio. The challenge however remains that women continue to be attracted to support functions rather than core primary areas. Background • In the early 2000’s 90% of the company’s total workforce in Sri Lanka were women • Strategic Importance was placed in addressing issues related to women and the workplace. • In 2003, MAS launched Women Go Beyond; an inclusive women’s empowerment program as a benchmark initiative, • The objective was to elevate and showcase standards of the apparel industry in Sri Lanka, envisioned to be a celebration of a variety of established best practices across MAS plants, under one single umbrella • To make a difference in the lives of our female employees, their families, and communities by empowering those in the workplace and at home. The diversity of our workforce based on age and gender as well as new hires and attrition, are continuously monitored through the sustainability performance management system. Continuous engagement with employees to understand and manage their aspirations is used as a proactive initiative to address attrition. NEW HIRES BY AGE 14000 13006 Number of employees hired 12000 10000 7490 7105 8000 6000 4147 4000 2803 2000 761 169 38 43 12 0 17-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-60 61 and above Age group 50 | P a g e NEW HIRES BY GENDER 30000 25385 Number of employees hired 25000 20000 15000 10189 10000 5000 0 Female Male Gender Governance body composition by age and work level – All staff above General Manager level MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 140 124 120 100 Composition 80 60 40 33 20 0 0 25-39 40-60 61 & above Age category 51 | P a g e EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 70 59 60 50 Composition 40 30 20 9 10 5 0 25-39 40-60 61 & above Age category MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 140 132 120 100 Composition 80 60 40 25 20 0 Female Male Gender 52 | P a g e EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 60 56 50 Composition 40 30 20 17 10 0 Female Male Gender Governance is still dominated by men at MAS with General Manager and above being considered as the senior governance body of the organisation. This has been further categorized as Management committee and Executive committee. A clear majority of these employees are between the ages of 40 and 60. Although MAS has many initiatives to provide opportunity for our women to rise to the higher ranks of the organisation, the higher concentration of women in support functions rather that the core has led to such numbers. Through our Women In Management programme we have begun changing these trends and mindsets by creating a steady shift in culture and introducing mentoring, empowerment and career advancement tools that truly make the women of MAS feel comfortable to advance to governance positions. • Within 15 years Women Go Beyond has permeated the very DNA of the organization. • Out of the MAS population of 96,170, approximately 70% of the apparel manufacturing arm are women. Women Go Beyond The Way Forward • Put policies in place to support 1:1 gender replacement in all management categories by 2025 • Foster an organizational culture that deeply understands, encourages and includes diversity • Build capacity at all levels to increase the ratio of women in management • Endorse women with potential and bring them into the limelight, and actively promote women as role models. Impact on the business • Employee engagement and motivation. Reduced absenteeism • Talent attraction. Employee retention • Career progression and improved decision making • A healthy and happy workforce. Improved morale leads to increased productivity • A gender-sensitive and inclusive work environment 53 | P a g e WGB Pillar No of Programs Impact No Career Advancement 332 9432 Work-Life Balance 559 252020 Skills Development 203 16198 Rewarding Excellence 88 25036 Total 1172 302,686 CAREER DEVELOPMENT We aim to promote career advancement through education and training female employees. We believe essential learnings in basic IT, computer skills, English language and other soft skills develop and enhance a total personality, and are vital to making a positive impact on the company and society as a whole. We focus on equipping our female associates with the knowledge and skills in work-related areas. This training reaches beyond the immediate requirements of each associate and prepares them for their next step in the organization. For example, equal opportunity will be given to a team member to obtain cohesive knowledge in English language, IT and leadership skills development, which serves as the core of the program. In addition, training is also provided to enhance their knowledge in soft skills, positive thinking, negotiation abilities, time management and presentation skills. Main Programs Program Name No of programs Impact No Career Guidance Program 10 154 Computer/ IT 23 129 English Courses 48 700 Outbound / Leadership / Team building 28 2685 Soft Skills Development 8 87 Speech Craft Program 7 20 Technical Programs Program Name No of programs Impact No Female Mechanic Training 36 12 Female Cutters Training 10 9 Female End Line Printer Training 7 1 Female Technician Training 8 6 Female Electrician Training 4 1 In conclave – A Senior Women Leader’s Network The In conclave was launched as a Senior Women Leader’s Network on 5 May 2017 at Active Operations Centre introducing the In platform to 75 females in senior roles at MAS. The In platform is an initiative to have a structured mechanism to increase the number of women leaders in the company. The network aims to drive policy and practice for a balanced, family-friendly workplace and work structures, leverage on social media platforms, create awareness, and share information and best practices across the Group to inspire other women leaders. This network will also work on providing an inspirational solution for more inclusion of women in leadership roles at MAS. 54 | P a g e The “In” network of women leaders SPOTLIGHT: Windows of Opportunity MAS Intimates Slimline Slimline offered its employees the opportunity to learn a certified computer application through IDM Computer Studies (Pvt.) Ltd. The course focused on navigating the Windows Operating System and Microsoft Office applications like Word, Excel and PowerPoint. The course duration was spread out over a month and totaled 24 hours of instruction. Approximately 35 employees completed the course in 2017. While the program initially targeted employees from team members, staff and executive categories, its success resulted in the inclusion of the employees’ children as well. Technical training for women in stereotypically male-dominated roles Year 2017 Cutters Mechanics Printers Technician Electrician No. of No. of Females No. of Females No. of Females No. of Females Females Trained Trained Trained Trained Trained 9 12 1 6 1 MAS women are moving to traditional stereotypically male-dominated roles. Women are encouraged to take up work roles that are not traditionally managed by females in the apparel industry, thereby moving from socially assigned gender-specific work roles and giving emphasis to their individual skills, qualifications and interests. Women mechanics are not only given the opportunity to learn a new skill, but are empowered to maintain and fix their own machines. During 2017, 9 female cutters, 12 mechanics, 2 electricians, 1 printer and 6 technicians out of over 60 were empowered at these training programs. 55 | P a g e Female mechanics training at MAS Active Contourline The Empowered Woman (Alumni) of MAS Active Asialine has initiated a project to train 6 female technicians of their plant to take up challenging male roles and to create gender equality. The course duration is 6 months. DREAM BANK PROJECT: Pursing Future Goals MAS KREEDA AITC MAS KREEDA, AITC launched the Dream Bank project, where all employees were requested to voluntarily share their future personal and work-related goals. These documents are now being used to identify employee aspirations and link them with the appropriate learning and development activity. This initiative has helped the organization identify individual development plans and prioritize them, as wella s encourage employees to aspire to and achieve their personal goals in life. 56 | P a g e Building Capacity of the Go Beyond Champions Our ‘Go Beyond’ champions continued their good work into 2017, and have been maintaining the momentum of their progress. The Annual Champions Retreat gathered all champions from across MAS to reward them. The two-day event was held on 3-4 April 2017 at Laya Leisure Resort, Kukuleganga, with the participation of 43 Go Beyond champions The key areas of focus were to enhance leadership capabilities, personality development and to learn to tell stories with analytics. The session encouraged learning and sharing of best practices and knowledge, and the opportunity to expand their network across the country and with overseas business units. Role Model Development Program for Empowered Women The Role Model Development Program is designed to develop the life skills of the Empowered Women of the Year (EWY) “Abhimani” winners and runners-up, to further their potential as role models within the company and in society. The ability to demonstrate leadership capabilities and English language proficiency have become of immense use to them. Basic English Language training Twenty-eight Empowered Women took part in the Diploma in English course conducted for the 3 rd successive year by the Rainbow Institute of Communication and English. Daily attendance shows a keen interest in learning among the staff, and those who regularly attended classes demonstrated significant improvement in language skills. Around 50% of the participants who had 100% attendance were recognized at the certificates ceremony for successful completion. 57 | P a g e In addition, training sessions on “Life skills for personality development for leadership” and dining etiquette also supported their capability to build a well-rounded and confident personality. Leadership Training for Empowered Women Twenty-nine Empowered Women participated in the two-day residential Leadership Development Program facilitated by Darshana Rathnayake (Manager Lean Systems, MOS) in Hanthana, Kandy. 58 | P a g e 2. WORK-LIFE BALANCE INITIATIVES We wish to educate and create awareness through training and developing female employees to become more knowledgeable and capable, and thus build their ability to make informed decisions and overcome challenges successfully. Main programs Name No of Programs Total impacted Anger / Stress / Mental health / Time Management 27 751 Awareness Program to Prevent Dengue 14 14831 Breast Cancer 9 3366 Breast Cancer (“Aloka” By Intimates Division) 14 7299 Counselling 53 987 Awareness and prevention of Domestic Violence 6 7629 Family Planning/ Reproductive Health 24 958 Finance Management 12 2604 Happy Family Life 11 2265 HIV & AIDS Awareness 10 260 Legal Requirements 30 5488 Non-Communicable Diseases 3 71 Personal Hygiene, Grooming & Etiquette 28 15368 Pregnant Mothers Clinics 42 1859 Medical Camps/ Clinics 44 26382 Nonwork related other training – example Yoga, Legal 40000 115 clinics, Zumba classes Special events/entertainment/religious activities 38 29862 59 | P a g e Special Events / Entertainment / Religious Activities Bhakthi Geetha Program Bodi Pooja / Bana Program Christmas Day Celebrations Family Day International Children's Day Celebration International Mother's Day Celebration International Women's Day Celebration New Year Celebrations Thai Pongal Day Celebrations World Environment Day Vesak day Celebrations Diriya Pola Avurudu Pola Gender-specific Health and Wellbeing Initiatives Hope Let's defeat Breast Cancer together As part of a health and well-being initiative to improve the work-life balance and wellness of our employees, we partnered with AIESEC of the University of Sri Jayawardenapura to conduct a one-day awareness and free testing session for the early detection and prevention of breast cancer. The session was conducted by a female team of doctors from Nawaloka Hospital’s Breast Cancer Unit, with the participation of 85+ employees representing several plants. I Respect You WGB sponsored the I Respect You project organized by AIESEC of the University of Moratuwa, which is a workshop focused on the theme ‘Gender Equality & Women Empowerment’. The session targeted 160 students from the University of Moratuwa and the University of Peradeniya. The main aim of the project is to create awareness about gender-based violence and to educate the students on prevention. 60 | P a g e Health and Nutrition Camp Linea Aqua launched health and nutrition awareness sessions in partnership with Nestlé Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, which were held over three days within the factory premises, where over 1,600 employees, including executives, got the opportunity to check their Body Mass Index (BMI). In addition, other tests such as waist circumference, body fat, blood sugar and blood pressure were conducted done using high-tech equipment. All the reports were read by experienced dietitians who advised employees on how to manage and maintain their dietary habits. The sessions helped employees become more aware about their health and educated them on how to maintain a healthy lifestyle. SPOTLIGHT STORY BREAST CANCER AWARENESS – ALOKA Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer among females in Sri Lanka, accounting for approximately 22% of all detected cases. It is often curable with early detection, but the levels of awareness among Sri Lankan women about the causes, symptoms, treatment options and available facilities are low. Many are diagnosed at the latter stages due to a lack of awareness and the absence of a formal screening program. There also remains a cultural taboo surrounding the open discussion of sensitive issues such as this. In 2014, MAS Intimates launched the Aloka Breast Cancer Awareness program through our WGB platform, in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Cancer Society and the National Cancer Control Program. Slimline has been continuing the Aloka program by running public awareness activities and conducting large informational sessions on the early detection of breast cancer using several media platforms. “Breast cancer awareness” sessions during induction, providing information on self-examinations, encouragement and advice on getting regular checkups have paved the way for a more informed workforce at Slimline. In 2017, the Aloka program at Slimline, prompted eight employees to go for further screening and helped detect breast cancer early enough to save their lives. Breast cancer induction for new team members 61 | P a g e SPOTLIGHT STORY WOMEN’S DAY WALK TO IMPACT SOCIETY – MAS ACTIVE SLEEKLINE A Women's Day walk was conducted by MAS ACTIVE Sleekline to promote the message of international women's day within the area and to empower our employees to carry the same message to their communities. Two empowered women of MAS impacted the community with their inspirational speeches. Women’s Day walk to create awareness among communities – MAS Active Sleekline Self defense workshops for females – MAS Intimates – MDS For eight hours a month over a period of two months, the employees of MDS joined an introduction to the ‘Personal Safety in Action KRAV MAGA’ self-defense class. The class was targeted at female employees with the aim of empowering them to challenge stereotypical ideas about power and personal safety. The idea that a woman can protect herself and should not resign herself to the fate of being a victim was emphasized during this course. A key objective was to build selfconfidence by encouraging women to see beyond what they are told and taught by society. The course also provided participants with general knowledge about personal safety and self-awareness, including how to defend oneself against an attack. 62 | P a g e Counselling skills for leaders MAS Intimates – Unichela – Koggala The program addressed social, personal and professional problems faced by plant employees, while training better leaders and more supported, empowered associates who thrive both in their private and professional lives. The plant also provided this training to all Team Member level staff, which included the availability of an in-house counsellor who provided guidance when necessary. ACCESS TO CHILDCARE FACILITIES MAS continues to support on-site childcare, as well as access to external childcare facilities (operational support) for employees and their families through crèche facilities at several production facilities, corporate offices and foreign plants. These facilities support and encourage women to come back to work after maternity leave. Spotlight: “Chittukal” daycare facility in the north of Sri Lanka – MAS KREEDA Vaanavil The MAS KREEDA Vaanavil daycare center ”Chittukal” was opened on 16 October 2014 to provide the childcare facilities for employees. Around 30 children are currently enjoying the facility, which is located within the facility premises. The benefits enjoyed by employees are as follows: • Free food (4 meals: breakfast, morning tea/snacks, afternoon tea/snacks and dinner) • Each child has an individual cup and plate. • Sleeping facilities Individual cribs, cots or mats (suitable to the child’s age and level of development) • Free uniform are provided twice a year • Three trained caregivers with a ratio of 1 caregiver to 10 children 63 | P a g e Medical care and facilities • Monthly check-up by a nurse, including records of weight and height • An appointment with a doctor once a month for a check-up • When a child is absent due to a communicable disease, staff must inform other parents of the nature of the illness • Symptoms of illness must be reported immediately to parents • Medication needs to be kept in the child’s personal file • Accidents at the crèche need to be reported to the mother and first-aid to be administered SPOTLIGHT Uni-Thotilla by MAS INTIMATES Unichela Panadura The Unichela Panadura Crèche has resulted in a significant increase in the number of women returning to work after maternity leave. Opening a daycare center that is affordable and safe, with trained and certified staff, encourages employees to use these facilities without hesitation. Additionally, employees can visit and check up on their children during their breaks, as the crèche is located nearby the plant. The daycare hosts children between the ages of four months and 12 years. The center currently provides shortand long-term care for the children of 65 employees. A qualified group of childcare specialists, vetted by the company, operates the crèche. MAS KREEDA childcare facilities In the quest to be an employer of choice, MAS KREEDA teams have established 06 childcare facilities at their SBUs across Sri Lanka, India and Jordan: 1. MAS Active Operations Centre, Sri Lanka – Open only to employees 2. MAS KREEDA Vaanavil, Sri Lanka – Open only to employees 3. MAS KREEDA Madaba, Jordan – Open only to employees 4. MAS KREEDA Akshaya, India – Open only to employees 5. Indian Village, Kilinochchi Sri Lanka (with the operational support of MAS KREEDA Vaanavil) – Open to the community and employees at Vaanavil 6. MAS KREEDA Leisureline and Nirmaana – A common crèche for all plants at Katunayake EPZ with the operational support of MAS KREEDA Nirmaana and Leisureline While 181 children benefit from these facilities in total, 137 of them are children of MAS employees, thereby supporting the work-life balance of our employees. The crèche at MAS KREEDA Madaba, Jordan, was highlighted as a best practice case study in the report generated by the International Finance Corporation on “Tackling Childcare: The Business Case for Employer-Supported Childcare”. https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/gender+at+i fc/priorities/employment/tackling_childcare_the_business_case_for_employer_supported_childcare 64 | P a g e SPOTLIGHT: MUSIC THERAPY – MAS INTIMATES – UNICHELA PANADURA Music has been identified as a valuable yet underrated tool that helps reduce stress during pregnancy, enhance the bond between mother and child, and stimulate the prenatal development of the baby’s brain. In a manufacturing setting, music is a factor often overlooked. Unichela Panadura launched a program that addressed this gap by developing a Music Therapy Program for pregnant women. The program emphasized the importance of listening mindfully, relaxing and focusing on the mental health as much as the physical wellbeing during pregnancy. The session was conducted at Kethumathi Maternity Hospital with over 100 participants from MAS. Prenatal classes – MAS Sumbiri – Mitra Bhakti Husada Award Prenatal classes are held once a trimester at MAS Sumbiri for employees to help expectant mothers gain knowledge and address any concerns regarding a safe and supportive environment for themselves and their children. Around 53 pregnant women had interactive discussions on pregnancy with experts, quizzes and knowledge sharing segments facilitated by a midwife from the Public Health Center of Mijen (Ibu Surti) and a pregnancy class instructor (Ibu Neni). The programme earned MAS Sumbiri the “Mitra Bhakti Husada Award” for being a female-friendly workplace and for practicing supportive activities, representing the private and public sector in Indonesia. It represents the Gerakan Pekerja Perempuan Sehat dan Produktif (GP2SP), which speaks of the Action for Productive and Healthy Female Workers. Support for pregnant women after their return from maternity leave MAS continued to support all women throughout their pregnancy and after they returned to work after maternity leave. During the pregnancy, MAS provided mid-day meals, education and training on emotional and physical wellbeing, and access to medical care and clinics to support their family well-being. Nursing hours Nursing mothers can take a 2-hour break during the 9-hour work shift until the child is one year. They can choose to use 1 hour in the morning and 1 hour in the evening , as needed. Special transport facilities have been arranged to and from the business units, enabling them to leave early. Breast feeding arrangements at the workplace Lactation /breast feeding rooms Spotlight story MAS Intimates Sumbiri MAS Sumbiri provides all its breast-feeding mothers a special place at the factory. This initiative also supports the government’s efforts to encourage and implement breastfeeding facilities in the workplace. The Ibu Asi program was created to appreciate mothers who actively use the lactation room to fulfill breast-feeding needs for their babies up to 6 months. There are 20 participants, and this initiative is facilitated by the factory nurse. 65 | P a g e Breast feeding awareness sessions Ibu Asi – Breastfeeding mother champion Breast feeding room in Sumbiri Prevention of gender-based violence and harassment in the workplace MAS promotes a gender-focused corporate culture in partnership with UNFPA Marking International Women’s Day in March 2017, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) signed an MOU with MAS Holdings to deliver a one-year project to impact the corporate culture within the organization by increasing awareness among employees on gender-equitable structures. The project was successfully completed in March 2018, reaching over 20,000 employees in five MAS garment factories: Leisureline, Slimline, Bodyline, Linea Aqua, and Silueta. MAS recognizes the need to ensure its employees and their families live with respect and dignity, and fulfill their potential. Understanding their needs, the UNFPA designed a custom-made program for MAS in consultation with the MAS HR department and Women Go Beyond team. The program centered around developing resource material and preparing trainers to conduct awareness sessions on gender-based violence and on the principles of gender equality within the organization. 66 | P a g e Programme stages: 1) Perception survey 2) Focus group discussions 3) TOT material developed 4) Training of Trainers 5) TOT sessions conducted by trained personnel Key result: 22 trainers have been coached by the UNFPA (approx. 5 people in each of the 5 SBUs) to be in-house resource personnel that can conduct GBV awareness programs for MAS staff. These officers are now in-house resource personnel that have the knowledge, skills and tools to conduct sessions for other employees, thereby increasing awareness of gender-based violence and gender equality. The program is designed through a sustainability model to ensure that, while UNFPA technical support phases out, the organization can continue to train its employees to ensure increased awareness and response to GBV. MAS will continue to train its employees through the in-house resource personnel, thereby scaling the program to reach all employees and promote equitable structures within the organization. UNFPA trainers conducting the session MAS trainers conducting the trainings for their employees Happy Family Life program 67 | P a g e “The Happy Family Life” awareness program has been developed to improve individual well-being and reduce stress, and conflicts at the workplace and at home. During last year, over 2,000 employees were impacted through 11 programs with an average 100 employees per session. This program intends to address social factors that affect team members/staff level employees and their families (spouse), continuously making them aware and developing a process that would help them to develop the capacity (coping skills) to deal with those factors and situations effectively. Gender sensitivity training for male executives and above Gender sensitivity training for male executives at MAS have continued to enhance their understanding on the importance of promoting equality and respecting diversity to ensure family and workplace harmony, while encouraging a man’s active role in creating a safe space for men and women. Key results: By the end of the workshops, most of the men admitted that they were guilty and needed to play a major role in creating harmony at home. Creating awareness of health and well-being An awareness session on sexual and reproductive health, sexual safety and family planning was held for all MAS Intimates female employees who are athletes. The target group for this program was employees who engage in sports, particularly those who represent the company and/or country at national and international events. Female athletes were targeted for this because their exposure to new people and new situations is significantly higher during competitions, both local and international. Their experiences, therefore, are different from those of other employees, and ensuring that they are informed and prepared increases their chances of staying safe. Around 30 women attended this half-day program facilitated by an SRH instructor from the Family Planning Association of Sri Lanka. 68 | P a g e SKILLS DEVELOPMENT The development of both technical and soft skills of employees not related to occupation, but to mentally stimulate and develop their intrinsic skills and talents, and enhance their entrepreneurial skills. Activities No of programs Impact No Non-work related skills 149 5043 Arts & crafts training 34 9955 Sports 20 1200 Non-work related skills trainings Batik workshops, beauty culture training, culinary classes, curtain stitching, dancing classes, drama & theatre, dress making/sewing class, first aid training, saree dressing, self-defense, soft toy making class, tailoring course, driving license MAS Matrix conducts a batik making class for employees Sports activities • Netball, volleyball, cricket, badminton, handball, kabadi, sports carnival, swimming. Sports for women in technology fields MAS Attune Women in the field of technology consulting have been major contributors to shaping the digital world; at Attune, our ladies continue to push boundaries. The Attune women’s rugby team was formed by 20 team members eager to contribute to the sporting arena and inspire their colleagues to challenge the status quo. A sport traditionally dominated by men, the ladies expressed their intention to shatter glass ceilings and take on a physical sport new to all of them. With nothing short of passion, commitment and guts, the ladies at Attune successfully balanced their professional and personal lives to be represented as a formidable force in the women’s rugby arena. They continue to challenge other corporates to friendly matches, and will be representing the company at the Sri Lanka Mercantile Rugby Sevens. Not only has this initiative been successful in building the health and fitness of our team members, but also creates a culture that restricts no one from stretching their limits and tapping into their potential. 69 | P a g e Empowered Women Alumni Project – Helping the community A Prison Visit The alumni of Chapter 5 took part . in a joint initiative to visit the Welikada Prison female inmates. It was organised by the Bodyline 1 & 2, Unichela Koggala and Unichela Panadura plants.The purpose of this visit was to help prisoners’ well-being by donating necessary items and renovating their washrooms by colour washing and tiling, a dire need 70 | P a g e [Grab your reader’s attention with a great quote from the document or use this space to emphasize a key point. To place this text box anywhere on the page, just drag it.] REWARDING EXCELLENCE Recognizing, harnessing, grooming, developing and rewarding non-work related talent of all MAS employees through Abhinandani and Abhimani. Under this banner, we identify the contribution made by employees and recognise their successes and achievements in art, handicraft, music and debating, with special emphasis during Women’s Day Celebrations. Pillar Name No of programs Impact No Rewarding Excellence 88 25036 Abhimani – Selection of the “Empowered women of the year” The Abhimani Awards recognize the “Empowered Women of the Year” of each plant through a competition held every two years. More importantly, they gain great recognition as local heroes and role models among their peers, becoming ambassadors of the program within their plants. In 2017, we introduced two new categories to recognize “women in leadership” and “Frontier Lead Executives”. Out of the 450 applications received for the “Abhimani” Empowered Woman of the Year awards, 40 winners were selected by an eminent panel of external judges who were professionals in their own sphere of expertise. The winners represented 34 business units and were recognized as “Empowered Women of the Year” at a ceremony held on 17 November 2017 in Colombo. Around 53 women were recognized as runners-up. 71 | P a g e Special awards categories for exceptional women Eight exceptional females were recognized for their capabilities in sports (The Contender), entrepreneurship (The Venturer), community service & sustainability initiatives (The Spirited) and innovation/continuous improvement & technology (The Game Changer) under the “Special Awards” category. Ten female executives were recognized as “MAS FRONTIER LEAD EXECUTIVES” for demonstrating self-authenticity, and being courageous and resilient. We also considered the MAS Professional framework in selecting these individuals. Recognition for Senior Female Leaders Twenty female leaders were recognized for upholding MAS values by championing the MAS DNA. Their nominations were endorsed by their respective senior leadership. WGB’s global presence Shanaaz Preena, a director of Women Go Beyond, was a panelist at a session on “Measuring Success, Making It Count: Business Empowering Women and Girls” at the 7th annual Women's Economic Empowerment Forum held at the UN headquarters in New York, jointly organized by the UN Global Compact, the US Chamber of Commerce Foundation, the United Nations Office for Partnerships and UN Women.Shanaaz was also invited to be a part of the panel discussion organized by United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on “Business for inclusion” at their flagship event held in Mumbai, India. She also presented at the Women Leadership Summit 2017 , jointly organized by the Women’s Chamber of Industry and Commerce (WCIC) Sri Lanka and the SAARC Chamber Women Entrepreneur Council (SCWEC), on “Imperatives for Sustainable Empowerment and Corporate Governance in Practice”. The ‘Women Go Beyond’ program was featured in the “Private Sector Action for Women’s Health & Empowerment Brief” (www.PrivateSectorActionForWomensHealth.com) for our investment in the health and rights of our workers in the supply chain. 72 | P a g e PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES In 2017 we created a working committee to understand how to define and support persons with disabilities with greater depth in the context of our industry and Sri Lanka. We initiated partnerships with the Employers Federation of Ceylon and University of Kelaniya as well as the state Committee to research and build a credible practical model for the industry to adopt. In 2017 we began a deep dive to understand our own employees needs and challenges and then began creating a standard and model which could be replicated across the group. Results of MAS wide survey of persons with disabilities in 2017 To make adoption of these learnings Vision , 11 smoother at SBU level MAS created and trained over 22 divisional champions within all business divisions with help from industry experts such as the EFC. Physical , We also aligned all human value streams 93 to the persons with disabilities programme. Hearing & Speech, 253 We also identified which SBUs and what jobs people with different disabilities could take up safely and comfortably inside MAS. These findings will help us reaffirm a groupwide commitment and strategy for this key area in the future. Hearing impaired was identified as an area of focus for MAS by the Board. MAS was invited to be the first company to volunteer efforts to the government of Sri Lanka as one of the sole representative from the private sector to support state-led initiatives that provide opportunities for people with disabilities across the country. 73 | P a g e SPOTLIGHT Personality development “Voice of our Own” MAS has created an equal opportunity workplace for everyone. More than 350 Persons with Different Disabilities (PWD) are employed from hearing impaired to physically handicapped. “Voice of our own: by MAS Active division, is a disability inclusion project to make the work place a more accessible environment to everybody and for them to be gainfully employed. A workshop was held for them to understand the independent living skills, personal grooming, decision making and uplift their communication skills. A full-day program commenced at Citrus Waskaduwa, where 43 hearings and impaired employees participated. 74 | P a g e Sign Language classes for Executives MAS Intimates – Casualline conducted a sign language training for 25 Executive level employees those who are working with Persons with Disabilities (PWD). The need for a sign language training was identified as vital for executives to be able to communicate accurately with this segment of employees to overcome communication barriers and to be able to better communicate production requirements, handle problems, grievances, and any other issues that they may face. The participants were from production floor and HR, it was held four days a month. Professional interpreters from the Sri Lanka Deaf Association Kurunegala facilitated the program. SPOTLIGHT: FashionAble 2017 MAS pioneered the first ever fashion show in Sri Lanka for persons with disabilities in 2017 together with the Social Services Department of the Western Province. The result was a Fashion Show with 30 models with disabilities who broke all barriers to show off their true potential. Put together by the design teams of MAS “Fashionable 2017” was the first ever fashion show in Sri Lanka to put people with disabilities on the fashion ramp. 75 | P a g e The event was opened to children and young people from both homes for disabled as well as low income families from across the Western Province. It was held on the 30th of November at the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute, in celebration of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities (which fell on the 3rd of Dec). 37 volunteers supported the show from across MAS. As preparatory work organisers held a half-day session where volunteers met the models to understand their style requirement and measurements. A full day of practice followed at the Ratmalana Blind School where they were trained how to walk on the ramp, engage the audience and even perform. The project kicked off at MAS KREEDA but once the word spread, design teams from Active, Intimates, Bodyline, Linea Aqua and Intimo 1 joined hands and made it an MAS-wide Initiative. Volunteer Thoughts • Best fashion initiative MAS designers have taken part in. Can and will do this again!” – Thishan Rambukwelle, ManagerDesign & Development, MAS Active • “It was such an amazing opportunity that I had, and truly felt how happy and privileged we should be with the blessed lives we have. How fussy are we for small needs in life, and how happy they were with the very small initiative we did for them?” – Kanchana Fernando, Assistant Manager – Merchandising, MAS KREEDA • “It was amazing to see those kids being positive and happy regardless their daily struggles and certain restrictions physically and mentally. And to see them being on the spotlight, being themselves and brave, was really rewarding and reminded us to stay grateful for what we have and to be positive and kind to one another.” – Abiram Gunarajah, Intern Design & Development, MAS Active • “It was indeed a great initiative and I enjoyed every moment from organizing to the day of the show. It really brought tears to my eyes when I saw them proudly walking on the ramp.” Samitha Senevirathna, Designer, Innovation Bodyline 76 | P a g e BE A GLOBAL EMPLOYER OF CHOICE In 2017 in order to be a better employer the focus was on how we developed our people. This included initiatives in upskilling people's capabilities while adequately compensating and rewarding them. With presence now in 17 countries MAS believes work done in this area is of paramount importance as we slowly but sure increase our global footprint OUR PEOPLE LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT MAS believes that lifelong learning is necessary for individuals to achieve their personal and professional aspirations, whilst also enabling an organization to build a sustainable competitive advantage. This is why we have evolved our Learning and Development function to include all 95,000 + employees of the organisation. Executive and above grades are provided with specific training to further their skills and career, whilst those at the Supervisory and Shop Floor are provided with an opportunity to bridge the elusive barrier and become leaders of the organisation. Currently within MAS, the L&D process has been rolled out across the group. As a first step the employee assesses and identifies competencies that need to be developed and submits same to the manager. Then both the manager and the employee have a conversation and agree to certain competencies that need to be developed. The manager would also help to identify the way in which the development can be done and how the employee prefers to learn by using the 70 : 20 : 10 principle based interventions. Our performance management process enables managers to structure training, map career paths and succession planning, thereby motivating employees to achieve their individual goals and contribute to the Group’s business objectives. Further, career development opportunities such as mentoring programmes, sponsorships to obtain professional qualifications and linkages to universities and other technical colleges to gain industrial expertise are also conducted by the Group Human Resources Division. The explosion of free content means that the learning organization should seamlessly integrate internal and external content into all its platforms. MAS continued to deploy the internal E-Learning Platform as part of its commitment to creating and further enhancing work environments and systems that allow employees to constantly learn and relearn. 70 : 20 : 10 principle This learning philosophy explores how executives learn, grow and change over the course of their careers. This is a commonly used formula within the training profession to describe the optimal sources of learning by successful managers. It holds that individuals obtain 70% of their knowledge from job related experiences, 20% from interactions with others and 10% from formal educational events. 70% experiential learning is learning on the job. These include experiences such as on the job training, project assignments local/international, special projects, taking on new and challenging experiences, out bound training, increasing scope or responsibility, onboarding a new team member, learning and using a new tool/technology, tackling a persistent/ unsolved problem, working on a cross functional project, participating in a special committee/work including a proxy board. 77 | P a g e 20% of learning comes through coaching and social learning which includes, coaching, social/peer /network learning, learning through feedback, one on one meetings, after action review meetings. 10% is all about formal learning, included internal and external classroom/workshop based learning, certification (including MOS belt training), e-learning, conferences and seminars, books and articles, self-study modules, action learning. The initiatives carried out by the Group Learning & Development team can be broadly categorized to four areas: 1) Competency Based Development (Leadership, Professional and Technical) 2) Onboarding and MAS Values 3) Branding Initiatives (i.e. Summer Internship, MAS Awards, Ready to Unleash) 4) Process & System Implementation Succession Management applies to critical or key positions where there is a reasonable risk of not having sufficiently skilled people to undertake these roles. Talent reviews are conducted twice a year in MAS with the objective of facilitating talent movement in MAS. Career Management is a process where every employee could strategically explore, plan and create their future paths within the company. 2017 PROGRESS On average our employees received over 150 hours of training per person in 2017. There has also been over a million hour of training conducted through over 12,000 training programs for the year. Leadership Development Initiatives 2017: • Creating a Culture of Coaching: Launched 5 Pilots across the business. Capturing 35 coaches and 87 coachees. • Portraits of Purpose: A Tribute to LeadershipLeadership Exhibition by the MAS Accelerated Leadership Participants show casing their learning experience from the Center for Creative Leadership Development Program • HR College: Conducted 2 workshops on “Feedback that Works”: One for the Green Belt community & the other at the Factory Managers Forum. 3 workshops on “Talent Conversations and Feedback that Works” impacting over 100 leaders at MAS. • LIME for ALP & Senior Leaders: Curriculum Crafting has begun with the initiative scheduled to be launched in 2018 Branding Initiatives 2017: • MAS, Dialog & Hemas conduct the Summer Internship Programme 2017: 14th year of existence. 20 interns. New partner Hemas Holdings. • MAS Awards: 05 shortlisted students (30 students in total) from each of the following universities compete to be the MAS Best Overall Student 2017.  University of Moratuwa Faculty of Textile Engineering  University of Moratuwa National Diploma in Technology  University of Moratuwa Fashion Design & Product Development  University of Peradeniya Faculty of Industrial Engineering  University of Kelaniya Management and Information Technology • MAS Onboarding – 11 programme, over 750 participants in total. • Ready to Unleash – 02 programmes and 250 participants in total. 78 | P a g e Technical Development Initiatives 2017 These initiatives develop the Technical confidence in Textile & Clothing Technology in Manufacturing across Team Leaders & Group Leaders across the group. Key initiatives are: The Technical Skills Development Program Certificate Level 1st batch of students successfully completed the same with 41 individuals graduating with the Certificate Level. On demand training for entire Group – covering Raw material, knitting technology, fabric technology and dyeing & finishing area – target group – technical category in Linea NXT, Trischel, Noyon Lanka, Linea Aqua Program on technical for non-technical – basics of textile and clothing technology Fabric cluster RECRUITMENT University Relationships A proper recruitment process is imperative to attract the appropriate people to an organisation. Successful recruitment is a direct reflection of the validity and professionalism of a business. MAS has established a recruitment process which attracts the best talent within the shortest lead time, and standardised it across the whole group. Maintaining university relationships is a crucial aspect of this recruitment process and we are mainly involved in numerous strategies in order to ensure that MAS stays ahead of the competition and gets the best possible talent straight out of the university. From sponsoring careers days to conducting career workshops, in 2017 we ensured the engagement with the university staff and most importantly fresh graduates to assist them in shaping their careers as well as to guide them on how to handle challenges after graduation. The team also conducted internship interviews in order to allow those approaching graduation to get exposure to the opportunities within MAS. MAS was involved in careers day events at both state and nonstate universities such as University of Jayawardenapura, University of Moratuwa, SLIIT, University of Wayamba, University of Colombo, BMS, University of Kelaniya, University of Peradeniya, NSBM, AOD, ANC and CINEC. Skills For Work The Skills for Work program is aimed at bridging the gap between university students and the industry by improving the students’ soft skills capabilities. It targets university students of both state and nonstate universities that includes 7 Universities & 10 Departments. Skills for Work involves the facilitation of sessions at the universities, which were delivered by internal and external trainers on the topics such as CV writing, Preparing and Facing Interviews, Presentation Skills, Maximising Internship Opportunities, Grooming Business Etiquette. Furthermore, the students are given exposure into the industry in the form of a visit to one of our many plants. These programs were done and considered as a CSR initiative to help better and strengthen the talent pipeline which is coming through the universities. The universities which were involved in the Skills for Work initiative include University of Colombo, University of Kelaniya, University of Moratuwa, University of Sri Jayawardenepura, University of Peradeniya, CINEC and NSBM. 79 | P a g e PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL Our recruitment is based on the MAS recruitment policy, which is complemented by the policy on equal opportunity, and employee career development and training requirements that are identified through an annual performance appraisal carried out for all staff. The Group further strives to build a culture that enables and rewards performance and hence uses a performance appraisal process to enhance employee performance management. This creates an open platform for employees and their supervisors to discuss performance and area of improvement, establish future goals, discuss expectations and accomplishments and obtain overall employee feedback. One of the key contributors to MAS’ success over the years has been its skillful & talented workforce. With its global expansion and the investments made in the verticals of IT and Brands which were uncharted territories for MAS at the time, necessitated MAS to develop a mechanism to manage the performance of its talent base. Performance management branded as ‘Luminary’ is the process through which employees are recognized and rewarded for their performance. Performance management, continues to be a crucial step within the entire talent management process, as its outcome becoming key inputs for the other human resources functions such as Learning & Development, Career Management & Succession Management and in Internal Recruitment activities. The performance management cycle commences with the annual goal setting process whilst the mid-year review facilitates the employees to have a conversation with their appraisers to assess the progress made on the achievement of goals and to see if any course correction is required. The year-end review ensures that the employees are appraised on their performance and rewarded in a fair and objective manner. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS During the year, MAS made significant progress in ensuring parity in pay & benefits, through the harmonization of the group wide medical insurance scheme. The company went a step further, by entering into partnerships with key hospitals and medical service providers across Sri Lanka to provide discounted products and services exclusively for MAS employees. WORK-LIFE BALANCE SPOTLIGHT– Catalyst cowork At ‘CATALYST’ we realize that the way we work is changing, equipped with laptops and smart phone we have become more mobile and we can take work wherever we want. In the rapid changing work environment, the use of artificial intelligence, robotics and cognitive tools are creating an augmented workforce who are domain experts but also requires us to collaborate and connect with others to innovate, disrupt and to create new ways of thinking. We need the individual with 30yrs of industry experience working with the tech-savvy millennial process-challenger to create new ventures, improve our processes, create new products. We also need the creative and entrepreneurial types to venture into unchartered territories, with the support of the operations and technical teams. How do we create a culture that encourage this? ‘CATALYST’ believes that our environment has an impact on our behavior and our collective behavior shapes our culture. As a result, ‘CATALYST’ (a shared workspace for all at MAS) was launched on 29 September 2017 to transform the way we work and to promote work-life integration. 80 | P a g e The purpose of ‘CATALYST’ is to revolutionize ‘work’ and ‘work-life’ of our MAS employees. ‘CATALYST’ last year helped many internal teams to work productively and collaboratively by reducing travel time between offices, becoming the temporary host of new teams/ initiatives and nurturing them till they scale up, and being the neutral space for different teams to encourage working together. When we launched ‘CATALYST’ we were thinking more about revolutionizing ‘work culture’. With our pilot project ‘CATALYST’ we understood that ‘work’ is closely integrated with ‘life’. Our community was using the CATALYST space to enhance their ‘work-life’ by choosing to work from CATALYST as this was a shared work location closer to home. We recognize that it is important to encourage employees to lead a balanced life so that they will not burn out, and become more engaged at work. We want to engage the parent who is preoccupied by a child left at home or boost the morale of the individuals who are keen to feel more energized at work. We were curious to explore more. We did a survey across 1000 people to understand how people work and live and received responses from 532. Amongst other questions we asked people what they would do if they had an extra hour after work. 54% responded that they would play a sport or engage in a fitness activity and 38% responded that they would spend time with the family. As opposed to physically building all these amenities, ‘CATALYST’ identified that partnering with third party service providers will have a large impact and provide great value for money on our community. We have piloted three pillars of partnerships under ‘Knowledge share’, ‘Childcare’ and ‘Fit-life’. For knowledgeshare CATALYST will be partnering with in-house MAS Education amongst the others to promote bite sized training within our community and other third party service providers in Childcare and Fitness near CATALYST locations. In future, we intend to expand our foot print of the share work space and identify key partners who we can collaborate with to promote a positive work culture and ‘work-life integration’ at MAS and beyond and become the entity that revolutionize ‘work’ and ‘work-life’. 81 | P a g e MAS SPORTS MAS considers sports as part of our culture of enabling teamwork and competitiveness. One of the fundamental values of MAS is our passion for excellence which is enhanced further by the multitude of sports disciplines that are supported by the organisation. 2017 could be termed as another year in which teams of various disciplines were able to emerge victorious thanks to the drive and commitment of both team and individual performances. MAS Sports recorded the first ever clean sweep by winning 11 Mercantile Championships in 2017. There was 100% team member participation in volleyball and 85% in athletics. Sports such as swimming, boxing and fencing also had team member representation. MAS took part in 10 sports out of 14, as one MAS, whilst earlier sports were played as divisions and SBUs. Volleyball is played plant based for strategic reasons. Cricket, boxing and shooting are taken part as MAS Intimates. The milestones below were achieved because of the exceptional commitment by all divisional sports coordinators, managers and captains who supported the MAS Sports committee to support all the teams. The presence of the senior leadership was a remarkable experience for all sportsmen and women who along with our employees felt the commitment, belief and support of the leadership first hand. Team Achievements • In rugby, we were crowned as the A division champions • In badminton, the team emerged as the A division mercantile doubles champions and emerged 3 rd place in the A division overall championships • The hockey team emerged as triple champions in 2017 by emerging victorious in the B division in the mercantile league, the 7’s and the knockouts • The table tennis team secured a victory in the A division mercantile open championships while managing to emerge as runners up in the A division mercantile team championships • The men’s team in basketball were victorious in the B division mercantile championships while the women’s team emerged as runners up in the B division women’s championships • The volleyball teams managed to emerge victorious in the both the Men’s and Women’s Super League Championships, the women’s team then fell short and emerged as runners up in both the Women’s Championships and in the A Division Championships • The chess team was victorious in the Mercantile and Government services championships and emerged as runners up in the Rapid Championships. • After falling one short of the championships in 2016, the athletics team were crowned as the champions in the Mercantile Annual Athletic Championships 2017. • The swimming team emerged victorious in the Mercantile Swimming Championships for the 7 th consecutive year • In cricket, MAS Intimates emerged champions in both the Mercantile League and Mercantile T20 Championships. 82 | P a g e Individual Achievements • In cricket, T.M Dilshan and Duvindu Thilakaratne of MAS Intimates won the player of the tournament and the best bowler awards of the Mercantile League tournament Boxing (Men’s) Layton Cup • U.G. Nuwan Karunasinghe Amarawansha -56kg Gold • M. Malith Prabashwara 52kg – Silver • Asanka Rajapaksha – 69kg – Gold • Jayaweera – 60kg Gold Boxing (Women’s) National Festival • Kosala Nilmini – 48kg – Gold • Anuradha Jayasinghe – 51kg – Gold • Ayoma Dharmathilake – 60kg – Bronze • Keshani Hansika – 57kg – Gold • Lakmali Udayangani – 64kg – Gold • Hansika Jayadewa – 81kg – Silver • Wasana Thalgaspitiya – 54kg – Silver • Nadeeka Pushpakumari – 48kg – Gold Layton Cup • Kosala Nilmini – 48kg Gold • Anuradha Jayasingha – 51kg Gold • Ayoma Dharmathilaka – 60kg – Gold • Keshani Hansika – 57kg Gold • Lakmali Udayangani – 64kg Gold • Dinishi Mendis – 57kg Silver • Shashikala Chandrasekara – 75kg Silver • Hansika Jayadewa – 81kg Silver • Wasana Thalgaspitiya – 54kg Silver • Kaushalya – 51kg Bronze • Nadeeka Pushpakumari – 48kg Bronze • Athapaththu – 69kg – Bronze 83 | P a g e Para Athletics • L.P.G. Amara Indumathi – Gold – 400m – National Meet Gold – 100m – Mercantile Para Athletic Championships Gold – 200m – Mercantile Para Athletic Championships Gold – 400m – Mercantile Para Athletic Championships Presidential Award – Best Para Athlete Sirasa special award • D.M. Kumudu Priyantha Silver – 100m – Mercantile Para Athletic Championships Silver – 200m – Mercantile Para Athletic Championships Silver – Long Jump – Mercantile Para Athletic Championships • Dumeera Maduranga Alwis – Gold – 100m – Mercantile Para Athletic Championships Silver – Long Jump – Mercantile Para Athletic Championships Shooting (Men’s) • Suranga Fernando – Navy Open – Gold in 10m air pistol, 50m free pistol, 25m standard pistol NFFS Open – Gold in 10 air pistol, 50m free pistol, 25m standard pistol Shooting (Women’s) • Ruwini Abeymanna – Navy Open – Gold in 10m air pistol and 25m sports pistol NFFS Open – Gold in 10m air pistol and 25m sports pistol Representation and achievements on the international stage Boxing the following represented and brought glory to Sri Lanka, Slovakia tournament (Men’s) • P.V.D.D. Dinidu Dushan Saparamadu – 64kg – Gold • U.G. Nuwan Karunasinghe Amarawansha – 56kg – Gold • L. Lahiru Rathnadiwakara – 91kg – Gold • Rajitha Kavishka – 81kg – Silver Netherland Championships (Men’s) • P.V.D.D. Dinidu Dushan Saparamadu – 64kg – Gold P.V.D.D. Dinidu Dushan Saparamadu represented Sri Lanka at both the Asian and World Boxing Championships. 84 | P a g e Slovakia tournament (Women’s) • Kosala Nilmini – 48kg – Bronze • Anuradha Jayasinghe – 51kg – Bronze • Shashikala Chandraseka – 75kg – Gold Netherland Championships (Women’s) • Kosala Nilmini – 48kg – Silver • Anuradha Jayasinghe – 51kg – Bronze • Keshani Hansika – 57kg – Silver “Slovakia Boxing cup Triebel”, held on 18th June, Slimline boxing team became champions of the tournament by winning 5 medals Para Athletics L.P.G. Amara Indumathi participated at the World Championships and emerged in 6th place in both the 200m and 400m events. Shooting Suranga Fernando participated at the Common Wealth Shooting Championships and emerged 4th and 7th place in the 10m air pistol and 50m free pistol events respectively. Ruwini Abeymanna emerged in 7th place in the 10m air pistol event at the Common Wealth Shooting Championships and won bronze at the IMMSU Nationals in the rifle category. Cricket, the following MAS employees represented Sri Lanka, • Dilruwan Perera • Danushka Goonethilake • Niroshan Dickwella • Kusal Perera Fencing, the following MAS employees represented Sri Lanka, • Supun Chanaka (Unichela) Represented Sri Lanka at Senior Asian Fencing Championship June 2017 – Hong Kong. • Suresh Sudarshana (MDS) Represented Sri Lanka at Senior Asian Fencing Championship June 2017 – Hong Kong. • Reeta Prakasham (MDS) – Represented Sri Lanka at Senior Asian Fencing Championship June 2017 – Hong Kong. • Manjula Fernando (Unichela – Koggala) – Represented Sri Lanka at Senior World Fencing Championship July 2017 – Leipzig, Germany Mr. Gayan Bandara from Silueta, achieved the FIE Referring Qualification. (Federation Internationale D’Escrime) 85 | P a g e GO BEYOND COMPLIANCE & STANDARDS We understand that labour intensive challenges are an industry-wide problem, which makes our values of being people centric even more relevant to maintain a competitive advantage and to create synergies within our growing global eco-system. Our continuing objective is to ensure and encourage a happy, healthy, diverse and skilled workforce, while maintaining strong relations with them and providing a safe and secure working environment for them all. While compliance is as an area which is considered as non-negotiable at MAS we have always sought to continuously improve in this space above and beyond what could be the norm. This attitude and approach has resulted in many global brands making us their preferred partner and showcasing us as their gold standard. 2017 saw MAS launching its own Code of conduct / DNA which is a collection of policies standards and guidelines that help instill our values intrinsically within all those we influence. Business Continuity Management 2017 saw Group HR and Chairmen’s office undertaking the initiative of establishing a Business Continuity Process. For this all functions and processes were mapped out and reviewed while critical processes based on time criticality were identified. These processes were then reviewed based on resource requirements and back up capabilities to understand how best a process can be restored in an event of a disaster. Learning of this were shared across the non-critical functions. COMPLIANCE AND HEALTH & SAFETY Compliance2017 Actions MAS recognizes the importance of complying with all rules and regulations to ensure the continuity of its operations. MAS also tracks and monitors any fines paid by the SBUs and all other compliance related requirements as per Sri Lankan legislation and customer requirements. Related Operational Health and Safety incidents are also tracked for the same purpose. Social compliance issues and focus areas relating to our customers differ from division to division and each one deploys dedicated sustainability teams to handle the frequent audits and the strategic synchronisation of priority areas. Here are some key highlights & achievements in 2017 from across MAS MAS Kreeda • Synergy became the only Olympian level performer globally in the culture of safety maturity assessment (COSMA) under Nike’s modernisation strategy. • Synergy achieved a score of 3.20 for NIKE health and safety assessment tool (HSAT) calibration, the highest score in the region for HSAT • National level recognition in responsible care awards 2017, Nirmaana – Gold & Kreeda Intimo – Silver • All local SBUs recertified for OHSAS18001:2007 • All SBUs achieved Bronze for HSE in Nike compliance assessment tool (NCAT) with an average score of 98% • Culture of safety journey initiated and baseline COSMA assessments conducted in all SBUs • Defensive driving program launched & trainings completed for staff transportation service providers • National level school Health and Safety program initiated at 2 schools in Awissawella with Synergy 86 | P a g e Fabrics • Trischel Certified for OHSAS 18001:2007 • Matrix certified for OHSAS 18001:2007 • MAS fabrics all factories are now certified for OHSAS Intimates • MAS Intimates ranks among the top performing 5 vendors of all of our major customers • GAP Green Rating (Best Rating) for 8 plants in MAS Intimates • Two largest customers of MAS Intimates have piloted their shift from customer audits to self-ownership in 2017 • Total number of 43 Social Compliance audits by customers and certification bodies in 2017 was done • L Brands invited MAS Intimates to partner in their Self Ownership to manage social compliance standards, in recognition of the past performance and the high scores in social compliance audits across MAS Intimates facilities. Pilot program will commence in mid 2018 • MAS Intimates were amongst 7 global strategic vendors to be invited by PVH brand to participate in their pilot Gold self-ownership program. Assessments of a sample of manufacturing units have already been completed in our quest for Gold • An average score of 94% was scored at 5 strategic customer audits for L Brands that measure compliance performance • Unichela (Pvt) Limited of Linea Intimates Division certified to produce Organic Cotton Certification (OCS) and GOTS certified products by Control Union Inspections (Pvt) Limited • Unichela (Private) Limited Casualline Division certified for Recycled Content Certification by Control Union Inspections (Pvt) Limited. The Recycled Content Certification evaluates products made from preconsumer or post-consumer material diverted from the waste stream. Certification measures the percentage of recycled content for the purpose of making an accurate claim in the marketplace. • With regard to occupational health and safety, 2017 was an ACCIDENT FREE YEAR, with only few minor first aid injuries across the division • Contribution of excellent Compliance standards to potential business growth, with Online/ Digital brands and retailers coming on board • MAS Intimates Casualline works closely with Fair Trade, USA, and GAP (Athleta specifically) to implement the Fair Trade Standard at the factory (exclusively for Athleta products manufactured onsite). The percentage pay-back commitment based on Athleta’s FOB is matched dollar to dollar by MAS Intimates which guarantees that there is a substantial fund from which the employees benefit • Casualline employees received their inaugural pay-back in December 2017, where 2287 associates received a gold pendant • A second unit, MAS Intimates Thurulie will be seeking Fair Trade USA certification in 2018 87 | P a g e MAS Active • Approximately 32 Social Compliance Audits were conducted by different brands/ 3rd party auditing firms and all passed with excellent ratings • 3 new customers (Odlo, PUMA, Lacoste) on-boarded and audits passed first time • 5 facilities are WRAP Platinum certified and 1 facility is WRAP Gold certified • 5 facilities are OHSAS 18001 certified • 5 facilities are ISO 14001 certified • All 6 facilities have completed the Higg Index Social and Environment modules self-assessments. Self ownership given to suppliers to monitor and report on Social Compliance, Occupational Health and Safety, and Environment parameters • MAS Active is also engaged with the Social & Labour Convergence Project which aims to bring together unique perspectives to create an efficient, scalable and sustainable solution for social audits. All facilities completed the prototype version 1 and 2 plants completed prototype version 2 • Asialine and Linea Intimo had the first Fair Trade USA Certification audit and both facilities are now Fair Trade certified. Currently the factories are producing Fair Trade certified products for Patagonia • All facilities have passed all customer audits with exceptional results were also able to onboard new customers by adhering the legal and customer labour and health and safety standards Bodyline • Achieved OHSAS 18001 88 | P a g e HEALTH & SAFETY Creating a safe and healthy place to work in is of great importance for our employees, subcontractors, clients and the community within which we operate. Throughout the years MAS has sought to minimize any avoidable injuries and occupational illnesses through the adoption of a Health and Safety policy. As per our management approach, the Group records and reports on rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and a total number of work-related casualties of its workforce. Minor occupational injuries or diseases that result in less than one lost day is excluded from these reports. Health and safety committee composition Health and safety committee composition by percentage for each work level Since its inception MAS has operated with Joint Consultative Committees as a proactive and collaborative approach to handling issues within our eco-system. Employee representation in our Joint Consultative Committees remains diverse. We believe that while a 1:1 representation would be ideal a reasonable representation has been accepted by the team members and managers. Every MAS manufacturing plant has a JCC which meets once a month to discuss any issues regarding employees. 89 | P a g e Employee Count in H&S Job Level Gender committees Divisional/ Functional Female 0 directors Male 7 Female 1 GMs Male 15 Female 12 DGM, Managers Male 68 Senior Executive, Female 52 Executive/AM Male 177 Female 91 Staff Male 134 Female 304 Team Member Male 209 Female 3 Contractor Personnel Male 10 Health and Safety statistics Rate Absolute number Injury Rate 0.06 888 Disease Rate 0.99 9744 Lost Days Rate 0.16 2171 Occupation Fatalities 3 When considering the diverse manufacturing processes that run across MAS facilities, the reported numbers of Injury rate, Disease rate and Lost days are reasonably positive. All production facilities have very stringent H&S standards and guidelines while constant audits take place on regular basis followed with trainings especially when handling machinery. The three fatalities recorded were due to a road accident that occurred during work hours. Activities identified as High risk No activities have been identified as high risk since the risks have been reduced by various interventions and the compulsory use of PPEs 90 | P a g e SPOTLIGHTMAS CODE OF CONDUCT MAS from its inception was built on the foundation of five values; honesty & integrity, trust and mutual respect, freedom with accountability, humility, and passion for excellence. These values are embedded as our core strengths and helps us to create the distinctive MAS culture. The code of conduct communicates the behavior which we want our employees to showcase through their actions and ‘Doing the right thing’ has always been part of our DNA. In this regard, MAS has developed several policies to strengthen the right behavior within the organization, and by complying to the policies, an employee lives the code of conduct and thereby upholding the values of the organization. Why is our Code of Conduct branded as DNA? Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA is in the very core of every being. Unique to every individual, together it combines to shape the personality that makes the individual whole. Similarly, the Code of Conduct is embedded in every employee, creating the heart of MAS and establishing it as our DNA. 91 | P a g e The DNA Centre of Expertise has designed and developed the code of conduct and together with the code officers, continue to engage in the activities of communication & education whilst also overseeing the reporting & investigations of the incidents of Non-compliance to ensure that MAS Culture is preserved and protected. The MAS DNA Website serves as the single platform through which employees can access the policies and all information related to the code of conduct thereby facilitating the communication and education of this process. There are several policy documents & videos available on the website for the employees educate themselves. The MAS DNA Helpdesk and online incident reporting, is the incident management platform developed for the individuals to report their concerns regarding issues of violations or non-compliances. The system is operated by operated by a globally renowned, independent, confidential service provider NAVEX Global. HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses flourish in societies where human rights are respected and protected. MAS recognizes that this is a topic of importance to our employees, investors, customers, regulators and the communities we operate in, making it not only a moral obligation, but also a business necessity for us to uphold human rights across our operations. MAS remains committed to business integrity, openness, respect for universal human rights and core labour principles, and we strive to carry out all business in an ethical manner at every turn. MAS has policies governing areas such as child labour, forced labour, freedom of association and anti-corruption which have been introduced through the MAS DNA. This is a collective set of policies that have been introduced to the organisation to be enforced and practiced. Human Rights training At MAS all policies and governance are included in the MAS DNA. A groupwide rollout of the Code of Conduct has taken place with 4 activities and an overall participation of 280 employees for 2017. Since this roll out is planned to take a staggered approach the continuation of the same will be seen in 2018 where we will be addressing existing policy gaps. Percentage of Security personnel trained in Human rights Human rights are directly in line with our vision to respect humanity and is a key focus area for MAS. We have identified that areas of high risk to Human rights violations need to be identified and such incidents and risks addressed, investigated and reduced. As part of this culture building effort 10 of our SBUs have initiated programs to train security personnel in Human Rights where a total of 428 have been trained. MAS hopes to further this initiative and ensure all security personnel are trained annually. Child Labour The Group has zero tolerance towards child labour and does not employ any persons below the age of 17 years. Young persons who are employed are given job roles that are in line with the legal recommendations of Sri Lanka and other support such as transport and suitable work hours. Sri Lanka has ratified both ILO Convention on Minimum Age to Employment, 1973 (No.138) and Convention on the Worst Forms of Child Labour, 1999 (No.182). In accordance with the provisions of Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children’ Act, a ‘child’ is a person under the age of 14 years and a ’young worker’ is a person who is under the age of 18 years, but has already completed the age of 14. 92 | P a g e Forced or Compulsory Labour The Group ensures that no employee is made to work against his / her will or to work as bonded/forced labour, or subjected to corporal punishment or coercion of any kind, related to work. In line with legal requirements and industry standards, compensation through overtime or variable pay is provided for employees who work beyond normal working hours, in addition to being provided with meals and transport where applicable. A specific measure to track the number of maximum work time violations has been developed and tracked throughout the organisation to further eliminate possible occurrences of such non-compliance. Non-Discrimination The MAS DNA emphasizes on creating a safe and secure working environment that provides opportunities for every employee to be productive, earn a fair income and develop their skill set for career advancement in their chosen field, regardless of race, gender, nationality, religion, or any other factor. Reflecting the policies on equal opportunity, there is zero tolerance for discrimination or harassment based on gender, race, religion, nationality, age, social origin, disability, political affiliations or opinion. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining There are no restrictions in freedom of association and all employees are free to join unions as per the laws of the country. Since inception MAS employees have engaged with management every month through Joint Consultative Committees whose members are elected by the employees themselves. This has replaced the requirement of unions and effectively provide collaborative solutions to all staff. Employee composition in Joint Consultative Committees (JCC) 93 | P a g e Employee Count in Job Level Gender Committee Female 1 Divisional/ Functional directors Male 20 Female 3 GMs Male 46 Female 24 DGM, Managers Male 138 Female 71 Senior Executive, Executive/AM Male 165 Female 62 Staff Male 63 Female 1460 Team Member Male 431 Female 0 Contractor Personnel Male 2 A JCC is a representation of all staff especially at team member level as acts as a substitute for a union. MAS does not oppose unions but instead a JCC fulfills this requirement very effectively. The above table indicates the absolute number in the JCCs as well as a percentage for the specific work level relevant to the gender ratio. The staff level and team member level has almost an equal representation of male to female which is positive. 94 | P a g e Total Grievances and discrimination reported by labour Grievances Discriminations As an extension of the code of conduct MAS has committed to monitor the labor grievance of which discrimination due to religion, race, gender or disability is a subsect. As a signatory for Business for Peace the inclusion of this subsect is helpful in giving us further insights when operating in post conflict and high risk area. As per the diagram above Labor grievances for 2017 stand at 1459 while 90 of them have been identified as discrimination. However, the key factor here is that a high percentage of issues have been taken up and resolved. Total Grievances and discrimination reported by Society Grievance Discrimination MAS has also taken one step further to identify the grievance of the local community. Ideally this is a measure that can enable an SBU to avoid some potential societal concerns snowballing into a burning issue. In 2017 the organization has received 327 grievances of which over 90% have been taken up and over 70% resolved. Similarly, discrimination has been recorded at 14 which a significantly low number. 95 | P a g e SUPPORT THRIVING COMMUNITIES MAS values trust, integrity, commitment and care, and this is demonstrated by our commitment to respect all our stakeholders, including the communities and environment in which our businesses operate. In keeping with these values MAS goes beyond simply adhering to environmental, social and legal requirements. All our Divisions and SBUs constantly strive to make the operational impact on our communities and the environment as positive as we can. As of 2017 the new sustainability performance management system tracks and monitors the Group’s social performance, specifically indicators such as percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, and discrimination reported by labor and society as well as confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken. Further to facilitating infrastructure development, MAS seeks to contribute to the social development of the nation by fostering good relationships with communities within which we operate Since collating our community outreach activities on a formal system, we added Environment and Sports as categories bringing the total categories of intervention to 6. The remaining four areas remain Education, Health, Nation-mindedness and Local Connect. Given below are the activities and total costs according to the categories of intervention. A total of 521 activities were conducted for the benefit of the community with an overall investment of over USD 400,000 (64 Million LKR) and with the participation of 7,736 volunteers. The beneficiaries amounted to over 159,000 people. The actual number of activities are higher but only those with complete records were included in the count. Of the number of activities 79% incurring 48% of the overall investment in the community was in the categories of Education and Local Connect. MAS was also very keen to understand the rationale behind the selection of community development activities. Data was also collated based on the origin of programme if it was a request that originated from the community, from an employee or a programme that was internally formulated based on an identified need. Almost an equal number of activities 41% and 40% were the result of requests from the community and internally initiated. The rest of the activities were in response to a request by an employee or group of employees. Furthering the SDGs was also another area of interest and all community development activities of 2017 were reported against the SDGs 96 | P a g e SDG No. of Activities 1 No Poverty 33 2 Zero Hunger 34 3 Good Health and Well-Being 113 4 Quality Education 143 5 Gender Equality 37 6 Clean Water and Sanitation 27 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 26 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 28 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 45 10 Reduced Inequalities 5 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 45 12 Responsible Consumption and Production 30 13 Climate Action 11 14 Life Below Water 24 15 Life on Land Peace 3 16 Justice and Strong Institutions 25 17 Partnerships for the Goals 29 It is important to note that some activities and initiatives cut across more than one SDG. Most of activities have focused on Goal 4Ensure Inclusive and Equitable Quality Education and Promote Lifelong Learning Opportunities. LocationDistrict No. of Activities LocationDistrict No. of Activities Kurunegala 97 Galle 16 Gampaha 85 Kegalla 16 Kandy 53 Nuwara Eliya 7 Kilinochchi 22 Badulla 5 Colombo 21 Monaragala 2 Kalutara 17 Ratnapura 2 Matara 1 Puttalam 1 Pollonnaruwa 1 All activities are spread across the 15 districts and 24% of activities were conducted in Kurunagala district and 21% of activities are carried out in Gampaha districts also. 97 | P a g e SPOTLIGHT‘Eco Go Beyond’ – Phase 1 For over 11 years, the MAS Eco Go Beyond programme has engaged with school children across the MAS ecosystem in locations across the island as a hands-on learning experience, with help from like-minded partners. The programme has set off a series of projects such as waste disposal and organic agriculture inside these 60 schools that have gone well beyond its scope thanks to the children themselves. • Based on a Public-Private Partnership between MAS Holdings and the Ministry of Education of Sri Lanka. • Directly impacted 43,000 Children in over 60 schools across Sri Lanka • 3-year intensive engagement with each school • Training both children and teachers on Organic Gardening, Biodiversity, Waste, Nutrition, 5S and Sustainable living • Continuous training, tracking of progress, support and recognition WHY: To create and raise awareness in the mind of a child about the concept and practice of sustainable development, hoping that the opportunity will lead to a consciously educated, active youth who will promote sustainable livelihoods in their communities. THE LEARNING MODEL : Is a mix of experiential and popular classroom methods that have been tried, tested and adjusted over the last 10 years. Throughout the 3 years each school experiences a curriculum that includes: • Social challenges • Environmental challenges • Economic Challenges • Culture • Special Local Challenges • International Efforts • Practical Solutions • Methods of Application of solutions in your school 98 | P a g e “Our work did not stop inside the school premises we took our learnings to our homes and our villages as well. We implemented keyhole gardens, grass cover, “Dakkoth niwwa” (If you See it Switch it Off) policy, “Dakkoth wahuwa”(If you see it Close it) policy in our houses. We shared core content of this programme with our parents, or community through our school development committee meetings.” H.G. Dilrukshi Kumari / Mahawatta Maha Vidyalaya After consecutive three-year cycles, we started a new cycle of Eco Go Beyond for 20172019. It also marked 11 years of existence for the programme with the partnership of the ministry of Education. 30 schools have been included in phase 1 including one Muslim school and one Tamil school which joined the 2017-2019 cycle. The program was conducted in 13 communities: Mahiyanganaya, Mawathagama, Biyagama, Horana, Hanwella, Balangoda, Kuliyapitiya, Pallekelle, Thulhiriya, Awissawella, Koggala and Katunayaka. The rollout began with 30 workshops that involved and engaged 5,170 students, 377 teachers and 565 parents and well-wishers. In addition, 5,691 handouts were distributed. This brings the total student impact by the program, over 2006 to-date, to just over 48,000. The annual Residential Eco Go Beyond Leadership Camp was held at MAS Athena in 2017, with 119 students and 59 teachers in attendance. The Awards Ceremony was held on the 02nd of November at MAS Athena with participation of 300 students and 60 teachers and selected nine championships since this is first year of the cycle. This year, as Phase 1 of the project initiated as basic principle of sustainable developments and simple techniques for environmental conservation as approach for sustainable future. 99 | P a g e SPOTLIGHTFlood relief in May 2017 MAS has been proactively involved in disaster relief efforts targeting the communities in our based localities. Ensuring the inclusion of all, in times of crisis, MAS has been a pillar of strength in communities by donating dry rations and other required items to those affected by disasters. In May 2017, Sri Lanka was devastated by an extreme weather event, resulting in deadly floods. MAS Holdings decided centrally to launch an initiative to assist those affected by donating essential items like water bottles, dry rations, medicine, meals, clothes, sanitary items and household goods. A flood relief collection centre was established at MAS Solutions Centre, Battaramulla, where the whole of the ground floor was utilized to store the relief items that were coming all the way across the group. All the HR managers of affected plants were contacted to assess the need daily and the goods were procured and sent accordingly. Collective efforts saw the distribution of dry rations and medicine amounting to Rs.8.1 million. Apart from collecting and donating essential items, MAS colleagues were actively involved in the distribution of these items alongside Sri Lankan Army & giving their time. An emergency team was set up to manage the situation. A help desk was set up to gather information and a blood donation campaign was organized by our facility in Balangoda as well as a relief fund for all our employees affected by the disaster. The floods affected areas our manufacturing plants based in Colombo, Gampaha, Kalutara, Galle, and Ratnapura districts. 15 Plants Impacted 1. Bodyline 1 9. Asialine 2. Bodyline 2 10. MDS 3. Bodyline 3 11. Silueta 4. Prym 12. Rapid, Biyagama 5. Stretchline 13. UPL, Panadura 6. Aqua 14. UPL, Koggala 7. Synergy 15. Noyon 8. Intimo 9. Asialine 10. MDS 11. Silueta 12. Rapid, Biyagama 13. UPL, Panadura 14. UPL, 100 | P a g e Koggala 15. Noyon The floods impacted 6,104 MAS Colleagues who had 270 Houses Partially Damaged 28 Fully Damaged. The impacted were provided immediate support by distributing the following: ▪ 8,600 lunch packets ▪ 5,473 5l water bottles ▪ 4,177 dry ration packs ▪ 1,500 clothing packs SPOTLIGHTMAS Children’s Program at the Fairway Galle Literary Festival Hand in hand with many passionate readers and literary personalities all over the world, once again in 2017 MAS partnered with the Fairway Galle Literary Festival to introduce a comprehensive children’s program to the festival as a part of its initiative to inculcate a learning culture in Sri Lanka. Concentrating more on taking the programme to local school students this year, MAS facilitated the following programs as a part of its community outreach initiative, reaching a nationwide audience: • Galle Schools’ Day 1Richmond College & Navajeevana Centre, Tangalle • Galle Schools’ Day 1Sacred Heart Convent • Galle Schools’ Day 2Janadhipathi Balika Vidyalaya • Galle Schools’ Day 2Sugathanandha Vidyalaya • Galle Teacher TrainingAmarasuriya Training College • Galle Children’s Program (2 days) Thomas Gall School • Kilinochchi Schools’ DayKilinochchi Maha Vidyalayam • Kilinochchi Schools’ DayVivekananda Maha Vidyalayam • Jaffna Teacher TrainingKokuvil Hindu College 101 | P a g e Outreach Schools’ Days The Galle Outreach Schools’ Days were conducted completely free of charge in the premises of 4 schools. The event gave 722 students from 4 schools the experience of participating in a variety of storytelling sessions, performances and interactive workshops run by world renowned authors and performers. This programme presented a touring format which saw a 5-act show delivered in two schools back to back for each of the two days in the Galle area. Students were thrilled with a non-stop lineup of lively performances, peaking with the brilliant Power of Play puppet theatre show. Other sessions included solo interactive storytelling, a magic show, a student orchestra and a workshop on sustainable living by the MAS Eco Go Beyond team. At the Killinochchi Outreach Schools Day, which were also free, 276 students participated from 2 schools. Teacher Training 26 English teachers from primary and secondary schools in and around Jaffna participated in a training program that introduced striking new techniques such as Urban Poetry and detailed new techniques on how to use Poetry in classroom presented by the British Council and MAS MOS team conducted their workshops on continuous improvement. It also included teaching about socially conscious Hip Hop music and the social change brought through Tamil Hip Hop. P1 While in Galle, over 106 student teachers from the Amarasuriya Teacher Training College participated in a halfday teacher training workshop led by Jeeva Raghunath, an incredibly talented trainer. These workshops demonstrated the power of involving students in the storytelling process by introducing body language, repetition, singing and some theatrical techniques in both Sinhala & English languages. Galle Children’s Program Apart from all of the above, a one-and-a-half-day ticketed program that had 3 dedicated streams for different age groups from 5-14 years was enjoyed by around 75 children. The program included storytelling, crafts and other creative sessions led by international and local authors, performers and artisans. From interaction with international authors and performers to learning about faraway places and cultures, to the hands-on creation of upcycled masterpieces, the program was a truly unique experience for the children. 102 | P a g e GRI Standard Disclosure Category GRI Standards Page UNGC SDG (G4) / Standard (EC1) 201-1: Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed GRI 201: (EC2) 201-2: Financial implications and other risks due to Climate Economic Change Performance (EC3) 201-3: Defined Benefit Plan Obligations (EC4) 201-4: Financial Assistance from Govt GRI 202: (EC5) 202-1: Ratio Entry Wage to Minimum Wage Market 77 P6 1, 5, 8, 10 (EC6) 202-2: Senior Management from locality Presence GRI 203: (EC7) 203-1: Infrastructure Investments Indirect Econ GRI 200: (EC8) 203-2: Significant Indirect economic impacts Impacts Economic GRI 204: Procurement (EC9) 204-1: Proportion spent on local suppliers Practices (SO3) 205-1: Operations assessed for corruption GRI 205: Anti(SO4) 205-2: Communication and training on anti corruption 89,93 P10 16 Corruption (SO5) 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken GRI 206: Anti (SO7) 206-1: Legal action taken against company for antiCompetitive competitive behaviour Behaviour (EN1) 301-1: Materials used by Weight or volume GRI 301: (EN2) 301-2: Recycled input Materials used 36 Materials (EN28) 301-3: Reclaimed products and their packaging material (EN3) 302-1: Energy Consumption within Org (EN4) 302-2: Energy Consumption outside Org GRI 302: (EN5) 302-3: Energy Intensity 22-25 P7, P8 7, 12, 13 Energy (EN6) 302-4: Reduction of Energy consumption (EN7) 302-5: Reduction of Energy consumed by products/services (EN8) 303-1: Water Withdrawal by Source GRI 303: (EN9) 303-2: Water sources impacted by water withdrawal 26-30 P7, P8 6 Water (EN10) 303-3: Water reused or recycled (EN11) 304-1: Operational sites in proximity to protected areas (EN12) 304-2: Impacts of activities, products and services on GRI 304: biodiversity 37-44 P8 6, 14, 15 Biodiversity (EN13) 304-3: Habitats restored GRI 300: (EN14) 304-4: IUCN Red List Species affected by operations Environment (EN15) 305-1: Scope 1 GHG (EN16) 305-2: Scope 2 GHG (EN17) 305-3: Scope 3 GHG GRI 305: 3, 12, 13, (EN18) 305-4: GHG Emissions Intensity 17-21 P8 Emissions 14, 15 (EN19) 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions (EN20) 305-6: Emissions of ODS (EN21) 305-7: Emissions of Nox Sox (EN22) 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination GRI 306: (EN23) 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method Effluents & (EN24) 306-3: Significant spills 31-35 P8 3, 6, 12, 14 Waste (EN25) 306-4: Transport of Hazardous waste (EN26) 306-5: Water bodies impacted due to dscharge GRI 307: Environmental (EN29) 307-1: Non-compliance with Env laws Compliance 103 | P a g e GRI 308: (EN32) 308-1: New Suppliers screened for environmental impacts Supplier (EN33) 308-2: Negative impacts in the supply chain, and actions Assessment taken Env (LA1) 401-1: Number of new hires and turnover by region, gender and level GRI 401: (LA2) 401-2: Benefits to full time emps that are not provided to 47,48 P6 5 Employment part-timers (LA3) 401-3: Return to work rates after parental leave GRI 402: Labour (LA4) 402-1: Minimum notice periods for changes in operations Relations GRI 403: (LA5) 403-1: Workforce represented in H&S committees Occupational (LA6) 403-2: Number of injuries and diseases 86,87 P4 3, 8 Health & (LA7) 403-3: Workers with high risk of incidence of disease Safety (LA8) 403-4: H&S topics covered with Trade Unions (LA9) 404-1: Training hours per employee per annum GRI 404: (LA10) 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and 75 P6 8 Training transition (LA11) 404-3: Employees receiving performance reviews GRI 405: Diversity & (LA12) 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 48,49 P6 5, 10 Equal (LA13) 405-2: Ratio of basic Salary Women to Men Opportunity GRI 406: Non(HR3) 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and actions taken / 92 P6 8, 10 Discrimination MAS2 and MAS3 GRI 407: Freedom of (HR4) 407-1: Operations and suppliers where Freedom of Association & Association is at risk Collective Bargaining GRI 400: Social GRI 408: Child (HR5) 408-1: Operations and suppliers with risk of Child Labour Labour GRI 409: Forced, (HR6) 409-1: Operations and suppliers with risk of Forced & Compulsory Compulsory Labour Labour GRI 410: Security (HR7) 410-1: Security personnel trained in human rights policies 89 P2 8 practices GRI 411: Rights of (HR8) GRI 411-1: Incidents of abuse of human rights of Indigenous indigenous people peoples (HR9) GRI 412-1: Operations that have been assessed for human GRI 412: rights Human Rights (HR2) GRI 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies 89 P1 8, 10 Assessment (HR1) GRI 412-3: Investment agreements and contracts that include human rights (SO1) GRI 413-1: Ops with local community engagements, GRI 413: Local impact assessments 93 P1 1, 4 Communities (SO2) GRI 413-2: Operations with negative impacts on local communities (LA14, HR10, SO9) GRI 414-1: New Suppliers screened for social GRI 414: impacts Supplier Social (LA15, HR11, SO10) GRI 414-2: Negative impacts in the supply Assesment chain, and actions taken GRI 415: Public (SO6) 415-1: Political contributions Policy 104 | P a g e GRI 416: (PR1) 416-1: Assessment of the H&S impacts of products/services Customer (PR2) 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning H&S Health & impacts of products/service Safety (PR3) 417-1: Requirements for product services info and labelling GRI 417: (PR4) 417-2: Incidents of violation of product service labelling Marketing & requirements Labelling (PR7) 417-3: Incidents of non-compliance of marketing communications GRI 418: (PR8) 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breach of Customer customer privacy Privacy GRI 419: (SO8, PR9) 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in Socioeconomic social and economic area Compliance MAS4 : Percentage of total workforce represented in Joint Consultative MAS specific 90,91 NA 8 Committee UNGC Initiatives Policies and Processes Principle MAS DNA 1,2, 10 Persons with Disabilities interventions 6 Women Go Beyond 6 Eco Go Beyond 1,2,8 Galle Literary Festival MAS Chidren's Festival 1,2 TL/GL Programme 6 Flood Relief 1, 2 Labour Practices 3,4, 5 Policies on Water, Chemical & Waste Mgmnt 7 MAS Photon 8,9 Energy Management System 7,9 ZDHC Gateway 9 Habitat Restoration 8 Material Recovery Center 7,8 Natural Biological Systems 9 Sustainable Lifestyles 8 CleanChain Chemical management system 7,9 105 | P a g e
