Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 CSR Extract Securing Your World ON NE Y P ERS L N L RIT Y P E RS O N EL NE ON Y P ERS AC A C TIV E C U RITY E S TY TY C UARCI C U RI RIT Y L S E C U RIT Y C A L S E C U RIT Y L SECU FOCUSED GROWTH GS4 at a glance G4S is the world’s leading, global, integrated security G4S plays a valuable and important role in society. SECURING YOUR WORLD company specialising in the provision of security and We provide direct employment for over half a million related services across six continents. people around the world and make a difference by helping people to live and work in safe and secure environments. OUR BUSINESSES SECURE SOLUTIONS SECURITY SERVICES AND TECHNOLOGY (77%) (84% OF CORE BUSINESS REVENUES) Market Our approach G4S operates an integrated security business in more Against the backdrop of growing demand, we design, than 90 countries across the globe. The global security market and deliver a wide range of security and related market has structural growth qualities (see page 8 for services and our global footprint provides valuable a description of the growth drivers) and is highly access to a highly-diversified customer base in markets fragmented; there are few international suppliers and around the world. Some traditional security markets are our competitors are typically smaller local and regional commoditised and significant price competition exists companies. The security industry is seeing growing – we aim to differentiate G4S by providing industrydemand for technology-enabled and integrated security leading security solutions that are innovative, reliable and solutions (which combine people and technology) efficient. Our scale and focus on productivity support, to deliver cost-effective security, especially in our cost competitiveness and our sustained investment developed markets. in professional staff, technology, software and systems enable us to provide innovative and reliable solutions for our customers on a stand-alone or integrated basis. CARE & JUSTICE SERVICES (7%) Market Our approach G4S Care & Justice Services are concentrated in the We aim to achieve positive outcomes for those in the UK and Australia. The market for the private provision care and justice system. G4S will only offer custody, of care and justice services is fairly consolidated with a detention, rehabilitation and care services where we small number of large providers. Larger companies are can access a qualified talent pool and where the usually better equipped to deliver the highly specialised political, legal, human rights and regulatory framework services in this sector, working with a diverse supply is consistent with our Group values and results in chain including the voluntary sector. In the UK the acceptable operational, commercial and reputational risk. market environment is mature with limited growth opportunities. In the short to medium term we expect the environment to be more positive in Australia. CASH SOLUTIONS CASH SOLUTIONS (16% OF CORE BUSINESS REVENUES) Market Our approach G4S Cash Solutions is one of a small number of large, We transport, process, recycle, store securely and global cash businesses and is the market leader or manage cash, and provide secure international logistics number two in 40 of its 42 markets. Each market is for cash and valuables. Our strategy is designed to highly regulated, often by central banks, and the business enable us to aggregate cash-handling volumes through requires significant infrastructure and expertise. G4S cost leadership and product and service differentiation. competes with local, national and a small number We invest in technology and sell proprietary of international competitors. Cash volumes in most cash-management systems which combine skilled developed markets are flat or gradually declining at an professionals with software, hardware and operational aggregate market level. Cash usage continues to increase support in an integrated, managed service. To support in emerging markets (see page 8 for cash usage trends). cost leadership we strive for a consistent operating The Group sees significant revenue-growth opportunities model and use shared services to maximise efficiency. in providing technology solutions to reduce the cost and increase the ease of using cash for banks and retailers. We operate around the globe, focusing on markets where we are able to build and sustain a material market share in our key service offerings. Outside of the traditional cash market, there remains significant opportunity for retail cash and bank branch automation – services that have mainly remained in-house until now. 1 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract G4S takes a fully-integrated approach to its strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility. This is reflected in it's 2017 Integrated Report and Accounts, from which this document has been extracted, setting out our CSR approach and impact on society. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT In order to ensure that G4S’ approach to 1) Health and safety CSR remains focused on the areas that are most relevant to the business and its 2) Human rights Secure Solutions stakeholders, a wide-ranging materiality 3) Anti-bribery and corruption assessment of ethical and sustainability Integrated Managed issues is carried out. The CSR committee’s The assessment reinforced the importance Services work also included overseeing this process, of G4S’ ethics, culture and values, as well Security Software & Hardware which is conducted with the support of an as employee standards and behaviour in Systems external facilitator every two years. preventing issues and poor performance Integration Consultancy across the Group’s core priorities and Services The results, which inform future reporting other CSR matters. Monitoring & and strategy, confirmed three core priority Response Integration ethical and sustainability areas for the Further information, including the Margin Manned & Mobile Security, FM Group during 2018 and 2019: full materiality matrix can be found at g4s.com/csr, and on p23 of this document. OUR VALUES Care & Justice Services Monitoring technology & Services Our values are the standards we set for ourselves and they are reflected in Custody, Detention & Rehabilitation the culture of our organisation through our behaviours and actions. Secure FM Forensics & Integrity and Respect Secure Health Our business activities and relationships are built on Patient trust, honesty and openness. We deliver on the promises Transport we make and treat our colleagues, customers and those Integration Margin Secure in our care with the utmost respect. Transport Safety, Security and Service Excellence We work in a safe way and take great care to protect our colleagues and customers from harm. We are experts in security and use that knowledge to protect our customers’ most valuable assets. We are passionate Cash Solutions about delivering high levels of customer service. Innovation and Teamwork We invest in technology and best practice to improve Cash Technology and continually our service offering. We challenge ourselves Services to find new ways of helping our customers. Cash Processing We work together as a team to achieve the best results ATM Services for our customers and our business. Everyone has a valid opinion and their contribution is valued. International Secure Logistics Integration Margin CIT 2017 INTEGRATED REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The full Integrated Report and Accounts for 2017 is available to download from www.g4s.com CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 2 Our Commitment We expect all colleagues to uphold G4S’ values in FOCUSED GROWTH whatever role they play. In return, our commitment is to provide meaningful work, fair reward and the opportunity to develop. Our employees often work in inherently hazardous environments and we equip and train our employees to ensure they are safe. We regularly ask stakeholders from inside and outside the company to provide input into an analysis of our material CSR issues to help set priorities. See page 23 of this document more information on the CSR materiality review that was undertaken in 2017. Ashley Almanza, Group Chief Executive Officer Our CSR approach covers a broad range of areas, with three material priorities: health and safety, human Our CSR approach and contribution to rights and anti-bribery and corruption. society In June 2017, G4S was selected as a constituent As a global leader in security and related services, company of the FTSE4Good Index, recognising our corporate social responsibility is very important to G4S strong commitment to social responsibility and and it forms a key part of our strategy. We are trusted sustainable business practices. to care for some of the world’s most valuable assets and to ensure the safety, protection and welfare Culture – embedding our values of people around the world, often in complex and Underpinning our culture are the Group's values which demanding operating environments. govern and guide the conduct of everyone at G4S. Conducting our business in a way which is ethically Health & Safety responsible, safe and consistent with the company’s The wellbeing and safety of our employees and those in values and standards, is an essential element of our our care remains a key priority for the Group executive business model. and global leadership teams. We work in an inherently The Group is committed to sustainability and the core hazardous industry: we travel extensively and many of principles of the UN Global Compact are reflected in our colleagues are trained and deployed to protect our our policies, values and business activities today. customers and their property. As a result, road-traffic accidents and criminal attacks are inherent risks we face We recognise that business has an important role in the in delivering some of our services. We have therefore achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. invested in a sustained programme to strengthen our On page 18 of the Integrated Report and Accounts we health and safety policies, practices and training highlight where G4S is helping to advance these goals and performance across the Group with the aim of make a positive difference to society and communities improving safety. around the world. DEFINING OUR SOCIETAL IMPACT We play an important role in society. Through • Our colleagues work with governments and nongovernmental organisations in high-risk environments its services and organisation, G4S delivers a such as former conflict areas, to support humanitarian, broad range of significant and far-reaching social stabilisation and economic-reconstruction efforts. and economic benefits to the communities in • Our focus on safety has helped reduce the risk of injury and fatality. which we work, many of which are helping to • We encourage industry standards to be raised. By realise the United Nations Sustainable embedding our policies and practices into less developed Development Goals (SDGs). regions, as well as by supporting new approaches such as the Ethical Employment Partnership or the International • We create employment opportunities, and invest in and Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers, we have develop our employees. We directly benefit them and helped to improve industry standards around the world. our suppliers through the salaries, benefits and payments we make for goods and services. The SDGs call upon businesses to advance sustainable development through the investments they make, the • In our Care and Justice operations, we develop innovative solutions they develop, and the practices they adopt. In our programmes to rehabilitate offenders and provide them Integrated Report and Accounts report, we have mapped with the encouragement and skills needed to help them case studies against the SDGs to highlight where G4S is rebuild their lives once released. helping to advance the SDGs through our programmes and • We deliver a wide range of specialist security services operations. that mitigate the risk or impact of criminal behaviour and help to create safer and more stable communities. Visit sustainabledevelopment.un.org for more information on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 3 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract The number of road-traffic fatalities has decreased Speak Out by 48% since 2013 when the first G4S road-safety programme was launched. There has also been a We continue to encourage colleagues to “Speak Out” if they are aware of behaviour which is not consistent with Zero reduction in attack-related fatalities in our Cash Solutions businesses. However the number of armed attacks has not changed and so we continue to work our values or policies. There are many ways in which colleagues can raise concerns, with supervisors or managers, with their local HR team or through the harm is our health with the relevant authorities to mitigate the elevated global, independent whistleblowing systems. Our case and safety goal risk in some of our services. Sadly, during 2017, 25 of management system provides improved visibility of our colleagues lost their lives in work-related accidents whistleblowing cases from across the Group, and and attacks, compared with 47 fatalities in 2016. provides vital information to our Group Ethics Although we are pleased that there are clear signs of an overall cultural shift within G4S in our approach to safety we Steering Committee. I believe that the conduct of the vast majority of our 47% reduction in also know that there is more to do and our plans reflect this. employees is consistent with our values and that this has employee We are firmly committed to improving our health and safety been – and remains – the cornerstone of our customer fatalities from performance and our goal remains zero harm. service and commercial success. We know, however, 2016 to 2017 that even isolated instances of poor conduct are Employee-communication programme unacceptable and can be very damaging. It is therefore Following the launch of our values in March 2016 we 48% important that we continue to promote good conduct conducted an extensive employee engagement and the use of Speak Out. programme to raise awareness and deepen understanding of G4S’ corporate values. We have developed a training reduction in programme for managers and our values are an essential annual road Ashley Almanza fatalities since part of induction and training for new employees. We are Group Chief Executive Officer embedding our values into existing processes, governing 2017 all aspects of our business including sales, operations and performance management. Where actions are required – for example, an improvement in the safety performance of a particular business – leaders and managers will have specific objectives in order to make sure the actions are prioritised appropriately. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 4 Our strategy Our strategy addresses the positive, STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW long-term demand for security and related services and our enduring strategic aim is to demonstrate the values and performance that make G4S the company of choice for customers, employees and shareholders. This section summarises our strategic priorities and how we focus our resources and expertise in areas where we can achieve the best results for customers and sustainable growth and return for investors. Our CSR approach PEOPLE AND VALUES CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE covers a broad range of areas, but EXCELLENCE we have three material priorities: We recruit, develop and We build long-term customer Health and safety, Human rights and deploy the best people in relationships based upon our industry trust and understanding of Anti‑bribery and corruption which our customers’ businesses are covered in the People and and objectives Values section. Strategic priorities • Attracting and retaining the best • Positive demand for security Watch our 2017 results people services and 2018 outlook online at: • Creating the right culture • Large diversified customer base www.g4s.com/investors • Defining our societal impact and sales pipeline • Building capability • Investment in sales leadership and account management • Engaging for success • Net promoter score and • Promoting the right contract retention organisational culture • Improving health and safety • Respecting human rights Key risks • Our trained and skilled people • Failure to understand customers’ are hired by competitors or changing needs or falling short of other companies or do not customer expectations behave in line with the Group’s values, resulting in a negative impact on customer service or those in our care • Negative impacts on our employees’ health and safety 47% £1.4bn KPI Reduction in fatalities from 2016 Annual contract value of substantial to 2017 new business won CORPORATE CULTURE BASED ON GROUP VALUES AND… 5 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE FINANCIAL AND INNOVATION AND PRODUCTIVITY COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE We design, market and deliver We have secure, safe, reliable We manage risk effectively and innovative, industry-leading and efficient operations ensure we provide profitable, technology and services that cash-generative services protect and add value for our customers wherever they operate • Well-positioned for trends • More focused business – cultural • Contract risk management towards more technology with change • Portfolio management disciplined capital allocation • Reinvesting for growth • Operating cash flow • Secure Solutions – integrated • Productivity programmes – good • Strengthening collections security progress but more to do performance • Investing in world-leading • Efficient organisation design • Managing accounts payable proprietary products and services and management de-layering • Capital allocation • Cash Solutions – Bank and Retail • Procurement and property cash technology • Changing behaviours • Operational excellence • IT-enabled lean processes • Failure to market or deliver our • Failure to comply with our • Inefficient capital management services and technology standards results in harm, loss of and failure to comply with Group effectively or failure to deliver expertise or investment fails to risk management standards adequate value for money deliver benefit 30% 4.2% 2.4x Growth in cash management Increase in Adjusted PBITA from Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA at technology locations in 2017 core businesses in 2017 December 2017 in line with our target set in 2016 COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY UNDERPIN THE STRATEGY CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 6 Stakeholder engagement Our key stakeholders are those who most materially impact our ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS strategy, or are directly impacted by it. Engagement with stakeholders is essential for us, as a security business, with our role in society, the global nature of our business and substantial workforce. SOCIETY Key stakeholders How we engage Our employees touch the lives • Operations which promote secure and stable of others every day, providing communities crucial services to help keep • CSR Materiality Review with key stakeholders society safe and secure. • Community-engagement programmes • Tax and economic contributions • Government relationships and parliamentary engagement • NGO and UN agency engagement • ​Industry forums CUSTOMERS Through understanding our • Relationship management customers’ needs we can • c150,000 customers offer value-added, innovative, • Bidding process cost-effective security • Customer service solutions and build enduring • Net promoter score relationships. SHAREHOLDERS The company actively seeks • One-on-one meetings between management and to engage with shareholders shareholders on a regular basis. • Group investor meetings hosted by management • Results announcements and trading updates • Participation in investor-relations association and best practice events • Annual governance meetings with the Chairman • CSR updates with the Chair of the CSR committee • Annual General Meeting EMPLOYEES With around 570,000 • HR core standards set the framework for employee colleagues, G4S is one of the engagement. world’s largest private sector • On-boarding, induction and refresher training employers. Our success is • Biennial global all-employee and senior management underpinned by the way engagement surveys we lead and engage with • Works councils and employee representative forums, our people. including through UNI, the global union, with whom G4S signed a global Ethical Employment Partnership in 2008 • Newsletters, videos, employee self-service portals, and intranets • Specific campaigns on health & safety, values and Speak Out • Values recognition schemes SUPPLIERS We have a responsible • 55,000 suppliers purchasing policy consistent • Contract and relationship management with our business ethics. • Supplier Code of Conduct • Purchase to Pay 7 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract Understanding of stakeholders’ interests helps us define our Links to policies and case studies: strategic priorities and guide our initiatives. We run a formal Business Ethics Policy: exercise every two years to identify and prioritise our material g4s.com/ethicspolicy CSR issues. Environmental Policy: g4s.com/environmentalpolicy Key areas of interest Our response and KPIs Ethical Employment Partnership: • People and Values • Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement g4s.com/EEP • Ethical and sustainable • UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Human Rights Policy: business practice; including: • Global employee-engagement survey (see page 19) g4s.com/humanrightspolicy • Health & safety • Engagement with Parliamentary committees HR core standards: • Human rights • Industry forums including: International Security Ligue, g4s.com/hrstandards • Anti-bribery & Corruption British Security Industry Association, Confederation of British Industry Slavery and Human • Employee standards and Trafficking Statement: behaviour • MP surveys and site visits, especially to detention facilities​ g4s.com/modernslavery Supplier Code of Conduct: g4s.com/suppliercode • Quality and price of service • 3.2% revenue growth from core businesses in 2017 Tax Strategy: • Expertise • Customer retention is on average around 90% g4s.com/taxstrategy • Innovation • 24,000 customers surveyed using net promoter score in 2017, with improvement in most regions Whistleblowing Policy: • Health & safety g4s.com/whistleblowingpolicy • Business ethics • Feedback from unsuccessful contract bids Business for Peace Case Study: g4s.com/b4p • Financial performance • CEO and CFO met with shareholders representing Please see examples online on • Strategic direction and over 65% of the share register and 205 institutions g4s.com coherence (see page 79 for more information) • Governance and risk • 3.2% revenue growth from core businesses in 2017 management • 5.7% adjusted earnings growth from core businesses in 2017 • £527 million operating cash flow from core businesses in 2017 • Final dividend increased 5% in 2017 • Company performance and • Feedback from 428,000 employees in 2017 plans • Access to survey extended through mobile • Compensation and benefits technology and number of languages available • Training and career • Increase in overall favourable responses from 82% development 2015) to 84% (2017) • Health & safety • Feedback from consultation committees and • Values, CSR and recognition works councils • Nominations for employee recognition awards • Reduction in staff turnover from 27.6% in 2016 to 25.3% in 2017 Link to strategy • Fatalitities, serious injuries and road traffic incidents down around 30-50% since focus was applied and ​ People and values investment was made in these areas ​ Customers and service excellence ​ Technology and innovation ​ Operational excellence and productivity ​ Financial and commercial discipline • Supplier performance – • Rationalised suppliers service delivery and product • Commitment to the UK Prompt Payment Code quality • Member of the UK Government Contract Finder • Payment terms portal to promote use of SME businesses • SME engagement​ CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 8 Our strategy Attracting and retaining the best people Attracting and retaining the best people continues to PEOPLE AND VALUES give G4S a competitive advantage as well as ensuring we deliver the best results for our customers. For our senior population, we know from our management survey that the most important factor influencing their decision to join and then to stay at G4S is the nature of the roles and the responsibilities on offer. Our global footprint and operations across a range of product and service lines helps make the business attractive to the best candidates. Once appointed, the responsibility, complexity and opportunities for innovation help retain our senior people and keep them motivated. For other levels in the organisation, we have developed two toolkits which help us attract and retain colleagues by utilising our expertise and sharing resources across the Group. The first relates to recruitment and is designed to ensure potential candidates for jobs with G4S have a positive recruitment experience while going through an efficient and effective hiring process. The With around 570,000 people, G4S is one of second provides guidance on good retention practices. the world’s largest private sector employers. Both toolkits are online and contain templates that are Our employees and services touch the lives of easy to follow and adopt. They emphasise the others every day, providing crucial services to importance of ensuring applicants know what will be keep them safe and secure. Our success is expected before they apply, and if they do join G4S therefore underpinned by the way we attract, there are robust processes in place to welcome, induct, train and support them. Feedback from our most recent develop and engage with our people, as well global employee survey suggests that our employees as the culture and values that shape the way feel well equipped to perform their role, with over 90% we work and how our colleagues carry out of respondents stating they understand their job their roles. procedures. Often employee turnover is at its highest in the initial months after appointment, which suggests there is still more to do to retain our newest colleagues. In order to build our reputation as a good employer and attract candidates from the widest talent pools, 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS KPI KPI KPI 8.3% Reduction in 428,000 37% Employees Reduction in CREATING THE RIGHT CULTURE voluntary responded to serious H&S employee our global incidents since The G4S values are embedded in the standards, turnover to engagement 2015 in high policies and guidance which we set out to help 25.3% in 2017 survey priority employees and managers perform. (2016: 27.6%) businesses To help our front-line operational employees understand the behaviours we expect, and the decisions they should take in line with our values, we have launched a range of learning and awareness materials. These materials include an animated video, scenario-based flashcards, presentations and an online exercise. The materials draw on over 90 scenarios from all product and service lines and are designed to promote discussion and to guide behaviour in line with our values. They address topics like harassment, bribery and corruption, the care and treatment of others, breaches of health and safety rules and inappropriate use of social media. To ensure these materials remain relevant we will continue to add different scenarios whenever new values-based operational situations are identified which can help guide our employees. Work is now underway on values training materials for our managers, using our newly revised competency framework. In line with our values, this refreshed framework defines leadership and management behaviours in terms of how managers should act today, plan for tomorrow, and build relationships. The framework is used in our selection processes as well as our 360 degree review process to assess performance and future potential. It enables us 9 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract countries and regions adopt different approaches to Wage inflation diversity, reaching out to recruit from under-represented groups in their businesses. In North America, the In a number of markets, especially developed regions such as North America and the UK, economic indicators 73% Response rate recruitment of veterans who bring relevant skills and an have highlighted an increase in wage inflation – as a inherent understanding of security risks continues, whilst result of tightening labour markets in some areas and to the biennial in the UK our businesses are some of the few in the as a result of increases in minimum or living wages. employee security sector to have been awarded Disability As a long-established global employer, G4S has many engagement Confident level 2 status as a result of their commitment years of experience of managing periods of wage survey to identify and remove barriers which impact on the inflation. We have to be prepared to negotiate price undertaken employment of people with disabilities. increases with customers and to look for ways to in 2017 continue to be more productive and cost effective. For Overall employee retention continues to improve with 84% example, we believe this trend is helping to drive more voluntary employee turnover reducing to 25.3% (2016: revenue towards integrated solutions, where G4S has a 27.6%) as closer scrutiny and the implementation of competitive advantage and barriers to entry are higher. Favourable good retention practices help us improve performance even in tight labour markets. This is good for service to Building capability response rating our customers, who appreciate working with staff who from the global Building industry-leading capability is at the heart of our employee know them better and have more experience. While people strategy. We want employees at G4S to have engagement our employee headcount has reduced from 585,000 the opportunity to flourish and grow so that they can survey to 570,000 as a result of our portfolio management contribute to the future success of the organisation. programme and our drive to improve organisational There are many examples of local development efficiency, wherever possible we redeploy people and retain their skills and knowledge. For our front-line employees, the launch of a new values related global programmes which enhance the security and technology expertise in our organisation. 90 graduates from recognition programme will add a further opportunity For example, in 2017 the G4S Academy was launched the regional to showcase the amazing work they do for our in Denmark and has provided a structured approach leadership customers each and every day. Ensuring we celebrate to skills development and accreditation in line with programme success, and share information about the ways in which industry standards. which continues our employees behave in line with our values, not only in 2018 helps to bring our values to life but also promotes the Regional Leadership Programme expertise and capabilities of our people. On a Group-wide basis, our efforts are focused on developing the next generation of leaders, primarily In March 2018, we published our UK Gender Pay through our flagship Regional Leadership Programme, Gap Report for the relevant UK businesses. As well which is devised centrally but delivered locally so that it as explaining the reasons for any gaps, the report also is tailored to meet our diverse needs. The Programme sets out the actions we are taking to achieve the offers high-potential individuals, in a range of line, progress required as part of our wider diversity and functional and business-development roles, the inclusion strategy. opportunity to enhance their knowledge and strengthen to gather insight into what colleagues have achieved as well as whether they have done so in a way which is consistent with our values. While having a common set of values helps set G4S apart from the competition, as a global employer we also appreciate that having a diverse workforce enables us to better understand our differing customer needs, and harnessing this diversity is critical to driving innovation. Feedback from our latest global employee survey indicates that 84% of employees who responded believe that the company values people from different backgrounds, and in 2018 we will continue our focus on diversity to ensure we maximise the benefits it brings. CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 10 Our strategy continued Employees by location as at 31 December 2017 (%) Employee gender diversity in 2017 (%) PEOPLE AND VALUES 100 70 83.9 85.3 80 60 40 30 20 16.1 14.7 Middle East & India 31% 0 Africa 22% Female Board Senior Total Latin America 12% Asia Pacific 10% Male employees management North America 10% Europe 8% UK & Ireland 7% their leadership skills. So far 90 employees have Engaging for success graduated from the programme, and a further 59 are We are in no doubt that having well-trained, engaged already on course to do so in 2018. and motivated employees helps us to deliver for our customers and make G4S a success. Consequently, Talent reviews we invest a lot of time and effort in listening to our Annual talent reviews and quarterly talent exchange employees’ views and responding to their feedback. discussions are helping to identify potential candidates We do this in a variety of ways including direct dialogue, for future regional programmes early and are ensuring consultation forums and our employee survey. career opportunities are more widely available to To ensure the survey is accessible to all employees, employees across the Group. it is offered in over 40 languages and three formats Broadening use of training and development materials (paper, online and mobile). Engagement levels for senior Whilst our investment in training and development has managers were also tested in a separate survey targeted to be highly focused, we are doing more to promote at the leadership team. Response rates for both surveys the use of materials we already have available to build remained high in 2017. In the case of the global wider capability across the entire management engagement survey in 2017 the response rate at 73% population. For example, in 2017 we launched a was at the same level as 2015 and for the leadership 16-week development programme containing relevant survey was higher at 87%, compared with 85% in 2015. materials such as articles, assessments, online exercises Feedback from the global survey helps identify what and e-books relating to a number of specific topics such businesses need to stop doing, start doing and continue as change management, delegation and coaching skills. to do to improve levels of employee engagement. The programme is currently running, with thousands of The feedback from the management survey showed employees subscribing. As learning technology evolves, improvements in almost every area, suggesting high our ability to provide access to materials in a more levels of confidence and support for the business flexible and bite-sized way, to suit our busy managers, is strategy, our values and the executive team. increasing. For example, for specific functions like Sales and Business Development, we are establishing on-line academies which will help employees identify their own development gaps and navigate the materials available to find those best suited to meet their needs. Recruiting and developing women Recruiting and developing women into line-management roles for our operations remains a challenge across the Group as well as the security industry as a whole. We actively monitor our gender balance and were pleased that in 2017 an independent business-led review supported by UK Government (the Hampton-Alexander Review) showed G4S as the top performing company in the business services sector in the FTSE 100. There is more to do in this area and as part of our wider diversity and inclusion strategy we have identified a number of actions to help us to continue to make progress. 11 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract Union representation Our union and employee representative forums at global Total number of whistle blowing cases level are via the global union UNI, and the GMB, with 500 whom we signed an Ethical Employment Partnership in 2008. At a European level we have a well-established European Works Council and at a local level there are 400 a number of union recognition agreements in place. 402 Working together with our recognised unions helps us 300 raise standards both internally and, where appropriate, 300 across the wider industry and identify potential problems early and address them constructively. 200 Promoting the right organisational culture 158 100 During 2017, 300 cases were raised by colleagues via Speak Out, our global whistleblowing system. This was 65 25% fewer than the previous year, but detailed analysis 0 shows that employee grievances are being reported and 14 15 16 17 handled more effectively via other channels. We believe it is very important that employees feel confident to Anti-bribery and corruption speak out confidentially to ensure standards are met Investigations relating to other matters, such as to protect people. All cases reported to Speak Out bribery, ethical or financial issues, are conducted are reviewed and are directed to the most appropriate by our internal network of investigators or by channel for action. independent experts. The majority of matters raised via Speak Out are Matters of a serious nature are investigated at a senior grievances which are transferred to the relevant HR and independent level, with 59 investigations completed department, as they are best placed to investigate and during 2017. resolve the matter promptly. Concerns regarding operational procedures are investigated by local The Group Ethics Steering committee has continued management to ensure that relevant standards are to oversee implementation of our whistleblowing policy, being followed. case management of whistleblowing reports, and to conduct regular reviews of serious cases, the investigations’ progress and the resulting actions. SPEAK OUT IF YOU SEE OR SUSPECT Values: Integrity and Respect WRONGDOING… Safety, Security and Service Excellence …do the right thing and speak out! SDGs: ​ Every G4S employee has a responsibility to ensure that we uphold our core values, adhere to the law and deliver against the important commitments set out in our business ethics policy and ethics code. Speak Out, our global whistleblowing system, is a key method of ensuring that we maintain a high standard of ethics, respect and integrity. Speak Out is hosted by an independent specialist hotline and case management provider. It enables every employee to report concerns that they may have about the behaviour of individuals, or the business operations, which they feel 0808-234-8852 contravene the ethics code or our core values. We encourage any employee who wishes to raise a matter of www.g4s-speakout.com ethical concern to contact the free telephone hotline or make a report online. Both channels are available 24 hours IT IS SAFE TO SPEAK OUT! SPEAK OUTis for reporting serious a day, seven days a week, and are completely confidential. You are encouraged to report any serious wrongdoing. Any other concerns (such issues without fear of retaliation. All concerns as pay queries, uniform issues or general raised in good faith will be taken seriously and employment grievances) should be directed treated with respect. to your line manager, or HR for a quick resolution. Securing Your World CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 12 Our strategy continued Improving health and safety There were three non-natural deaths in custody in The safety of our employees and those in our care is 2017. All deaths in custody are investigated by the PEOPLE AND VALUES one of our key priorities. relevant authorities to determine the cause of death. One of the incidents was due to self harm. To enable us to keep our customers and the Pronouncements will be made by the relevant coroner communities we serve safe, we must prioritise the on the two remaining incidents following their safety as well as the health and wellbeing of our investigations. In 2016, we disclosed a death in custody employees. It is our responsibility to ensure that our which was later pronounced as due to unintentional colleagues return home from work safely every day. drug overdose by the coroner. The nature of our work and the environments we Respecting human rights operate in mean that safety and security present a strategic risk to our business. We believe that setting the We are proud of our role in society and of the positive highest standards for health and safety across our contribution we make to the realisation of human rights industry helps keep our colleagues safe and builds loyalty through the range of services we offer and the standards and commitment to G4S among our employees. which we apply. Leading by example and having expertise in health and However, we also recognise that we have a duty to safety gives employees, customers and stakeholders ensure that we are not at risk of violating human rights confidence that we will work in a safe way. through the services we provide, the customers we We recognise that our businesses operate in different work with, the suppliers we use, or through the contexts and face varying levels of risk. All businesses treatment of our own employees and others who within the Group are required to meet a set of core are in our care. health and safety standards. We must make sure that G4S’ human rights policy and its related framework we are constantly learning and continuously enhancing are based upon the UN Guiding Principles on Business our processes, in order to continue to keep colleagues and Human Rights. Alongside our values of Integrity safe despite a changing environment. and Respect, the framework reinforces the continued Compliance is monitored via audits and reviews of development of a business model which aids the performance at regional, group and board level via the realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals CSR committee. Health and safety is included in Group through the improvement of industry standards, Internal Audit’s scope as part of non-financial risks. employment opportunities and helping to create secure and stable communities. During 2017 we have: By having clear values and standards, and educating • Continued to improve the performance of and training colleagues to uphold them, we are creating businesses which have had multiple fatalities. Serious a positive culture which means our colleagues can be incidents have reduced by 37% in these businesses trusted to do the right thing and behave in a way which since 2015 meets our standards. In cases where colleagues are • Introduced a reporting and tracking process for those deemed not to have upheld those standards, we incidents which have the potential to result in a undertake swift, thorough and impartial investigations fatality, and increased the coverage of our injury into the causes of such behaviour and take appropriate reporting to 98% of businesses action to remedy them. In addition to this resulting in • Reviewed our front-line health and safety induction consequences for the individual or individuals concerned, training and drafted a mandatory syllabus we learn from such instances and enhance our safeguards to prevent similar issues arising in the future. • Revised the G4S Golden Rules of Safety Sadly, during 2017, 25 of our colleagues lost their lives in work-related accidents. On a comparative basis this is a reduction from 47 fatalities in 2016. The number of road-traffic fatalities has decreased by 48% since 2013, when the first road-safety programme was launched. While the number of attack-related fatalities decreased in our Cash Solutions businesses, this has not been due to a reduction in the number of armed attacks. The businesses continue to work with the relevant authorities to introduce new procedures and improved controls. During 2017 the Group’s lost time injury incidence rate was 6.7 per 1,000 employees (98% of businesses reporting). This compares with a rate of 7.7 in 2016 (96% of business reporting). 13 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract G4S ACADEMY Values: Innovation and Teamwork 6.7 Per 1,000 employees G4S Academy is a recently-launched initiative within G4S lost time injury Denmark, focused on creating an intelligent culture that incidence can embrace and adapt to technological change, and in 2017 predict future customer demands by leveraging our unique, untapped in-house knowledge and sharing it with customers. 65 Human rights self assessments completed The standards set by our human rights policy have • Commenced a programme of internal audits of in 2017 been embedded into our business policies and human rights controls of businesses in high-risk processes, such as our ethics policy, HR core countries, carrying out audits in 2017. standards, and the group risk and compliance systems. • Assessed operational and other business issues For example, investment proposals are assessed on against our ‘risk universe’, such as human rights whether they can be achieved in line with our and other CSR risks. ​ company values and standards, as well as on the basis • Published our first slavery and human-trafficking of appropriate operational delivery, commercial risk statement, setting out the actions we have taken and financial return. to help prevent modern slavery within our During 2017, we have: business and supply chain, including the development and implementation of our Supplier • Developed and implemented a human rights Code of Conduct and our migrant worker policy awareness programme for senior managers, (g4s.com/modernslavery). beginning with the Group Internal Audit department. • Updated our Supplier Code of Conduct • Conducted 65 human rights control self-assessments of businesses operating in high-risk countries. • Commissioned an independent review of Brook House Immigration Removal Centre following allegations of unacceptable behaviour and treatment of detainees by employees (see page 22 of this document). IMPROVING DRIVER SAFETY Values: Safety, Security and Service Excellence Innovation and Teamwork​ SDGs: ​ The number of road-traffic fatalities has decreased by 48% since 2013 when the first road safety programme was launched. During 2017, we introduced new high-visibility clothing for our motorcyclists in Thailand, and brightly coloured seat belts in Hong Kong which enabled a visual check. CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 14 Our strategy continued ACTIONS FOR 2018 Respecting Human Rights PEOPLE AND VALUES • Review human rights risks across the Group’s geographic footprint and update our human Create and promote the right rights heatmap. organisational culture • Launch management values training materials, • Conduct human rights control self assessments embed front-line materials and complete update and continue programme of internal audits of of HR policies and processes to reflect G4S values businesses operating in high-risk environments. • Continue the delivery of regional leadership • Carry out human rights risk assessment in key programmes and promote development paths business areas and learning opportunities for employees at • Review and implement key actions resulting from different levels the independent review of Brook House IRC • Implement action plans from global employee(see page 22 of this document). engagement survey and address actions from • Continue to build awareness of human rights management survey responsibilities across the Group’s businesses. • Review opportunities to improve gender balance Anti-bribery and corruption and follow up on UK gender pay gap reporting • Continue to increase awareness of Speak Out and Improving Health and Safety create an environment in which colleagues are • Continue to implement the revised front-line confident that they may raise concerns without health and safety induction training fear of retaliation • Introduce updated controls for security officers working at entrance gates • Share and adopt best practice across the Group in managing critical risk areas • Develop action plans for businesses which have had multiple fatalities, as well as monitoring their implementation MOUNT GAMBIER PRISON, AUSTRALIA Values: Integrity and Respect Safety, Security and Service Excellence Innovation and Teamwork SDGs: G4S has operated Mount Gambier Prison since 1995 and in September 2017 was awarded a new five-year contract which includes an option of a further term of up to five years. Mount Gambier Prison, the only privately-run prison in South Australia, is a medium-security men’s prison with a capacity of 493 beds. Taking over as general manager at the prison is the previous deputy director for G4S-managed HM Prison Rye Hill in the UK. As the new contract begins, the team will be developing new partnerships with the local community. These will include support services and technology partners. Rehabilitation and reintegration services will be provided, as well as programmes aiming to reduce prisoners’ risks of reoffending, thus supporting the Government’s policy to achieve a 10% reduction by 2020 and aiding reintegration back into the community. The prison’s management team will also continue to work alongside the State on the planned expansion of the facility, engaging with the community and providing significant employment opportunities in the region. 15 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract CSR governance The board and I see strong governance, adapted to the Group’s needs, circumstances and business model, as a source of competitive advantage. G4S is a large, A STRONG COVERNANCE CULTURE – KEY TO SUSTAINABILITY geographically diverse organisation, doing business in complex and sometimes sensitive environments. Sharing a common understanding of the company’s purpose and values is essential. To promote this, the board continues to support the application of G4S’s values throughout the organisation. A strong governance culture is supported by continuous monitoring, review and promotion of the Group’s values, standards and policies. It is also essential that directors feel able to provide John Connolly, Chairman not only support but also constructive challenge. Therefore we strive to foster open and effective People communication within the boardroom and with the The Group has around 570,000 employees in over 90 executive team. This process is informed by best countries, often providing complex services in difficult practice as well as feedback received and views collated environments. This can create significant challenges. from our key stakeholders. There are a number of ways It is therefore pleasing that the outcome of the 2017 in which the board gathers stakeholders’ views, which employee engagement survey, which consisted of are set out on pages 78 and 79 of the Integrated Report questions relating to G4S’ new corporate values and Accounts. This year, as in previous years, I met with provided an 84% favourable response rate. major shareholders as part of our annual programme of governance meetings. On behalf of the board, I wish to thank the employees of G4S for their engagement, enthusiasm, hard work Given the business undertaken by the Group and the and dedication. complex markets in which we operate, it is essential to understand the key risks faced by the organisation and Strong governance culture to ensure that the company has appropriate policies, Ensuring that G4S is resilient and agile and therefore systems, processes and management action plans to able to deal with constant change and evolving mitigate these risks to an acceptable level. The board economic and geo-political situations, is of paramount therefore maintains a Risk Committee, which is separate importance. This can only be achieved with a skilled from the Audit Committee, to provide the necessary and experienced board and management team and focus on risk management and mitigation. an appropriate culture and governance structure. BOARD Role and responsibilities NOMINATION COMMITTEE • Review and approve the company’s strategy CRS COMMITTEE • Monitor management’s performance against agreed targets RISK COMMITTEE GROUP RISK AND INTERNAL • Review, approve and promote the AUDIT company’s values and standards AUDIT COMMITTEE FUNCTION • Review its own performance on a yearly basis REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 16 Risk management and our principal risks ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL Our aim is to identify material risks that could impact us, and to focus management attention on effective mitigation of the significant risks to achievement of our strategic objectives and safeguard our reputation. BOARD The board has responsibility for ensuring risk-management processes are effective by reviewing the most critical risks and controls. RISK COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Risk Committee meets four times per year and The Audit Committee meets four times per year and reviews the Group’s risk appetite, assesses the ensures the Group’s control framework is operating Group’s principal residual risks and assesses the effectively. overall enterprise risk management process. GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGIONAL AUDIT COMMITTEES The Group Executive Committee oversees the The committees meet four times a year, also management of the Group’s principal residual risks. attended by the external auditor, and review: 1. The progress of closing internal and external audit findings; and 2. Reports on status of financial controls and significant accounting judgments. GROUP AND REGIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES The committees are responsible for whistleblowing and related investigations across the regions. OPERATING COMPANIES AND SHARED-SERVICE FUNCTIONS Our operating companies and shared-service functions planning process with updates made in senior identify and assess the risks to their business objectives management team meetings and trading reviews. and plan appropriate mitigating actions. These are Control self-assessments of compliance with Group recorded in our Group-wide risk management tools. control standards are completed annually (bi-annually A thorough review is conducted as part of the annual for financial control standards). Operating companies 1ST LINE: BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT We employ Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers Result: Ensures standards expected by the Group, our three lines of our businesses, whether line management or customers and other stakeholders are met. of defence support. The senior management team within each to control business is responsible for implementing and and manage maintaining appropriate controls across their business. risks across the Group. 2ND LINE: CONTROL AND OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS The second line consists of oversight functions at both Result: Provides support to business managers. regional and Group level including: risk, finance, legal, human resources, operations, information technology, commercial and CSR. 3RD LINE: INTERNAL INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE The third line comprises the internal audit function. Result: Provides independent assurance over the As part of its annual programme of work, internal design and operation of controls. audit conducts regular reviews of risk management processes and gives advice and recommendations on how to improve the control environment. EXTERNAL AUDIT Financial reporting risks are considered as part of the external audit. 17 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract Principal risk Link to strategy HEALTH AND SAFETY (H&S) Risk We reviewed the appropriateness of our ‘Golden Rules’ which The provision of security services to protect valuable assets, often reflect critical safety risks and are mandatory for all G4S businesses, in hostile or dangerous circumstances, presents health and safety and failure to adhere to them is linked to our disciplinary challenges. In addition to the significant impact on individuals, a procedures. Good practice and progress in delivering H&S serious breach of health and safety could disrupt the Group’s improvements are recognised and rewarded, while poor practice business, have a negative impact on our reputation and lead to and insufficient progress lead to close executive scrutiny, and can financial and regulatory costs. In 2017, 25 (2016: 47) employees impact performance-related pay for business leaders if appropriate. lost their lives in work-related incidents, of which eight (2016: 20) were as a result of armed attacks and 11 (2016: 17) were Mitigation priorities for 2018 road-traffic incidents as the year-on-year improvement in road We will continue to refine our standards, policies and controls safety continued. There were three (2016: 9) non-natural deaths where we see an opportunity to reduce H&S risks further. The of people in our custody. compliance with these group requirements will again be self assessed during 2018 and reviewed by H&S and internal audit Risk mitigation teams. A revised H&S training programme for our front-line We are committed to protecting the health, safety and well-being employees is under development which supplements existing of our staff, people in our care or custody and third parties. The training provided by businesses on key H&S risks. Safety Group’s mandatory H&S standards target the critical safety risks improvement plans are required for all businesses. Business in the Group including road and firearm safety and are leaders take responsibility for leading safety performance and supplemented by training for front-line staff through to business putting H&S at the forefront of their day-to-day activities. leaders. During 2017 the annual self-assessment by countries of compliance with our standards was supported by site reviews from local, regional and Group H&S managers and was included in the scope of country internal audit visits. Reporting was enhanced to include high potential incidents which are investigated thoroughly. Controls are reviewed in light of lessons learned from serious incidents. CULTURE AND VALUES Risk opportunity to raise concerns themselves. In 2017, our G4S provides security for people, premises and valuable assets. whistleblowing hotline and case-management system received The Care & Justice services business provides services to a total of 300 reports from our employees (2016: 402). Matters detainees, victims of crime, people needing assistance, and other of a serious nature were investigated at a senior and independent members of the public. We operate in many different countries level, with 59 investigations completed during 2017 (2016: 55). with a diversity of local and national cultures. Having an appropriate set of values strongly embedded as our corporate Mitigation priorities for 2018 culture is very important to ensure staff meet our high For our front-line employees, we will extend the values-based expectations including compliance with our ethical business training materials already developed to reflect common conduct standards. Failure to do so risks not delivering on our experiences or particular challenges which come to light from commitment to our colleagues, customers and other stakeholders whistleblowing cases, internal grievances or feedback from the and may fail to comply with legislation and international standards. global employee-engagement survey conducted in 2017. For managers, the newly-revised competency framework has Risk mitigation helped guide the development of on-line training, which is due to We have a set of values, detailed on page 2, which are continually be launched in 2018. The training uses realistic scenarios in which reinforced to all employees through a variety of key processes participants are required to make value-based decisions from a including recruitment, induction training, and recognition schemes range of options in order to achieve the right outcomes. The as well as communications materials. Nominated values training will be mandatory, and cascaded to all managers to ambassadors in businesses are helping to cascade values-related complete before the end of 2018. communications. HR and learning and development leaders have assisted in the production of materials for increasing awareness and Our reward and recognition schemes will continue to be aligned understanding of our values. In everything we do, no matter how to the values, to ensure they are promoted in everything we do. challenging the circumstances, we require our people to behave in A new group-wide scheme will supplement local efforts and line with our values and to be prepared to use our whistleblowing enable us to showcase the types of behaviour which exemplify facility, Speak Out, if they become aware that others are not doing the values and reflect the great work that our employees do. so. Ethics steering committees at a Group level and in each region oversee the whistleblowing investigation process and provide constructive guidance to countries on ethical matters. We continue to focus on building awareness of the importance of our corporate values and whistleblowing, particularly in places where we work with people who may be more vulnerable and have less CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 18 Risk management and our principal risks continued Principal risk Link to strategy PEOPLE Risk We review in detail the performance and potential of managers In a global and diverse security business such as ours, there are across the Group to help identify development needs and build risks associated with recruiting, training, engaging, rewarding and succession plans. We also deliver regional leadership programmes managing people, as well as ensuring we retain critical talent to to nurture talented individuals early in their careers, and help deliver increasingly sophisticated services through our 570,000 develop them into more senior roles as they move through the employees. Screening and vetting is a particular challenge in some organisation. Staff turnover is a key indicator to us of employee territories which lack supporting infrastructure from the relevant satisfaction, and reducing it improves service excellence and authorities. Any incident where our people fail to meet reduces recruitment costs. During the year staff turnover reduced expectations of customers and other stakeholders could lead to from 27.6% in 2016 to 25.3% in 2017 (see page 10). financial and reputational damage to the Group’s business. Whilst our controls are robust we still face the risk of an employee not Mitigation priorities for 2018 behaving in line with our values. We will use the information from our fifth global employee survey to help develop initiatives to enhance standards further and ways Risk mitigation in which to ensure the standards are embedded. Compliance with The Group’s mandatory human resource standards cover core our Core HR Standards will again be self-assessed during 2018 requirements for delivering the HR strategy, such as ensuring and reviewed by local, regional and group teams as well as tested there are effective organisational structures in place, that by internal audit. Direct support will be provided as necessary to employees are screened, inducted and trained to perform their enhance compliance with our standards. jobs, and that there are appropriate mechanisms in place for managing on-going performance and recognising great performance. During 2017 the annual self-assessment by countries of compliance with our standards was supported by site reviews from local and regional teams, and included in the scope of country internal audit visits. MAJOR CONTRACTS Risk For our large multinational customers, account managers oversee The Group operates a number of long-term, complex, high-value performance of these contracts across relevant countries and have contracts with multinational companies, governments or strategic regular updates with customers to ensure we deliver against partners. Key risks include; accepting onerous contractual terms; contractual terms. poor mobilisation of contracts; not transitioning effectively from mobilisation to on-going contract management; not delivering Mitigation priorities for 2018 contractual requirements; inaccurate billing for complex contracts; While great improvements have been made in reducing the risk ineffective contract-change management; and not managing of taking on onerous contracts, as the impact can be significant, sub-contractors appropriately. we will continue to enhance the quality of the analysis used in the bidding process and ensure that lessons are learned from Risk mitigation underperforming contracts. We will also embed into the During 2017 we updated our strict thresholds for the approval SalesForce opportunity management tool our updated approval of major bids, involving detailed legal review and senior requirements to make compliance and monitoring effective. management oversight. For a selection of our most significant contracts in the UK, we perform 360° reviews of all aspects of contract management and performance. We also perform a quarterly financial review of the top 25 and low-margin contracts in each region. 19 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract Principal risk Link to strategy LAWS AND REGULATIONS Risk Risk mitigation G4S operates under many complex and diverse regulatory Our policies and procedures clearly set out the requirement for frameworks, some of which have extraterritorial reach and many local management teams to comply with all relevant laws and where regulations change regularly. Risks include: new or changed regulations. Group and regional leadership, together with our restrictions on foreign ownership; difficulties obtaining all relevant Ethics Committees at Group and regional level provide oversight licences to operate; complying with employment legislation and support our businesses to mitigate the risks. Group legal and covering a wide range of requirements; complying with often regional leadership closely monitor changes in foreign ownership complex and broad ranging local tax regulations; increasing laws and make appropriate plans to respond. G4S continues to litigation and class actions; bribery and corruption and complying liaise with relevant governments and authorities to influence with human rights legislation. Failure to meet the required positively the regulatory environments in which we work. standards can lead to higher costs from claims and litigation; inability to operate in certain jurisdictions, through either direct Mitigation priorities for 2018 ownership or joint ventures; loss of management control; damage We will continue to focus on seeking full compliance with laws to our reputation; and loss of customer confidence. and regulations across all jurisdictions we operate in and ensure that concerns are addressed appropriately by local management with support and guidance from Group and regional leaders. GEOPOLITICAL Risk all businesses must comply with. Those based in high-risk countries We operate in many countries across the world, with wide-ranging self assess their compliance with these standards annually, with government and political structures, different cultures with varying this assessment reviewed by Group and checked by internal audit. degrees of compliance with laws and human rights, particularly within We have a mandatory supplier code of conduct which includes conflict and post-conflict zones. The risk factors include: political anti-bribery and modern slavery requirements. Our G4S Risk volatility, including the outcome of elections and referendums Management business has particular expertise in providing secure affecting trade rules and regulations and changes in policies towards solutions in very high risk, low infrastructure environments. business, revolution, terrorism, military intervention, mistreatment of Mitigation priorities for 2018 migrant workers and employees working for our suppliers. These risks impact us in many ways: the health and safety of our staff and In markets where potential government policy or trade agreements customers; the continued operation of our businesses; and the ability may have a significant impact on our ability to trade we will to secure our assets and recover our profits. continue to engage with national and international governments to promote the benefits that G4S brings to a market and an economy, Risk mitigation to ensure that we minimise the impact of any trade restrictions or We collaborate with our local partners; conduct early risk trade policy. We will increase the number of countries that assessments before and during security assignments; develop complete human rights control self-assessments and carry out robust operating procedures; and work closely with our local human rights risk assessments in all key business areas. We will also and global customers in managing the risks of operating in such work to build awareness of human rights responsibilities across the environments. We have clear standards on human rights which business and our partners and increase engagement with suppliers to ensure they are also complying with human rights. Link to strategy People and values Customers and service excellence Growth and innovation Operational excellence and productivity Financial and commercial discipline CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 20 Risk management and our principal risks continued Principal risk Link to strategy INFORMATION SECURITY Risk are supported and run. This will ensure policies and best practice Increased regulations and sanctions relating to the potential failure to are applied consistently across all operating businesses. In late secure sensitive and confidential data, which we are entrusted with 2017 we commenced a programme of investment in Cyber by customers, staff, suppliers and other stakeholders, have increased defence tools, to improve the levels of compliance for managing our risks in this area. Like all organisations, we face cyber attacks from these risks across the many systems and infrastructures that exist a variety of sources which, if successful, could result in censure and globally. We are also introducing additional standards and fines by national governments; loss of confidence in the G4S brand guidance to ensure compliance with General Data Protection and specific loss of trust by customers, especially those in Regulation (GDPR) across the UK and Europe. government and financial sectors. Additionally, we face the risk of Mitigation priorities for 2018 disruption to service delivery from system failures, incomplete backup routines, inadequate business continuity and disaster recovery plans. We will continue to strengthen the effective performance of our IT processes through the centrally-managed IT structure, Risk mitigation and complete the implementation of our new Cyber Tools We have “defence-in-depth” technologies (i.e. multiple layers of programme to increase the security of our IT systems and defence) in key systems to protect business information entrusted infrastructure, including managed cyber security products, to us. During 2017 we brought our IT function under direct centralised infrastructure management tools and cyber management of the Group team, to enhance the way our systems vulnerability assessments. MAJOR REDEVELOPMENT, CARGILL, UNITED STATES BRAZIL Values: Safety, Security and Service Values: Safety, Security and Excellence Service Excellence Innovation and Teamwork Innovation and Teamwork SDGs: ​ SDGs: ​ Since 2016, G4S has been providing detailed risk and threat assessment Cargill has been providing food, agriculture, financial and industrial as well as an integrated solution and unified security at the largest products and services across 70 countries for the last 150 years. In multi-use redevelopment programme in the United States. This Brazil, it has 10,000 employees across 17 states and G4S Brazil has includes access control, systems integration, monitoring (fire, video, been providing electronic security services (CCTV and access control) intrusion), Risk360, SecureTrax, design and management of the security to Cargill since 2016. After an in-depth study, G4S Brazil designed a and operating centre, and manned security officers. CCTV and access control solution in 2017 for each Cargill site in countryside locations. This can be challenging due to isolation of the sites and the requirement for power generators to be used. This solution will be expanded from the current ten sites to 130 sites over the next three years. 21 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract CSR committee “Our people and values underpin everything we do. Our updated values are the standards which we have set for ourselves, the organisation as a whole and our stakeholders. In 2016 they were re-launched across the Group supported by a targeted communications programme, awareness building and training materials. The committee will continue to work to ensure that the values are embedded firmly throughout the entire organisation. This is my last statement as chairman of the CSR Committee. After almost eight years as a non-executive director, I will step down from the board and its committees at the conclusion of the Company’s annual general meeting in May. I am pleased that since joining G4S in 2010, CSR has become firmly embedded in the Group’s processes and forms an integral part of our overall strategy. Despite a distinct improvement in work-related fatalities in 2017, the committee’s focus on health and safety will continue to remain a key part of its activity during 2018, Clare Spottiswoode as we re-affirm our goal of zero-harm.” CSR Committee Chair Responsibilities We have commissioned Verita, a specialist consultancy, The Group takes a holistic approach to corporate and to carry out an independent review to understand the social responsibility. The scale of the Group, geographic extent and root causes of the issues at Brook House. The spread of its activities and the complex environments review is examining G4S’ management, operational and our employees operate in creates a variety of challenges. staffing arrangements and the practices and behaviour of The CSR Committee was established in 2011 to review G4S’ staff. It is also assessing how G4S oversees the care and monitor the Group’s CSR approach, which includes and welfare of detainees, including in relation to developing policies on various CSR-related matters for mental-health issues, self-harm, violence prevention, consideration by the board and to review and monitor use of force and proper reporting of incidents. how the Group performs against relevant policies. It The review is led by Kate Lampard CBE, a former oversees reporting on CSR matters and progress made barrister and vice chair of the South of England Strategic during the year. Further details of the committee’s Health Authority and of the Financial Ombudsman responsibilities can be found in the committee’s terms of Services Limited. The findings will be presented directly reference which are available at www.g4s.com/investors. to the Home Office and the G4S CSR Committee. Specific issues Culture and values The CSR Committee receives regular updates on current As a principal risk for the Group, culture and values issues from the human resources and CSR teams. as well as ethical compliance were reviewed by the In late August 2017, G4S became aware of allegations board as a whole during the year. In addition, the CSR regarding the conduct and behaviour of a number of Committee oversees the programme supporting the staff at Brook House Immigration Removal Centre. embedding of the values across the Group including in all HR processes, from recruitment through to In response to these allegations, G4S took immediate evaluation and performance management. The action to strengthen the safeguarding of detainees at committee also reviewed and discussed the various Brook House. Together with the UK Home Office, an initiatives that supported the launch of the values, action plan was agreed and a joint working party created including training for management and front-line to oversee its implementation. The actions outlined in employees and enhanced communication of the the plan are well underway and many have been whistleblowing arrangements to all employees. completed. The key objective throughout has been to ensure that detainees are safe at Brook House. Health and safety Investigations into staff conduct resulted in the dismissal As part of the CSR Committee’s focus on health and of six members of staff. The committee has received safety during the year, the committee oversaw an regular updates on the measures that have been taken initiative to refresh health and safety induction training to address the issues raised, and on progress of for front-line employees and the re-issue of a simplified investigations and operational improvement plans. I firearms policy across the Group. visited the centre personally in December to discuss the As part of its normal cycle of work, the committee issues with managers, staff and detainees on site and to received regular health and safety reports including see the progress first hand. updates on on-going initiatives and details of future plans and summaries of incidents. CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 22 CSR committee continued Committee membership during 2017 Main activities of the CSR Committee during ​ Member Since the year (%) Clare Spottiswoode (Chair) January 2012 Winnie Kin Wah Fok March 2012 Current issues (30%) Paul Spence January 2013 Health and Safety (25%) John Ramsay joined the board and the CSR Committee on CSR reporting (20%) 1 January 2018. Values/ Culture Ethics/ Other regular attendees include the CEO for Care and Justice, the Whistleblowing (15%) Regional President for the Africa region, the Group Corporate Affairs Director and the Group HR director. Materiality assessment (10%) There were three scheduled meetings and one unscheduled meeting of the CSR Committee during 2017. Members’ attendance at committee meetings is shown on page 74. Sadly, in 2017, 25 employees lost their lives in workMateriality Assessment related incidents. Although this is a significant reduction In order to ensure that G4S’ approach to CSR remains over previous years, in part, as a result of a reduction in focused on the areas that are most relevant to the road traffic accident fatalities, the focus and work of business and its stakeholders, a wide-ranging materiality health and safety professionals and management teams assessment of ethical and sustainability issues is carried in this area will continue. We will build on this progress out. The committee’s work also included overseeing this and re-affirm our goal of zero harm. To further this process, which is conducted with the support of an endeavour and as mentioned last year, in 2017 the CSR external facilitator every two years. Committee reviewed and supported the adoption of a new and consistent definition of High Potential Incidents (“HPIs”) and the embedding of HPIs reporting across the Group. Work to ensure consistent reporting of HPIs is on-going, so as to ensure valuable insight is captured and efforts are focused preventatively. CSR Materiality Matrix Health, safety and HIGH Ethics Human rights protection of employees and people under G4S’ Environment care Economic Ethics & values Geopolitical Anti-bribery & corruption Employment Labour relations Governance & compliance Employee standards & IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Valuing & developing employees behaviours Secure & stable Diversity & inclusion communities Employee recruitment & Government relationships screening Data protection & Customer trust & information security delivery Risk management Promoting industry standards Economic & tax contribution Technology & innovation Responsible supply chain Climate Change Environmental Management LOW IMPACT ON G4S HIGH 23 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract Greenhouse gas emissions We recognise the impact that our business The businesses that reported data in the 2017 GHG activities can have on the environment and are committed to managing this impact in measurement represent 90% of the Group’s operations, across a 12 month period. This level of measurement, 501,467 t/CO2e including each of the Group’s main service types, allows a responsible manner. reliable calculation of the total GHG emissions for 100% Total carbon of the Group. footprint Alongside the risks faced by people and infrastructure from climate change are the challenges presented by The G4S total carbon footprint during 2017, global economic conditions. Managing fuel costs and the impact of “carbon taxes” extrapolated to 100% of the business equates to some 501,467 t/CO2e. These CO2e emissions, including emissions generated by services which our customers 62.9 t/CO2e per £m through programmes to improve the Group’s energy efficiency and reduce its environmental impacts are have outsourced to G4S, have decreased by 2.5% since revenue important to the continued effectiveness and 2016 – against a 3.2% revenue growth in our core sustainability of the Group’s business. businesses during the same period, reflecting the efforts made to increase the energy efficiency of our business. We follow WBCSD* and WRI** Greenhouse Gas Protocol to measure our Scope 1 and 2 emissions – In 2018, we will continue to implement energy efficiency vehicle fleet, fuel, refrigerants and electricity usage for strategies with the aim of reducing carbon intensity by at G4S businesses over which the Group has financial and least 3.5% per annum. operational control. In addition the Group has measured * World Business Council for Sustainable Development Scope 3 emissions from employee business air travel. ** World Resources Institute For further details, please visit g4s.com/env GHG emissions (t/CO2e) (Based on 90% measurement) 2016 2017 Vehicles (inc. refrigerants) 256,081​ 261,398​ Total buildings (inc. refrigerants) 139,831​ 139,728 Including electricity emissions of 114,243​ 103,915​ Air travel 15,261​ 20,368​ Carbon intensity ​ ​ 2016 2017 Tonnes CO2e per £m turnover ​ 68.1​ 62.9​ CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 24 CSR performance Key priority HEALTH AND SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-BRIBERY based on 2017 AND CORRUPTION stakeholder materiality The safety of our employees Our respect for human rights We continue to develop and exercise and those in our care is one is core to the sustainable encourage a workplace of our corporate values and success of the business and culture in which all employees a priority for the Group. continues to be an important understand the company’s part of our risk-assessment standards of ethics and feel and mitigation process.​ confident that they may raise ethical concerns. KPIs 47% Reduction in employee fatalities 65 Human rights control self 300 Cases reported and managed via assessments of businesses our global whistleblowing system operating in high-risk countries Speak Out during 2017 KEY CSR INDICATORS Integrated Report and Accounts ​ 2017 2016 2015 2014 Index Number of employees 570,000 585,000 610,000 623,000 p17 Percentage of female managers 22.8%​ 25.5% 23.4% 23.4% p18-19 Percentage of frontline female employees 14.2%​ 13.6% 13.4% 12.8% p18-19 Work-related fatalities 25 47 46 41 p21 Attack 8​ 20 17 14 p21 Non-attack 6​ 10 9 8 p21 Road-traffic incident 11​ 17 20 19 p21 Lost time incidence rate (per 1,000 employees)​ 6.7 7.7 8.5 – p21 Non-natural deaths in custody (UK/Australia)​ 3​ 9 2​ – p21​ Coverage by collective agreements (%) 31%​ 32% 33% 30% p20 Employee turnover (%) 25.3%​ 27.6% 29.4% 30.8% p17 Number of human rights control self‑assessments in high-risk countries​ 65​ 54​ – – p21-22 Number of human rights audits in high-risk countries​ 37​ – – – p21-22 Number of whistleblowing cases 300​ 402 158 65 p20 t/CO2e GHG emissions per £m revenue​ 62.9​ 68.1​ 72.3​ 75.0​ p117-118​ Total GHG emissions t/CO2e 501,467 514,466 526,403 542,429 p117-118​ Scope 1 t/CO2e 297,211​ 296,543​ 304,551 312,708​ p117-118​ Scope 2 t/CO2e 103,915​ 108,369​ 108,398​ 107,232​ p117-118​ Scope 3 t/CO2e (air travel) 20,368​ 15,261​ 16,088​ 17,573​ p117-118​ Visit g4s.com for more information. 25 G4S plc CSR Extract 2017 CSR Extract Reporting frameworks UN Global Compact G4S became a signatory to the UN Global CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Compact in 2011. The world's largest CSR initiative, the Global Compact sets out 10 Since 2009, G4S has reported on universal principles to which businesses must the progress of its environmental 2017 align their strategies and operations, and calls management through the Carbon upon companies to take actions that advance Disclosure Project (CDP). the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. In the latest CDP report, G4S G4S is proud to be a participant in the UN Global Compact and achieved a performance score of (C), to reaffirm its committment to these principles, which continue to in line with the programme's average. be reflected in our core values. G4S is a signatory of the Business Reporting to the CDP helps to for Peace initiative and remains active within the UK Network of demonstrate a company's awareness the UN Global Compact continuing to participate as a member of their greenhouse gas emissions, allowing for reduction of the governing Advisory Group. targets to be put in place, as well as addressing the risks Within our collected sustainability reporting framework, we have and opportunities that are associated with climate change. described the actions we have undertaken to build upon and further integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our culture and values, business strategy and daily operations during 2017. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index: CSR Framework Pages Integrated CSR Report Extract Online Statement of continued support 5 3 g4s.com/ungc by CEO Human Rights: Principles 1 & 2 2, 5, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 15, 18, g4s.com/humanrights 34, 64, 65, 82, 83, 88, 90 20, 21, 22, 23, 25 Labour: Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6 4, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, g4s.com/people 21, 22, 23, 29, 33, 34, 60, 62, 65, 78, 15, 18, 19, 21, 23, 25 g4s.com/humanrights 82, 83, 97, 117 Environment: Principles 7, 8 & 9 34, 117, 118 25, 26 g4s.com/env Anti-corruption: Principle 10 5, 13, 16, 20, 23, 34, 64, 83, 88, 90 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 15, 18, 20, 23, 25 g4s.com/ethics CSR Index A full index of our key sustainability programmes and other ethical and social policies and practices is available on our website at g4s.com/csrindex CSR Extract 2017 G4S plc 26 www.g4s.com G4S plc 5th Floor Southside 105 Victoria Street London SW1E 6QT United Kingdom Telephone: +44 (0) 207 963 3100 Email: investor@g4s.com Registered in England No. 4992207
