Responsibility Communication on progress 2017 2 I SEMCO MARITIME CONTENT  Semco Maritime 4  Introduction 5  Our business ... 6  Strategy and stakeholders 7  Human rights 8  Charity 10  Labour 12  Safety 16  Environment 20  Renewable energy 24  Anti-corruption 26  Future focus areas 30 ABOUT THIS REPORT • This report constitutes the statutory report on Corporate Social Responsibility cf. the Danish Financial Statements Act § 99a. • This report is published annually together with the Annual Report. • This report also constitutes our Communication of Progress under the UN Global Compact. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 I 3 The 10 principles and the sustainable development goals The United Nations General Assembly has defined 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) that reflect the greatest challenges globally and promote sustainable growth. We are committed to running our business in a way that supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and we contribute directly to the 7 SDGs mentioned below.  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOUR  ENVIRONMENT  ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support Businesses should uphold Businesses are asked to Businesses should work and respect the protection the freedom of association support a precautionary against corruption in all its of internationally proand the effective recogni approach to environforms, including extortion claimed human rights. -tion of the right to collecmental challenges. and bribery. tive bargaining. Principle 2 Principle 8 Make sure that they are Principle 4 Undertake initiatives not complicit in human The elimination of all forms to promote greater right abuses. of forced and compulsory environmental responlabour. sibility. Principle 5 Principle 9 The effective abolition Encourage the developof child labour. ment and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 6 technologies. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4 I SEMCO MARITIME Semco Maritime An international project engineering company dedicated to the global energy sector. Semco Maritime facilitates the de– we make sure our customers and sign, fabrication, service and mainpartners in the energy sector experiSERVICES AND SOLUTIONS: tenance of our customers’ assets, ence safe, cost-efficient operations. providing comprehensive project • EPCI projects management across all phases of We operate within three main • Construction and fabrication energy projects. industries; Oil & Gas, Offshore Wind • Installation and commissioning and Renewables and we challenge • Yard and workshop facilities From turnkey engineering solutions our people to deliver solutions of • Upgrades and refurbs to operation support and delivery of the highest quality, anywhere in the • Maintenance, modification components, systems and solutions world. and servicing • Products, components and technology • Manpower ORGANISATION: • Headquarter Esbjerg, DK • Subsidiaries: Norway, UK, Germany, Singapore, China, Australia, Central America and the USA. LIABLE MANAGEMENT: • Steen Brødbæk, President and CEO • Jørgen Devantier Gade, President and CFO 3. PARTY CERTIFICATES: • ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 • ISO 3834-2 • ATEX PQAN Certificate ASSESSMENTS • Achilles • First Point Assessment COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 I 5 Introduction We want to meet all challenges in an environmentally, ethically and socially responsible way. We continue to develop Semco the communities and the environMaritime with a strategic approach ments in which we work. to cost-effective and sustainable models that differentiate us from We are all responsible for raising the our competitors, create value for bar and setting our expectations our customers and keep our focus a little higher, and therefore we on Corporate Social Responsibility constantly monitor our actions and (CSR). We see a clear and growing develop new initiatives to keep pace trend from our customers demanwith our ever-changing world. ding focus on developing a clear CSR policy. In 2007, Semco Maritime joined the UN Global Compact initiative. Our customers continuously deWe are committed to aligning mand high quality projects delivered our operations and strategies at the right time and at the right with the 10 universally accepted cost. Our global presence means principles in the areas of human many stakeholders and a potentially rights, labour, the environment great environmental impact. We and anti-corruption. Our progress strive to meet each new challenge within these areas is reported and in an environmentally, ethically and published annually. socially responsible way. The 10 principles constitute a good Our vision is clear. We want to be common frame of reference and the energy sector’s first choice for together with the Sustainable safe solutions that consistently meet Development Goals they serve as a We will play an expectations. This is reflected in our solid platform and guideline for our important role in projects and solutions for the global CSR activities. The principles and meeting the world's energy sector. development goals set the basis of cooperation internally in Semco growing energy deWe have formalised our corporate Maritime, as well as with suppliers, mand in a safe and values; commitment, responsiveness, stakeholders and business partners sustainable way! reliability and inspiration in our CSR around the globe. strategy, which focuses on four areas: the community, the environment, Steen Brødbæk, CEO people and sustainability. Our CSR strategy defines how we interact with our customers, employees, suppliers, 6 I SEMCO MARITIME Our business ... We supply the global energy sector with projects, systems, solutions and competences. We work hard to create value for our customers and stakeholders within the following three industries: Offshore wind Oil & Gas Renewable power We are a global market leader in For more than 30 years, we have In our renewable power plant offshore substation solutions. We specialised in solutions and projects projects, we use solar power, design and deliver all necessary for offshore operations and we supbiomass or combine several geneelectrical equipment and offer ply everything from conceptional ration technologies in hybrid flexible service concepts. studies to installation. power plants that provide reliable and cost-efficient energy in remote As one of the most accessible Our experience in engineering and areas. Our co-generation and sources of non-fossil energy, wind project management ensures that industrial process energy projects power is providing more and more our customers get maximum value have taken us from Greenland to of the world’s energy needs. from their offshore assets – with Africa, across East Asia to Central minimum downtime. America. We have successfully applied knowledge from more than 30 Our engineers and technicians We are our customer's single point years working on rigs, platforms are trained in the health and of entry for all aspects of your and power plant projects, to the safety standards of the oil and gas power projects, from development wind power industry industry. to financial close and execution. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 I 7 Strategy and stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility in the tender phase and continues Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) throughout the project lifecycle. initiatives encourage organisations to Each division uses risk assessment take responsibility for their actions. tools that match their exact line of These initiatives range from protecbusiness and their type and size of ting the environment, ensuring good projects. working conditions for employees and caring for the local community. Strategy looking towards 2020 Our 2020 strategy »First Choice Our CSR strategy focuses on four Stronger core for value creation« aims areas: the community, the environat consolidating and strengthening POLICY ment, people and sustainability. To our position in the coming years. • CSR Policy, POL-SEMCO-0001 make sure that our business is in To reach our goals we must ensure • Global Compact procedure, line with the 10 UN Global compact a safe and motivating working P-SEMCO-0082 principles, we have integrated a environment by: CSR Policy and a Global Compact • Quality Management, • Develop competencies ISO 9001 procedure. The objective of Semco throughout the organisation. Maritime is to develop strategic and • Business Management cost-effective sustainability models • Ensure an inspiring and motivaSystem: a system available to that create differentiation to others ting working environment. all employees that provides and value for customers – we will easy access to all policies, • Always keep our safety promise. challenge and develop what we do procedures, instructions and templates. best in a socially responsible way. Business management system CSR in our projects Our business management system helps us ensure that: As part of our project execution, all projects refer to the overall Semco • the quality of products and serMaritime CSR policy and must vices delivered (also by our suppliensure that our suppliers are also in ers) meet specified requirements. compliance. For further details about • our working environment and supplier assessment and approval, safety meet statutory requireplease see p. 8 9. ments and own policies and objectives. Project risk management We secure a strong focus on potential • our activities take care of risks in all projects. All risks are regithe environment. stered, and the probability and con• we are an attractive working sequence of each risk is assessed and place providing development mitigated. Risk management starts opportunities. 8 I INTRODUCTION Human rights We incorporate values and attitudes that support a responsible dialogue with our stakeholders and suppliers. We observe the law and wish to We know that our ability to operate incorporate values and attitudes according to our corporate values that support a responsible dialogue and standards is directly impacted with our stakeholders (customers, by our suppliers. We therefore work owners, end-users, suppliers, closely with our suppliers to ensure employees, national organisations, that they understand our polices grass-roots movements and local and principles and that they meet community). not only our expectations but also those of our customer. Code of Conduct Supplier evaluation ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 Our Code of Conduct is a set of ethical guidelines that outlines reIn 2017, we implemented a new • Implemented a world-wide sponsibilities and best practices in tier-based supplier management electronic supplier selfrelation to human rights, labour, the programme with improved proassessment database environment and anti-corruption cesses for supplier evaluation and issues. All our employees, partners qualification. The new programme • Implemented a new tierand suppliers are obliged to know, includes new methodologies for based supplier management understand and comply with our classifying and segmenting suppliers program, with improved processes for supplier evaluaCode of Conduct, as well as the based on a two-dimensional risk tion and qualification. values upon which it is based. assessment model. AMBITIONS 2018 SUPPLIER COMBINED RISK MAP • By end of 2018, we have successfully evaluated 80% A B C of all suppliers via the electronic supplier self-assessment Spend Dimension Strategic AS BS CS database. • Focus on long-term supplier Operational AO BO CO relationships and building a solid supplier base in LCC. Low-value AL BL CL HSEQ Dimension  Tier I: High combined risk – full qualification required  Tier II: Medium combined risk – Self-assessment and registration of certificates required 8.7, 8.8  Tier III: Low combined risk – Acceptance of Code of Conduct only  Tier IV: Inactive suppliers and P-card only low-value-suppliers HUMAN RIGHTS  9 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Management Tier I Tier II Tier III Tier IV* Theme • Full HSEQ qualification • Supplier Self-Assess• Acceptance of Code • None incl. SSA and audit ment (SSA) of Conduct • Full commercial due • Registration of • No known violations of Qualification diligence certificates international norms • Financial due diligence as required post risk assessment • Full KPI scorecard • Full KPI scorecard • Commercial • None • Monthly reporting • Quarterly reporting KPI scorecard • ½-yearly performance • Annual performance • Biennial performanPerformance review meetings reviews ce reviews • VP sponsorship • Director sponsorship • No sponsor • No coffee • ½-yearly management • Annual management • Management reviews • Watch for techreviews reviews as needed but at least nology or service-level Relationship • Partnership/Alliance • Preferred supplier once every 5 years step outs. approach approach (guideline) • Take it or leave it approach *Tier IV: Dormant suppliers with no current or planned spend (within next18mths). The two dimensions are : their lower risk. This methodology 1. Commercial risk, based on allows us to concentrate our efforts annualized spend, and on those suppliers where the risks are higher and greater progress can 2. HSEQ risk, based on cumulative be made and value added through HSE (incl. CSR) and Quality risks. engagement, improvement plans, and increased oversight. Supplier related risks are assessed and mapped across both dimenThe new programme continues to sions resulting in suppliers classified use and build upon the electronic in 4 tiers based on the combined Supplier Self-Assessment tool (SSA) POLICY risk. Each tier has a set of supplier introduced in previous years. This • Code of Conduct, management requirements with tool is essential to data gathering POL-SEMCO-0013 focus on three management and engaging with suppliers and themes, Qualification, Performance, • Health and Safety, identifying gaps and areas for and Relationship. OHSAS 18001 improvement. We find that the process works best when suppliers • Environment Management With this new methodology, supare asked to self-assess and reflect system, ISO 14001 pliers in higher risk tiers are subject on their own performance in key • Quality Management, to enhanced evaluation efforts, areas such as employee safety, ISO 9001 both during initial qualification human rights and social responand regular re-qualification and sibility, as well as anti-bribery and • Welding and heat performance monitoring. Suppliers treatment, ISO 3834-2 corruption. in lower risk tiers are subject to evaluation efforts appropriate to HUMAN RIGHTS  11 Charity In 2017, we supported various charity and humanitarian projects. Below you will see some of our sponsorships. Headspace We have an ongoing cooperation with Headspace, which is an organisation that provides advice and guidance to young people with problems. Semco Maritime is part of the business network and continually offers temporary employment contracts for young people who are referred by Headspace. Read more on p. 13 Familier med kræftramte børn The Children’s Cancer Foundation Support to families with children with cancer. Through employee participation in the SEPE Bike challenge, a 12 hour bike event, Semco Maritime sponsored 6 bikes in supStafet for Livet / Relay for life port of the Children’s Cancer Foundation Community awareness and fundraising to (Børnecancerfonden). support the fight against cancer. Hospital clowns An initiative that spreads joy and laughter among children in Danish hospitals. Røde Kors – the Danish Red Cross The Danish RC is an auxiliary to the Danish government in the fields of humanitarian assistance, relief work and education, either alone or in co-operation with state bodies or other organisations. LABOUR  13 Labour We respect the right to collective bargaining and we support diversity and equal opportunities. We do not discriminate, or in any age or handicap. No person is subject other way make decisions that are to discrimination in hiring, dismissal, affected by employee affiliations with transfer, promotion, wage setting, trade unions or other associations, and setting of working conditions nor do we interfere with which trade or competency development. All unions or other associations that decisions regarding employment, might be formed in the workplace. promotion, dismissal, wages and other working conditions are based We do not use force, threats or on relevant and objective criteria. disciplinary means to force people to work, or withhold identification Inclusion and gender equality ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 papers or wages from employees Our inclusion policy ensures that • Sickness absence was to force them to work. To ensure both female and male employees at brought down from 3.4% in uniform and professional handling all levels and in all departments are 2016 to 2.9% in 2017. of warnings/terminations, and that treated equally, and are guaranteed • 80% of all employees have laws and collective agreements are the same opportunities and terms of had their annual personal complied with, we have a disciplinary employment with regard to educadevelopment dialogue (PDD) procedure (P-SEMCO-0293). All emtion, salary, allowance, promotion, ployees have individual contracts, leave of absence and job content/ drafted and approved in accordance tasks, etc. We believe that difference AMBITIONS 2018 with international and national legal and diversity foster development • Maintain low sickness absence requirements. We do not employ nor and change. It is important to use in 2018. New target is 2.8% support the use of child labour. the resources of each individual • Completed Personal optimally to further develop the The purpose of our personnel policy Development Dialogues individual and the business. This (PDD) – target is 85%. (POL-SEMCO-0011) is to create an policy applies to all employees attractive workplace where each across the organisation. • Conduct our bi-annual job employee has the opportunity satisfaction survey. Our target to develop both personally and Semco Maritime is committed to is to match the 2016-result of professionally. helping young people with challeng84% and an overall average es in the labour market. Therefore, of 4.0. Equal opportunities we have established a close collaboWe support diversity and equal opration with the Headspace organisaportunities. According to our Inclution. Headspace is an organisation sion policy we do not expose any that helps young people with various person to discrimination based on types of problems by providing 3.4, 3.5 5.1, 5.5 8.6, 8.7, gender, race, colour, religion, political anonymous counselling and support 5.5.2 8.8 opinion, sexual orientation, national when entering the labour market. extraction, social origin, ethnic origin, We believe that helping a young 14 I SEMCO MARITIME SICKNESS ABSENCE 2015 2016 2017 Target 3.9 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 2.8 % person is not only brnrficial for the this may pose a safety threat. If both mental and physical health is individual, but for the company an employee contacts the social important for our general wellbeing. and for society in general. Semco welfare system for assistance in This applies to mental health, where Maritime has also participated dealing with the abuse of drugs or we, as mentioned before, have a together with Headspace at the alcohol; he/she will receive support social welfare scheme for employees Psychiatry Summit 2017 to inform and assistance to remedy the abuse and their families. When it comes to about the Headspace concept and (P-SEMCO-0087). The type of probphysical health, we also seek to proto show how businesses can help lems that employees seek help for mote a healthy lifestyle through the vulnerable young people gain a through the social counsellor reflect food choices in our canteens and if foothold in the labour market. the problems that are also found in our employees experience problems the surrounding community. with the musculoskeletal device, we We also wants to remain attractive also offer physiotherapy at some of for our older and experienced Our social counsellor also provide our addresses. (POL-SEMCO-0012) employees. We want to make sparring to the senior management sure that we retain them in the in order to ensure the best possible We value job satisfaction and wellbeworkplace for as long as possible. wellbeing in the company. In 2017, ing. This also means that we never Therefore, we have a senior policy the Danish HSE organisation was accept physical or mental violence. that describes how this challenge is educated in “mental balance We have a policy that describes our handled (P-SEMCO-0193). including mental robustness and actions if such situation should arise vulnerability”. We continuously (POL-SEMCO-0015). Social counsellor focus on wellbeing in smaller teams We care about the wellbeing of our whenever and wherever the need Competency assessment employees. Since 2007, we have occurs – this includes initiating both Each employee and the company therefore had an in-house social preventative and mitigating meahave a mutual obligation to develop counsellor in order to ensure strong sures (P-SEMCO-0185). in order to create results and add focus on human values. Our social value to the company and the counsellor focuses not only on the Sickness absence individual. To strengthen compeemployee but also on his/her family. Our sick leave procedure helps us tencies within the company and to The individual employee can ask minimize long-term sick leave and ensure our strategic development, for support in case of illness among ensure regular contact between the competence assessment has been the employee or his/her immediate employee and workplace during sick implemented in Denmark and family. Illness can be of a mental or leave, we have a. In 2017, the total Singapore and rollout will proceed physical nature, which might require sickness absence was at 2.9%. This to the remaining global entities. collaboration with psychologists, hosmeans that we actually reached our Education and training needs are pitals, municipalities, patient associagoal but we will maintain our focus identified in an annual appraisal tions or other relevant partners. by lowering our goal to 2.8%. (Personal Development Dialogue, PDD), and an action plan is preWe have zero tolerance when it Health and wellbeing pared for the coming year. We comes to drugs and alcohol, as At Semco Maritime, we know that follow our group strategy »First LABOUR  15 85 % COMPLETED 80 % PDD MEETINGS 73 % 2016 2017 Target Choice« and it is important that emdevelopment needs. ployees can connect their individual Registration of competences and development plan to the corporate ongoing development of employees strategy. We have initiated a comare vital parts of the overall Semco petency management and deveMaritime business strategy. It is in lopment project to identify the our common interest to map and competencies required to succeed keep track of individual employee with our current strategy. The competences, previous and current. system focuses on adding funcRegistration of employee qualificational competences and rating the tions and competences also gives POLICY individual employee competence the employees greater influence on level vs. the required level job in his/her own career development. • Personnel Policy, question. This system also identifies POL-SEMCO-0011 potential competence gaps and • Inclusion Policy, POL-SEMCO-0006 • CSR Policy, POL-SEMCO-0001 • Disciplinary Procedure, P-SEMCO-0293 • Sick leave procedure, P-SEMCO-0187 • Competence Assessment, P-SEMCO-0199 • Drugs and alcohol, P-SEMCO-0087 • Stress Mitigation and prevention, P-SEMCO-0185 • Senior Procedure, P-SEMCO-0193 • Employee health policy, POL-SEMCO-0012 • Physical/ Psychological Bullying, Harassment and Violence, POL-SEMCO-0015 Global safety statistics 2017 LTA per million working hours 4,5 4,0 3,5 3,0 2,5 2,0 1,5 1,0 0,5 0,0 November December January February March April May June July August September October LTAF onshore LTAF total LTAF offshore LTAF: Lost time accident frequency/million working hours TRI per million working hours (TRI includes LTA, RWI and MTI) 9,0 8,0 7,0 6,0 5,0 4,0 3,0 2,0 1,0 0,0 January February March April May June July August September October November December TRIF onshore TRIF total TRIF offshore TRIF: Total recordable injury frequency/million working hours LABOUR  17 Safety No compromise means ZERO harm to employees, stakeholders, our assets and the environment. At Semco Maritime we are commitmanagers, offshore employees and ted to No compromise – we care, blue collars in our workshops have which means that our main focus been completed. Furthermore, safety is zero harm to employees and awareness courses have been held at stakeholders, to our assets and to our worksite in the northern Denmark the environment. We believe that for the project hired-in employees in all incidents can be prevented by Romanian language. Because of the approaching work proactively and cultural differences, this was a good learn from experience. initiative in order to get a common understanding of the importance of Furthermore, we believe that conreporting and safety awareness. The ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 tinuously focus on Safety Leadership main purpose of the safety awareness • TRIF: 3.0 and leaders to show their commitcourses to strengthen our safety • LTAF: 0.5 ment towards safety will bring our culture and safety behaviour and to • Safety culture survey: Safety Culture to the level where we have a common point of departure 3.16 can reach out goal of zero accidents. When an organization has a high • Safety talks: 199 Safety talk safety culture and is in front with A »Safety Talk« (previously known as Safety Leadership this organization AMBITIONS 2018 will be a leader in its business. Semco »Safety Walk«) is a communication tool for managers to show their • TRIF: below 2.3 Maritime has had strategic plans for commitment and dedication towards • LTAF: 0 these two areas for some years now. safety to their employees in order to • Safety culture survey: 2017 was our best »safety year« in increase level of safety culture. above 3.25 in average on Semco Maritime for many years as operational sites we reached zero accidents both A safety talk is a dialogue of safety • Safety talks: 328 onshore and offshore. This is a behaviour and the subject can be product of the continuous effort everything within safety – both profrom leaders and employees with fessional and private issues can be Target 2018: the uncompromising goal of ZERO discussed. As long as the manager 328 accidents. is a role model and an ambassador within safety the purpose of a safety Actual 2017: 199 In 2017, we launched many safety walk has been fulfilled. initiatives within the areas of Safety Leadership and Safety Culture; Some In order to be able to reach our of them are mentioned below. target of 328 registered Safety Talks in 2018, the HSE representatives will Safety talks Safety Awareness Courses do a monthly follow-up with the Safety Awareness courses for relevant managers and progress is LABOUR  19 SAFETY CULTURE SURVEY SEMCO: 3.16 0 3 5 Action plans to improve Safety culture is good reported to the top management Safety campaigns in the BOR report. Safety campaigns plays also an important role when focus on safety Safety culture survey culture and safety awareness. Both In order to be able to measure the global and local safety campaigns safety culture in Semco Maritime are made and the headline for all a safety culture survey has been campaigns is »nudging«. Also an carried out on operational and offshore safety campaign has been offshore sites. carried out with focus on »work life balance« with the headline »Balance POLICY The safety culture survey is a quein your work life makes you safe«. stionnaire containing 50 questions • HSSE Policy, and are divided into 7 headlines: »Safety Moments« were introduced POL-SEMCO-0019 in 2017 with the purpose of initiat• Safety walk (talk), The 7 headlines are: ing internal and external meetings P-SEMCO-0297 with a safety moment where stories • Management safety priority Semco Maritime is certified with safety lessons learned are and ability according to OHSAS 18001. shared to enable us to learn from • Management safety each other on a professional and/or empowerment private level. • Management safety justice • Workers safety commitment • Workers safety priority and risk non-acceptance • Peer safety communication, learning and trust in safety ability • Workers trust in efficacy of safety systems The target for 2017 was to be above 3.0 on a scale from 0-5. The overall result was 3.16, which was very satisfactory especially as the response rate was 64.3 % an increase from the year before. We aim to further improve the result in 2018 with an ambitious goal of 3.25. RECYCLING OF WASTE 3% 4% 11 % 2017 82 % Special Disposal Combustion Recycling treatment ENVIRONMENT  21 Environment We aim to reduce our environmental impact by using resources efficiently and reducing energy consumption. Semco Maritime respects the envimost efficient way, reducing energy ronment and comply with applicable consumption and ensure an effective laws and regulations. However, we waste management by recycling as place higher demands on ourselves much as possible by maintain an that stipulated by the law which efficient waste separation system. means that we engage in targeted and systematic efforts to continuFurthermore, Semco Maritime ously improve our environmental will focus more on CO2 emissions performance. We understand »a caused by our shipping activities. responsibly approach« as preventive. This will be one of our focus areas in 2018 why this is also incorporated ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 We aim to reduce our environmental in the internal step-by-step plan for • Savings on energy conimpact by using resources in the this year. sumption/employee: -11 % • Recycling of waste/total amount of waste: 82 % AMBITIONS 2018 ENERGY CONSUMPTION • Savings on energy conKWH/EMPLOYEE sumption/employee: -5 % • Savings on heating/ employee: -5 % 4,0 3,942 • Recycling of waste/total 3,716 amount of waste: 80 % • Setting the framework for 3.252 mapping of carbon footprint of shipping activities. 3,0 2.889 2,0 2,822 3.9 7.2, 7.a 1,0 11.6 12.4, 12.5 12.6, 12.6.1 1,0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ENVIRONMENT  23 Golden DGNB DGNB (Deutsche Gesellschaft für certificate Nachhaltiges Bauen) is one of the The new Semco world’s leading standards when Maritime domicile it comes to the sustainability of was awarded with a Golden DGNB buildings. DGNB measures indoor certificate with the score of 69.7 %. climate, the life cycle of building The building was awarded the materials, transport, consumption certificate for, among others, the of energy and water during and indoor climate, space efficiency and after construction, durability, the focus on energy, e.g. the use of availability, etc. POLICY solar cells. Semco Maritime is certified according to ISO 14001. CO2 neutral website We have joined the CO2 neutral website initiative in order to neutralise the emissions originating from our website and our website users Being a global company NO RD IC ECOLAB EL conducting a large part of our business near sensitive environments, we work reNordic swan marking sponsibly to protect these Our stationery is manufactured from environmentally friendly materials. At present, all stationery and almost all envelopes carry environments by preventthe Nordic swan-label. ing pollution, keeping the environmental impact to a minimum and ensuring the best possible use of resources. FSC® The Forest Stewardship Council An international non-profit label for wood and paper. FSC is your Dorthe Ulsø, Director HSE&Q guarantee that the paper used for your printed material comes from wood in a FSC forest. Here no more wood is cut than the forest can regenerate. ISO certified: Semco Maritime is certified according to ISO 14001. ENVIRONMENT  25 Renewable energy We work towards a greener and brighter future for our business for the benefit of the environment and our children. During the last years, renewable land-based substations. Our dedicatenergy, and especially offshore wind, ed engineering department handles has attracted more of our attention everything from specialised studies and has become a very important to the detailed design and specificapart of our future strategy with a tion of substations, accommodation dedicated focus. Semco Maritime has modules, sea fastening and installadeveloped a strong position as one tion equipment. Our teams have also of the market leaders for offshore handled upgrade and mobilisation of substations and safe communication installation vessels, Tetra communicasolutions for offshore windfarms. tion systems and test equipment for wind turbine manufacturers. We believe that the renewable WE PARTICIPATED IN THE energy market will continue to grow With focus on bringing down the cost FOLLOWING OFFSHORE and we market Semco Maritime of green energy, our engineers focus WIND PROJECTS: as a viable choice for developers of on the functionality of each element • Horns Rev offshore wind farms. for integration into the overall design • Burbo Banks of the wind farm, and our work con• West of Duddon Sands Originally we have provided services tinues to break new ground. • Walney I for the oil and gas industry, but our • Walney II business has increasingly turned • Northwind towards renewable energy (see OFFSHORE WIND • Nordsee Ost figure). A logic step, as many of our core competencies from many years share of total • Borkum Riffgrund I in the oil and gas business are easily turnover • Anholt applied to offshore wind. • Rødsand B 100 % • Gunfleet Sands We design and engineer electrical • Robin Rigg infrastructure systems for wind • Lillgrund farms, including construction of the • Princess Amalia (Q7) on and offshore substations. • Nysted • London Array We are one of the leading opera• DanTysk tion and maintenance suppliers to • Sandbank wind farms in Denmark, the UK 2017: 35 % • NordSee One and Germany. Our safety and 2016: 30 % • BlighBank quality-conscious staff operates and/ • Horns rev 3 or maintains substation modules, 2015: 26 % • Hornsea offshore accommodation modules, wind turbine foundations and Total turnover ANTI-CORRUPTION  27 Anti-corruption We have always focused on honesty and transparency in everything we do in 2017 we further formalised our efforts. As a signatory to the UN’s Global to handle risk-exposures in our Compact since 2007, Semco Marimarkets. time is committed to the highest • By synergising the necessary standards of integrity, honesty, and resources of our CEO, CFO, the fairness in all internal and external Legaland the HSEQ departments relationships, in accordance with ensuring the appropriate attenall applicable laws and regulations, tion to our anti-bribery and corrupincluding, but not limited to, antition policy and procedures. bribery and anti-corruption laws. In 2016, we decided to further forma• E.g. by capping gifts to € 100 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 lise our efforts to eliminate corrupother promotions, sponsorships tion and bribery by establishing a and hospitality gestures are reguWhistle-blower arrangement formal whistle-blower policy and lated in each incident based upon established and in force. whistle-blower rules. specific criteria in each case. AMBITIONS 2018 Anti-corruption 2. We have Top-level commitment: Continue implementation Semco Maritime and it’s Group • This means that our CEO and of the whistle-blower Companies' (Subsidiaries') employarrangement throughout the CFO »own« the anti-bribery policy. ees shall not directly or indirectly organisation. Meaning that • By having a Culture and Deveeveryone knows how and accept, solicit or offer bribes, kickwhere to report non-compliant backs, facilitation payments or any lopment internal program and behaviour. other unjustified advantages in the Group General Legal Counsel order to improperly influence or to proactively sponsoring the policy, gain an unfair business advantage whenever necessary. from any governmental or private • By having our Senior Vice Prelegalor any other entity. We have sidents annually (via for instance 16.5 built our anti-bribery and corruption the intranet and similar internal policy’s foundation on our »Prevent communication channels) make Monitor React« policy on the basis employees aware of the policy/ of the 6 principles of the Bribery Act procedures. 2010 (UK) as follows: 1. We have proportionate 3. Risk assessment is made: procedures: • By evaluating as applicable • By designing and implementing the risks associated to our potenthis »anti-bribery policy« and by tial and current projects with having actual, suitable and proporregard to the risks inherent with: tionate »anti-bribery procedures« (i) geography and (ii) industry 28 I SEMCO MARITIME ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION PREVENT MONITOR REACT sector(iii) nature of transaction 6. Monitoring and review: and (iv) scope and nature of the • By having established either a necessary partnerships. Business Ethics Committee or • By whenever necessary devoting another suitable legal internal specific resources (Legalas combody to annually review and mercial) to identify potentially risk adjudicate on instances related agreements related to: supply to our anti-bribery and corrup(from simple Purchase Order tion policy and procedures. to full-blown EPC contract with • By regularly modifying, updating Operation and Maintenance, purand adding to the anti-bribery and POLICY chasing, agents and consultants). corruption policy and procedures • Code of conduct, during reviews and monitoring 4. Due diligence is made: POL-SEMCO-0013 conducted by our HSE&Q • Anti-bribery and corruption, • By inserting an anti-bribery Department. POL-SEMCO-0016 clause in internal Contract Review • Whistle-blower arrangement Guidelines across Semco P-SEMCO-0378 Maritime’s 5 divisions; • A specific set of questions on the anti-bribery and corruption policy is now included in our HSE&Q Department’s set of internal auditing rules. 5. Communication is performed: • By bringing focus on the antibribery and corruption policy in among others introductory courses for new employees; • By making our Code of Conduct readily available on our internet site, along with the updated version of our Communication on Progress (“COP”) report and Global Business Manual including the anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures. THE FORMAL WHISTLE-BLOWER POLICY AND RULES The detailed whistle-blower policy is available to all in our Business Management System together with a template for reporting. Any suspicious or noncompliant behavior The reporting person and the or actions/omissions in connection with person being reported are with due any anti-bribery or any other relations consideration to legislative rights and of breach of internal financialand/or other obligations best possible informed about any relevant policies of the SEMCO MARITIME investigation also with due consideration to; (i) Group of Companies or of any external laws, the facts finding process and investigation, (ii) rules codes or otherwise can from December the right as an investigated person to respond 15, 2016 anonymously be reported to the to the investigation and/or the findings/report General Legal Counsel and the Deputy Legal to take due consideration to the investigated Counsels of the SEMCO MARITIME Group of person’s right to protect one’s personal and any Companies. The General Legal Counsel and other interests and (iii) the applicable legislaDeputy Legal Counsels must as applicable tion at all times. minimum cc the CFO (And General Legal Counsel always to Deputy Legal Counsel(s) on any reported incident), the startup of any case and any later process and/or reporting. There can be (severe) employment Reporting to the General Legal Counsel and consequences for a reported person Deputy Legal Counsels can take place by and ultimately a criminal investigaanyone by telephone, e-mail and/or writtention and termination of the employment (as or any oral communication. applicable in each incident). If the report is not anonymous – however the reporting person’s identity can be asked to be kept anonymous by the reporting person. If so, then any reporting shall be kept anonymous with regards to the reporting person’s identity at all times with due consideration to the applicable legislation. The General Legal Counsel shall facilitate to take The reporting person appropriate action on any report within reasonable is secured anonymous and due time to: reporting with due · Investigate (If necessary sided by external legal counsel, consideration to the applicable, accounting specialists and/or other necessary external relevant legislation. The reporresources or specialists) any report, and ted person is also considered · Bring the legal conclusion of any investigated reporting to a (as fare possible under the hereto formed »board« consisting of and in each incident as applicable legislation and comapplicable: pany policies) duly protected under the employment laws A. The CEO/CFO and rights and obligations against B. The Head of HR employment consequences and as relevant and as decided by the General Legal due to any reported acts/omisCounsel in each incident: C. An external lawyer, external accountant sions. The latter means that D. And/or any other relevant resources the employment laws are duly E. As applicable a Board Member of the Semco Maritime considered throughout any Group of companies’ mother company Semco Mariinvestigation, reporting and/ time in Denmark (The Chairman of the board). to invesor actions/omissions in each tigate, conclude and act on each incident of reporting. incident. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 I 31 Future focus areas We look ahead to a brighter and greener future within the global energy sector. Data protection / GDPR Job satisfaction survey From 25 May 2018 the EU legislation In 2018, we will be performing will be more restrictive and require our global, bi-annual job satisfacnew standards for data security, tion survey, which will then be authorizations and transparent mapped against the 2016-results. procedures. We are initiating acOur goal is to match the tions to: 2016-result. • Protect our employees’ and Supplier evaluation customers’ personal data. We will continue to work closely CONTACT • Increase awareness on data with our suppliers and further privacy for persons handling implement our new tier based CSR consultant personal data. supplier management program Marianne K. Hansen in combination with the existing Tel. +45 7916 6492 • Comply with the new legislation electronic supplier assessment E-mail: mar@semcomaritime.com database. We focus our efforts where the risk Semco Maritime A/S is highest and worked with a prioriEsbjerg Brygge 30 CSR reporting tized data and geographic scope. DK-6700 Esbjerg We further increase our focus on • Data-wise, we focus on personal the CSR reporting and recognise data such as but not limited to that we in a continuous learning CPR/SSN/PIN, CVs and passport process. and sensitive personal data such as but not limited to medical We want to communicate our conditions and health certificates. progress in an honest and open way and continue to work towards • Initially, we focus on Denmark making sure that our COP report where the amount of data is is relevant and easy-to-use for our the largest. Secondly, we involve stakeholders. In 2018, we aim to Norway, UK and Germany and will further incorporate the Sustainable as a last step include companies Development Goals even further outside EU. in our reporting together with the 10 principles of the UN Global We are preparing the necessary poliCompact. cies, procedures, contracts and other documentation to ensure compliData protection ance with the GDPR. Go live date of from 25 May 2018 the project is 25 May 2018 when the EU legislation will be effective. Read the report online here: www.semcomaritime.com/about/ our-company/csr #SemcoNews Semco Maritime is an international company with branches around the world. For further information, addresses, e-mail addresses, fax and phone numbers, please see our website: www.semcomaritime.com Dropbox\Marketing\Brochurer\Responsibility COP\COP 2017 120418 subh
