Communication on progress 2017 I CONTE NTS 2017 in brief 1 Presenting Sveaskog 1 Assignment 2 Comments from the Chairman 3 CEO’s comments 4 Sveaskog’s business model 6 Business environment factors that affect Sveaskog’s operations 8 Sveaskog’s sustainable business 11 Sveaskog’s most significant sustainability issues 12 Agenda 2030 – Sveaskog’s strategies contribute to Global Sustainable Development Goals 13 Strategies for being the leading forest company 14 Sveaskog has a major positive impact on society 18 Active forest management creates values for generations 20 Active nature conservation focused on biodiversity 22 20% of the forest is set aside for nature conservation 24 Growing forest counteracts climate change 26 We do each other good 28 Sustainable purchasing 30 Innovation and efficiency for increased profitability 32 Strong improvement in earnings 34 Product areas: Increased interest in building with wood 36 Major capacity increases in Swedish pulp mills 38 Biofuel market remains tough 40 Svenska Skogsplantor 42 Hunting, fishing and other concessions 43 Dividend and profit distribution 44 Risk and sensitivity analysis 45 Management of significant risks 46 Success for Improvement of the Year 48 Green bonds 49 Corporate governance report 50 Board of Directors 56 Group Management 58 Sustainability report 60 Five-year summary 61 Financial statements with notes 62 Board assurance report 91 Auditor’s report 92 Notes to the Sustainability Report 94 Auditor’s report on Sustainability Report 103 Definitions and alternative performance measures 104 Glossary 106 Financial calendar, contacts 107 GRI-appendix 108 The annual report including the administration report and financial statements comprises pages 6–17, 20–25, 28–29 and 32–90. The sustainability report that has been reviewed by the auditors is on pages 18–19, 26–27, 30–31 and 94–101. Front cover: Sandra Backlund is a machine operator in Karlskoga. The photograph was taken in Finnerödja in north Västergötland. SVEASKOG I N B R I E F AN D 2017 2017 in brief • Net sales increased by 5% to SEK 6,206 million • Operating profit from continuing operations increased by 11% to SEK 1,248 million • Dividend of SEK 900 million proposed to the 2018 Annual General Meeting • Strong economy and increased productivity contributed to improved profitability • Sveaskog issued its second green bond of SEK 1 billion • Good outlook for 2018 due to continued strong business climate for forest industry about Sveaskog Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner. The company owns 14% 100% owned by the Swedish state of Sweden’s forests and has some 850 employees around the country. Sweden’s largest Sveaskog sells sawlogs, pulpwood, biofuel, forest seedlings and forest owner silvicultural services. Sveaskog complements supplies from its own forests with purchases from other forest owners, exchanges and 846 employees imports. Sveaskog also works with land transactions and develops the forest as a venue for fishing, hunting and other nature-based Net sales experiences. SEK 6,206 Million A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 1 Assignment Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state. According to the state’s ownership policy, state-owned companies must operate in the long term, efficiently, profitably and be allowed to develop. In order to promote long-term ­sustain­able growth in value in state-owned companies, sustainable business is an integrated part of corporate governance. This means that the compan­ies must act in an exemplary manner within sustainable business and in other respects act in a manner that inspires public confidence. According to its articles of association, Sveaskog shall own and manage real and personal property, conduct forestry operations and forest industry as well as related business activities. The core business is forest management. Sveaskog shall also be an independent player without major interests as an end user of wood raw material. Through the sale of land on market terms, the company will enable re-­ zoning and purchases for private forestry, especially in rural areas. Sales of land will take place until 10% of the land the company held in 2002, when the company was formed, has been divested. The owner has an explicit dividend policy and clear financial targets for Sveaskog regarding yield and net debt/equity ratio. Susanne Spreer, Forest Assessor at Sveaskog. 2 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 C omments from the C hairman Comments from the Chairman The forest must be managed and managed well Sveaskog’s mission is to manage the Swedish people’s forests in a sustainable manner and this assignment has never been more important than it is at present due to today’s critical issue, the climate change. The growing forest binds very large quantities of carbon dioxide and the products the timber is used for replace fossil products to a great extent. Therefore, the forest must be managed and managed well. The debate about the forest has been unusually lively during the year. The fact that there are opinions about how we at Sveaskog handle our felling, our nature conservation and other land usage we see as a sign of great involvement in the forest and this is something we appreciate. An open and constructive discussion gives us several ideas about how our forest management can be improved. The fact that we do not always agree can be due to Sveaskog having to balance ecological, economic and social aspects while other stakeholders focus on one single aspect, usually biodiversity. I would like to emphasise that an open dialogue is very important for us and we listen carefully. Increasing our presence in Brussels In the EU there was intensive debate before voting on Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry (LULUCF), and the Renewable Energy Directive (RED II). Both votes led to a good result for forest management. The results of the vote on LULUCF mean that a felling cap from our employees, and high demand for timber. We are which could reduce felling opportunities will not be proud to be able to distribute SEK 900 million to our introduced, in addition to the limits set by biological owner, the Swedish state. growth and set-asides for nature conservation. The RED Innovation is important to Sveaskog. We have issued II vote means that the residual products from the forest a green bond which was soon oversubscribed and and forest industry can be used to produce renewable reduces our financing costs, we have completed our first vehicle fuel, which already takes place in Sveaskog’s ecological compensation deal and we are taking part in associated company SunPine. several development projects designed to increase the The fact that these key votes turned out well can be value of every cubic metre of wood. Sveaskog’s ascribed to well-conducted lobbying in Brussels where contribution to a living countryside, to Sweden’s many stakeholders collaborated. We can see increased prosperity and not least the climate is considerable. interest in forest issues within the EU and are convinced We will do our utmost to increase this still further by that our presence in Brussels must be intensified so that managing the forest in a sustainable manner. we can contribute to increased awareness of Nordic forest management. Stockholm, March 2018 Innovation is important to us Sveaskog has delivered a good financial result in 2017 Eva Färnstrand due to good customer relationships, fine performances Chairman of the Board A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 3 C EO’s comments CEO’s comments Good outlook for 2018 2017 was characterised by a strong economic climate for forest industry and this favourable situation is expected to continue in 2018. Demand for the renewable wood raw material supplied by Sveaskog will remain high. Things are going well for forest industry thanks to a strong construction climate and increased interest in building in wood both in Sweden and in export markets. Demand for cartonboard for packaging, packaging paper and hygiene products is also high. Sveaskog is an important supplier to the Swedish forest industry and the strong economic climate gives us good business opportunities. We continue to strengthen our cooperation with customers and work close to them in order to help develop their businesses. Some examples of major customer projects during the year include improved delivery flows to Smurfit Kappa’s pulp mill in Piteå and the new transport by rail from Småland to SCA’s new pulp mill in Östrand, outside Sundsvall. These are long-term efforts that further intensify our customer relationships. Strong financial position Sveaskog’s sales increased by 5% during the year and we improved our operating profit from continuing operations by 11%. We have a strong financial position and the Board will propose a dividend of SEK 900 million to the Annual General Meeting. This is an increase of SEK 100 million compared with last year which reflects the strong general economic situation and positive non-recurring items. Over the past five years we have distributed SEK 3.2 billion to our owner the Swedish state. In this way we contribute to Swedish prosperity. In 2017 we issued a green bond of SEK 1 billion which attracted very high demand from investors. The interest in the green bond confirms both our strong financial position and the fact that our operations contrib­ute to a sustainable society. Sustainable forest management “ We combine profitable forestry with protection of During autumn 2017 our forest management was criticised by different stakeholders. The critics believe that we ignore biodiversity when felling. For us active forest management high conservation values involves constantly weighing up ecological, social and economic considerations while the environmental moveand biodiversity” ment mainly focuses on biodiversity. Every year we fell in several thousand locations in Sweden and on every occasion we perform a conservation value inventory to ensure that we preserve those forests with the highest conservation values. Our goal is to conduct sustainable forest management where active, profitable and responsible management of forests and forest land continuously creates growth, 4 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 C EO’s comments diversity and increased value for generations. We black liquor from pulp mills into raw material for biofuels. combine profitable forestry with the protection of high Demand for biofuel is showing strong growth and more conservation values and biodiversity. initiatives are needed if Sweden is to manage the green Back in 2002, Sveaskog decided to make long-term transition and the transfer to a fossil-free vehicle fleet. nature conservation set-asides corresponding to 20% Our own carbon dioxide emissions continued to of its productive forest land. The ecoparks are part of decrease during the year despite increased transport efforts to achieve this goal. In our 37 ecoparks covering volumes. The reduced carbon dioxide emissions are due a total of 175,000 hectares we combine extensive to continued improvements in the fuel mix with an ever protection of large areas of land with restoration of increasing proportion of renewable fuel. conservation values and forestry with appropriate consideration. Sveaskog is an attractive employer The public in Sweden have confidence in our We conducted an employee survey during the autumn sustain­ability work. In a survey conducted by Stockholm which shows that the employee motivation index is University about views on state-owned companies’ higher than the national average. Furthermore, our sustainability work, Swedes gave us a strong rating employees are happy to recommend people to start which we are proud of. working with us. The forest and forest industry are important for We work with several different initiatives designed to Sweden and for us who live here. The forest creates increase both our attraction as an employer and interest key climate benefits and the forest industry contributes in employment in the forestry industry. These include to a living countryside. We have the good fortune to have support for summer camps for young people, trainee a plentiful raw material that many other countries lack. positions and welcoming trainees within our ‘Growing Let us use it in a wise and discerning manner. Power!’ project which covers both recent immigrants and young Swedes. Sweden needs international lobbying Internally we focus on creating active employeeship By using the wood raw material where we replace fossil where everyone can find a good balance between products, we create positive climate effects. Research responsibility, enthusiasm and working tasks. and development work is underway to find new Our employees work diligently to deliver our products applications for wood raw material as well as the at the right time and with the right quality. This has a residual products from forest industry. Sweden can do decisive impact on our performance both financial and even more here to push development and create an within other areas. I am very proud of this. important future global market. We also need strong international lobbying for our green transition – this was Outlook for the coming year clear from discussions in the EU after year-end on the We expect conditions in the forest industry to remain use of tall oil and biofuel from stumps. strong in 2018. There is still a lot of construction in The UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Sweden and Europe at the same time as global demand is good for Sweden. It provides opportunities for Sweden for cartonboard and packaging paper continues to rise. to build a world-leading position within forestry. The The good economic climate ensures a strong 2018 for Swedish forest is necessary if we are to meet the goals Sveaskog and Swedish forest industry. We are looking of the international community and the Swedish goal of forward to a continued open discussion during the year a carbon-neutral society. about the use of the forest. We at Sveaskog prioritise development projects that support changeover to a carbon-dioxide neutral society. We are involved in several major projects for the Stockholm, March 2018 production of green fuel. It is stimulating to see how well SunPine, where we are a part owner, is developing and Per-Olof Wedin we have great expectations on efforts in Piteå to convert President and CEO Operating profit from continuing operations, SEKm Performance measures SEKm 1,500 2017 2016 1,248 Yield, % (target at least 4.5%) 4.6 4.2 1,200 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple (target 0.3–0.6) 0.36 0.40 900 Return on operating capital, % 6.5 5.8 Return on equity, % 6.7 6.0 600 Interest cover, multiple 9.8 6.3 300 Equity ratio, % 52 52 Interest-bearing net debt, SEKm 7,410 7,937 0 Average number of employees 846 844 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total delivery volume, thousand m3sub 10,817 10,684 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 5 B usiness mode l Sveaskog’s business model Sveaskog’s core business is to manage the forest and sell sawlogs and pulpwood as well as biofuel. In addition, Sveaskog carries out land transactions and develops the forest as a venue for fishing, hunting and nature-based experiences. Sveaskog creates benefits for Sweden in four key ways: • One of Sweden’s largest suppliers of renewable raw material to forest industry and heating plants where customers’ products partly replace fossil material. • Total dividends of SEK 3.2 billion to the company’s owner the Swedish state over the past five years which contributes to the The forest country’s prosperity. • The forest creates climate benefits partly by binding carbon dioxide and partly through the felled material to a major extent Sveaskog’s forest holdings replacing material with a climate impact. Calculations show that totalling 4 million hectares the climate benefit of Sweden’s forests is as big as the are located in 170 of Sweden’s country’s total fossil emissions. 290 municipalities. • The forest creates social benefits by creating jobs and community services in rural areas at the same time as it is available for outdoor activities and recreation. Employees Sveaskog has approximately 850 employees. Most work within forestry and Svenska Skogsplantor. The majority work in rural areas and small towns. Contractors Sveaskog has contractors who perform the equivalent of 1,600 FTEs per year. Planting Cleaning Sveaskog replants Cleaning takes place in felled forests with its own young forests. Cleaning forest seedlings. thins the forest stand so that the most suitable trees have an opportunity to grow Sawmills Biofuel and develop. Sveaskog delivers customers sawlogs to some 70 Sveaskog supplies some 50 biofuel Forest sawmills in Sweden. The sawlogs are processed and customers in Sweden, mainly used for buildings and primarily heating plants as Managefurniture. well as pulp and paper mills. Final felling ment Thinning Thinning improves the At final felling, quality of the remaining Pulp and Sveaskog mainly obtains sawlogs and a smaller trees. Thinning is carried out to optimise the sawlog ratio, paper mills Customers Concessions proportion of pulpwood. i.e. the part of the timber that Sveaskog delivers Sveaskog provides can later be used as sawn timber. pulpwood to some 20 concessions to Tree trunks harvested during pulp and paper mills hunters, anglers, wind thinning are mainly used as which manufacture power plants, powerline pulpwood but also for packaging paper, corridors, etc. sawlogs and biohygiene products and energy. other paper Other products. forest owners Approximately 3,500 forest owners buy forest seedlings and silvicultural services from Sveaskog. 6 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 B usiness mode l Sveaskog’s total deliveries From Sveaskog’s own forests Wood raw 6,463 thousand material purchased m3sub Wood raw material from private forest purchased from other owners 1,375 commercial players in thousand the timber market m3sub 2,979 thousand m3sub Total delivery volume 10,817 thousand m3sub Breakdown of delivered volumes Sawlogs Sawlogs Pulpwood & chips Pulpwood and chips Sveaskog has a broad range of sawlogs Sveaskog offers a broad range of and delivers everything from standard 55% 41% pulpwood which comes from its own deliveries to customised orders. To meet from own forests from own forests forests, purchases from other forest customer requirements, the company can owners and imports. The offering is exchange timber with other forest owners 43% of 51% of also complemented with cellulose or deliver more unusual tree species total deliveries total deliveries chips from sawmill customers. such as maple and ash. The company complements timber from own forests with externally purchased volumes. Biofuel 4% from own forest 6% of total deliveries Biofuel Biofuel consists of branches and tops as well as thin trees and energy wood. Woodfuel is a good fuel from an environmental point of view and extraction of woodfuel is a natural part of sustainable forestry. Other operations Svenska Skogsplantor Share of total delivery volumes Sveaskog sells forest seedlings under the Svenska Skogsplantor brand. Svenska Skogsplantor is Sweden’s largest seedling supplier and delivers approximately 119 million forest seedlings every year. Sveaskog also offers silvicultural services such as soil scarification and planting. Other business from forests and land Massaved Pulpwood andochchips flis 51% 51% Sveaskog grants land concessions for among other things fishing, hunting and Biobränsle Biofuel 6% 6% wind power and operates Mörrums Sågtimmer Sawlogs 43% 43% Kronolaxfiske (salmon fishery) as well as the Hjälmare Canal. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 7 External factors External factors that affect Sveaskog’s operations Sveaskog is a Swedish company that operates in a global environment. Operations are therefore affected by both national as well as global factors and trends. The eleven most significant external factors are described here. Climate change The significance of climate change and how we should deal with this are issues that are other materials with a less favourable climate profile. The forest binds most carbon dioxide becoming increasingly important both in Sweden when it is young and middle-aged since that is and internationally. This affects views on forest when the greatest growth occurs. management and the forest as a raw material. In Sweden, the goal is to reduce greenhouse The global climate agreement COP21 reached gas emissions by 85% by 2025 compared with by the international community in December the 1990 level. Net emissions will then be zero 2015 describes forest management as a and after 2025 increased uptake in forest and success factor for preventing the Earth’s land will lead to negative emissions for Sweden. temperature from increasing by more than two Globally, the UN’s Agenda for Sustainable degrees. Growing forest binds carbon dioxide Development, the 2030 Agenda, can affect and this type of climate benefit arises when total opinions about how the forest should be used felling is less than forest growth and when the and increase understanding of how active forest harvested timber is used in construction. The management can contribute to the achievement other climate benefit is the substitution effect of its goals. that arises when wood raw material replaces Transports The green transition Rail transport is used where possible but when the wood The green transition is about Sweden having a raw material is collected from the forest roads, HGVs have fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030 and a to be used. This means that the forest industry is highly carbon dioxide neutral society by 2050. The forest, dependent on road transport. forest management and wood raw material play a Transports are a significant cost item for producers of key role in this transition. The growing forest binds wood raw material and also account for major carbon carbon dioxide and wood raw material can replace dioxide emissions. Sveaskog’s road transports alone drive fossil products and processes. the equivalent of two trips round the globe every day and The forest industry’s residual products such as account for two-thirds of the carbon dioxide emissions pine oil are important for the transition to a fossilgenerated by its operations. inde­pendent vehicle fleet. In Sweden demand for bio By increasing the proportion of renewable fuels and vehicle fuels exceeds production which is positive for improving logistics with new IT systems, the negative climate the development of renewable vehicle fuels. Develop­ impact is reduced and profitability is also improved. ment projects take several years from laboratory to commercialisation but are important for raising the value added of wood raw material and residual products. Biofuel from the forest is also good fuel from an environmental perspective. 8 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 External factors Digitalisation Interest in building with Digitalisation and technological development affect both forest wood management and the development of new applications for the The market for sawlogs is wood raw material. mainly dependent on the Within forest management, construction industry and digitalisation and the use of big interest in building with wood. In recent years a data lead among other things to growing number of architects and construction improved maps and bases for decision-making. companies have discovered the advantages of wood Laser-scanned forests, more detailed information about which is a climate-smart material. A growing number soil properties, mobile tools and cloud-based services of apartment blocks, sports halls and bridges are mean that the forest can be both managed and being built with timber frames. Today 10% of all harvested more efficiently and with less environmental multi-storey buildings are built with timber frames and impact. interest in using wood as a frame is increasing both in New technology also means that forest machines will Sweden and internationally. This is having a positive be more effective and cause less environmental impact. effect on demand for sawlogs. There are also plans for several initiatives in Sweden using cross-glued wood as a building material for future housing construction. New applications for wood raw material Increased use of wood and forest land contribute both to a long-term growing business and greater climate benefit. Since the forest is a renew­ able raw material and the climate is an increasingly central issue, there is growing interest in finding new applications. Everything that is made of oil can in principle be made from the forest. For example, work is underway to develop techniques for the manufacture of carbon fibre from lignin from sulphate pulp mills. Carbon fibre can be used in everything from cars and aircraft to satellites. Researchers have succeeded in developing transparent wood that can be used in windows and solar panels or video screens. Another new application for wood raw material is to manufacture protein for fish feed from branches and tops. Research is also underway into how cellulose-based textiles can be produced using more sustainable processes. Skills supply Motivated employees with the relevant skills are essential for a company’s ability to conduct an efficient and profitable business. Companies perceived as attractive employers find it easier to recruit people with the right skills. Relocation from rural areas makes it difficult for the forest industry to find the right skills in smaller towns. A career in forestry is also losing its attractiveness among the young. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 9 External factors Timber availability The global economy The Swedish forest industry operates in the global market. 80% of what is produced is exported. Through its timber exports, Sweden contributes to the international green transition in countries that do not have much forest of their own. Export-dependence means that Sweden’s forest industry is affected by the global economy and international trade rules. More than half of the timber from the Swedish forests goes to the sawmills. The sawmills in turn export about 70% of their production, mostly to Europe. Demand for sawn wood products is mainly affected by the economic situation in the construction industry. Within the foreseeable future European housing starts are expected to remain strong at the same time as interest in building with wood is increasing. Almost 90% of pulp and paper production in Sweden is exported and demand is growing in pace Sweden has never had as much forest as today and with world trade. The Swedish Forest Industries the forest has never grown as fast as it does now. Federation expects export volumes to grow by about There is therefore potential in ten to thirty years for 3% per year in 2017-2018 assuming an unchanged increasing felling within the limits for growth and exchange rate for the Swedish krona. Forest industry obtaining more raw material from the forest at the continues to invest in new production capacity in same time as it continues to be an important carbon Sweden which is positive for Sveaskog and other sink. Increased raw material availability will allow producers of wood raw material. bigger deliveries to the industry for further processing. Biodiversity Collaboration and dialogue Forest management and the forest industry are Many people are dependent on the forest and it is very dependent on political decisions in many areas important for recreation and outdoor activities. Where relating to everything from corporate taxes to nature there are forests there are sometimes different conservation set-asides. The discussion about what opinions about how forest management should be the forest should be used for and what is meant by conducted. Dialogue and collaboration between the sustainable forestry affects conditions for forest different stakeholders affect forestry, for example the management. Sveaskog carefully monitors the methods used for reforestation and when action development of the ongoing work with the national should be taken. The forest sector’s shared goals for forest programme. good environmental Parliament’s environmental quality objective Living consideration Forests leads the way for the forest industry. Efforts to provide guidance achieve the Living Forests environmental objective are on aspects such as based on formal protection, voluntary set-asides by communication landowners and environmental consideration in forest about forest management. management Political interest in activities. In areas different values from the where reindeer forest, so-called ecosysherding takes place tem services, is growing there is regular and a government inquiry dialogue to ensure on compensation land access to grazing. may provide new business opportunities for forest owners. 10 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 – Strategier – sustainab le b usiness Sveaskog’s sustainable business Sveaskog’s starting point for sustainable business is to balance and unite the three perspectives economic, social and environmental development in an exemplary manner. This is guided by the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Sveaskog’s definition of sustainable forest management: “Active, profitable and responsible management of forests and forest lands in a way that continuously creates growth, biodiversity and increased value for generations.” Sveaskog manages its forests and forest lands so that their ­climate benefit, biodiversity, social and economic values are retained and strengthened now and for future generations. At the same time, the company cares about the profitability and competitiveness of forestry. Sveaskog continuously strives to develop its sustainable forest management, an ongoing learning development process based on science, increased knowledge and experience. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 11 Most significant sustainabi lity areas Sveaskog’s most significant sustainability areas Sveaskog addresses several sustainability challenges. The most significant are: • The environment regarding biodiversity and carbon dioxide emissions from forest machines and transports • Human rights regarding gender equality and diversity as well as the indigenous population’s access to reindeer grazing • Social issues such as working environment and availability of personnel in rural areas and small towns Sveaskog has also identified the following sustainability issues as significant for the company: • Confidence in Sveaskog and its sustainable forest management • Customer satisfaction • Financial results and profitability Global Sustainable Sustainability area Strategic goal Development Goal Confidence • Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner • Leading within sustainable forest management • Preferred choice for employees and contractors Financial results • The most profitable forest company in the short and long term • Leading in innovation and efficiency Climate impact • Leading within sustainable forest management Customer satisfaction • Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Biodiversity • Leading within sustainable forest management Equality, diversity and • Preferred choice for employees and contractors skills provision Sveaskog has decided on the most significant sustainability areas following a materiality analysis where the company’s own assessments were combined with different stakeholders’ perceptions. 12 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 2030 Agenda 2030 Agenda Sveaskog’s strategies contribute to the global Sustainable Development Goals The forest and forest management are key to attaining the global Sustainable Development Goals in the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 2030 Agenda includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Sveaskog has strong strategies in five of the Sustainable Development Goals. Gender Equality – Achieve gender Climate action – Take immediate equality and the empowerment of all action to fight climate change and women and girls its consequences Goal 5 has been identified by Sveaskog as The forest is a very important resource in one of the company’s most significant sustainability areas. the fight against climate change. The forest Increased equality improves future skills provision. binds carbon dioxide and most is bound by the young, growing forest. The forest is also key to the green transition since everything that is made from oil can in principle be made from wood. Affordable and Clean Energy – Ensure Sveaskog’s business is to fell mature forest and replace the availability of affordable, reliable, it with young, growing plants. The felled forest is sold on sustainable and modern energy for to companies where it is used as durable building material, everyone replacing fossil material, or as renewable raw material to the packaging and pulp industries, or as renewable energy Sveaskog has a goal to drive innovation and focuses on in the form of biofuel. participation in projects that contribute to the green Sveaskog works actively to reduce dependence on transition. Sveaskog therefore participates in development fossil energy sources and has set goals and prepared projects to extract green vehicle fuels from wood raw action plans to reduce its own carbon dioxide emissions. material and residues from forest management and forest industry. Sveaskog also contributes to goal 7 by leasing land for renewable electricity production in the form of wind power Life on land – Protect, restore and and the production of biofuels which provide renewable support sustainable usage of land-based energy from the forest. ecosystems, manage forests sustainably, fight desertification, stop and reverse soil degradation, and stop loss of biodiversity Decent work and economic growth – Sveaskog has a goal of being a leader within sustainable Work for lasting, inclusive and sustain­ forest management. The company has identified bio­ able economic growth, full and product­ diversity as one of the most significant sustainability areas ive employment with decent conditions for reducing the negative impact of forest management for everyone on ecosystems. Sveaskog combines profitable forest management with protection of high conservation values. The forest brings employment and vigour to rural areas and small towns. Sveaskog’s business therefore con­ tributes to a living countryside and economic growth outside big towns. Diversity is one of Sveaskog’s goals for broadening the In coming years Sveaskog will develop its strategies recruitment base. The competence of contractors is vital for the following three global goals: for Sveaskog’s ability to create efficient processes and satisfied customers. To be able to attract the most committed and knowledgeable contractors, the company works to get the contractors to make Sveaskog their first choice. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 13 Strategies Strategies for being the leading forest company Today, in the transition to a greener, more sustainable society, the importance of the forest for the climate and sustainable development has become increasingly topical. As Sweden’s largest forest owner, and owned by the Swedish state, Sveaskog wants to be the leading forest company and an example within sustainable business. Sveaskog has made its vision tangible in five goals and The five goals as well as the strategic priorities have this will be achieved by balancing and unifying an remained the same since 2016. Over the years the economic, social and environmental sustainable developgoals and strategic priorities have been developed. ment. Sveaskog has therefore fully integrated sustainable The goals are measured with indicators that are business into its business strategy and business plan regularly monitored and form a basis for the annual development. business plan. Vision 2021 and strategies me extractio nd volu n fro wth a mo g ro enu e as we wn s e r re v ll as re ea e th hing and land co ven fo r e o n u re In c as g, fis ces ef s c e r nti n sion om ts r n I h u s The most profitable forest company in the fficiency in Develop short and long se e administration le term and emp aders rea Preferred loye d Inc ion an h choice for Customers’ es ip employees The preferred hip and conand most t uc tractors leading knowledgeforest od able partner company pr Leading S ve within sustainLeading in as able forest innovation and re st Inc su management efficiency ’s og ue e ask co rv al ai na nfi be bl de n ti m ef c ore e in ase st m Incre anag ement 14 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Strategies The most profitable forest company in the The most profitable short and long term The leading forest company forest company in the short and long term Good profitability creates scope to continue to develop the business. Profitability is affected both by use of the forest and wood raw material and by the efficiency of administration and production. Refining the forest holdings through purchases and sales as well as exchange of forest land is also a step in ensuring good long-term value development. Increase growth and volume extraction from own forests Wide-ranging work is ongoing in the company to increase growth in the forest. This includes among other things the silviculture programme which improves cleaning and felling methods as well as the develop­ ment of faster growing seedlings. Initiatives to reduce grazing damage by elks also have a positive effect on growth. The most important factor for Sveaskog’s profitability is satisfied customers. With satisfied customers the volumes removed from own forests can increase and the company can focus on initiatives that enable future increased extraction from own forests. In 2017 new felling calculations were started which will be im­ple­ mented in 2018. The new calculations, among other things, take into account that new forest will be ready for felling within the next ten years. Increase other revenue as well as revenue from hunting, fishing and land concessions Increased use of wood and forest land contributes to both a long-term bigger business and increased climate benefit. Sveaskog therefore participates in various projects and activities aimed at creating new uses for wood and forest land. The climate change is today’s greatest challenge and the forest provides climate benefit through its sequestration of carbon dioxide. Since the forest is a renewable raw material, there is great interest in finding new uses such as textiles and nanocellulose. Vehicle biofuel from the forest industry’s residues is significant for the green transition. Over the last two years the company successfully launched new lease forms for hunting and fishing such as short-term hunting of small game. Work on this is ongoing. A programme has also been started to increase ecotourism in the ecoparks. Rickard Johansson is a machine operator Read more about the financial results on pages 34–35 at NOE Skogsbruk AB and makes random and Sveaskog’s economic effect on society on pages checks of logs for delivery to Sveaskog’s 18–19. customers. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 15 Strategies Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Satisfied and profitable customers are a pre­ requisite for value-creating sustainable business. with purchases from other forest owners in Sweden Sveaskog is therefore careful to have long-term or abroad. business relations and be a secure supplier The most important thing for customers is that the which keeps its word. company delivers the right quantity and quality at the right time. The most recent customer survey shows that Developing customer relations is part of daily work and customer satisfaction is very high and that Sveaskog involves among other things employees developing gets the highest mark in the area of delivery quality. business and the business model together with Customers also think that the company’s work with customers. sustainable development is important and believe that Sveaskog fells on over 10,000 sites every year Sveaskog has an open dialogue with customers, the and timber of different species, grades, lengths and public and stakeholder organisations. diameters from this felling is matched to the right customer. To meet customer requirements, Sveaskog Read more about the goals and Sveaskog’s customer can complement raw material from its own forests relations on pages 36–43. Customers’ The preferred and most leading knowledgeable partner forest company Leading in innovation and efficiency Leading in innovation and efficiency Innovation and development work focus on Increase efficiency in production and administration projects that will increase production and pro­ Digitalisation and new technology are key to increasing ductivity in forest management, reduce environefficiency in all parts of the business and reducing production costs. Digital technology is used, for example, mental impact or create new applications for wood to improve the basis for planning forest management raw material and forest land. The projects are run using land maps based on laser scanning and hydrolo­ in close cooperation with customers and other gical maps. stakeholders. New technology is also used to develop more efficient and gentler machines for forest management. Sveaskog therefore works with other forest companies and Sveaskog is involved in several machine manufacturers to develop harvesters and other large projects for the production forest machines that are more efficient and more of green vehicle fuel. SunPine, environmentally friendly. where Sveaskog owns 25.1%, Sveaskog also works closely with its contractors to produces successful raw pine develop their methods and improve efficiency. diesel and other more high-value Within Svenska Skogsplantor the focus is on in­ products such as resin, based on creasing production volumes and widening the market pine oil which is a residue from to the rest of the Nordic area. paper mills. Read more about the goals and Sveaskog’s efficiency and innovation work on pages 32–33. SunPine in Piteå has grown rapidly through extracting fuel from raw pine oil, a residue from paper mills. 16 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Strategies Preferred choice for employees and contractors Motivated employees with relevant skills are a to develop both employeeship and leadership. Gender prerequisite for running an efficient and prof­ equality and diversity are key areas to ensure skills supply and continue to develop the business. itable business. In order to recruit employees Long-term skills supply is among other things about with the right skills and ensure that staff feel conducting a dialogue with different stakeholders to motivated and proud, the company must be an increase the attractiveness of living in rural areas or attractive employer. small towns. Where the forest is managed, conditions To be able to attract the most committed and are created for a vital countryside since the forest SKISSBILD knowledgeable contractors, the aim is that the contractors make Sveaskog their first choice. provides local employment and growth potential. Read more about the goals and how Sveaskog works with its contractors on pages 30–31 and about Develop leadership and employeeship employees on pages 28–29. Forest management and silviculture are industries of the future. Sveaskog offers many different jobs throughout Sweden. The company works continuously Preferred choice for employees and conThe tractors leading Leading within sustainable forest company Leading forest management within sustainable forest management Sveaskog develops the forests’ economic, ecoIncrease confidence in Sveaskog’s logical and social values. The company produces sustainable forest management In order to operate and create value, the public, renewable raw materials, provides climate customers and employees must have a high level of benefits, protects biodiversity and develops confidence in both Sveaskog and the forest industry. social and cultural values. The com­pany’s goal To increase confidence, the company engages with is to economically optimise growth and have a the public debate and is involved in sector initiatives high ambition for nature conser­vation. intended to make the public feel confident that the forest is responsibly managed to the benefit of society. Through long-term silviculture with planting, cleaning Good ethics are a prerequisite for building confidence and thinning, the forest is given conditions for growth and a strong brand. The Code of Conduct specifies how with a good mix of tree species. A positive effect of employees and the company behave in relation to one silviculture is also that the sequestering of carbon another, customers, contractors and other stakeholders. dioxide increases. Sveaskog’s nature conservation work Sveaskog continuously develops its forms of covers the entire scale from landscape to individual communication and meetings with different stakeholder trees as well as trees and tree groups. Efforts include groups focusing on local dialogue. Forms of collaboraboth leaving areas untouched and actions to increase tion with the Sami are especially important and continue conservation values. Sveaskog sets aside 20% of its to be developed. productive forest land for nature conservation. All activities which Sveaskog carries out in the forest can affect biodiversity. The company’s ambition is to set Read more about the goals and work on preserving or an example for nature conservation. The intention is to developing biodiversity in the forest on pages 22–25. improve the quality of nature conservation in the forests On pages 26–27 you can read about the forest’s major at the same time as forest management is adapted to significance for climate change and Sveaskog’s work to outdoor activities and experience values in well-visited reduce its own carbon dioxide emissions. areas. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 17 Sveaskog’s econom ic social i m pact Sveaskog has a major, positive impact on society Sveaskog creates significant values for society in many different ways. The company contributes among other things to a positive climate impact, employment in rural areas and keeps its forests accessible for outdoor activities and tourism. Sveaskog has 846 employees throughout Sweden. In there are few other activities. Forest management also addition, the company engages contractors who each creates a local value chain which stretches across the year carry out work corresponding to 1,600 FTEs. village school, the town hotel and the local pizzeria. In Together with the contractors, Sveaskog generates addition, conditions are created for different types of about 2,400 job opportunities per year. community services. Tourism, hunting and fishing on For every person employed in an industry jobs are Sveaskog’s land also create jobs. created in other sectors. According to the Employment The forest is also of great significance for outdoor Multiplier, 100 jobs in the forest industry create a further activities, recreation and tourism. In recent years more 125 jobs in other sectors. These involve everything from people have become aware of the forest’s positive effect travel and transport services, post and telecommunica­ on both our physical and mental health. Tourism and the tion, property services, research and development, to possibility to arrange hunting, hiking and sports events corporate services in the service sector such as legal, such as orienteering are activities which also create economy, technology, architectural, design and market­ value for society. ing. In this way, Sveaskog’s operations create over 3,000 jobs in other sectors. Dividend of SEK 3.2 billion to the state Sveaskog contributes to Sweden’s welfare through The forest provides jobs in rural areas dividends to its owner, the state. Over the past five years Forest management is an especially important business Sveaskog has paid dividends of SEK 3.2 billion to the for the country since most jobs are in rural areas where state. The company also pays corporation tax which in 2017 amounted to SEK 175 million. * From the Almega and Unionen joint report “Det nya näringslivet A total of some 100,000 people work in forest – om samspelet mellan industrin och tjänstesektorn” (2008). management and forest industries in Sweden, according Integrated sustainability report During 2017 work was carried out on a to natural capital and social values. deeper analysis of Sveaskog’s operations “Key confirmation that has come out in order to report the business in a wider of the analysis is that Sveaskog carries stakeholder perspective. out sustainable forest management in a The analysis highlights the company’s manner that is able to handle the major added value in the form of ecosystem values that are in the natural capital,” services and benefit to society over and comments Lena Sammeli-Johansson, above the economic value of timber Head of Sustainability at Sveaskog. production and covers the company’s different types of impact and contribu­ Method designed in India tions in areas relating from climate and The analysis was carried out together water to land use and social values. with GIST Advisory led by its CEO Pavan Sukhdev. Pavan Sukhdev is one of the Model for follow-up founders and has led the work with The analysis provides the basis for Sveaskog’s integrated income statement. a model for continuously evaluating, Pavan Sukhdev has among other things following-up and communicating the been head of the UN Green Economy business, creating transparency and Initiative and on the board of the Stock­ Pavan Sukhdev, CEO GIST Advisory understanding – a tool which provides holm Resilience Centre. The method support for the follow-up of international used by GIST Advisory is called IP&L™ frameworks such as UN’s 2030 Agenda and stands for Integrated Profit and Loss for Sustainable Development with regard Reporting. 18 A n n ua l R e p o r t a n d S us ta i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2 017 SVEASKOG’S ECONOM IC SOCIAL I M PACT The forest is important for recreation and well-being. to Statistics Sweden. If the Employment Multiplier is Indicator applied here, it means that the forest industry creates a In order to operate and create value, the public, total of about 225,000 job opportunities in the country. customers and employees must have a high level of These jobs are especially significant for Sweden since confidence in both Sveaskog and the forest industry. To most of them are outside urban areas. increase confidence, the company therefore engages Sveaskog’s forests are also important for reducing with the public debate and is involved in sector initiatives negative climate impact. Both the forest and its products intended to get the public to feel confident that the create climate benefit. The forest is key to transitioning forest is responsibly managed. to a fossil-free society and Sveaskog is there and driving The confidence index has remained at a stable level this development. Read more about the forest’s effect during 2017. The confidence index is an aggregate of on the climate on pages 26−27 and Sveaskog’s perceptions from customers, contractors, suppliers and contribution to the green transition on page 33. employees. Goal: High confidence in Sveaskog Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Confidence in Sveaskog Confidence index 78 78 78 80 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 19 Forest management Active forest management creates values for generations Sveaskog manages the forest so that climate benefits and biodiversity as well as social and economic values are strengthened both now and for future generations. At the same time forest management must be profitable and competitive. Sveaskog’s goal is to be the leader within sustainable felled. Cleaning is a priority activity and Sveaskog tries forest management. This is achieved through active to clean the forest as early as possible. Increased and responsible management of the forest and forest digitalisation makes it possible already when felling to land in order to continually create growth, diversity and decide with great precision which tree is going to which increased value for generations. customer. In 2017 Sveaskog delivered 10,817 thousand m3sub of sawlogs, pulpwood, chips and biofuel which makes Growth exceeds felling the company Sweden’s largest producer of wood raw Every year Sveaskog carries out thinning and regeneramaterial. To meet customer demands for different tion felling on some 40,000 hectares or about 1% of its grades and volumes, Sveaskog also buys raw material land. Felling levels are maximised in the long term so from other forest owners in both Sweden and abroad. that they do not need to be reduced in the future. Felling Forest management means that the forest is levels are lower than growth in the forest. In 2017 felling inventoried, planted, cleaned, thinned and regeneration amounted to 72% (70) of growth on managed land. For each tree which is felled, an average of three new ones are planted. Sowing as a regeneration method is Sveaskog’s also used. In 2017 Sveaskog scarified, sowed, planted, forest assets cleaned and fertilised 84,443 hectares (81,408) of its own land. Sveaskog also fells on assignment from other forest owners. When felling on other’s land, the same demands are made on nature conservation as when felling on own land. Felling is carried out by the company’s own personnel and machines or by contractors. Piteå More forest than ever before Sweden has never had as much forest as today and the forest has never grown as quickly as it does now. The age spread of Sveaskog’s forests is, however, uneven. At the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th centuries management methods led to the forests being sparse with low productivity. After 1950 restoration of the forest Dark areas show Sveaskog’s was started which led to large areas with high growth forest assets and the red dots which will be ready for felling in ten to thirty years. There are the company’s regional offices. is therefore a potential for Sveaskog to increase felling in ten to thirty years. The time interval varies between Breakdown of tree species on Sveaskog’s land Sveaskog’s forest assets 2015 2016 2017 Total land area, million hectares 4.04 4.01 4.01 Stockholm Örebro Of which productive forest land, million hectares 3.12 3.11 3.11 Book value according to IAS 41, SEKm 34,097 34,377 34,514 Taxable value, SEKm 64,149 64,668 58,461 Total deliveries, thousand m3sub 10,748 10,684 10,817 Deliveries from own forest, thousand m3sub 6,570 6,459 6,463 Växjö Field purchases, thousand m3sub 1,342 1,375 Pine64% Tall Gran Spruce27% Central purchases and imports, Lövträd 9% Broad-leaved thousand m3sub 2,883 2,979 Timber extraction as proportion of net growth on managed land, % 71 70 72 20 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Forest management forests and regions. This will lead to the extraction of wood raw material increasing to meet an anticipated higher demand for both greater volumes and small-dimension timber. The forest is shaped by thinning Land sale programme As part of making operations more efficient, Sveaskog tries to adapt the structure of its forest holdings to the customer structure by buying, exchanging and selling forest land. In accordance with a parliamentary decision, Sveaskog must divest 10% of the land area the company had at its formation in 2002. Sales must be made under market terms and aim to strengthen private forestry. During 2017, 13,787 hectares (10,730) were sold. A total of 363,989 hectares or 8.35% has been sold in 2,185 deals. All forests FSC® certified The FSC® certificate provides a guarantee that the forest is managed responsibly. All silvicultural actions and felling are planned based on the requirements in the Swedish FSC® standard which takes economic, environmental and social factors into account. The company also requires certification for imports. To help both consumers and companies make responsible purchases, Sveaskog has a FSC® traceability certificate. Johan Henriksson In December 2017 Sveaskog obtained its PEFC certificate. thins in Hasselfors. This means that Sveaskog will be able to sell timber from its own forests that is either FSC® or PEFC certified. Near Hasselfors, just north of Laxå, Johan Henriksson manoeuvres his harvester through a stand that is to be thinned. He leaves a trail of easily handled piles FSC® is an independent international organR of pulpwood. The spruce that remain can grow into thick isation for certification of responsible forestry. The aim is socially beneficial, environmentally sawlogs thanks to the in­creased appropriate and economic­ally viable responsible light. Increased demand for forest management. FSC®’s logotype on products www fsc org small-dimension timber means represents independent certific­ation of forestry R C008344 that even thinning can give and product manufacturing according to FSC®’s The markför Märket of returns. rules. responsible forestry ansvarsfullt skogsbruk “Good forest must not be thrown away. We do what we can to get the best from the forest,” says Helene Carlsson, Sveaskog’s profit centre manager Södra Helene Carlsson. Bergslagen. Age classification for Sveaskog’s forest land as well as Sweden’s total forest land, % 25 22 22 22 21 20 20 18 Sveaskog Sveaskog All skogsmark Forest i Sverige land in Sweden 15 11 10 10 9 9 7 6 6 6 5 4 4 0 Quality is checked 0-19 20-39 40-59 60-79 80-99 100120140+ 119 139 through random Age classification in the Swedish forests samples. is uneven which will affect future felling. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 21 B IODIVE RSITY Active habitat management focused on biodiversity When the forest is cultivated, flora and fauna are affected. At Sveaskog biodiversity is in focus. The aim is to set an example within habitat management. Sveaskog works actively to create varied forests for Governance experiences and conservation values. Habitat manageSveaskog’s habitat management work is governed by ment covers everything from landscapes to individual the environmental policy, the forest policy as well as forests as well as trees and tree groups. Some forests FSC®’s policy and self-assessment. All non-conform­ are left untouched and others receive habitat manageances are reported in the environment and quality ment. The aim is to retain or develop biodiversity in the management system and result in immediate action. forest or protect other values from a sustainability Reported non-conformances can include hauling perspective, for example reindeer herding. Activities damage, damage to sensitive biotopes, damage to are primarily aimed at protecting old natural forests, archaeological or cultural remains, inadequate planning re-establishing or developing new broad-leaved forests compensated by a machine team, quality of thinning, and saving existing broad-leaved forests from invasion felled natural value trees, too high stumps and thinned by spruce. Habitat management work increases the areas. proportion of old forest and creates forests that are In 2017 four minor non-conformances with ISO more varied and species-rich. 14001 were noted, three for traceability and four within FSC®. All non-conformances will be rectified during More varied forests in the future 2018. Swedish productive forest land is dominated today by conifers but in the future there will be more broad-­ Indicator leaved trees. There will also be older, large trees as well The Consideration Index measures how well the as fallen tree trunks and dead wood left in the forests. company carries out forest management without Species that have been long threatened with extinction significant impact. Measurements are taken in three will become more viable when their habitats are cared areas: sensitive biotopes, conservation value trees and for and recreated. hauling damage. In 2017 the company carried out 99% of its assignments without hauling damage which is the Selective felling same level as in 2016. For conservation value trees the Sveaskog’s main method of forest management is clear level was 95%, that is the same level as 2016 and for felling. The method is regulated by various certification sensitive biotopes an improvement was recorded from processes. Clear felling means that a new generation of 89% in 2016 to 92% in 2017. The aggregate total trees is established at the same time in the same tract. consideration index of 95% was unchanged in 2017 The forest is cared for while it is growing through compared with 2016. The measurements show that cleaning and thinning. This method has been used since there are areas of the country where processes and the 1950s and has resulted in increased growth and routines relating to sensitive biotopes and edge zones improved felling opportunities at the same time as the need to be improved. During 2017 over 200 employees, timber stock has grown. seasonal workers and contractors have been given Sveaskog is also testing selective felling. Pilot areas training in habitat management. have been set up in different parts of the country in order to test different methods in practice and get a better understanding of the consequences of selective felling. Goal: Leader within sustainable forest management Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Conservation values maintained in forest Consideration Index 94 95 95 99 management without significant impact 22 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 B IODIVE RSITY Dam demolition benefits trout and mussels During 2017 two dams on the Hedströmmen River in Västmanland were demolished in collaboration with the County Administrative Board. Removing the dams improves conditions for trout and the unique stock of freshwater pearl mussels. On the 130 km long Hedströmmen River there are over 20 dams. Three of these have been demolished of which two were on Sveaskog’s land. The dams are a relic from the end of the 19th century from iron production, smelting works and timber rafting. Since rafting ceased in the 1960s the dams no longer had any function. As well as removing sluices and stone sills, moving sediment and making the banks attractive, Sveaskog has also made improvements to the river. Rocks have been put back in the main stream to improve the environment for fish and mussels. The rocks have also made the stream wider which has given the falls more mirror pools. “By demolishing the dams we both retain environmental values and reduce the need to maintain something that is no longer used. We take a very positive view of this type of action and are carrying out similar projects in other places,” says Björn Lexén, Sveaskog’s Roads Superintendent at profit centre Norra Bergslagen. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 23 B IODIVE RSITY 20% of the forest is set aside for nature conservation A nature conservation area of 20% is the level many researchers consider necessary for forest management to be combined with the retention of biodiversity. The picture is from the Varjisån Ecopark. Sveaskog combines profitable forest management with the retention of high conservation values. The company decided back in 2002 to make long-term set-asides for habitat management corresponding to 20% of its productive forest land. Nature conservation work is split across three include sensitive biotopes, edge zones adjacent to water strategies: ecoparks, high conservation value forests or fens, or individual trees, tree groups and high stumps. and consideration for nature in the production forests. With the current focus, this type of consideration for nature will over time amount to 220,000 hectares. Of Ecoparks this area 45,000 hectares has been left as consideraCurrently there are 37 ecoparks across the country with tion for nature when felling. The remaining 175,000 a total area of 175,000 hectares. In all the ecoparks at hectares will be added in future felling plans. least half the area is set aside for habitat management, conservation management and consideration for nature Montane forests when felling, corresponding to 110,000 hectares. The Sveaskog has set aside a further 50,000 hectares of result is large, contiguous forests which benefit several high conservation value forests in the montane forest bird species. region. This has been done in accordance with FSC® regulations. High conservation value forests High conservation value forests cover a total of 300,000 hectares and vary in size from a half to several hundred hectares. These set-asides are spread across the Sveaskog’s habitat management areas country. In the north, most of the high conservation value forests are left to develop freely while management is Hectares common in the southern part of the country in order to Ecoparks 110,000 recreate or strengthen conservation values. High conservation value forests 300,000 Sveaskog sets aside those forests that have the highest conservation values as high conservation value Consideration for nature in the production forests 220,000 forests. If a new forest worthy of protection is dis­ Total nature conservation area in production forests 630,000 covered, for example when making an inventory prior to Montane forests 50,000 felling, it is exchanged for land with lower conservation Total 680,000 values. Sveaskog’s forest holdings including the high conservation value forests can be found on the interactive map on our Consideration for nature in the production forests website www.sveaskog.se. For further information see also When felling or cleaning, Sveaskog always leaves key Note S5. habitats for flora and fauna untouched. These areas can 24 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Consu ltation Ecoparks Dialogue about forest plans Sveaskog is a company at the centre of society. The forest affects and involves people. Sveaskog therefore has a close dialogue with stakeholders about its forest plans. The company has specific guidelines for their execution. Dialogues and consultations consideration for outdoor activities and are also entered in the central planning and recreation. The first step in starting a case system. dialogue is to identify those who can be Possible actions for among other things affected by the forest plans. These can be, recreational forests and rest stops are for example, municipalities, private individuselective felling, mosaic felling, different als, non-profit organisations such as types of screens, splitting felling over time community associations, nature conservaand avoiding scarification in areas especially tion organisations, sports clubs or ecosensitive for outdoor activities. tourism businesses. The company then Every year Sveaskog holds consultations provides information about its plans and with the Sami villages. Sveaskog presents invites contact and discussion. If many its plans to the Sami village representatives stakeholders are affected, Sveaskog and these are discussed and amended if convenes a consultation meeting. needed. The aim of the consultations is to To ensure that the result is that which ensure access to winter grazing for the the company and stakeholders have agreed reindeer and that the herds can be moved on, the person from Sveaskog who has between areas. Forests that are too dense participated in the dialogue is responsible are an obstacle when the reindeer herds are for the design of the plans and following up moved. Omberg Ecopark on the shores of Lake Vättern. Sveaskog’s ecoparks The ecoparks are large contiguous landscapes with high conservation values and conservation ambitions. Here comprehensive protection of large areas is combined with restoration of conservation values and forest management with appropriate consideration. Today Sveaskog has 37 ecoparks with an average size of 50 square kilometres. The aim of the ecoparks is to develop therefore works to develop information on conservation values over large areas at and access to our ecoparks. landscape level through a combination of Each ecopark has a customised managedifferent measures. The areas of an ecopark ment plan which is fixed in a formal 50-year that already have high conservation values agreement between the Swedish Forest or great potential for restoration are Agency and Sveaskog. It sets targets for managed so that conservation values are different sub-areas, defines which areas are strengthened and retained. Other areas are set aside for habitat management and felled with heightened consideration. shows where Sveaskog can carry out The ecoparks are located where production. The plans are developed in especially large areas of forest land from a consultation with authorities, non-profit nature conservation perspective have been organisations, reindeer herders and others. identified. The ecoparks include some of the These plans are also the basis for annual country’s most important outdoor activity management consultations with the areas for nature-based experiences and Swedish Forest Agency and affected county recreation. Sveaskog wants to provide more administrative boards where ongoing opportunities for experiencing nature and management activities are discussed. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 25 Climate Growing forest counteracts climate change The forest is of decisive importance for our climate. The growing forest and use of wood counteract climate change. Sveaskog wants to be a leader in harnessing and developing the forest’s climate benefit. The global climate agreement COP21 reached by the international community in December 2015 describes The forest swallows carbon dioxide forest management as a success factor for preventing The Swedish forest grows with about 120 million the Earth’s temperature from increasing by more than cubic metres every year and only 70% of that volume two degrees. The forest provides climate benefit in three is harvested. This means that Swedish forests equally important ways: contribute annually to a net binding of over 50 million • Standing timber as a carbon sink tonnes of carbon dioxide. This corresponds to the • Carbon dioxide sequestration in the growing forest total annual emissions of greenhouse gases in Sweden. • The substitution effect achieved when fossil re­ sources are replaced by wood raw material. The forest as a carbon sink has its limitations. There is Increase use of wood raw material only room for a certain number of trees in the forest and When wood raw material is used in different products it over time the forest stops growing. On the other hand, often replaces energy-demanding and fossil resources active and sustainable forest management means that in, for example, building materials, packaging, vehicle the forest can be used continuously to bind carbon fuel and energy. The wood raw material that Sveaskog dioxide and wood raw material can replace fossil has harvested over the years from its own forests has in resources. The forest binds most carbon dioxide when it this way contributed to avoiding 4–5 million tonnes of is young and middle-aged since growth is then at its carbon dioxide emissions. Sveaskog sees the forest as a greatest. Growth on the whole of Sveaskog’s land, key factor in the green transition and therefore including high conservation value forests, was 12 million participates in various development and innovation forest cubic metres (m3fo) during the year while at the projects to increase the use of wood raw material. same time timber extraction was around 7.5 million Sveaskog is adapting forest management ahead of m3fo. This corresponds to a net uptake in the forest of upcoming climate change which threatens to make the six million tonnes of carbon dioxide. forests more susceptible to storms, degrade the Sveaskog’s carbon footprint including contractors and hauliers Change on Tonnes carbon dioxide 2015 2016 2017 2016, % Forestry and felling 56,000 48,000 51,000 6.2 Transports 69,000 65,000 58,000 –10.8 Road building 16,000 10,000 8,000 –20.0 Electricity and heating 4,000 2,000 3,000 50.0 Travel 1,000 1,000 900 –10.0 Total carbon footprint 146,000 126,000 121,000 –9.0 26 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Climate ground’s load-bearing capacity and make forest fires transports to rail. The company is contributing to the more common. The company adapts among other things development of vehicles that can take greater volumes forestry activities to a stand’s future conditions, works since there are many stretches where trains cannot be with technology development of forest machines’ used. Since March 2017 the use of 74-tonne vehicles carrying capacity and develops seed and plant material has been permitted in some areas which contributes to so that it is better suited to a changed climate. reducing the number of transports. Sveaskog also contributes to the green transition by More ecofuel leasing land for wind power plants. Today there are In Sveaskog’s own operations, transports account for some 276 wind power plants on the company’s land nearly two-thirds of the carbon dioxide emissions which together produce 1.7 terawatt-hours (TWh). generated by the company. Every year there is a total of 290,000 HGV transports or 795 per day. Each transport Governance is on average 100 km which means that Sveaskog’s Governance of the goal for reduced carbon dioxide HGV transports drive twice round the globe every day. emissions lies with the profit centres. The most To contribute to the green transition Sveaskog will significant component for reducing carbon dioxide reduce use of fossil fuels in its own operations. This is emissions is to increase the proportion of renewable being done in close collaboration with forestry convehicle fuel. tractors and transport companies. The focus is on increasing the proportion of renew­ Indicator able fuels both for transports and felling among other During 2017 total carbon dioxide emissions as well as things by using ecofuel, so-called HVO diesel, which is carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes per delivered made from slaughterhouse waste and forest residues. thousand m3sub continued to fall despite increased A lot of effort is put into logistics to make transports transport work. The reduction is due to a better fuel mix more efficient and reduce emissions for example by with a higher proportion of renewable vehicle fuel. increasing the proportion of backhauls and moving road Goal: Leader within sustainable forest management Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2020 Carbon dioxide emissions to be reduced CO2 emissions in tonnes 13.6 11.8 11.1 10.0 by at least 30% in 2010–2020 1) per delivered thousand m3sub 1 In 2010 CO2 emissions amounted to 14.9 tonnes per delivered thousand m3sub. Climate-smart fashion Researchers have calculated that global textile use in 2050 will be three times that in 2015. To meet demand in a sustainable way new alternatives are needed. It is here the forest, more accurately cellulose, comes into the picture. The technology for producing viscose from natural cellulose has had a boost. Research is underway to find sustainable processes for producing cellulose-based textiles. One such project is being run at Karlstad University. A doctoral thesis there shows that cellulose can be the way to the clothes of the future. Two different types of sulphite pulp from spruce and pine were studied to see if the boiling process can be improved to achieve a better economic outcome. The researcher responsible for the thesis is Raghu Deshpande. The work has been a collaboration between MoRe Research, Domsjö Fabriker and Karlstad University’s graduate school VIPP, and covers the first stage of sodium bisul­ Raghu phite boiling to produce dissolving pulps. Deshpande A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 27 E mployees We do each other good Employees are proud to work at Sveaskog and gladly recommend others to start working at the company. This affects the working environment positively and increases Sveaskog’s ability to attract and retain skilled employees. As a step in strengthening Sveaskog’s culture and agenda for Group Management. In 2017 the processes ­attitude, employeeship and leadership principles were for working environment activities were reviewed and defined in 2017. The new principles – called “We do equal treatment issues included. All managers will each other good” – must be used in performance receive working environment training in 2018. In autumn reviews and salary negotiations, leadership programmes, 2017 a diversity game was launched to keep alive the when recruiting and in feedback. dialogue and discussion on values, perceptions and The principles have been worked out in the project prejudices. “Ambassadorship” through meetings at several places A new app is now used where employees themselves around the country. Many employees have been involved can report accidents, incidents and risks. The company as well as Group Management and the central trade hopes that the app will provide more risk observations union cooperation group. Sveaskog’s basic view is a which can lead to preventive measures. The most belief that everyone wants to do their best by being common accidents are slipping and falling in the forest. involved, committed and skilled. The assignment itself The annual safety inspections must catch stress and and what is expected from the employees must be made stress-related illness. Employees do not feel that stress clear in the dialogue with managers. The aim is a good has increased since the previous employee survey in balance between responsibility, enthusiasm and working 2015. Sveaskog’s average sickness absence in 2017 tasks – so-called “active employeeship”. was 3.1% which can be compared with an average In Sveaskog’s decentralised organisation employee­ sickness absence of 3.0% in the state sector. The ship is mainly about sharing skills and experience. In next danger to health comes from sitting still. In 2018 February 2017 all employees from the entire company Sveaskog will be launching a health initiative aimed at met for two days in Gothenburg under the theme encouraging everybody to take physical exercise and “Employeeship – learning from each other”. A significant focus on diet and health. All employees will be able to element was showing how digital tools simplify the make a self-assessment and have a personal meeting spread of information and how employees can work with a health coach. with best practice. In 2017 Sveaskog was named by employer branding Governance company Universum as one of several career com­ The basis of governance is the Code of Conduct panies. In Universum’s survey the company was chosen adopted by the Board. There is an equal treatment plan newcomer of the year among graduate and college set by the CEO. Working environment activities are engineers. In 2018 Sveaskog will continue work with the monitored by the local and central safety committees. “Ambassadorship” project to increase its attractiveness Every other year a survey is carried out among all as an employer both internally and externally. employees. In the 2017 survey a record 91% of employees participated. Managers have reviewed their Focus on working environment issues unit and management report together with their staff Safety and working environment issues are high on the and identified strengths and areas for improvement Growing Power! Provides work experience Growing Power! is Sveaskog’s project to broaden the recruitment base and increase interest in working in forestry. During 2017 the company took in 13 work experience trainees and 58 young people for summer jobs. Work experience trainees must either be registered in the Swedish Public Employment Service’s establishment programme or be registered job seekers. At the nursery in Vibytorp outside Hallsberg four people from Eritrea were given work experience in autumn 2017. The trainees learnt various tasks such as sorting seedlings, stacking cassettes and weeding. The traineeship was converted to ‘new start’ employment at the end of the Yordanas Tekle and Ali Teum year. at the nursery in Vibytorp. 28 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 E mployees Employees are proud to work at Sveaskog and gladly recommend others to start working at the company. Left to right: Babs Stuiver, Environment and Nature Conservation Specialist, Växjö; Lars Lundgren, Machine Operator, Storuman; Hanna Persson, Area Manager, Malå; Björn Ros, Forestry Assistant, Karlskoga. which they will work on in 2018. Each manager has Indicators informed his or her superior (profit centre manager or The indicator Good leadership and employeeship is staff manager, head of Svenska Skogsplantor) who has measured every other year in an employee survey. The collated the results and briefed the CEO at the business measurement is divided into an Employee Motivation follow-up in February 2018. The CEO will review how Index (MMI) and a Leadership Index (LI). The MMI of 68 work has progressed and what actions have been taken is above the Swedish average of 65 and has fallen from at the business follow-up in autumn 2018. 70. The LI has fallen from 73 to 70 which is the same as For many years Sveaskog has had the goal of the national average. increasing the proportion of women in the company and Areas for improvement identified in the MMI include at the turn of the year 2015/2016 managers were working situation, the possibility of professional developtasked with holding web-based equal opportunity ment as well as internal collaboration. Areas for improvetraining for their staff. This training is now part of the ment identified for managers are the ability to provide introduction for new employees. The employee survey feedback, follow up targets and handle conflicts. During showed that the proportion of women who consider that 2018 all managers will receive training in “In-depth women and men are treated equally at Sveaskog has leadership efforts” to learn how to give feedback and risen since 2013 from 53% to 72%. work with targets and follow-up. The employee survey showed that the proportion of The total proportion of women at Sveaskog rose employees who believe that they were subject to some during 2017 from 22% to 24%. This is the result of form of victimisation has increased from 5% to 6%. long-term efforts to increase the proportion of women. The CEO therefore adopted new guidelines against The proportion of women managers is 27%. The victimisation in 2017 which among other things mean proportion of women among market areas managers, that victimisation reports are handled by the SVP HR Svenska Skogsplantor’s manager and profit centre and Communications together with the company’s managers is 50%. In group management, the proportion General Counsel to ensure an impartial and consistent of women is 40%. treatment throughout the company. Goal: Preferred choice for employees and contractors Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Good leadership and employeeship Employee Motivation Index 70 –1) 68 75 Leadership Index 73 – 1) 70 75 At least 30% women by 2020 Proportion of women % 21 22 24 30 1 Measured every other year. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 29 Pu rchasing and contractors Felling in Orbyhus in 2017. Jörgen Eriksson from Öskebohyttan contracting is one of Sveaskog’s over 1,000 contractors. Sustainable purchasing Every year contractors supply services to Sveaskog equivalent to 1,600 FTEs. The skills, competence and attitude of the contractors are key to Sveaskog creating confidence and value. Sustainable purchasing has been a significant area for specifies Sveaskog’s and society’s demands as well as Sveaskog for many years. There are two main reasons the consequences of failure to comply. The purchaser why Sveaskog gives priority to collaboration with also checks the contractor against a list of defined contractors. Partly it is about ensuring well-executed points to ensure that it follows all laws and regulations services, partly minimising risks in the sector with and has the financial stability needed to be able to fulfil working environment, social responsibility, employment its economic, environmental and social commitments. terms and human rights. To meet the challenge, routines The contractor shall operate independently and carry out and tools have been developed such as the Service the work with its own personnel. Sveaskog permits Agreement. Structured processes for evaluation and subcontracting at one level only and the subcontractor monitoring of suppliers have also been developed which must comply with the same checks. Silvicultural among other things means that Sveaskog’s employees contractors must undergo training using Sveaskog’s regularly go into the field and check on both the web-based silviculture school each year and pass an company’s own work teams and contractors. exam. From 2016 Sveaskog requires silvicultural contractors Service Agreement to be PEFC certified. PEFC in turn has requirements Before a contractor is engaged, Sveaskog and the that are important for Sveaskog such as gender equality contractor prepare a written Service Agreement. This and employment terms. Sveaskog’s contractors must promote equal rights and opportunities as well as combat any form of discrimination so that everyone feels welcome in forestry. Services for two billion kronor Framework agreement suppliers must sign up to Sveaskog’s sustainability requirements according to Contractors are engaged for assignments within felling, silviculture and transports as well as road the UN Global Compact. So far 65 of 71 framework maintenance and road building. In the areas of agreement suppliers have signed the document. In the roads and transports, all assignments are carried event a framework agreement supplier has not signed out by contractors. Within silviculture they are the UN Global Compact, Sveaskog assesses that they responsible for 95% of assignments and they apply the same approach. carry out 80% of felling assignments. During 2017 In 2012 Sveaskog took a significant step to ensure Sveaskog procured services from contractors for sustainable purchasing by establishing and developing over two billion kronor. the role of professional purchaser for procurement of contractors. 30 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Pu rchasing and contractors Governance Every year Purchasing Staff carries out in-depth The Group’s overall process for purchasing is developed company checks on some ten contractors spread across by the Purchasing Staff which is part of the CFO unit. the country. These checks apply to contractors in felling, Some 4,500 of Sveaskog’s contractors, subcontractors silviculture and logistics and cover among other things and suppliers are checked every day regarding specific terms of employment, salary payments and systematic checkpoints such as F-tax, VAT, payment defaults, work with the working environment. operating permits and changes in boards. If this information shows signs of insolvency, the Staff takes Indicators action the same day. To be able to attract the most committed and know­ Three times a year Purchasing Staff checks conledgeable contractors, the aim is that the contractors tractors and subcontractors against the Swedish Tax should make Sveaskog their first choice. The most Agency to see if employer tax is consistent with the recent measurement was taken in 2016 and showed assignment. This is an established collaboration with that contractors as well as other suppliers are becoming the Tax Agency to exchange information and promote more satisfied with Sveaskog as a client. For silvicultural competition on equal terms. contractors and other suppliers the index is over the At least half the contractors are checked in the field long-term goal. For felling contractors the target has every year. Previously these checks were only made in almost been reached. Within Sveaskog there is the silvicultural area. In 2017 they have been extended continuous ongoing work to improve and strengthen to also include felling. Field inspections are carried out the dialogue with all contractors. and documented by Sveaskog’s local employees. Goal: Satisfied contractors and suppliers Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Satisfied contractors Satisfied Contractor Index, –1) 72 –1) 73 felling Satisfied Contractor Index, –1) 76 –1) 76 silviculture Satisfied suppliers Satisfied Supplier index –1) 71 –1) 71 1 Measured every other year. Sveaskog’s contractors early adopters of VR technology Mattias Ackesten at Johans Åkeri in Kolsva has swapped a crane cab for VR glasses. Using the glasses he can now remain in the lorry’s cab and load up. The crane cab has been replaced by cameras which send live pictures in real-time to the VR glasses. The result is an image in the glasses that the driver can wear in the lorry cab, at the office or even at home on the sofa. The haulier has been using the glasses since the autumn 2017. The new system has many advantages. For example the driver does not need to purchase and transport a crane cab weighing several hundred kilos. The driver also does not have to struggle up and down from the cab which gives a better working environment. Sveaskog is positive to the new technology. Logistician Therése Knutsson Dermer is in touch with the hauliers in Norra Bergslagen where Mattias Ackesten drives: “Here at Sveaskog we do not control what the hauliers buy in terms of lorries or equipment, but we often push the point that we are inter­ ested in developments. This is an exciting step and there are many of us who want to see how it works in the field,” she says. Mattias Ackesten A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 31 I nnovation Innovation and efficiency for increased profitability Through innovation and development work Sveaskog will increase profitability, reduce environmental impact and raise customer satisfaction. This involves using new digital technology as well as revisiting old ways of thinking and working – daring to do something new. For the last couple of years the company has focused biodiversity as the same time as extraction from the on three innovation areas. These are: increasing forest becomes more efficient and kinder to the production in the forest, reducing costs and environ­ environment. Digitalisation means among other things mental impact in forestry, and promoting increased that the forest’s character and composition can be application and value of roundwood and forest land. determined through using laser scanning inventorying Sveaskog prioritises projects that contribute to in­ which increases the level of detail and accuracy. Better creased profitability and the green transition. inventory maps lead in turn to greater precision in Sveaskog places great importance on projects being silvicultural and logging activities with a positive impact run close to customers and operations, ideally in on efficiency and productivity in operations. collaboration. The possibility of commercialisation is key for projects which will create new applications for wood Gentler machines and forest land and here collaboration with customers Sveaskog also collaborates with different sector players and other players in the value chain is especially and machine manufacturers to develop forest machines. important. An important area is to develop machines and methods that are more productive and kinder to the environment. Digitalisation Sveaskog therefore participates in projects to develop Work to increase productivity in forest management is machines with less impact on the ground, improved carried out on a broad front within Sveaskog. In recent load-bearing, reduced emissions and increased years the company has focused especially on increasing productivity. The company also participates in many the efficiency of flows to customers, among other things development projects covering new technology and by better inventory management and logistics. In silviculdigital tools to improve productivity and the working ture, digitalisation, for example through increased environment in silvicultural and logging activities. information on maps, has brought improved efficiency and better opportunities for gentle and appropriate Better seedlings and forest production forestry. Svenska Skogsplantor carried out development work to Digitalisation is taking development towards precision produce seedlings that grow faster, are more resistant to forest management where habitat management creates disease and weather and which need less energy to the greatest possible benefit for production and grow. Comprehensive development work has also been Unique transaction with Boliden on ecological compensation The transaction with Boliden enables the area being used to the compensation area. mining company to carry out expansion of This promotes species which are dependent on the Aitik mine in Gällivare. dead wood for their survival. The area will also be protected in the long-term. The Swedish When Boliden expands its operations at the Aitik University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU, will run mine it is unavoidable that 170 hectares of high a research project to monitor habitat manageconservation value forest must be ment benefits. felled. To compensate for this, “This is an important step in the area Boliden has given Sveaskog an of ecological compensation,” says assignment to carry out ecological Jessica Nordin, Environment and compensation. Business Development Strategist at The agreement means that Sveaskog. “We can now be a construct­ Sveaskog will carry out various ive party when it comes to ecological Through active silvicultural activities to benefit conservation compensation in connection with activities in Sarkanenä-Leipipir, values in the Sarkanenä-Leipipir exploitation beneficial to society. conservation values will be area. One key management activity strengthened. Among other is to move dead wood from the Jessica Nordin. things dead wood will be taken to the compensation area. 32 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 I nnovation Significant involvement in green vehicle fuels Sveaskog is involved in several major projects for the to turn lignin from the paper mills’ black liquor into production of green vehicle fuels. biofuel raw material. So far, tests have been successSunPine, where Sveaskog owns 25.1%, makes raw ful and indicate opportunities for commercialisation. pine diesel and other more high-value products, such A full-scale plant can be in place within five years. as resin, based on pine oil which is a residue from pulp Setra Group, where Sveaskog owns just over 50%, mills. SunPine is an example of how collaboration is planning a full-scale pyrolysis oil plant at Kastet between different players in a value chain can create a sawmill. Setra Group has received SEK 117 million in commer­cial platform for processing of forest-related funding from the Swedish Environmental Protection residues to more high-value products. Agency’s initiative ”Klimatklivet” to build the plant which In May 2017 a pilot plant was set up at the Research is expected to be ready in three years. Pyrolysis oil can Institutes of Sweden Energy Technology Center (RISE be used either as heating oil or processed to vehicle ETC) in Piteå and Sveaskog is participating in a project fuel. carried out to improve the efficiency of the production in the value chain. Read more about Sveaskog’s process where the so-called microplant and digitalised involvement in this area above. production technology have contributed to significantly reduced production costs. Work is also underway to Material from residues further improve Conniflex which is an eco-friendly Other projects are running in parallel for the production protection against the pine weevil. Read more about of biofuel from branches and tops as well as sawdust Conniflex on page 42. from sawmills. Branches and tops are used for example in a pilot project to manufacture fish feed and to make Increased applications for wood and forest land mouldable material. The project to make mouldable To create new application areas for wood and forest land, material is being conducted in a laboratory environment Sveaskog concentrates its efforts in three areas: wood, and is expected to scale up in 2018. green vehicle fuels and chemicals, and material from residues. Governance Within operations it is the profit centres that are Wood responsible for improving efficiency. This is followed Sveaskog has focused development work on collaboraup on a monthly basis by Group Management using tion projects with sawmill customers where significant scorecards. Projects are run in collaboration with initiatives include projects related to wooden buildings customers and other stakeholders and are decided by and components as well as X-raying sawlogs to increase market areas. Projects which require significant financing the sawmill’s value extraction. Sveaskog is now focusing are secured through the budget process and are decided its efforts on increasing the use and value of redwood by the CEO or the Board depending on their extent. products. This is being done by among other things a In 2017 a model for product calculations was de­ research project within the BioInnovation initiative veloped which will be tested and evaluated in 2018. With including WoodCenter North. This is investig­ating product calculations Sveaskog will be better able to take the possibility of improving the wear resistance and into account the gross margin for each product range durability of redwood products which increases the from stump to customer. This will lead to more efficient usefulness and value of pine. production and result in increased profitability. Green vehicle fuels and chemicals Indicator By 2030 Sweden will have a fossil-free vehicle fleet. To evaluate the aggregate efficiency improvements a Initiatives are therefore being taken with new biofuels calculation is made of the change in operating profit from using residues from the forest and forest industry as raw year to year per volume unit and in fixed prices. The goal material – something that is of great advantage to is an annual improvement of at least 2%. In 2017 Sveaskog, forest industry, the climate and Sweden, which efficiency improvement amounted to 6.4%. This high has a good chance of being world leader in the area. result is explained by among other things lower costs for Sveaskog is interested in investing in biofuel since this roads and administration, higher prices and increased provides the possibility to add value to residues from the revenues from hunting, fishing and land concessions. In forest and forest industry. Sveaskog limits its involvement 2018 efficiency improvements will continue through to projects that provide direct business benefits for the increased timber value and reduced production and company and which are run together with several players administration costs. Goal: Leading in innovation and efficiency Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Increased efficiency, change % Profit change per volume +2.7 –1.7 +6.4 At least 2% unit in fixed prices annually When measuring, operating profit from continuing operations has been adjusted for items affecting comparability. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 33 Financial resu lt Strong improvement in earnings The strong business climate in the forest industry meant that Sveaskog’s net sales increased by 5% to SEK 6,206 million. Operating profit from continuing operations increased by 11% to SEK 1,248 million and Sveaskog achieved its financial targets. In 2017 net sales rose by 5% to SEK 6,206 million (5,922). Setra Group. Profit before tax amounted to SEK 1,719 Total delivery volumes increased by 1% and prices by an million (1,457). Tax for the period amounted to SEK –360 average of 3%. The higher delivery volumes had a positive million (–267). The change in tax expense is due, in addition impact on sales of SEK 68 million and price rises increased to improved earnings, to Sveaskog receiving a tax refund of sales by SEK 149 million. SEK 43 million in 2016. The business climate in the forest industry was strong in Profit for the year increased by 14% to SEK 1,359 million 2017 with high capacity utilisation and high selling prices for (1,190). the industry’s products. A high level of construction activity drove demand for sawn wood products and globally there Change, operating profit from continuing operations was high demand for paper pulp and packaging materials. The weakening of the Swedish krona in the autumn contributed to increased profitability in the export-depend­ 2016 1,128 ent forest industry. The weak development for biofuel Price, wood raw material 73 continued for the fourth consecutive year. Volume and change in inventories, own wood raw material –10 Higher operating profit from continuing operations Seedling operations 24 Operating profit from continuing operations increased by Ecological compensation 13 11% and amounted to SEK 1,248 million (1,128). The Other property transactions * 27 improved earnings were mainly explained by higher prices Other ** –7 and a better result in the seedling operations. Increased 2017 1,248 revenues for ecological compensation from Boliden*, * Other property transactions relate to combined: improved income from other property transactions, and Permanent tenure, Environmental Protection Agency 2016 –60 lower road costs also made a positive contribution. Permanent tenure, Environmental Protection Agency 2017 15 Capital gains from property sales relating to forest land Permanent tenure, other –6 amounted to SEK 321 million (131), an effect of increased Sale of non-forest land 78 sales activity. Share of profits of the associate Setra Group Other property transactions 27 amounted to SEK 58 million (53). Net change in the ** Relates among other things to costs for silvicultural activities, roads and carrying amount of standing timber amounted to SEK administration as well as restructuring reserve for 2017. 200 million (319). After change in value of forest assets, operating profit amounted to SEK 1,827 million (1,631). Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 803 Net financial items for the year amounted to SEK –108 million (789). The increase was mainly due to an improved million (–174) due to lower financing costs and higher operating profit from continuing operations. Investments in dividends from shareholdings not related to the holding in property, plant and equipment amounted to SEK 219 million * Agreed compensation programme with a number of different (183) and investments in shares amounted to SEK 1 million silvicultural measures to create new conservation values and (1). Sales of property, plant and equipment, primarily forest protect existing ones. properties, amounted to SEK 647 million (298). Share Total delivery volume, Net sales, SEKm Operating profit from continuing thousand m3sub operations, SEKm thousand m3sub SEKm SEKm 12,000 8,000 1,500 10,817 1,248 10,000 6,206 1,200 6,000 8,000 900 6,000 4,000 600 4,000 2,000 300 2,000 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Deliveries solid under bark (sub) increased Net sales increased by 5% in 2017, mainly Operating profit from continuing operations by 1% in 2017. due to price increases of 3%. increased by 11% in 2017. The increase is ­mainly explained by higher prices and improved earnings in the seedling operations. 34 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Financial resu lt dividends received totalled SEK 78 million (16) of which Parent Company SEK 50 million (5) from Setra Group AB and SEK 28 million Sveaskog AB (publ), 100% owned by the Swedish state, (11) from other shareholdings. owns and manages forest properties and shares in subsidiaries and is responsible for Group-wide financing. Strong financial position Operating income for Sveaskog AB (publ) for the year was Interest-bearing net debt decreased during the year by SEK 53 million (65). Loss after financial items amounted to SEK 527 million to SEK 7,410 million (7,937). At the end of SEK 200 million (–196). The Parent Company’s costs the year, the loan portfolio mainly comprised loans issued mainly comprise interest expenses. The company has no under Sveaskog’s MTN programme as well as a Swedish employees. commercial paper programme. The loan volume under the commercial paper programme, which is refinanced regularly, Number of employees amounted to SEK 2,410 million (2,270). The outstanding The number of employees at year-end totalled 685 (674). volume under the MTN programme at 31 December was The average number of employees during the year was 846 SEK 4,990 million (4,990). The lowest average fixed (844). interest period during the year was approximately 28 months and approximately 34 months on the closing date. Share of profits of associates Net debt/equity ratio amounted to 0.36 (0.40). Sveaskog owns participations in companies where there is Interest cover amounted to 9.8 (6.3) and the gross not a Group relationship. The holding in the wood products borrowing cost was 1.31% (1.80). company Setra Group AB is the largest where Sveaskog owns 50% of the shares. 50% of Setra Group’s profit is Dividend recognised as share of profits of associates in Sveaskog’s A dividend of SEK 900 million (800) will be proposed to the income statement. 2018 Annual General Meeting. In the period 2013–2017 Setra Group’s net sales increased by 2.4% to SEK 4,139 Sveaskog has distributed SEK 3.285 billion to its owner the million (4,043) and operating profit improved by 3.9% to Swedish state. SEK 159 million (153). Sveaskog’s share of profits from Setra Group increased to SEK 58 million (53). Financial targets Sveaskog’s owner, the Swedish state, has set the following Market outlook financial targets for the company: Sveaskog assesses the market outlook for 2018 as good. • Yield to amount to an average of at least 4.5% per year. Yield in 2017 amounted to 4.6% (4.2). Yield is affected to a considerable extent by the valuation of standing timber. Condensed income statement, SEKm Since the target was set in 2014, the value of standing 2017 2016 % timber and therefore of operating capital have increased due, among other things, to a change in the discount rate. Net sales 6,206 5,922 5 The increase has had a negative impact on yield of 0.3 Operating profit from percentage points. continuing operations 1,248 1,128 11 • Net debt/equity ratio 0.3–0.6. For 2017 the net debt/ Change in value of forest equity ratio was 0.36 (0.40). assets 200 319 –37 • Over time the ordinary dividend to correspond to 65–90% Operating profit 1,827 1,631 12 of profit after tax excluding non-cash adjustments in value Profit before tax 1,719 1,457 18 of standing timber after tax. A dividend is paid provided Profit for the period 1,359 1,190 14 the capital structure target after the dividend falls within Cash flow from operating the target interval and taking into account implementation activities 803 789 2 of the Group’s strategic and investment requirements. The dividend payout ratio for the proposed dividend for the 2017 financial year is 75% (85). Net debt/equity ratio, multiple Yield, % Assets, equity and liabilities multiple % SEK billion 0.6 6 40 Cash and cash equivalents Other liabilities Other assets 5 35 Deferred 0.5 4.6 tax Target Target 0.3–0.6 4.5 30 0.4 4 0.36 25 Liabilities Forest land 0.3 3 20 and standing timber 2 15 0.2 10 Equity 0.1 1 5 Operating 0.0 0 0 capital 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Assets Equity and liabilities The target was decided by the 2014 Annual The target was decided by the 2014 Annual The majority of the assets comprise General Meeting. The target is a net debt/ General Meeting. Yield is to be an average of standing timber which is valued in equity ratio of 0.3–0.6. This metric specifies at least 4.5% per year. Yield shows return on according with international accounting net interest-bearing liabilities in the company operating capital where capital gains from principles, IFRS. in relation to equity. property sales and change in value of forest assets are excluded. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 35 PRODUCT AR EA SAWLOGS Increased interest in building with wood 90% of single-family homes in Sweden are built of wood. Delivery volume sawlogs, The sawmill industry had a good year in 2017 due to a strong construction climate thousand m3sub thousand m3sub and increased interest in building with wood in both Sweden and export markets. 5,000 4,695 For Sveaskog, this meant that both deliveries and prices of sawlogs increased. 4,000 3,000 Sveaskog has a wide range of sawlogs to satisfy ment of delivery ability also require close 2,000 customer requirements for volumes, species, collaboration and a good dialogue with forest grades and dimensions in an even ﬂow through­ contractors and transport companies. 1,000 out the year. 0 Sales can cover everything from standard Customers -13 -14 -15 -16 -17 deliveries to complex customer-specific orders. To Sveaskog delivers to more than half of the Delivery volumes of sawlogs meet customer demands Sveaskog can exchange sawmills in Sweden each one of which manuincreased by 1.9% in 2017. timber with other forest owners or sell less factures more than 10,000 m3 per year. There common species such as maple and ash. The are approximately 130 sawmills of this size in Share of total company also complements timber from its own Sweden and Sveaskog has some 70 of them as delivery volume forests with bought-in volumes. custom­ers. The trend is towards increased specialisation at Sawmills are often privately-owned family the sawmills which makes demands on Sveaskog companies or global groups based in Sweden. to continually improve its delivery precision. This They deliver in turn to primarily the construction work is about using new digital technology to map and furniture industries in Sweden and abroad, 43% the forest so that the right tree reaches the right mainly to Europe but also to North Africa and customer. The goal is to be able to decide which China. tree to fell based on the quality requirements of the end customer. This also involves developing Market gentler equipment for felling so that the trunks The market for sawlogs is above all dependent on Share of total are not damaged. Efforts with continued developthe state of the construction market. Nearly 70% net sales 49% “ Global demand for sawn wood products is expected to remain strong in 2018” 36 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 PRODUCT AR EA SAWLOGS of Swedish timber is exported, which creates increase due to the strong construction climate in significant dependence on the international Europe. Demand is also driven by an increased construction market and the exchange rate for interest in building with wood. The Swedish the Swedish krona. market is expected to continue to develop well. The four largest purchaser countries for Swedish sawn wood products are the UK, Egypt, Indicator Norway and Germany. Exports to the UK are The most recent measurement of customer double those to Egypt which is the second-largest satisfaction took place in 2016. The sawmill market. During the year exports to east Asia and customers were the most satisfied and valued the US increased. Sawmills in Russia, Canada and most Sveaskog’s ability to deliver the right Finland are the biggest competitors in the export quantity and quality at the right time. The high market. The Russian sawmills are focused on value is among other things a result of Sveaskog’s delivering to China which is a market with strong consistent efforts to improve the entire production growth. and delivery chain. It also requires a good dialogue and collaboration not just with customers and Outlook internal working groups but also with contractors The global demand for sawn wood products is and transport companies. expected to remain strong in 2018 and to Goal: Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Satisfied Customer Satisfaction Index – 1) 72 – 1) 80 customers sawmill customers 1 Measurements are made every other year. Collaboration the key to success Setra is one of the largest wood products through a merger between Mellanskog companies in Sweden. The company Industry and AssiDomän Timber Holding. processes raw material from responsibly The intention was to create a driving managed forests and offers wood force in the development of a modern products, glulam and bioproducts for wood products industry. Setra is owned building and living in a global market. to 50% by Sveaskog and 49.5% by the Approximately 60% of Setra’s revenues forest owner association Mellanskog. The come from exports to Europe, North re­maining 0.5% is owned by some 1,500 Africa, the Middle East and Asia. small shareholders. “Our brand promise is natural simplicity. The first part of the company’s name, This means that it must be simple to SE, states that the company originated do business with Setra,” says Hannele in Sweden. The second part, TRA, states Arvonen, CEO of Setra Group. “To be able the focus of operations: ‘trä’ (Swedish for to live up to this we must in our turn have wood). Setra = Swedish wood. suppliers who understand our needs. We have such a reliable partner in Sveaskog.” Setra conducts sustainable business ABOUT SETRA GROUP throughout its production chain and makes high demands on sustainable forest Core business: Production and sales of wood products. Setra’s CEO Hannele Arvonen. management. “A sustainable business is essential Annual sales: Approximately SEK 4 billion. for maintaining the confidence of our customers and other stakeholders,” Number of employees: Approximately 800. Arvonen continues. Units: Eight sawmills and three processing Setra was formed in autumn 2003 units. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 37 Product area Pu lpwood and chips Major capacity increases in Swedish pulp mills Sveaskog delivers pulpwood from southern Sweden by rail to SCA’s pulp mill in Östrand outside Sundsvall. Delivery volumes pulpwood Major investments are being made in the Swedish pulp industry and chips, thousand m3sub thousand m3sub and Sveaskog is preparing to meet this new demand. In 2017, 6,000 5,524 Sveaskog started deliveries by rail from the Småland highlands 5,000 to SCA’s new pulp mill outside Sundsvall. 4,000 3,000 2,000 When the new plant starts up in June 2018, SCA packaging with high requirements such a liquid will double its production capacity in Östrand cartons for milk and juice. 1,000 outside Sundsvall. So far most of the pulpwood 0 -13 -14 -15 -16 -17 to Östrand has been sent by road. This is the Market first time for many years that Sveaskog will send Global demand for paper pulp increased and Delivery volumes of pulpwood and chips increased by 4.3% pulpwood from southern Sweden by rail as far Swedish exports rose in 2017. Approximately 80% in 2017. north as 800 km. The goal is to start with one of Swedish paper pulp is exported, mainly within train per week with 1,300 cubic metres, corresEurope. Access to pulpwood in the market was Share of total ponding to approximately 35 HGVs with trailers. good due to a high level of activity in the forest delivery volumes The biggest volumes of Sveaskog’s pulpwood and sawmills which in turn was driven by the come from thinning and regeneration felling. construction climate. Pulpwood consists of trees and tree parts that Its high export-dependence means that the cannot be used by the sawmills. Sveaskog offers pulpwood market is affected by economic growth a wide range of pulpwood from both its own and exchange rates to a considerable extent. The 51% forests and through purchases from other forest owners and imports. The offering is also complemented with cellulose chips from Sveaskog’s Share of total net sales sawmill customers. Customers “ Forecasts indicate continued increased Sveaskog has some 20 pulpwood customers in demand for cartonboard Sweden. Customers manufacture paper pulp which is exported or used in Sweden for pack­ for packaging, packaging and printing papers. The pulp is also used in aging paper and hygiene 40% hygiene products such as nappies, kitchen paper and toilet paper. Pulpwood from Swedish forests products” has qualities that make it especially suitable for 38 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Product area Pu lpwood and chips good global demand is driven by increased Indicator prosperity which leads to rising demand for The most recent measurement of customer packaging and hygiene products. Price levels satisfaction took place in 2016 and pulpwood for pulpwood also increased in 2017. customers satisfaction remained at a high level. One of Sveaskog’s strengths is its long experi­ Outlook ence of working with pulpwood customers and Forecasts indicate continued increased demand the focus in recent years on developing logistics for cartonboard for packaging, packaging paper together with them. Sveaskog also has the and hygiene products. Growth will come primarily advantage of being able to offer a broad range from Asia, especially China. Demand for graphic of fresh pulpwood and cellulose chips. paper, on the other hand, continues to fall. In the Nordic countries substantial investment is underway in the pulp industry which is positive for forest owners. Goal: Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Satisfied Customer Satisfaction Index – 1) 64 – 1) 70 customers pulpwood customers 1 Measurements are made every other year. Improved flows together with Smurfit Kappa Smurfit Kappa in Piteå is one of Sveaskog’s largest customers and a key collaboration partner. At present a joint project is underway where the long-term aim is to achieve world-class flow efficiency. “This feels important! We want to create value for both Sveaskog and Smurfit Kappa,” says Ann Eklund, Business Developer at Sveaskog and project manager. The focus is on improvements in the flow which have a positive impact on both consistency and the freshness of the wood raw material in Smurfit Kappa’s process. The products that Smurfit Kappa delivers globally to its customers must be of the right quality and the properties of the wood are essential for achieving this. A central part of the project is therefore to develop delivery planning in the short and long term throughout the value chain. “Another exciting track we are About Smurfit Kappa working with is a digital information Operations: One of the world’s largest paper industries chain from forest to paper mill. If with employees in 34 countries. Smurfit Kappa can in an efficient way Annual sales: Approximately SEK 80 billion. obtain more information about the pulpwood that we supply, they can Number of employees: Approximately 45,000. also use it better in their process,” Operations in Sweden: Represented from Piteå says Ann Eklund. to Arlöv with production units and sales offices. Other: Head office in Dublin, Ireland. Ann Eklund, Sveaskog A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 39 Product area B iofu e l Biofuel market remains tough Delivery volumes biofuel, The market for biofuel, which is fuel chips and branches and tops used thousand m3sub thousand m3sub among other things in CHP plants, has been weak for several years. 1,600 1,200 Sveaskog’s biofuel comes from branches and In 2017 demand for biofuel was strong in tops, known as forest residues, as well as tree southern Sweden, more balanced in central 800 599 parts from thinning and regeneration felling. Sweden and weak in the north. Prices were Biofuel is good from an environmental aspect. The generally unchanged except in southern 400 carbon dioxide which is released at combustion is Sweden where they rose slightly. 0 the same amount as the tree absorbed while -13 -14 -15 -16 -17 growing and so woodfuel does not increase Outlook Biofuel delivery volumes decreased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The market for biofuel is expected to remain by 23% in 2017. Biofuel extraction is a natural part of sustain­ tough in the short term. In the longer term the able forestry and is carried out with consideration market is expected to grow due to rising demand for nature and culture based among other things for renewable energy. Share of total on FSC® certification. delivery volumes “ The Customers Sveaskog mainly delivers to customers in Sweden market for biofuel since the biofuel market is local due to transport costs. The company has some 50 customers, is expected to remain 6% primarily heating plants, CHP plants and pulp tough in the short term.” and paper mills. Market The market for biofuel has been weak since 2013 Indicator Share of total due to competition from other combustible fuels The most recent measurement of customer net sales such as garbage and waste wood. Other factors satisfaction was made in 2016. Biofuel customers that have contributed to weak market develop­ were satisfied and valued most highly Sveaskog’s ment are more efficient production and distribuability to deliver the right quantity and quality at tion of energy as well as low electricity prices. the right time. 3% Goal: Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Satisfied Customer Satisfaction Index –1) 69 –1) 70 customers biofuel customers 1 Measurements are made every other year. Chips, branches and tops heat Stockholm The bioenergy CHP plant In 2017 Sveaskog delivered chips, branches About Fortum Värme at Värtaverket is Sweden’s and tops to Sweden’s largest bioenergy largest of its type. Operations: Fortum Värme supplies CHP plant. The plant is located in Värtan in heating to 10,000 customers and far Stockholm and was inaugurated in 2016. more users. Three wheelbarrow loads of chips a second are needed to produce heat and Annual sales: Approximately SEK 6.6 billion. electricity when the plant is running flat out. Then the plant provides heating for 190,000 Number of employees: Approximately apartments. The bioenergy CHP plant 720. reduces fossil carbon dioxide emissions in Other: Owned equally by Fortum and Stockholm corresponding to those released the City of Stockholm. by road traffic during one and a half months. 40 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 A harvester with a chipper produces biofuel from branches and tops. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 41 Product Area Svenska skogsplantor Svenska Skogsplantor Svenska Skogsplantor’s Sveaskog is Sweden’s biggest seedling supplier and sells seedlings share of total net sales as well as silvicultural services under the Svenska Skogsplantor brand. Svenska Skogsplantor has a market share of 34% and supplies seedlings annually to some 3,500 3% customers. Svenska Skogsplantor also offers silvicultural services such as soil scarification and planting to external customers. Operations consist of six nurseries, a seed processing unit and about 110 seed plantations. For 2017 sales amounted to 119 million plants (118.1) of which 42.8% (41.6) were delivered to Sveaskog’s forestry operations. The bulk of deliveries is conifer seedlings. In 2017, 32% or 38.3 million seedlings delivered were treated with Conniflex. Svenska Skogsplantor produces a half billion seeds annually. 95% of these are spruce or pine seeds. The 100 seed plantations account for 60% of seed production in Sweden. Svenska Skogsplantor strives to be a leader in technological development. Research is ongoing in collaboration with other players to further develop technology for microplants, seed breeding Svenska Skogsplantor develops plants that are among and somatic embryogenesis. A project is also other things more resistant to disease and climate and underway to further develop the industry-leading need less energy to grow. The photo shows germination treatment Conniflex which protects plants against analysis in the laboratory at the Lagan facility. the pine weevil. Success for Conniflex The pine weevil is a major pest for to be one of the most successful forest seedlings. If the plants are not innovations at SLU in 40 years. treated against pine weevil they can “I am proud that we are now on destroy 80–90% of a tract. Seven the way to getting rid of the use of years ago Svenska Skogsplantor insecticides on forest seedlings,” introduced the non-toxic product says Göran Nordlander. Conniflex. Conniflex is a non-toxic protective layer of adhesive and sand that is applied to the stem of the plant so that the pine weevil cannot eat the bark. ABOUT CONNIFLEX In autumn 2017 inventors Göran Introduced: 2010. Nordlander and Henrik Nordenhem received an award from the Swedish Inventors: Professor Göran Nord­ lander and Henrik Nordenhem. University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU, for the research that led to Total number of plants treated: Conniflex. SLU declared their efforts 189 million pine and spruce. Conniflex-treated seedlings. 42 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Product area H u nting, fishing, concessions Hunting, fishing and other concessions Through various types of concessions the forests are made available for Hunting, fishing and other businesses’ share both recreation and business activities. Holders of concessions include of total net sales companies in the energy and construction industries, tourism, private individuals, associations, municipalities and telecom companies. 5% During the year Sveaskog continued to develop the concept of among other things short-term hunting and increased the number of destinations. Short-term hunting is offered from MalingsboKloten in Dalarna to Kihlangi north of the Arctic Circle. Day hunting licences are ordered on the website and there has been considerable demand. At year-end 2017 there was a total of 7,408 leases (7,600) and other concessions. Concessions for hunting and fishing dominate. The number of hunting rights amounted to 3,052 (3,081). A total of about 25,000 people hunt on Sveaskog’s land. At year-end 2017 Sveaskog had 1,508 fishing rights (1,495). Among other concessions are rental contracts and leases for such things as farming, peat, gravel and rock quarrying as well as wind power and telecom equipment. During 2017, 15 wind power plants (20) were commissioned and in total some 276 wind power plants have been built on Sveaskog’s land with an annual production of 1.7 terawatt-hours (TWh). Mörrums Kronolaxfiske and Hjälmare Canal Sveaskog owns Mörrums Kronolaxfiske (salmon fishery) which saw a 20% increase of visitors As Sweden’s largest landowner Sveaskog makes land and water available for private tourism in 2017 and was visited by 300,000 tourists businesses. Concessions are offered on market (250,000) from some 20 countries. terms and the basis of every business relationship Hjälmare Kanal AB is also owned by Sveaskog is long-term as well as being sustainable and and is Sweden’s oldest navigable canal. businesslike. Leader in fish conservation The Mörrum River is one of Sweden’s besthospitality with the long-term development known places to fish. Every year hundreds of the Mörrum River’s ecosystem feel of thousands of anglers try to catch large really inspiring,” says Ida-Maria Rigoll, salmon and trout that swim in the water. Site Manager at Mörrums Kronolaxfiske. At the Grand Travel Awards gala in Work on restoring the Mörrum River Stockholm in February 2018 Mörrums and improving biodiversity has taken an Kronolaxfiske received the Eco-tourism increasing role in recent years. During prize. The motivation highlighted hospitality, 2019 the Mörrum River will take another nature conservation work, research co­ important step when the hydropower station operation, and the 2017 knowledge seminar at Marieberg will be demolished, opening up on eco-tourism. additional spawning grounds and nurseries “We are incredibly pleased and grateful for salmon and trout. Ida-Maria Rigoll for this recognition. Combining world-class A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 43 Dividend and profit distribution The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting a total dividend for 2017 of SEK 900 million (800), which corresponds to SEK 7.60 (6.76) per share Proposed profit distribution, SEK to those that exist or can be assumed to exist in the Unappropriated profit available to industry or risks inherent in conducting business the Annual General Meeting: activities. The company’s and the Group’s dependence on Profit brought forward 8,323,285,283 business cycles do not differ from those otherwise Profit for the year 102 occurring in the industry. The Board’s opinion is that Total 8,323,285,385 after the proposed distribution of profit the company will have sufficient restricted equity in relation to the size of The Board proposes that profit be its operations. The Board has taken into account the distributed as follows: company’s consolidation needs through a comprehens­ Dividend to shareholder 900,000,000 ive assessment of the company’s financial position and Carried forward to new account 7 423,285,385 ability to meet its commitments over time. The com­ pany’s financial situation is disclosed in the Annual Total 8 323,285,385 Report. Here it is disclosed that the Group’s net debt/ equity ratio is 0.36. Sveaskog’s adopted target for the net debt/ equity ratio is 0.3–0.6. The Group’s financial position is therefore strong. The proposed dividend does not jeopardise the Following the Board’s dividend proposal, the company’s ability to make any necessary investments. Board of Sveaskog AB (publ) hereby makes The company has financial resources to meet un­ the following statement pursuant to Chapter 18 expected events and temporary variations in payment Section 4 of the Swedish Companies Act. ﬂows to a reasonable extent. The company’s financial position does not give rise to any assessment other than According to current financial targets, the ordinary that the company is able to continue its operations and dividend over time shall correspond to 65–90% of the that the company is expected to meet its commitments Group’s profit after tax excluding non-cash adjustments in the short and long term. in value of standing forest after tax. A dividend is paid The Board has taken into account the position of the provided the capital structure target after the dividend Group and the company in other respects. The Board falls within the target interval and taking into account has therefore taken into account known circumstances implementation of the Group’s strategic and investment that might be significant for the company’s financial requirements. position and which have not been taken into account The Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting within the framework of the assessment of the com­ that the total dividend for 2017 be SEK 900 million, pany’s consolidation requirements and liquidity. Among corresponding to SEK 7.60 per share. The dividend, such circumstances taken into account by the Board which comprises 75% of the dividend base, is proposed can be noted such events and circumstances about to take the form of a cash distribution. Provided the 2018 which the company has provided information in the Annual General Meeting resolves in accordance with the Administration Report, including those attributable to Board’s proposed profit distribution, SEK 7,423,285,385 the period after the 2017 financial year. will be carried forward to new account. Full coverage With reference to the above, the Board is of the exists for the company’s restricted equity after the opinion that the dividend is justifiable in view of the proposed distribution of profit. demands that the nature, scope and risks of operations The nature and scope of the company’s operations place on the size of the company’s and the Group’s are specified in the Articles of Association and the equity, as well as the consolidation requirements, published Annual Report. The operations conducted in liquidity and position in general of the company and the company and the Group do not entail risks in addition the Group. 44 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 R iskS Risk and sensitivity analysis One important aspect for creation of long-term values is to understand and be able to manage the risks that exist in operations. The entire company is involved in risk management and this is part of business planning. Significant risks are reported in the system for operational monitoring and planning. Since the forest is regularly felled and replanted, Sveaskog has stable cash ﬂows. This means that Sveaskog’s direct economic 5 risks are limited. There are, however, other risks that are systematically inventoried by Public OpinSveaskog. Sveaskog is exposed to financial, Financial Risks ion Risks 4 legal, market-related, operational, public Social Operational I mpact if risk occurs Risks Risks opinion and social risks. The forests are also exposed to biological risks as well as weather and climate risks. 3 Market The extensive storm fellings in recent years Risks have highlighted the weather and climate risks. At the same time, Sveaskog’s forest Weather, Biological holdings are spread throughout Sweden climate and Risks which evens out weather risks and biological 2 environment risks risks. The forests are also insured against major extra costs. Sveaskog works to develop new products and businesses such as biofuel and eco­ 1 system services. The company also increases revenues from the forest by granting leases 1 2 3 4 5 for hunting, fishing, eco-tourism and wind Probability that risk materialises power. These activities provide a broader income base but can also involve risks. Responsibility Reporting includes a description of the risk and Sveaskog’s Board is responsible for the company actions taken as well as who is responsible. Each risk is managing risks correctly and ensuring compliance with assigned an evaluation of probability and consequence adopted principles for financial reporting and internal on a five-point scale. The result of this evaluation control. The CEO has overall operational responsibility provides the total risk value as illustrated in the above and has delegated to the CFO the conduct of the risk risk matrix. management process. Operational responsibility rests The identified risks are evaluated and prioritised on with each profit unit and staffs and is followed up at the basis of the total risk value. management level. The person responsible identifies remedial actions and evaluates these on the basis of their effect and how Risk management process at Sveaskog timeand cost-demanding the actions are. These are Risk management is an integrated part of annual carried out according to priority and available resources. business planning in the company and includes both Once an action has been taken, an assessment is made profit units and staffs. All significant risks are identified, of whether it was sufficient to manage the risk con­ reported and compiled in the company’s system for cerned. How Sveaskog manages its key risks is shown operational monitoring and planning. on the next two pages. Identification, revision and Prioritising remedial Reporting/registration Implement, follow-up evaluation of risks actions of risks and actions actions A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 45 R iskS Management of significant risks Biological risks Financial risks Operational and legal risks Spruce bark beetle Financing risks Loss of FSC® certification Insect pest that has grown in number in Assets are partly financed by external Lack of quality in silvicultural activities the north of Sweden and the control loans. This constitutes a risk if a large and consideration for nature as well as area has been extended. In the south, borrowing requirement arises in a tight deficiencies in work and follow-up of attacks have subsided leading to a credit market. social responsibility, can result in reduced control area. Sveaskog losing its FSC® certificate, Management: A well-diversified loan which would have a significant impact Management: Fast processing of portfolio of lenders and investors with on the timber business. storm-felled timber and recently good ﬂexibility and competitive pricing. attacked standing trees. Management: Documented routines and work processes in all parts of the Interest rate risk business, internal and external audits as Shortage of spruce seeds The risk that Sveaskog is exposed to a well as training for continual improveProblems with spruce cone rust condisadvantageous interest rate situation ments. tinue. Flowering has been absent for with a large loan portfolio. several years. Shortage of processed Forest management impact Management: Sveaskog’s policy is an seed in Norrland can result in growth losses. average fixed-interest term on the loan of political decisions portfolio of 12–48 months. National and EU directives, interpretaManagement: Collection of stand tions by authorities and their impact on seeds and/or external purchases. forest management Research and development. Credit risk Management: Follow, participate in and The risk that a counterparty is unable to inﬂuence debate. Note interpretations fulfil obligations. made. Root rot Management: The finance policy Value of standing forests decreases, regulates maximum credit exposure in trees die. the investment portfolio. For commercial Access to workforce and Management: Prevent attacks by credit exposure some major customers contractors treating stumps with spores during are exempted, otherwise credit Sveaskog’s business is to a large extent felling. insurance is taken out for other represented in rural areas. Lifestyle and customers. Regular credit committee values make recruitment difficult and meetings and information to the Board. limit the availability of contractors. New pests become established Management: Profiling Sveaskog as If, for example the nun moth, the an attractive employer. Collaboration Sveaskog’s financial risks are described mountain pine beetle or other pests with education programmes. Work in detail in Note 28. become established in Sweden, towards a functioning supplier market large-scale destruction could result. with healthy competition. Increase Management: Monitoring. integration work. Impact Nature conservation and high Game grazing damage conservation value forests Game which graze on trees and Probability Sveaskog has chosen to set aside 20% seedlings reduce forest growth. of productive forest land as nature Management: Hunting, measures to conservation areas. Half of this area increase access to feed, increased (10%) is set aside for high conservation knowledge of game populations. value forests. Too much set aside of high conservation value forests leads to reduced availability of wood raw material Game grazing damage is a fact and for industry and a poorer result for amounts to approximately SEK 250 Sveaskog. million per year on Sveaskog’s land. An increase of 10% affects operating profit Management: Continuous evaluations from continuing operations by SEK to ensure that the 10% set aside are those with the highest conservation 25–50 million. values. Routines for ensuring that forest with lower conservation values remains as production forest. Impact IT-related risks Interruptions, hacking, virus attacks, Probability sabotage and computer blackmail. Management: High IT security and reliable backup routines. Information and training. Impact Probability 46 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 R iskS Market risks Weather, climate & environmental risks Social risks Sawmill industry Climate change Timber imports from At times poor profitability leads to Changed climate can increase the risk undesirable origins sawmill closures and credit losses for of storms, cause changes in precipit­ Purchases from, for example, the Baltic Sveaskog. Restructuring may lead to ation, worsen forcing conditions and countries can present risks linked to fewer customers in local areas for change vegetation boundaries. illegal felling, corruption and labour law. Sveaskog’s forest holdings. The effect Management: Tract adaptation, Management: Sveaskog’s Code of of Brexit and other changes in adapted thinning and clearing, Conduct as well as certification and international markets can affect developed forcing in poor conditions clear guidelines for traceability and demand for products from the sawmill and work with processed seed and documentation of purchased raw industry. seedling material. Insurance. material, which govern the company’s Management: Active selection of actions and follow-up. customers and credit insurance. Priority given to cooperation with customers Storm felling with long-term survival and profitability Direct economic loss through lower Contractors potential. Prioritise product develop­ operating profit, reduced value of forest Contractors which fail to meet ment and innovation. assets, cleaning up puts a strain on the commitments can constitute a risk organisation, damage from bark beetle. linked to working environment, health, Management: Silvicultural measures safety and labour law. Pulp and paper industry that reduce risks: thinning, planting, Management: Code of Conduct, A few, dominant companies means a increased proportion of broad-leaved guidelines for procurement of lack of competition and few alternative trees, final felling at economic maturity. contractors as well as follow-up and business and marketing opportunities. Good crisis organisation and logistics. control of compliance reduce risks. The effect of Brexit and other changes Ability to move felling resources to in international markets can affect storm-felled areas. Insurance against demand for products from the pulp and paper industry. damage. Corruption Unclear guidelines and routines lead to Management: Expand market and a risk of bribes, bribery and corruption. customer capital. More efficient Contaminated land logistics and increased exports. Management: Continuous training and Responsibility for contaminated land Prioritise product development and dialogue, Code of Conduct, clear guidefrom earlier possible pollutants. innovation. lines, internal control, possibility to Management: Inventory, strategy and report violations anonymously. action plan for management and Energy sector ongoing operations and possible subsequent treatment. Increased competition from substitutes Impact and low energy prices lead to limited market outlets. Elimination of In 2005 the storm Gudrun caused companies and customers within gross damage of SEK 730 million. Sveaskog’s traditional markets. Given today’s insurance cover, similar Probability Management: Be an efficient supplier damage would affect operating profit of advanced, customer-oriented from continuing operations by business concepts that provide added approximately SEK 376 million. value and increased profitability for all Sveaskog’s insurance cover is Public opinion risks parties. Prioritise product development described in detail in Note 26. and innovation. Opinions about the forest Opinions about the use of the forest A change in the average price of wood which restrict forestry can affect Impact raw material from own forests of 10% profitability and the value of forest land. affects operating profit from continuing Management: Active participation in operations by approximately SEK 300 the forest debate. Collaboration with million. Probability other parties and players. Local A change in delivery volume from own presence and dialogue. forests of an average of 10% affects operating profit from continuing operations by approximately SEK 200 Reduced confidence million. The brand and confidence in the company can be affected and thus customer relations and cooperation. Management: Code of Conduct, Impact internal routines, active information work and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. Probability Impact Probability A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 47 I mprovement of the year Success for Improvement of the Year Improvement of the Year is a success at Sveaskog. For five consecutive years employees have nominated and voted for the winners of Improvement of the Year and involvement in the competition is considerable. There are four categories in the competition which correspond to the company’s values: Simplicity, Customer focus, Innovation and Transparency. The winners of Improvement of the Year 2016 received their awards during Sveaskog’s employee days in Gothenburg in February 2017. The photo shows Team Riddarhytte receiving the prize for Transparency from Inger Thorén Emilsson, SVP HR and Communications. Winners of Transparency 2016 At Sveaskog’s employee days in Gothenburg in February 2017, Team Riddarhytte in Norra Bergslagen received the award in the Transparency category. The four machine operators in Team Riddarhytte are accustomed to hosting work-experience trainees. Over the past five years they have provided students from nature management colleges and other educational establishments with around 50 experience weeks. Annika Boman and Peter Forsberg Since Sveaskog has provided special training won the category Innovation in scooters for the students which are not used in regular 2017. operations, the students get a lot of extra driving time. With Team Riddarhytte they learn how to plan a route Winners of Innovation of the Year 2017 and where to leave the timber as well as how to drive in the forest. Team Riddarhytte comprises Göran Broberg, Customer focus – Krister Bergman, Håkan Mats Lind, Patrik Olson and Simo Ylikoski. Broman, Patrick Bäckström, Anna Malmqvist and Claes Scholander for a pulpwood transaction with Winners of Innovation 2017 SCA. Annika Boman and Peter Forsberg have reduced energy Innovation – Annika Boman and Peter Forsberg costs for forcing spruce seedlings at the same time as for lightweight lighting of spruce seedlings. they have succeeded in ensuring that the plants get sufficient light. The solution is lightweight lighting with Simplicity – Lars Johansson and Mattias Tengbrand for a common mapping language in energy-efficient LED lamps. The new solution replaces Sveaskog’s management system. fixed lights in the roofs at the nurseries. The new lightweight lighting is cheap to run and can be moved Transparency – Hanna Aminder, Rune Andersson, when the seedlings are planted out. This improved Lena Bruce, Fideli Sandahl, Babs Stuiver and Sara lighting gives more consistent plants of higher quality. Östh for open and clear dialogue with external interests. 48 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 G reen bonds Green bonds Sveaskog has issued its second green bond of SEK 1 billion. It was issued within the international “Green Bond Principles” framework. The green bond is listed on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm exchange. The listing was rung in on the exchange bell by CEO Per-Olof Wedin and Anders Jakobsson. The framework is called the “Green Bond Principles” and aims to enable capital-raising and investment in projects which deliver environmental sustainability. A green bond means that the borrowed capital must be used for various types of environmental project. Issuers of green bonds must therefore explain what the financing will be used for, what positive environmental effects are expected and how feedback will be provided to investors. Prior to the issue, Sveaskog’s green framework was audited by Norwegian DNV GL which evaluated forest production, certification and the nature conservation programme. There was strong interest from investors in the bond which was quickly oversubscribed. The first green bond was issued in 2016 and also amounted to SEK 1 billion. Sveaskog’s post-issuance report within the green bond framework can be found in Note S20. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 49 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Sveaskog is a limited company owned by the Swedish state. Governance of Sveaskog is based on the Swedish Companies Act, the State ownership policy, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) as well as applicable Swedish and foreign legislation and regulations. This corporate governance report has been prepared as ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING part of Sveaskog’s application of the Code. The report The Annual General Meeting is Sveaskog’s highest has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. decision-making body. The Annual General Meeting of In accordance with the State ownership policy and the Parent Company Sveaskog AB (publ) was held on guidelines for state-owned companies, Sveaskog has 26 April 2017 in Stockholm. The 2018 Annual General deviated from the Code in three instances: Meeting will be held on 23 April. More information about the 2018 Annual General Meeting is provided on page • Preparation of decision on nomination of the Board 107. and auditors, which means that Sveaskog has not According to the State ownership policy, guidelines appointed a nomination committee. for companies with state ownership and the articles of • With regard to reporting of Board members’ inde­ association, members of parliament are entitled to pendence in relation to the state as a major owner, attend and ask questions at Sveaskog’s general which is not reported since the Code in this respect meetings. The meetings are also open to the public. focuses on companies with a diverse ownership base. • Date and location of the Annual General Meeting shall Nomination process be stated on the company’s website in conjunction The State ownership policy and guidelines for state-­ with the interim report for the third quarter. Here owned companies specify a different nomination Sveaskog has chosen to comply with Nasdaq process than that prescribed by Code with regard to Stockholm’s rules for issuers and therefore provided the Board and auditors. Nomination of the Board is details of the planned date of the Annual General coordinated by the Government Offices of Sweden. The Meeting in the year-end report. Government Offices of Sweden also submit a proposal for the Chairman of the Board and chairman at the The state’s ownership policy and guidelines for Annual General Meeting. Nomination of members of the companies with state ownership are applied according Board is presented in the notice of the meeting and on to the “comply or explain” principle which means that Sveaskog’s website. The Government Offices of Sweden companies are entitled to deviate from these guidelines is responsible for election of auditors and a decision on provided a clear explanation motivating the deviation is this is made at the Annual General Meeting. A proposal provided in the company’s annual report. In the annual for election of auditors is presented in the notice of the report, the Board shall also describe how these meeting and on Sveaskog’s website. Auditors are guidelines were applied in the most recent financial year. appointed with a mandate period of one year. The In 2017, Sveaskog has not deviated from the state’s practical work of procurement of auditors is handled by ownership policy and guidelines for companies with the Board’s audit committee together with the company state ownership in addition to what is set our above as and owner. deviations from the Code. BOARD OF DIRECTORS ASSIGNMENT The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation According to the articles of association, Sveaskog owns and management of the company’s affairs. According to and manages real and personal property, conducts the articles of association, the Board shall consist of a forestry operations and forest industry as well as related minimum of five and a maximum of nine members. In business activities. The core business is forest manageaddition, there are two employee representatives with ment. Sveaskog must also be an independent player two deputies. The articles of association do not contain without major interests as an end user of wood raw any regulations on the appointment or dismissal of material. The company can also conduct related Board members. The company’s legal counsel is the activities if these contribute to higher returns. Sales of secretary to the Board. land on market terms shall enable rezoning of land holdings and add-on purchases for private forestry, Composition of the Board particularly in rural areas. Sales of land shall be carried Six Board members were elected at the 2017 Annual out until 10% of the land area owned by the company at General Meeting. After the 2017 Annual General its formation in 2002 has been divested. Operations Meeting the Board comprises three women and three shall be conducted on a commercial basis and generate men. The Board also has two employee representatives a market return. and two deputies for them. At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman of the Board Helene Biström declined re-election and Eva Färnstrand was elected as Chairman. 50 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Corporate governance report The work of the Board committees are found in the Board’s formal work plan. In The work of the Board is governed by the Board’s formal addition, there are special instructions for the property work plan. The Chairman of the Board shall ensure that committee and the audit committee. Issues examined by the work of the Board is conducted efficiently and that the committees are minuted and reported at the next the Board meets its commitments. According to the Board meeting. formal work plan the Board shall normally hold eight meetings per year, in addition to its statutory meeting Remuneration Committee in conjunction with the Annual General Meeting. The Prepares issues related to remuneration and terms of formal work plan stipulates which issues should be employment for senior executives. The Remuneration examined at each meeting and which specific issues Committee consists of Eva Färnstrand (chairman) and should be submitted to the Board. The work plan also Leif Ljungqvist. states that the Chairman, on behalf of the Board, shall consult with representatives of the owner on matters of Property Committee decisive significance to Sveaskog. The work plan also Prepares issues relating to property acquisition, contains details of the Chairman’s role in the Board and management and divestment. In 2017 the Property on assignment of responsibilities and tasks between the Committee consisted of Sven Wird (chairman), Annika Board and the CEO. Every year the Board evaluates the Nordin and Sofia Gilliusson. In January 2018 Sofia work of the Board and monitors the work of the CEO on Gilliusson, who is an employee representative, was an ongoing basis. At least once a year the work of the replaced by Sara Östh. CEO is evaluated without any member of group management being present. Audit Committee The Board held nine meetings in 2017, including two Tasks include preparing the Board’s work on quality strategy meetings. In addition to processing standing assurance of the company’s financial reporting, regular items on the agenda, the Board focused on issues meetings with the company’s auditors in order to be relating to sustainable forest management and digital­ informed of the focus, scope and result of audits as well isation and decided on a number of major property sales. as to discuss coordination between external auditors and internal control activities and approach to the company’s Board committees risks. The Audit Committee consists of Anna-Stina The Board’s committees prepare issues ahead of a Nordmark Nilsson (chairman), Leif Ljungqvist, Thomas decision by the Board. Guidelines for the work of the Hahn and Kenneth Andersson. Board meetings 2017 26 January • Reports from committees • Special review function • Year-end report 2016 7 December • Auditors’ review • Reports from committees • Follow-up of property transactions and land sales • Financial report programme • Budget • Sveaskog’s insurance cover • Forest debate • Evaluation of Board work • Communication issues • Sustainable forest management • Valuation of standing timber IAS 41 Ja n u 7–8 March mber • Decision on property divestments • Evaluation of Board work ce arY • Reports from committees De • Financial report r Fe • Information about FSC® non-conformance be br • Annual accounts including review of m auditor’s opinion on the company’s risks 26 October ve rY • Ahead of the Annual General Meeting • Reports from committees No ua • Business plan process • Financial report • Decisions on property divestments • Decisions on property • Study visit to Bayrische Staatsforest divestments ER MAR • Investment plans SunPine O CTO B • Interim report • Auditors’ review ch 26 April • Reports from committees 2017 • • Financial report Interim report S e pte m 11–12 September • Decisions on property divestments • Reports from committees il • Financial report Statutory Board meeting • Interim report Ap r after Annual General Meeting • Strategy be 26 April • Investment plans Setra Group r • Business plan including review of significant risks and their impact 15 June Au • Reports from committees g u aY st M • Financial report • Managing challenges • Forest policy and sustainable forest management Jul E • Decisions on property divestments Y Jun • Decisions on Code of Conduct and Employee Policy 15 July • Sustainable forest management • Financial report • Strategy • Interim report • Business plan A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 51 Corporate governance report Principles for remuneration to the Board of the Board. The CEO is responsible for ongoing Fees to the Board are decided by the Annual General business activities and contacts with the Chairman and Meeting. Fees to Board members on committees are external stakeholders. The CEO also leads the work of also decided at the Annual General Meeting. In 2017, Group Management. Group Management consists of six remuneration to the Board totalled SEK 1,306,666. The men and four women. The CEO’s assistant is a co-opted Board does not have a bonus or incentive programme. member of group management. No changes in Group Employee representatives on the Board and the member Management were made during the year. employed by the Swedish Government Offices does not receive a fee. SYSTEM FOR INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK Eva Färnstrand, Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson, Annika MANAGEMENT IN CONJUNCTION WITH FINANCIAL Nordin and Sven Wird invoiced fees through their own REPORTING companies. An additional charge has been made for The Board’s responsibility for internal control is regulated social security contributions. This arrangement is cost in the Swedish Companies Act and in the Code. Internal neutral for Sveaskog but will cease after the 2018 control is intended to provide reasonable assurance Annual General Meeting. regarding the reliability of external financial reporting in the form of year-end reports, interim reports and annual Related-party transactions reports. Control shall also include external financial The following related-party transactions have been reporting and that this is prepared in accordance with reported to Sveaskog: Annika Nordin’s husband has a legislation, applicable accounting standards and other consulting agreement with the company and Sara Östh requirements on a limited company. has sold timber to the company. Both transactions were conducted on business terms. Framework for internal control A description of how internal control is organised in CORPORATE STRUCTURE relation to financial reporting is provided below. Sveaskog’s operations are organised in three geograph­ ical market areas and Svenska Skogsplantor. The Control environment divisions into market areas is based on forest assets, The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining an customer structure and trade flows. The market areas effective system for internal control and risk managehave customer, production, and delivery responsibility ment. The Board has appointed an audit committee for the wood raw material as well as responsibility for which prepares matters related to risk assessment, leases. The operating activities are supported by internal control, financial reporting and audit. The Board’s group-wide staffs. risk management has been given greater scope in recent Sveaskog also owns shares in companies where there years. is not a Group relationship, where the holding in the Responsibility for maintaining an effective control wood products company Setra Group AB is the largest. environment and day-to-day work with risk management and internal control relating to financial reporting is CEO and Group Management delegated to the CEO. Managers at different levels in the Sveaskog’s CEO is responsible for ongoing managecompany have corresponding responsibility within their ment of the company in accordance with the Board’s respective areas. The most significant parts of the instructions. The CEO gives presentations at meetings control environment relating to financial reporting are Organisation and governance • Owner guidelines • Ownership policy OWNER • General Meetings • Articles of Association BOARD • Policies • Property Committee • Remuneration • Group Organisation Committee • Audit Committee CEO • Governance of operations (Targets and governance GROUP MANAGEMENT principles) • Risk management • Internal control External HR AND COMMUNICATIONS FOREST MANAGEMENT • Reporting audit ACCOUNTING, IT, LEGAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT • Roles, responsibilities and control systems AFFAIRS AND PROPERTIES & INNOVATION MARKET AREA MARKET AREA MARKET AREA Svenska NORTH CENTRAL SOUTH skogsplantor 52 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Corporate governance report handled in the governing documents relating to assigned by the CEO to be responsible for risk invent­ accounting and financial reporting and in the accounting ories and conducting the risk management processes. handbook which is published on Sveaskog’s employee The CFO unit is also responsible for a number of central intranet. controls combined with local follow-up. Operational responsibility rests, however, with the market areas and Risk assessment and control structures other operating areas. The Board believes that there is The Board is responsible for ensuring that the company no need for a special review function in the company. manages its risks in the right way and that adopted The CFO unit is headed by the Deputy CEO who is also principles for financial reporting and internal control are the CFO and comprises the finance and accounting, IT complied with. Risks in connection with the financial as well as law and property staffs. reporting are loss or misappropriation of assets, unlawful benefit of another party at the company’s expense and AUDIT other risks relating to material misstatement in the The task of the auditors is on behalf of shareholders financial statements, for example relating to recognition to examine the company’s annual accounting and and measurement of assets, liabilities, revenues and accounting records as well as the administration by expenses or discrepancies in disclosure requirements. the Board and the CEO. The Board communicates with These issues are prepared by the audit committee the auditors through the audit committee, by auditors before consideration by the Board. A number of items in attending Board meeting at which issues ahead of the income statement and balance sheet have been annual accounts and annual report are examined. At identified where the risk of material misstatement is least once a year the auditors meet the Board without significant. These risks can mainly be attributed to the CEO or another person in group management being measurement of standing forest, accruals and the IT present. The auditors participated six of the Audit systems which support operations. Committee’s seven meetings. Remuneration to auditors is specified in Note 6 of the Annual Report. Information and communication Sveaskog has information and communication channels SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS designed to promote the completeness and accuracy in Sveaskog has an integrated sustainability perspective financial reporting. For external communication there are throughout its operations. Sveaskog’s objectives for guidelines designed to ensure that the company meets sustainable business are broken down into strategies the owner’s requirement that reporting is carried out in and operational targets which are regularly monitored. accordance with Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers. This work is supported by a number of policies and guidelines which are available on Sveaskog’s intranet Monitoring and website. During the year the company started work Monitoring is regulated in the Board’s formal work plan with “Integrated Profit and Loss Reporting” which and instructions to the CEO. illustrates the impact from Sveaskog’s operations from several perspectives. The analysis highlights, among Special review function other things, the added values the company has in The Board considers that Sveaskog’s significant risks addition to timber production, such as ecosystem and risk areas are covered by the risk management services. process applied by the company. The CFO unit is Follow-up of sustainability initiatives is ongoing both Board attendance and remuneration 2017 Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Remuneration Property Audit Remuneration, SEK Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Board Committees Board members Eva Färnstrand* 9/9 1/1 – – 353,333 23,333 Thomas Hahn 9/9 – – 4/4 170,000 13,333 Leif Ljungqvist 9/9 1/1 – 7/7 – – Annika Nordin 9/9 – 3/3 – 170,000 26,667 Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson 9/9 – – 7/7 170,000 40,000 Sven Wird 9/9 – 3/3 – 170,000 26,667 Employee representatives Kenneth Andersson (elected 2017) 6/6 – – 4/4 – – Sofia Gilliusson 9/9 – 3/3 – – – Lars Djerf (deputy) 6/9 – – – – – Thomas Esbjörnsson (deputy) 8/9 – – – – – Board members who resigned at the 2017 Annual General Meeting Helene Biström 3/3 – – – 140,000 3,333 Sture Persson (employee representative) 2/3 – – 2/2 – – * Eva Färnstrand took up the position of Chairman at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. She was previously a member of the Board. Helene Biström resigned as Chairman at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. In 2017, Sofia Gilliusson was an ordinary employee representative. She was replaced by Sara Östh in January 2018. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 53 Corporate governance report internally and externally. The CFO and CEO have regular The values cover: business follow-ups with the market areas and Svenska • How Sveaskog conducts business Skogsplantor. The Board submits the sustainability Employees must be professional and understand report and the Audit Committee prepares work with the customer needs, take initiatives and be innovative. report. • How employees should act as employees and Collaboration with local contractors and suppliers is colleagues important for Sveaskog’s development. The Code of Employees must be led by the vision, goals and Conduct, general sustainability requirements linked to strategies and show respect for the integrity and the UN Global Compact and detailed requirements for knowledge of their colleagues. contractors govern the assessment of contractors. • How managers and leaders take special responsibility Follow-up takes the form of self-assessments and Managers and leaders must create an innovative internal audits. Non-conformances are reported in the climate and an open culture with feedback. business management system. There is also an annual follow-up of framework agreements with external Sveaskog has a Code of Conduct that applies to all suppliers. employees. Anyone concluding an agreement with The external review consists of auditors reviewing the customers, suppliers, contractors and consultants must Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. There is ensure and monitor that these comply with the Code of also an external audit according to ISO 14001 of the Conduct. Sveaskog’s managers shall ensure that the integrated business management system. There is an Code of Conduct is complied with in daily operations. external audit of the FSC® certificate and regular The Code must always been gone through with new surveys for customers, employees, contractors, suppliers employees, at performance reviews, procurements, and the brand. This will be a tool for creating an operational follow-up, etc. The Code of Conduct is understanding for the impact of operations from a included as an appendix to business and cooperation stakeholder perspective and provides support for agreements. monitoring international regulations such national Under the leadership of lawyers and HR specialists, environmental goals and the 2030 Agenda. regular meeting are held in the different profit areas where questions about the Code of Conduct, entertainVALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT ment guidelines and other ethical issues are discussed. Sveaskog’s values must permeate the corporate culture and help all employees to adopt a common approach. Whistle-blower function Sveaskog’s values: Sveaskog has an external whistle-blower function on its website Sveaskog.se (“Sveaskog’s visslarfunktion”). • Customer Focus Notifications are handled by an independent external • Innovation party and can be submitted anonymously using the form • Simplicity on the website, e-mail, a telephone call or letter. The • Transparency whistle-blower function is open to all stakeholders. No notifications were received via the whistle-blower function in 2017. Sveaskog’s policies If you wish to read more: Sveaskog’s policies are adopted by the Board State ownership policy AREA PURPOSE http://www.regeringen.se/regeringens-politik/ Property strategy Provide directives for the company’s property bolag-med-statligt-agande/ strategy. Sveaskog’s Articles of Association Communications Policy Guide the company in its communications work. https://www.sveaskog.se/om-sveaskog/bolags­styrning/ Group Finance Policy and Provide directives on how the Group’s treasury bolagsordning/ Group Insurance Policy and insurance operations shall be designed and conducted. Sveaskog’s Code of Conduct Employee Policy Provides guidelines for employeeship, leadership, https://www.sveaskog.se/om-sveaskog/ salary levels and working environment. uppforandekod/ Environmental Policy States how the company will develop sustainable Swedish Companies Act use of the forest’s various natural resources as well as working to realise the nationally adopted www.regeringen.se environmental objectives. Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Forest Policy States how the company’s forests should be www.bolagsstyrning.se managed. Code of Conduct Clarifies for employees how they should act as Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers business partners, employers, employees and www.business.nasdaq.com/list/Rules-and-Regulations/ community members. European-rules/nasdaq-stockholm/index.html 54 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Sveaskog’s Chairman of the Board Eva Färnstrand pays a visit outside Karlskoga. Seen here with machine operator Tobias Blomqvist, employed with contractors Team Jord & Skog. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 55 Board of Directors Board of Directors Eva Färnstrand Thomas Hahn Leif Ljungqvist Annika Nordin Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Sven Wird Kenneth Andersson Sara Östh Lars Djerf Thomas Esbjörnsson 56 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 Board of Directors Eva Färnstrand Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Chairman of the Board. MSc.Econ. Born 1956. MSc.Eng. Born 1951. Elected 2006. Chair of the Audit Committee. Elected 2008 and Chairman since 2017. Chair of the Other assignments: CEO Lulebo AB. Deputy Chair of Remuneration Committee. Svenska Kraftnät. Board member of Svevia AB, Dedicare Other assignments: Member of the Royal Swedish AB among others. Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA). Chair of Previous experience: CEO Företagarna, authorised Infranord AB and Inlandsinnovation AB. Board member public accountant and manager PwC, Healthcare of Saminvest AB. Director Stockholm County Council, County Council Previous experience: Plant Manager Södra Cell Director Norrbotten, CEO Piteå-Tidningen and Director Mönsterås, CEO Tidningstryckarna AB, Business Area of Roads. Directorships in companies, hospitals, Manager SCA. Chairman of Profilgruppen AB. Board universities, foundations and organisations. member of Indutrade AB, Domsjö fabriker AB, Södra Cell AB, Handelsbanken Regionbank Stockholm City Sven Wird and Schibsted Trykk AS, among others. MSc.Eng. Born 1951. Elected 2016. Chairman of the Property Committee. Thomas Hahn Other assignments: Chairman of Nordiska Virkesbörsen PhD Agronomics. Born 1964. AB. Board member of Melodea Ltd and Rise Research Elected 2007. Member of the Audit Committee. Institutes of Sweden AB. Other assignments: Researcher at Stockholm Previous experience: Technology Director Holmen AB. Resilience Centre. Member of the Royal Swedish Leading positions at SCA, Norske Skog France, Modo Academy of Agriculture and Forestry. Involved in The AB and Modo Paper AB. Previously chairman of the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment and the Inter­ board of SunPine AB and Board member of Innventia governmental Platform for Biodiversity and Ecosystem AB and SP Technical Research Institute of Sweden. Services (IPBES). Previous experience: Secretary to the Committee of Kenneth Andersson Inquiry on the Value of Ecosystem Services, Board Machine operator. Born 1969. member of the Nuclear Waste Fund. Chairman of Elected 2017. Board member. Employee representative Economists for the Environment. appointed by the Swedish Forest and Wood Trade Union. Member of the Audit Committee. Leif Ljungqvist MSc.Econ. Born 1971. Sara Östh Elected 2016. Member of the Remuneration and Audit Environment and nature conservation specialist. Committees. MSc.Forestry. Born 1983. Other assignments: Company Manager and Deputy Elected 2018. Board member. Employee representative Director of the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation’s appointed by SI/Naturvetarna. Member of the Property corporate governance unit. Board member of Apoteket Committee. AB, Samhall AB and Statens Bostadsomvandling AB. Lars Djerf Previous experience: Board member of Akademiska Harvester operator. Born 1966. Hus AB, AB Svensk Bilprovning, Vasallen AB and AB Elected 2010. Board member, deputy. Employee Bostadsgaranti. Previously equity analyst at Kaupthing representative, appointed by the Swedish Forest and Bank, Nordiska Fondkommission and Hagströmer & Wood Trade Union. Qviberg. Thomas Esbjörnsson Annika Nordin Logistician. Born 1962. PhD Forestry. Born 1968. Elected 2015. Board member, deputy. Employee Elected 2016. Member of the Property Committee. representative, appointed by the Association of Other assignments: Professor of Forest Ecophysiology Managerial and Professional Staff. at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. Programme leader for the Future Forests research programme. Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Agriculture and Forestry, Kungliga Skytteanska Samfundet and board member of the Forestry Research Auditors Institute of Sweden. Auditor is audit firm Deloitte AB with Hans Warén, Previous experience: Vice Dean of the Faculty of born 1964, as auditor in charge. Deloitte AB Forestry Science at the Swedish University of Agri­address Rehnsgatan 11, SE-113 79 Stockholm. cul­tural Sciences, board member of the Berzelii Centre for Forest Biotechnology and a member of the Swedish Environmental Research Advisory Board. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 57 G rou p Management Group Management Inger Thorén Emilsson Nina Arkeberg Per-Olof Wedin Viveka Beckeman Jan Wintzell Anette Waara Per Matses Eva Karlsson Berg Roger Johansson Fredrik Klang Tommy Nilsson 58 A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 G rou p Management Per-Olof Wedin Roger Johansson President and CEO. SVP Svenska Skogsplantor. MSc.Eng. Born 1955. MSc. Forestry, MBA. Born 1972. Employed 2011. Assumed current position 2011. Employed 2002. Assumed current position 2016. Previous experience: CEO of Svevia AB. Head of Stora Previous experience: Senior positions within sawmill Enso business area Uncoated Magazine Paper and Pulp industry and Sveaskog, including Deputy Head of as well as the Transport and Distribution Division. CEO Forestry and Head of Marketing. of Grycksbo Pappersbruk. Senior management positions at SCA and Modo. Fredrik Klang Other assignments: Board member of Setra Group AB SVP South Market Area. and Mesta AS. Chairman of The European State Forest MSc. Forestry and PhD from SLU. Born 1970. Association (Eustafor). Employed 2000. Assumed current position 2012 Previous experience: Regional Manager and Head Per Matses of Production Sveaskog Götaland, District Manager, Deputy CEO, CFO. Head of Silviculture, AssiDomän Forestry. MBA. Born 1958. Employed 2010. Assumed current position 2010. Tommy Nilsson Previous experience: Executive Vice President, CFO SVP Forestry. and Administrative Director at Apoteket AB, Finance MSc. Forestry. Born 1954. Director at Postgirot Bank AB and Finance Director Employed 1999. Assumed current position 2016. at Posten AB. Previous experience: Forest Manager at Domänverket Other assignments: Board member of Setra Group AB (The Swedish Forest Service), Managing Director and Praktikertjänst AB. for sawmills, responsible for customer relations at AssiDomän, Market Area Manager Sveaskog North. Nina Arkeberg Other assignments: Board member of Shorelink AB PA to the CEO, co-opted member of Group Manageand Efficient Forest Fuel Supply Systems. ment. MSc Business Administration & Management. Born 1967. Employed 2011. Assumed current position 2011. Inger Thorén Emilsson SVP Human Resources and Communications. Previous experience: PA to CEO of Svevia AB and BA HR and Psychology. Born 1965. Grycksbo Pappersbruk. Employed 2016. Assumed current position 2016. Previous experience: Leading positions at Telia, Viveka Beckeman Akademiska sjukhuset i Uppsala, Niscayah and Stora SVP Legal Affairs and Property. Enso, among others. LLB. Born 1971. Employed 2012. Assumed current position 2012. Anette Waara Previous experience: General Counsel at Aditro Holding SVP North Market Area. AB, lawyer at Advokatfirman Vinge, Clerk at the Court MSc. Forestry. Born 1969. of Appeal and law clerk at Helsingborg District Court. Employed 2002. Assumed current position 2016. Other assignments: Chair of SunPine AB. Previous experience: Head of Production Västerbotten market area, head of Västerbotten profit area. Eva Karlsson Berg SVP Central Market Area. Jan Wintzell MSc.Eng. Born 1959. SVP Business Development & Innovation. Employed 2015. Assumed current position 2015. MSc. Forestry. Born 1961. Employed 2013. Assumed current position 2013. Previous experience: Senior positions within Stora Enso, Chair of Svenska Pappersoch Cellulosaingeniörs­ Previous experience: Leading positions within föreningen (SPCI). Pöyry Management Consulting. Other assignments: Board member of Högskolan i Gävle. A nn ua l R eport and S u stainabi lity R eport 2 017 59 S ustai nabi lity R epo rt Sustainability Report Sveaskog publishes a sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 6:11 which is an integrated part of the annual report. The sustainability report relates to Sveaskog AB and its subsidiaries. According to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act the sustainability report shall contain a business model, policy, result of policy, significant risks, management of risks and result indicators. The table shows where in the annual report these different areas can be found. Area Disclosure requirement Where to find the disclosure Business model The sustainability report shall describe the Sveaskog’s business model is described on pages 6−7. company’s business model. Policy The sustainability report shall describe the Sveaskog has integrated sustainable business fully into policy applied by the company to these its business strategy and business plan development. issues, including the review procedure Policies and guidelines as well as goals steer towards carried out. sustainable business. Sveaskog’s policies and their purpose are described on page 54. Review procedures are described on pages 52−54. Result of policy The sustainability report shall describe the Sveaskog’s annual report describes the result of the result of the policy. company’s sustainable business. Significant risks The sustainability report shall describe the Sveaskog’s risk and sensitivity analysis as well as significant risks that relate to these issues significant risks and risk management are described and that are linked to the company’s on pages 45−47. operations including, when relevant, the company’s business connections, products or services that probably have negative consequences. Risk management The sustainability report shall describe Sveaskog’s risk and sensitivity analysis as well as how the company manages these risks. significant risks and risk management are described on pages 45−47. Result indicators The sustainability report shall describe the Result indicators and a description of governance are result indicators that are relevant to the provided on the following pages: operations. Confidence in Sveaskog 18−19 Environmental values achieved in forest management without major impact 22−23 Carbon dioxide emissions shall decrease by 30% between 2010 and 2020 26−27 Good leadership and employeeship 28−29 At least 30% women by 2020 28−29 Satisfied contractors and suppliers 30−31 Increased efficiency 32−33 Financial targets 34−35 Satisfied customers 36−43 A list of all indicators is provided on page 101. 60 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 Five-year su m mary Five-year summary 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Income statements, SEKm Net sales 6,206 5,922 6,078 6,232 6,056 Other operating income 205 171 105 55 40 Operating expenses –5,082 –4,885 –4,819 –4,937 –5,021 Depreciation and impairment –81 –80 –84 –96 –97 Operating profit from continuing operations 1,248 1,128 1,280 1,254 978 Capital gains from property sales 321 131 78 68 163 Share of profits of associates 58 53 10 64 27 Operating profit before change in value of forest assets 1,627 1,312 1,368 1,386 1,168 Change in value of forest assets 200 319 1,432 1,032 1,046 Operating profit 1,827 1,631 2,800 2,418 2,214 Net financial items –108 –174 –214 –261 –273 Profit before tax 1,719 1,457 2,586 2,157 1,941 Tax –360 –267 –569 –466 –466 Profit for the year 1,359 1,190 2,017 1,691 1,475 Statement of comprehensive income Profit for the year 1,359 1,190 2,017 1,691 1,475 Total other comprehensive income after tax 29 –18 34 –174 86 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,388 1,172 2,051 1,517 1,561 Balance sheets, SEKm Non-current assets, non-interest bearing 35,562 35,422 35,088 33,557 32,487 Inventories 540 582 669 740 673 Current receivables, non-interest bearing 1,662 1,520 1,407 1,561 1,512 Cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing receivables 1,681 1,070 1,135 1,345 1,155 Total assets 39,445 38,594 38,299 37,203 35,827 Equity 20,669 20,081 19,714 18,463 17,397 Interest-free liabilities 9,685 9,506 9,361 9,188 8,741 Interest-bearing liabilities 9,091 9,007 9,224 9,552 9,689 Total equity and liabilities 39,445 38,594 38,299 37,203 35,827 Operating capital 28,169 28,012 27,809 26,707 25,934 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 803 789 909 769 636 Cash flow from investing activities 477 122 –62 61 158 Cash flow from financing activities –669 –976 –1,057 –640 –469 Cash flow for the year 611 –65 –210 190 325 Interest-bearing net debt 7,410 7,937 8,089 8,207 8,533 Performance measures Return on equity, % 6.7 6.0 10.6 9.4 8.8 Yield, % 4.6 4.2 4.7 5.0 3.9 Equity ratio, % 52 52 51 50 49 Return on operating capital, % 6.5 5.8 10.3 9.2 8.7 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.36 0.40 0.41 0.44 0.49 Capital turnover ratio, multiple 0.22 0.21 0.22 0.24 0.24 Interest cover, multiple 9.8 6.3 6.2 4.8 3.5 Gross margin, % 30 28 47 39 38 Operating margin, % 29 28 46 39 37 Dividend Total dividend, SEKm * 900* 800 800 800 450 Investments, SEKm Company acquisitions and investments in shares 1 1 1 1 0 Other investments 219 183 329 132 212 Employees Number of employees 685 674 688 678 693 Average number of employees 846 844 851 877 899 Expenses salaries and other remuneration, SEKm 386 373 368 365 378 * For 2017 proposed dividend. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 61 F I NAN C IAL R E PO RT Consolidated income statement SEKm 2017 2016 Net sales note 4, 7 6,206 5,922 Other operating income note 5 205 171 Raw materials and consumables –1,765 –1,622 Change in inventories –47 –62 Other external costs note 6, 7 –2,695 –2,666 Employee benefit expenses note 8 –575 –535 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment note 9 –81 –80 Operating profit from continuing operations 1,248 1,128 Capital gains from property sales note 15 321 131 Share of profits of associates note 16 58 53 Operating profit before change in value of forest assets 1,627 1,312 Change in value of forest assets note 15 200 319 Operating profit 1,827 1,631 Financial income note 10 28 15 Financial expenses note 10 –136 –189 Net financial items –108 –174 Profit before tax 1,719 1,457 Tax note 11 –360 –267 Profit for the year 1,359 1,190 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 11.48 10.05 after dilution, SEK 11.48 10.05 Statement of comprehensive income SEKm 2017 2016 Profit for the year 1,359 1,190 Other comprehensive income Components that will not be reversed in profit or loss Actuarial gains/losses on pensions –4 –24 Tax on actuarial gains/losses 1 5 Components that can be reversed in profit or loss Exchange differences 1 1 Other comprehensive income from associate 4 –7 Tax on other comprehensive income from associate –1 1 Cash flow hedges 36 8 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges –8 –2 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax 29 –18 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,388 1,172 62 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 F I NAN C IAL R E PO RT Consolidated balance sheet SEKm 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 1 Jan 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets note 13 93 52 1 Property, plant and equipment note 14 Forest land note 15 2,460 2,384 2,346 Other property, plant and equipment 458 498 529 Biological assets, standing timber note 15 32,054 31,993 31,751 Financial assets Participations in associates note 16 403 391 349 Other securities held as non-current assets note 16 76 75 75 Non-current receivables note 17 5 7 8 Deferred tax assets note 11 13 22 24 Total non-current assets 35,562 35,422 35,083 Current assets Inventories note 18 540 582 669 Advance payments to suppliers 168 136 157 Tax assets 1 8 6 Trade receivables, loans and other receivables note 19 1,493 1,376 1,244 Cash and cash equivalents note 21 1,681 1,070 1,135 Total current assets 3,883 3,172 3,211 TOTAL ASSETS 39,445 38,594 38,294 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity note 20 Share capital 118 118 118 Reserves –56 –87 –89 Retained earnings 20,607 20,050 19,680 Total equity 20,669 20,081 19,709 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities note 21, 24, 26 5,187 5,187 5,187 Provisions for pensions note 22 439 479 580 Non-current liabilities 11 13 15 Other provisions note 24 150 158 179 Deferred tax liabilities note 11 8,260 8,173 8,043 Total non-current liabilities 14,047 14,010 14,004 Current liabilities Interest-bearing current liabilities and provisions note 21, 22, 24, 26 3,465 3,341 3,457 Tax liabilities 91 2 11 Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions note 23, 24 1,173 1,160 1,113 Total current liabilities 4,729 4,503 4,581 Total liabilities 18,776 18,513 18,585 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 39,445 38,594 38,294 Information on the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 25. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 63 F I NAN C IAL R E PO RT Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to owners of the parent TransShare Hedging lation Retained SEKm capital reserve reserve earnings Total Opening equity, 1 January 2016 118 –79 –8 19,683 19,714 Correction of error in OB 2016 note 16 – 2 –4 –3 –5 Adjusted opening equity, 1 January 2016 118 –77 –12 19,680 19,709 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – 1,190 1,190 Other comprehensive income Actuarial gains/losses relating to pensions – – – –24 –24 Tax on actuarial gains/losses – – – 5 5 Other comprehensive income from associate – –4 –1 –1 –6 Cash flow hedges – 8 – – 8 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges – –2 – – –2 Translation differences foreign operations – – 1 – 1 Total comprehensive income – 2 0 1,170 1,172 Dividend paid according to AGM decision 26 April 2016 – – – –800 –800 Closing equity, 31 December 2016 118 –75 –12 20,050 20,081 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – 1,359 1,359 Other comprehensive income Actuarial gains/losses relating to pensions – – – –4 –4 Tax on actuarial gains/losses – – – 1 1 Other comprehensive income from associate – 3 0 1 4 Tax on other comprehensive income from associate – –1 0 0 –1 Cash flow hedges – 36 – – 36 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges – –8 – – –8 Translation differences foreign operations – – 1 – 1 Total comprehensive income – 30 1 1,357 1,388 Dividend paid according to AGM decision 26 April 2017 – – – –800 –800 Closing equity, 31 December 2017 118 –45 –11 20,607 20,669 See further, Note 20 Equity. 64 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 F I NAN C IAL R E PO RT Consolidated statement of cash flows SEKm 2017 2016 Operating activities Operating profit 1,827 1,631 Adjustment for non-cash items note 12 –644 –509 Interest received, etc. 28 13 Interest paid –186 –195 Paid tax –175 –144 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 850 796 Change in working capital Operating receivables –149 –111 Inventories 21 64 Operating liabilities, etc. 81 40 Cash flow from operating activities 803 789 Investing activities Investments in property, plant and equipment –219 –183 Investments in shares –1 –1 Dividend from associate 50 5 Sale of property, plant and equipment 647 298 Sale of shares 0 3 Cash flow from investing activities 477 122 Financing activities Change in owner capital Dividend –800 –800 Change in interest-bearing liabilities Borrowings 11,600 9,530 Repayment of borrowings –11,469 –9,706 Cash flow from financing activities –669 –976 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 611 –65 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year note 21 1,070 1,135 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year note 21 1,681 1,070 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 65 F I NAN C IAL R E PO RT Parent Company Income statement Balance sheet 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2017 2016 SEKm 2017 2016 Operating income ASSETS Net sales note 4, 7 13 12 Non-current assets Other operating income note 5 40 53 Property, plant and equipment note 14 53 65 Forest properties 34 36 Operating expenses Buildings, other land and land improvements 15 16 Other external costs note 6, 7 –1 –1 Total property, plant and equipment 49 52 Employee benefit expenses note 8 –1 –1 Depreciation according to plan note 9 0 0 Financial assets –2 –2 Shares and participations note 16 24,934 24,934 Operating profit 51 63 Receivables from group companies, interest-bearing note 3, 17 2,400 2,000 Total financial assets 27,334 26,934 Profit/loss from financial items note 10 Total non-current assets 27,383 26,986 Other financial income 14 17 Other financial expenses –265 –276 Current assets Net financial items –251 –259 Current receivables Profit/loss before appropriations and tax –200 –196 Receivables from group companies note 3, 17, 19 214 199 Tax assets 0 0 Group contribution received 200 197 Other receivables note 19 78 76 Group contribution provided – –1 Receivables from group companies, Profit before tax 0 0 interest-bearing note 3, 19 10 363 Cash and bank note 21 0 0 Tax note 11 0 0 Total current assets 302 638 Profit for the year * 0 0 Total assets 27,685 27,624 Proposed dividend per share, SEK EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES (2016 adopted dividend per share) 7.60 6.76 Equity note 20 Restricted equity Share capital 118 118 * Same as Total comprehensive income for the year. Statutory reserve 24 24 Total restricted equity 142 142 Unrestricted equity Profit carried forward 8,323 9,123 Profit for the year 0 0 Total unrestricted equity 8,323 9,123 Total equity 8,465 9,265 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities note 21 5,187 5,187 Total non-current liabilities 5,187 5,187 Current liabilities Liabilities to group companies, interest-bearing note 3, 21 10,589 9,849 Other liabilities, interest-bearing note 21 3,412 3,271 Liabilities to group companies note 3, 23 0 0 Other liabilities note 23 32 52 Total current liabilities 14,033 13,172 Total equity and liabilities 27,685 27,624 Information about the Parent Company’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 25. 66 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 F I NAN C IAL R E PO RT Parent Company Statement of changes in equity Statement of cash flows UnSEKm 2017 2016 Share Statutory restricted SEKm capital* reserve equity Total Operating activities Operating profit 51 63 Equity, 1 January 2016 118 24 9,923 10,065 Adjustment for non-cash items note 12 –40 –53 Dividend paid according to Interest and dividends received 14 17 AGM decision 26 April 2016 – – –800 –800 Interest paid –316 –268 Profit for the year – – 0 0 Paid tax 0 0 Equity, 31 December 2016 118 24 9,123 9,265 Cash flow from operating activities Dividend paid according to before change in working capital –291 –241 AGM decision 26 April 2017 – – –800 –800 Profit for the year – – 0 0 Change in working capital Equity, 31 December 2017 118 24 8,323 8,465 Operating receivables –24 –384 Operating liabilities 30 0 Proposed but not decided dividend amounts to SEK 7.60 per share. Cash flow from operating activities –285 –625 Total SEK 900 million. Investing activities * Number of shares amounts to 118,373,034 A shares. Sale of non-current assets 44 56 See further, Note 20 Equity. Decrease in interest-bearing receivables 0 750 Increase in interest-bearing receivables –400 –600 Cash flow from investing activities –356 206 Financing activities Dividend paid –800 –800 Group contribution received 196 245 Borrowings 11,600 9,530 Repayment of borrowings –10,355 –8,556 Cash flow from financing activities 641 419 Cash flow for the year 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year note 21 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year note 21 0 0 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 67 N otes Notes Amounts are stated in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK million) unless specified otherwise. Figures in parentheses refer to the previous year. Note 1 | Accounting principles The accounting principles specified below are applied consistently in all periods presented in the financial statements. The Group’s accounting principles are applied consistently in reporting and consolidation of General information subsidiaries. Sveaskog AB and its subsidiaries (the Sveaskog Group) sell sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel. Over half of net sales come from the Group’s own Changes in accounting principles and disclosures forests and the remainder from externally sourced wood raw material. The New and revised standards applied by the Group as of 1 January 2017 Group’s own forests comprise forests which are to 100% located in Sweden. There are no new standards applied by the Group for the first time for the The Parent Company is a limited liability company with its registered office financial year starting on 1 January 2017. Within the framework for Disclosure in Sweden. The address of the company’s registered office is Torggatan 4, Initiative IASB has modified IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows. This amendment Kalix, Sweden. is intended to improve information regarding financing operations. The In conjunction with a Board meeting held on 8 March 2018, the Board of company started to apply the amendment in IAS 7 on 1 January 2017. Directors of Sveaskog AB decided to approve the 2017 financial statements for publication. The approved financial statements comprise the income ”Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle” have no material impact on statement, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow the Group’s financial statements. statement with accompanying notes presented for the Sveaskog Group and the Parent Company. New standards and interpretations not yet applied by the Group A number of new standards and interpretations become effective in financial Conformity with standards and regulations years that start after 1 January 2018 and have not been applied in preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with of this financial report. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is expected to have some International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ) issued by the International quantitative effects and both IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 Revenues from Contracts Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as well as interpretation statements with Customers are expected to have effects on disclosures. issued by IFRS Interpretations Committee as endorsed by the European IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Commission for application within the EU. In addition, the Swedish Financial Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 contains new principles for how Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 – Supplementary Accounting financial assets are classified and measured. The measurement category of a Rules for Groups, is applied. financial asset is determined by the company’s business model (the purpose of the holding of the financial asset), and partly by financial assets’ contractual Annual accounts cash flows. The Parent Company prepares its annual accounts in accordance with the The new standard also contains new rules for impairment testing of Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s financial assets which means that the earlier “incurred loss-method” is recommendation RFR 2 which means that in the annual accounts for the legal replaced by a new “expected loss-method”. entity the Parent Company must apply all EU endorsed IFRS and statements The impairment rules in IFRS 9 are based on a three-step model where as far as this is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and impairment recognition is determined by changes in the credit risk of the taking into account the correlation between accounting and taxation. The financial assets. In other words it is no longer necessary for a loss event to recommendation states what exemptions and additions should be made from occur for an impairment loss to be recognised. The standard contains, IFRS. however, simplification rules for trade receivables and lease receivables. The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Group These mean that a reserve for credit losses can be recognised directly and no except in cases specified under the section “Parent Company’s accounting assessment needed to be made of changes in the credit risk. principles”. The differences that exist between the principles applied by the For hedge accounting the three types of hedge accounting models that Parent Company and the Group are due to limitations on the possibilities to exist today in IAS 39 remain unchanged (cash flow hedges, fair value hedges apply IFRS in the Parent Company as a consequence of the provisions of the and hedge of net investments). IFRS 9 includes, however, greater flexibility for Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act as the transactions to which hedge accounting can be applied as well as well as taxation legislation. additional types of instruments that are eligible for inclusion in a hedge. The standard provides extended opportunities to hedge risk components in Measurement basis non-financial items as well as additional types of instruments that can be Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, except for some included in a hedge relationship. Furthermore, the quantitative requirement financial assets, liabilities and biological assets which are measured at fair for effectiveness of between 80–125% no longer applies. value. The standard will be applied for the financial year starting on 1 January 2018. Retrospective application is permitted. Sveaskog will start to apply IFRS Assessments and estimations in the financial statements 9 with effect from 1 January 2018 with using of the full retrospective method. Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the The effects of the new impairment rules are negligible for Sveaskog. The company’s management to make assessments and estimations as well as credit loss reserve for trade receivables as of 1 January 2018 will decrease assumptions that affect the application of the accounting principles and the by SEK 0.2 million. Financial non-current receivables and other financial carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Estimates and current receivables are assessed as having fully adequate creditworthiness. assumptions are based on historical experience and a number of other factors IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers regulates revenue which under prevailing conditions are regarded as reasonable. The outcome of recognition. The principles on which IFRS 15 is based provide the user of these estimates and assumptions is then used to assess the carrying amounts financial statements with more useable information about the company’s of assets and liabilities that are not otherwise clear from other sources. The revenue. The extended disclosure obligation means that information about actual outcome can deviate from these estimates and assessments. type of revenue, settlement date, uncertainties linked to revenue recognition Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis. Changes in and cash flow attributable to the company’s customer contracts must be estimates are reported in the period in which the change is made if it only provided. According to IFRS 15 a revenue is recognised when the customer affects that period, or in the period the change is made and future periods if obtains control of the sold good or service and is able to use and obtain the change affects both the current period and future periods. Assessments benefit from the goods or services. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS that have a material impact on the financial statements and estimates that 11 Construction Contracts as well as associated SICs and IFRICs. Sveaskog might result in significant adjustments to the following year’s financial statements are described in greater detail in the relevant note. 68 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes intends to apply IFRS 15 as of 1 January 2018 using the full retrospective kronor. All amounts, unless specified otherwise, are rounded to the nearest method. The Group has identified the effects of introduction of the standard million kronor (SEK million). Figures in parentheses refer to the previous year. and these effects will be negligible apart from all new disclosure requirements. Income statement related items relate to the period 1 January–31 December The Group’s revenue flows consist of deliveries of timber, pulpwood, biofuel and balance sheet related items relate to 31 December. and forest seedlings, execution of planting assignments, soil scarification and silvicultural assignments, as well as leasing of land for wind energy, peat, Foreign currency mobile masts, gravel, hunting and fishing. Most revenues are recognised at a Transactions in foreign currency given date, only a small number arise over time. Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases. IFRS 16 means for the lessee at the exchange rate that prevails on the transaction date. Monetary assets that almost all leases will be recognised in the statement of financial position. and liabilities in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at Classification into operating and finance leases will therefore no longer take the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Exchange place. The underlying asset in the lease is recognised in the statement of differences that arise on translation are recognised in the income statement, financial position. In subsequent periods the right of use is recognised at cost partly in operating profit, partly in net financial items depending on the nature with deduction for deprecation and any impairment as well as adjusted for of the underlying transactions. Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are any remeasurement of the lease liability. The lease liability is recognised in the recognised as historical cost are translated at the exchange rate on the statement of financial position and recognised continuously at amortised cost transaction date. reduced by lease payments made. The lease liability is remeasured in the The functional currency is the currency in the primary economic environ­ event of changes in among other things the lease period, residual value ment in which the companies operate. Companies that are part of the Group guarantees and any changes in lease payments. are the Parent Company and subsidiaries. The functional currency and the The income statement will be affected by the present operating expenses presentation currency are Swedish kronor. attributable to operating leases being replaced by amortisation of interest expenses. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency Short-term leases (12 months or less) and leases where the underlying Changes in value relating to operational related receivables and liabilities are asset amounts to a low value do not need to be recognised in the balance recognised in profit or loss while changes in value relating to financial sheet. These will be recognised in operating profit or loss in the same way as receivables and liabilities are recognised in net financial items. present operating leases. The new standard contains more extensive disclosure requirements Financial statements of foreign operations compared with the present standard. For the lessor, IFRS 16 presents no Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other differences compared with IAS 17. consolidated surplus and deficit values, are translated into Swedish kronor at This standard was adopted on 13 January 2016 and will be effective as of the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and 1 January 2019. The Group has not yet evaluated the effects of introduction expenses in foreign operations are translated into Swedish kronor at an of this standard. average rate that comprises an approximation of the rates on each transaction None of the other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that have not yet taken date. Translation differences that arise on translation of foreign operations are effect, is expected to have a material impact on the Group. reported in other comprehensive income and in equity as a translation reserve. Income measures Net investment in foreign operations Operating profit from continuing operations Translation differences that arise in conjunction with translation of a foreign Operating profit from continuing operations is operating profit before change net investment and related effects of hedges of the net investments are in value of forest assets, share of profit in associates and capital gains from recognised in comprehensive income. At disposal of a foreign operation the property sales. Operating profit from continuing operations comprises the accumulated translation differences after deduction for any currency hedges profit from the Group’s operational core businesses, where the absolute are recognised in profit or loss. predominant part comprises the forestry operations with purchases and sales of sawlogs, pulpwood, chips and biofuel. Impairment If it is not possible to determine materially independent cash flows for an Operating profit before change in value of forest assets individual asset, when testing for impairment the assets are grouped at the Operating profit before change in value of forest assets is operating profit lowest level at which it is possible to identify materially independent cash before calculation of timber growth rates according to IAS 41, felling during flows (a so-called cash-generating unit). A cash-generating unit is the smallest the year and any sold or purchased forest assets. group of assets for which it is possible to determine continuous payments which are essentially independent of other assets of groups of assets. An Associates impairment loss is recognised when an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s Associates are reported in the consolidated income statement separate from carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are operating profit from continuing operations since they do not comprise the recognised in profit or loss. Group’s operational core businesses. Impairment of assets attributable to a cash-generating unit is primarily allocated to goodwill. Thereafter, a proportional impairment loss is recognised Segment reporting for other assets included in the unit. The Group applies IFRS 8 but this does not have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements and has not led to any change in the Group’s Calculation of recoverable amount segment classification, which comprises one segment, called Forestry Assets with a short life are not discounted. Operations. Forestry operations is the Group’s cohesive segment with The recoverable amount of other assets is the higher of fair value minus purchases and sales of sawlogs, pulpwood, chips and biofuel and these sales costs and value in use. When calculating value in use future cash flows operations are reported internally as one segment. are discounted with a discount factor that takes into account risk-free interest and the risk associated with the specific asset. For an asset that does not Consolidation principles generate cash flows that are materially independent of other assets, the Transactions to be eliminated at consolidation recoverable amount is calculated for the cash-generating unit to which the Intra-group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses and unrealised asset belongs. gains or losses arising from intra-group transactions between group companies, are eliminated in their entirety in preparation of the consolidated Reversal of impairment losses financial statements. Impairment of loan receivables and trade receivables recognised at amortised Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to cost is reversed if a later increase in the recoverable amount can objectively an extent that corresponds to the Group’s holding in the company. Unrealised be attributed to an event that occurred after the impairment was recognised. losses are eliminated in the same manner as unrealised gains but only to the Impairment of other assets is reversed if a change has occurred in the extent there is no indication of impairment. assumptions that formed the basis for calculation of the recoverable amount. An impairment is only reversed to the extent the asset’s carrying amount Functional currency and date after reversal does not exceed the carrying amount the asset would have The function currency is Swedish kronor (SEK) which is also the presentation had if no impairment loss had been recognised, taking into account the currency. This means that the financial statements are presented in Swedish depreciation that would then have been made. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 69 N otes PARENT COMPANY Förvaltnings AB and interest income from and interest expenses to Group The Parent Company’s accounting principles companies are specified in Note 10 Financial income and expenses. The Parent Company prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Regarding Sveaskog AB’s receivables from and liabilities to subsidiaries, Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Reporting refer to Note 17 Non-current receivables, Note 19, Trade receivables, loans Board and RFR 2. RFR 2 means that the Parent Company in the annual and other receivables, Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing accounts for the legal entity must apply all EU endorsed IFRSs and liabilities and other financial instruments and Note 23 Non-interest bearing statements as far as this is possible within the framework of the Annual liabilities. Shares in Group companies are specified in Note 16 Shares and Accounts Act and taking into account the correlation between accounting and participations. taxation. The recommendation states what exemptions and additions should Sveaskog AB has issued guarantees for pensions to FPG for Sveaskog be made from IFRS. The differences between the accounting principles of the Förvaltnings AB. Otherwise there are no guarantees or contingent liabilities. Group and the Parent Company are stated below. The accounting principles for the Parent Company specified below are Transactions with associates applied consistently for all periods presented in the Parent Company’s Transactions with associates relate to Setra Group AB. Sveaskog Förvaltfinancial statements. In accordance with relaxation rules RFR 2, IAS 39 is not nings AB owns 50% of the shares and voting rights in Setra Group AB. applied in the Parent Company. Sales to Setra Group account for 17% (17) of total net sales for the Group. Purchases from Setra Group mainly relate to residual products from Setra’s Taxes sawmills (chips, shavings and bark) and account for 2% (2) of the Group’s In the Parent Company untaxed reserves are recognised included deferred tax total costs for raw materials and consumables. liability. In the consolidated financial statements, on the other hand, untaxed reserves are divided between deferred tax liability and equity. Transactions with related parties No guarantees or contingent liabilities from Sveaskog have been issued to Group contributions and shareholder contributions senior executives/Board members. The company reports group contributions and shareholder contributions in For information on remuneration to senior executives and Board members, accordance with RFR 2 Accounting for listed legal entities. The Parent refer to Note 8. Company reports group contributions in appropriations according to the Group Parent Company alternative method. SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sales to related parties, subsidiaries – – 13 12 Note 2 | Parent Company information Receivables from related parties, group companies – – 2,624 2,562 Liabilities to related parties, Sveaskog AB (publ), reg. no. 556558-0031, with its registered office in Kalix group companies – – 10,589 9,849 is a Swedish-registered limited liability company. On 31 December 2017 the Sales to related parties, company was wholly owned by the Swedish state. associates 1,037 1,014 – – Purchases from related parties, Sveaskog’s head office has the following address: associates 35 26 – – SE-105 22 STOCKHOLM Receivables from related parties, Visitors’ address: Torsgatan 4 associates 111 103 – – Liabilities to related parties, Sveaskog AB owns and manages forest properties and shares in subsidiaries associates 7 4 – – as well as being responsible for group-wide financing. Transactions with senior executives No transactions or receivables/liabilities have been issued from Sveaskog Note 3 | Related party transactions to senior executives/Board members. For information on remuneration to senior executives and Board members, refer to Note 8. Accounting principles Transactions with related parties take place on market terms. Related parties refer to company where Sveaskog can exercise a controlling or significant influence as regards operational and financial decisions. Related parties also include those companies and physical persons who are able to exercise a Note 4 | Revenue breakdown controlling or significant influence over Sveaskog’s financial and operational decisions. Transactions with related parties also include defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. Accounting principles Sale of goods Transactions with the state Revenue from sales includes sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel. Income from Sveaskog AB is 100% owned by the Swedish state. The Sveaskog Group’s sale of goods is recognised in the profit or loss when significant risks and products and services are offered to the state, state authorities and state benefits associated with ownership of the goods have been transferred to the companies in competition with other suppliers under commercial terms. purchaser. If there is significant uncertainty regarding payment, associated In a similar manner, Sveaskog AB and its Group companies purchase costs or risk of returns and if the seller remains involved in ongoing products and services from state authorities and state companies at market management normally associated with ownership no revenue recognition prices and on commercial terms. Individually neither the state, nor any of its takes place. authorities or companies accounts for a significant share of the Sveaskog Group’s net sales or earnings. Property transactions with the Environmental Execution of service assignments Protection Agency in 2017 amounted to SEK 65.3 million (61.2). Sales were Revenue for service assignments includes transports to industry, silvicultural made at market prices. Guarantees and contingent liabilities were not issued. services, hunting, fishing and other nature-based experiences. Revenue from service assign­ments is recognised in profit or loss when the financial outcome Sveaskog AB’s transactions with subsidiaries for the service assignment carried out can be calculated in a reliable manner. Intra-group property transactions amounted to SEK 0 million (0) in 2017. Revenue is not recognised if it is probable that financial benefits will not Sveaskog AB’s invoicing to subsidiaries totalled SEK 13 million (12) in accrue to the company. 2017. No purchases were made from subsidiaries. Dividend from Sveaskog 70 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Revenue from leases NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Revenue from leases, such as revenue from hunting and fishing leases, rental with effect from 1 January 2018 income from rented buildings and other leases is recognised as operating With effect from 1 January 2018 the company will apply IFRS 15 Revenue income in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the from Contracts with Customers and revenue will be recognised when the lease. customer obtains control of the sold good or service and is able to use and obtain benefit from the good or service. The full retrospective method will be Net sales applied. The effects of introduction have been evaluated and the amounts are Most of the Group’s revenue from sale of goods consists within the forestry negligible. operations of revenue from sales of sawlogs, pulpwood and other fibre raw material from both the Group’s own forests and from external sources. Sawlogs Revenue from service assignments relates among other things to transports Revenue from sales of sawlogs comprise sawlogs from spruce, pine and to industry as well as hunting and fishing leases. various broad-leaved trees such as oak and birch. Sales can include everything Within the Svenska Skogsplantor operating area, sales of goods consists of from standard deliveries to complex customised orders. To meet customers’ seed and seedlings, primarily from own seed plantations and own nurseries needs, Sveaskog complements timber from its own forests with externally but also from external purchases. Sales of services consist of silvicultural purchased volumes of by exchanging timber with other forest owners. The services such as soil scarification and planting. Service revenue from other customer obtains control of the timber when it is unloaded and measured. operating areas mainly comes from hunting and crayfish fishing as well as Invoicing and revenue recognition take place in the same month as intake lockage within Hjälmare Kanal AB. measurement. Group Parent Company Pulpwood and chips SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Revenue for sales of pulpwood and chips include a broad range from own forests, imports and purchases from other forest owners. Sales are made to External revenue per products the paper and pulp industry. The customer obtains control of the pulpwood and services and chips when they are unloaded and measured. Invoicing and revenue Net sales recognition take place in the same month as intake measurement. Sale of goods 5,006 4,778 – – Service assignments 1,196 1,140 – – Biofuel Other sales revenue 4 4 – – Revenue for sales of biofuel include branches and tops (called felling residues) as well as small-dimension trees and energy wood. Biofuel comes Total external revenue 6,206 5,922 – – from cleaning ,thinning, regeneration felling in Sveaskog’s own forests and through purchases from other forest owners. Revenues are recognised when Revenue from group companies the biofuel is delivered to a customer. Net sales Service assignments – – 13 12 Svenska Skogsplantor Total revenue from group companies – – 13 12 Seed and forest seedlings are produced within the framework of the Svenska Total 6,206 5,922 13 12 Skogsplantor brand. Svenska Skogsplantor also offers silvicultural services such as soil scarification and planting for external customers. Revenues are recognised when seedlings or seed are delivered to a customer or when Net sales per geographic market planing or soil scarification has been carried out. The Group’s net sales are to 97% (98) attributable to Sweden. The Parent Company’s net sales are entirely attributable to Sweden. Other Other revenue from contracts with customers include silvicultural assignments, Group Parent Company hunting fees for killed elk, fishing permit and lockage, etc. Revenues are SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 recognised when the silvicultural assignment has been carried out. Revenue per geographic market Concessions (Revenues from leases) Net sales Revenues from leases mainly include concessions for hunting and fishing. Sweden 6,049 5,824 13 12 Other concession include rental objects and leasing for agriculture, peat, Finland 46 31 – – gravel and rock quarrying as well as for wind power and telecom equipment. Norway 12 15 – – Net sales breakdown by main goods and services Latvia 23 7 – – Lithuania 3 3 – – Group Parent Company Germany 42 41 – – SEKm 2017 2017 Poland 22 – – – Net sales from contracts with customers Denmark 8 – – – Sawlogs 3,010 – Other countries 1 1 – – Pulpwood and chips 2,510 – Total 6,206 5,922 13 12 Biofuel 176 – Svenska Skogsplantor 220 – Information on major customers Other 152 – The Group has three (three) customers each of which separately account for over 10% of sales and these account for 17%, 13% and 12% respectively Net sales from leases (17%, 14% and 12% respectively). Concessions 138 13 Total 6,206 13 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 71 N otes Note 5 | Other operating income An audit assignment refers to examination of the annual accounts and bookkeeping as well as administration by the Board of Directors and the CEO, other working duties that it is incumbent on the company’s auditors to Accounting principles perform as well as advice or other assistance resulting from observations Government support from such examination or implementation of such other working duties. A government grant attributable to an asset is recognised as revenue when Everything else is other assignments. the terms are met. The grant is recognised over a period systematically in the income statement in the same manner and over the same period as the expenses for which the grant is intended to compensate. Government grants related to assets are recognised in the balance sheet as prepaid income and Note 7 | Leases over the period of the asset’s useful life. Compensation for road grants SEK 22 million (22) and nature conversation initiatives SEK 3 million (3) is recognised as revenue in the income statement. Road grants are of two Accounting principles types: for annual operations (summer and winter maintenance) and for Payments for operating leases special operations (improvements to roads). There are no unfulfilled Expenses paid for operating leases are recognised in the income statement conditions which might lead to repayment. on a straight-line basis over the leasing period. Leases where the economic Sveaskog expects no significant reductions in government support within risks and benefits are essentially retained by the lessor are classified as the next few years. For the rural areas programme “the forest’s conservation operating leases. values”, applications are prioritised according to highest conservation values. Sveaskog will no longer be able to apply for grants to areas protects by Finance leases conservation landscapes (primarily ecoparks) and this revenue will therefore Finance leases exist when the economic risks and benefits associated with decrease slightly, but other grants can be sought for ecoparks. ownership are essentially transferred to the lessee. If this is not the case, it is Road grants are paid to the road operator when there is a permanent classified as an operating lease. resident who lives more than 1 km from a public road. The maintenance grant is calculated using a standard formula and amounts to 50–70% of Operating leases with Group as lessor Sveaskog’s maintenance costs. The grants received are utilised each year. Every grant road can be monitored with a project number both at Sveaskog Group Parent Company and at the Swedish Transport Administration, which is the main grant provider. SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Insurance compensation Income for the year related to leases 139 133 13 12 Sveaskog has its forest holdings insured for damage caused by storms and Minimum lease payments 1,086 1,060 13 12 fires. No insurance compensation for this type of damage was received in Expiry year for existing contracts 2017 but in 2016 SEK 5 million was received in insurance compensation for Within one year 134 130 13 12 storm damage to greenhouses. Between 1 and 5 years 142 130 – – Group Parent Company Beyond five years 810 800 – – SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total 1,086 1,060 13 12 Capital gain from the sale of The Group reports lease income relating to machinery, equipment and properties 127 48 40 53 • hunting and fishing concessions Insurance compensation 0 6 – – • housing, holiday cottage, farm and associated leases Intrusion compensation 39 77 – – • other land concessions such as for wind energy and mobile Contribution 25 25 – – telephone masts Licence revenues and royalties 3 4 – – • gravel pits, peat mines and quarries Other operating income 11 11 – – Total 205 171 40 53 Contracts for hunting and fishing are mostly indefinite concessions, or Intrusion compensation for the year includes a non-recurring compensation concessions for 1–5 years which can be terminated by either party at short from the Environmental Protection Agency of SEK 15 million (60) in notice. conjunction with establishment of a nature reserve. Contracts for agricultural leases, housing leases, etc., as well as concessions with tenancy rights (primarily holiday cottages) have varying periods but concessions relating to houses often have long contract periods or indefinite concessions which are related to some form of right of tenure. Note 6 | Other external costs The Group has revenue for plant leases for wind energy plants, commu­ nications masts and other capital-intensive structures. In particular contracts for wind energy are signed with long period, 25 years or more. The Group Other external costs comprise to 74% (75) compensation to contractors concedes right of use to quarries, gravel pits and peat mines. These within the Forestry Operations as well as freight and transport costs. concessions are in most cases linked to applicable mining rights and may have a duration of up to 25 years. Fees and compensation for expenses to auditors Group Parent Company Group Parent Company SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deloitte AB Expense for the year for operating leases 35 33 – – Audit assignment 1 2 – – Minimum lease payments 73 83 Tax advice 0 0 – – Expiry year for non-cancellable Other services 0 0 – – operating leases Within 1 year 31 29 – – Total Between 1 and 5 years 41 51 – – Audit assignment 1 2 0 0 Beyond 5 years 1 3 – – Audit work in addition to audit assignment 0 0 0 0 Total 73 83 – – Tax advice 0 0 0 0 The Group reports operating leases for Other services 0 0 0 0 • office premises Total 1 2 – – • forest machines, cars and other vehicles. 72 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes The Group rents a number of office premises through operating leases. The voluntary attrition. If employment is terminated by the company a detailed plan largest are the head offices in Kalix and Stockholm. Contracts have a duration is drawn up which at least includes workplace, positions and the number of of one, three or five years. Options to extend by one, three or five years always persons affected as well as benefits for each personnel category or position include indexation. No contracts carry a requirement for extension if cancelled and the date for implementation of the plan. within the contracted period before the next period starts to apply. Rental agreements include index clauses. Salaries and other remuneration and social security costs No other large non-cancellable operating leases exist in the Parent Company or the Group. Group Parent Company SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Salaries and other remuneration 384 373 1 1 Note 8 | Employee benefit expenses, average Contractual pensions to the CEO 2 2 number of employees and sickness absence Contractual pensions, other* 50 30 Other social security costs 139 130 Total 575 535 1 1 Accounting principles Employee benefits Capitalised pension obligations Pension obligations to the CEO and Deputy CEO – – – – Sveaskog has pension obligations according to pension plans derived from collective agreements as well as due to obligations according to the * See also Note 22, Provisions for pensions. incorporation agreement with the Swedish state. The pension plans are either Of costs for contractual pensions, SEK 23 million (5) relate to defined benefit defined contribution or defined benefit and include vested and unvested plans and SEK 29 million (27) to defined contribution plans. pension obligations. The pension plans for employees in current service are primarily funded through premium payments to an insurance company. Salaries and other remuneration by country Defined contribution plans 2017 2016 Obligations primarily relate to obligations to employees linked to the SAF-LO agreement pension and the ITP agreements part 1 (new ITP). Obligations Boards Other Boards Other regarding fees to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in SEKm MDs, Deputy MDs employees MDs, Deputy MDs employees the income statement as the benefits are earned, which normally coincides Parent Company with the period for which premiums are paid. After premiums have been paid to Sweden 1 – 1 – the formal or informal independent insurance company engaged there is no obligation to pay additional premiums. Subsidiaries Sweden 7 369 7 359 Defined benefit plans According to defined benefit plans the amount of pension is determined by of which bonus – – – – factors such as salary, service period and age. Latvia 1 6 1 5 Obligations relate mainly to obligations relating to employees linked to the Finland – – – – ITP agreement’s part 2 (old ITP), as well as obligations for pensions and Lithuania – – – – annuities taken over from the state in conjunction with the incorporation Total subsidiaries 8 375 8 364 (see Note 22 Provisions for pensions). Total 9 375 9 364 Obligations according to the ITP agreement part 2 are secured through premium payments to Alecta. In accordance with a statement issued by the Average number of employees per country Swedish Financial Reporting Board (UFR 10) the ITP plan secured through insurance with Alecta is classified as a multi-employer defined benefit plan. 2017 2017 2016 Access to sufficient information to make it possible to report the Group’s share Women Men Total Total of the defined benefit obligations and the plan assets and costs associated with the plan is not available. The plan is therefore reported as a defined Parent Company – – – – contribution plan which means that premiums paid are recognised as an Subsidiaries expense. Anticipated contributions to the plan for the next reporting period are Sweden 197 619 816 815 SEK 13 million (14). Alecta’s surplus can be distributed to policyholders and/or Latvia 6 24 30 29 the insured. Alecta’s capital coverage target is that 140% of the market value of assets shall be achieved in relation to pension insurance obligations. Finland – – – 1 Alecta’s capital coverage amounted to 154% (149) compared with the Lithuania – – – 1 commitment as per 31 December 2016. Sveaskog’s share of the total number Total subsidiaries 203 643 846 844 of active members in the plan amounted to 0.07% (0.06) which corresponds to Total 203 643 846 844 309 (310) active members. The net obligation, relating to other defined benefit plans, is calculated Gender breakdown in Board and Group Management separately for each plan on the basis of company-specific actuarial assump2017 2016 tions. These include assessments of future salary adjustments, inflation rate, Group Women Men Women Men mortality, attrition and changes in income base amount. The obligations are discounted to a present value. The discount rate is calculated using the market Board members interest on mortgage bonds. AGM elected 3 3 4 3 Measurements are performed by a qualified external actuary. Employee representatives, When the benefits in a plan improve, the proportion of the increased benefit Board members 1 1 1 1 attributable to the employees’ past service cost is recognised as an expense Employee representatives, in the income statement allocated on a straight-line basis over the average deputies – 2 – 2 period until the benefits are fully earned. If the benefits are fully earned an expense is recognised in the income statement directly. CEO – 1 – 1 In accordance with IAS 19 all actuarial gains and losses are recognised in Other Group Management 4 5 4 5 other comprehensive income when they arise. Total 8 12 9 12 Benefits in the event of termination of employment The Boards of Sveaskog AB and Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB are identical. A provision is recognised in conjunction with termination of employment only if the company is demonstrably obligated to terminate an employment prior to the normal date or when benefits are provided as an offer to encourage A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 73 N otes 2017 2016 Remuneration and other benefits during the year, Board of Directors Parent Company Women Men Women Men Board Committee Board members 2017, SEK fees fees Total AGM elected 3 3 4 3 Eva Färnstrand, Board Chairman Employee representatives, (from 26 April 2017)* 353,333 23,333 376,666 Board members 1 1 1 1 Helene Biström (until 26 April 2017) 140,000 3,333 143,333 Employee representatives, Thomas Hahn 170,000 13,333 183,333 deputies – 2 – 2 Annika Nordin* 170,000 26,667 196,667 CEO – 1 – 1 Anna-Stina Nordmark-Nilsson * 170,000 40,000 210,000 Total 4 7 5 7 Sven Wird* 170,000 26,667 196,667 2017 2016 Leif Ljungqvist 0 0 0 Subsidiaries (operating) Women Men Women Men Total 1,173,333 133,333 1,3 06,666 Board members Board Committee AGM elected 6 11 7 11 2016, SEK fees fees Total Employee representatives, Helene Biström, Board Chairman 415,000 20,000 435,000 Board members 1 1 1 1 Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Employee representatives, (until 26 April 2016) 48,333 12,889 61,222 deputies – 2 – 2 Thomas Hahn 157,500 0 157,500 CEO – 1 – 1 Annika Nordin (from 26 April 2016)* 109,000 0 109,000 Total 7 15 8 15 Eva Färnstrand* 157,500 30,000 187,500 Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson* 157,500 40,000 197,500 Information on employee absence due to sickness Sven Wird (from 26 April 2016)* 109,000 0 109,000 Group 2017 2016 Johan Hallberg (until 26 April 2016) – – 0 Leif Ljungqvist (from 26 April 2016) – – 0 Total sickness absence as per cent of employees’ Total 1,153,833 102,889 1,256,722 aggregate normal working hours Men 2.7 2.6 * Fees were invoiced the self-owned companies. Additions were made for Women 4.2 3.2 social security costs. This procedure is cost-neutral for Sveaskog. Total 3.1 2.7 The Board also includes employee representatives. No fees are paid to these Days of sickness absence as per cent of total sickness persons. absence Contiguous period of 60 days or more 46 46 Remuneration and benefits during the year, < 60 days 54 54 Group Management and other senior executives Total 100 100 Salaries and Taxable Pension 2017, SEK remuneration benefits costs * Total Age breakdown of sickness absence in per cent 29 and younger 1.9 1.6 Group Management Per-Olof Wedin, CEO 4,385,056 78,424 1,413,090 5,876,570 30–49 2.8 1.8 Per Matses, 50 and older 3.6 3.8 Deputy CEO and CFO 2,328,100 54,798 631,165 3,014,063 Total 3.1 2.7 Eva Karlsson Berg, Number of long-term healthy people as per cent SVP Central Market Area 1,535,245 198 501,771 2,037,214 of average number of permanent employees* 33.0 35.2 Fredrik Klang, SVP South Market Area 1,340,933 25,387 390,667 1,756,987 * Persons who have been employed for at least three years and have no Anette Waara, absence due to illness in the past two years. SVP North Market Area 1,395,849 46,733 507,572 1,950,154 Roger S Johansson, Principles for remuneration and other benefits to the Board of Directors SVP Svenska Skogsplantor 1,345,696 30,798 376,276 1,752,770 and senior executives Jan Wintzell, SVP Business Development 1,246,818 34,790 411,184 1 692,792 Principles Tommy Nilsson, The Chairman of the Board and other Board members elected by a general SVP Forestry 1,686,381 6,192 439,814 2,132,387 meeting are paid fees in accordance with the Annual General Meeting Viveka Beckeman, resolution. Sveaskog adheres to the state’s guidelines for remuneration to SVP Legal Affairs 1,386,029 198 319,704 1,705,931 senior executives. Inger Thorén Emilsson, Remuneration to the CEO is decided by the Board and to other members SVP HR & Communications 1,371,671 198 524,500 1,896,369 of Group Management by the CEO in consultation with the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration issues are prepared by the Remuneration Committee which consists of Eva Färnstrand and Leif Ljungqvist. Other senior executives Guntars Zvejsalnieks, MD SIA Sveaskog Baltfor (EUR) ** 79,436 79,436 SEK 781,952 781,952 Total (SEK) 18,803,730 277,716 5,515,743 24,597,189 * Pension premiums relating to the year or specified period. ** E UR, exchange rate at 31/12/2017 EUR/SEK 9.8438. 74 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Salaries and Taxable Pension Deputy CEO 2016, SEK remuneration benefits costs * Total Per Matses Group Management Pension Per-Olof Wedin, CEO 4,276,702 79,215 1,281,432 5,637,349 Pension applies from the age of 65. In addition to pension benefits according Per Matses, to national insurance (national pension) pension benefits will be paid according Deputy CEO and CFO 2,271,019 55,647 600,110 2,92,6776 to the ITP plan part 1 applicable at any time. Eva Karlsson Berg, SVP Central Market Area 1,412,211 34,304 398,919 1,845,434 Termination and severance pay Fredrik Klang, In the event of termination triggered by the company, a notice period of six SVP South Market Area 1,296,776 27,449 352,633 1,676,858 months applies. In the event termination is triggered by Per Matses six months. Anette Waara, In the event of termination by the company severance pay will be amount to 18 SVP North Market Area monthly salaries. Salary during notice and severance pay are deducted against (from 15 August 2016) 513,527 17,000 202,219 732,746 other income. Roger S Johansson, Severance pay does not carry pension or holiday entitlement. SVP Svenska Skogsplantor (from 1 July 2016) 619,298 24,568 175,506 819,372 Other members of Group Management and MD of subsidiary in Latvia Lena Sammeli-Johansson, SVP Svenska Skogsplantor Pension (until 31 May 2016) 510,332 24,200 195,103 729,635 From the age of 65 a pension is paid corresponding to the ITP plan. In the Jan Wintzell, event a high-earner’s solution applies, the premium is paid as for a traditional SVP Business Development 1,327,167 29,161 401,884 1,758,212 ITP plan. Tommy Nilsson, One senior executive has a pension agreement outside the ITP plan due to SVP Forestry 1,598,991 5,556 385,800 1,990,347 an agreement entered into previously. Herman Sundqvist, SVP Forestry The MD of the subsidiary in Latvia has pension terms according to Latvian (until 2 February 2016) 411,464 14,758 68,875 495,097 law. Viveka Beckeman, SVP Legal Affairs 1,349,386 275 296,382 1,646,043 Termination and severance pay Inger Thorén Emilsson, In the event termination is triggered by the company, a notice period of 6 SVP HR & Communications months applies. In the event termination is triggered by employees, 3–6 (from 1 February 2016) 1,222,321 351 356,582 1,579,254 months. Karin Ericsson, SVP HR In the event of termination by the company, severance pay is received (until 31 January 2016) 101,448 447 43,351 145,246 amounting to 9–18 monthly salaries. Linda Andersson, Salary during the notice period and severance pay are deducted against SVP Communications other income. (until 31 January 2016) 93,912 275 18,716 112,903 Severance pay does not carry pension or holiday entitlement. One senior executive lacks entitlement to severance pay. No deduction Other senior executives applies to this person. Guntars Zvejsalnieks, MD SIA Sveaskog Baltfor (EUR) ** 80,646 80,646 SEK 771,681 771,681 Total (SEK) 17,776,235 313,206 4,777,512 22,866,953 Note 9 | Amortisation/depreciation according to plan * Pension premiums relating to the year or specified period. and impairment ** EUR, exchange rate at 31/12/2017 EUR/SEK 9.5699. Retroactive salary from 1 January 2015 is included. Group Parent Company SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Senior executives Remuneration to the CEO, other members of Group Management and other Amortisation/depreciation senior executives, consists of basic salary, company car and pension. Incentive according to plan programmes or variable remuneration do not exist. Intangible assets Capitalised expenditure for systems CEO development, etc. 0 1 – – Per-Olof Wedin Pension Property, plant and equipment Pension applies from the age of 65. In addition to pension benefits according Buildings 4 4 0 0 to national insurance (national pension) occupational pension benefits are Land improvements 3 4 – – payable which means that the company annually sets aside the equivalent of Machinery and equipment 74 71 – – 30% of monthly salary to a pension plan including disability insurance, survivor Total amortisation/depreciation 81 80 0 0 cover and waiver of premium. Termination and severance pay In the event of termination triggered by the company, a notice period of six months applies. In the event termination is triggered by Per-Olof Wedin six Note 10 | Financial income and expenses months. In the event of termination by the company severance pay will be amount to 18 monthly salaries. Salary during notice and severance pay are deducted against other income. Accounting principles Severance pay does not carry pension or holiday entitlement. Financial income and expenses Financial income and expenses include interest income on bank deposits, receivables and fixed-income securities, dividends, interest expenses on loans, unrealised and realised gains on financial assets and derivative instruments used within the financial operation as well as exchange differences. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 75 N otes Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on liabilities are settled. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the tax rates and tax calculated according to the effective interest method. Effective interest is the rules that have been established or have been established in practice by the interest that makes the present value of all payments received and made balance sheet date. Adjustment of current tax attributable to previous periods during the fixed interest period equal to the carrying amount of the receivable is included here. or liability. Interest income includes the accrued amount of transaction costs Deferred tax assets concerning non-deductible temporary differences and and any discounts, premiums and other differences between the original tax-loss carry forwards are only reported to the extent that it will be possible value of a receivable and the amount received at maturity. for these to be used. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is longer considered likely that they can be used. determined. Parent Company recognises group contributions in appropriations in Important estimations and assessments accordance with the alternative rule in RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. Measurement of deferred tax is based on how the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are expected to be realised. For Sveaskog this means that the Group deferred tax liability is also dependent on the model assumptions made when SEKm 2017 2016 calculating biological assets. Financial income Dividend 28 11 Profit after financial items Capital gain – 2 Group Interest income 0 2 SEKm 2017 2016 Total 28 15 Sweden 1,711 1,453 Other countries 8 4 Financial expenses Total 1,719 1,457 Interest expenses, pensions –8 –15 Interest expenses, other –112 –159 Other financial expenses –16 –15 Tax expense (–)/tax income (+) Exchange differences 0 0 Group Parent Company Total financial expenses –136 –189 SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total –108 –174 Current tax Tax expense for the period (–)/ The financial part of expenses for own pension obligations have been tax income (+) –272 –175 – – calculated using an interest rate of 1.35% (1.60). Adjustment of tax expense attributable to previous years 0 43 – – Parent Company Total –272 –132 – – SEKm 2017 2016 Other financial income Deferred tax Interest income, other group companies 14 17 Deferred tax income (+)/ tax expense (–) relating to Interest income, other – 0 Temporary differences –88 –135 – – Total 14 17 Total deferred tax –88 –135 – – Total –360 –267 – – Other financial expenses Interest expenses other group companies –185 –169 Interest expenses, other –66 –93 Tax expense (–)/tax income (+) per country Other financial expenses –14 –14 Group Parent Company Total financial expenses –265 –276 SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total –251 –259 Sweden –271 –131 – – Other countries –1 –1 – – Total –272 –132 – – Note 11 | Taxes Difference between nominal and effective tax rate Group Parent Company Accounting principles % 2017 2016 2017 2016 Income taxes comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is reported in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is reported Swedish income tax rate –22.0 –22.0 –22.0 –22.0 in other comprehensive income or in equity, whereby also the associated tax Tax effect between recognised effect is reported in other comprehensive income and equity, respectively. and fiscal profit/loss from Current tax is tax to be paid or received for the current year, with the property deals – – – – application of the tax rates that are established or, established in practice Tax effect due to earlier tax assets as of the balance sheet date. Adjustments of tax paid attributable to previous not recognised as income respectively periods are also included in this. liabilities not recognised as expenses – – – – Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance sheet method on Tax effect attributable to previous the basis of temporary differences between the reported and taxable values years 0.0 3.0 – – of assets and liabilities. The following temporary differences are not taken into account: temporary differences that arises with the initial recognition Tax effect of share of profits of of goodwill and temporary differences on initial recognition of assets and associates recognised net liabilities that are not business combinations and at the time of the trans­ after tax 0.7 0.8 – – action do not affect either reported or taxable profit. Further, such temporary Tax effect due to non-deductible differences attributable to shares or participations in subsidiaries or costs and non-taxable income 0.3 –0.1 – – associated companies that are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable Other 0.0 0.0 – – future are not taken into account either. The valuation of deferred tax is based Effective tax rate according to on how the reported value of assets or liabilities is expected to be realised or income statement –21.0 –18.4 –22.0 –22.0 76 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Tax items recognised in other comprehensive income Note 13 | Intangible assets Group Parent Company SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Tax attributable to items recognised Other intangible assets in other comprehensive income –8 4 – – Other intangible assets acquired or developed internally, are recognised at cost Current tax in group contributions minus accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses. provided(–)/received (+) – – – – Subsequent expenditure Total –8 4 – – Subsequent expenditure for capitalised intangible assets is recognised as an asset in the balance only when it increases the future economic benefits Deferred tax liabilities and tax assets* for the specific asset with which it is associated. All other expenditure is Group Parent Company recognised as an expense when it arises. SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Amortisation Deferred tax liabilities Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis Biological assets, forest land, over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Amortisable intangible assets are other land and buildings 7,489 7,450 – – amortised from the date they are in use. The estimated useful lives are: Other tangible assets 27 34 – – Inventories 24 28 – Estimated Amortisation Silvicultural liability 79 82 – – Intangible assets useful lives rates Provision for remuneration Acquired and generated internally respectively to employees 2 3 – – Capitalised expenditure for systems Tax allocation reserve 326 294 – – development, etc. 5 years 20% Replacement reserve for land 69 46 – – Other untaxed reserves 251 247 – – Capitalised expenditure for Total 8,267 8,184 – – SEKm systems development, etc. Deferred tax assets Cost Financial instruments 13 21 – – Opening balance, 1 January 2016 47 Reserves 1 1 – – Investments 41 Provisions 6 11 – – Reclassifications 11 Total 20 33 – – Sales and disposals 0 Total net deferred tax Exchange differences 0 liability (+)/–asset (–) 8,247 8,151 – – Closing balance, 31 December 2016 99 Recognised as Accumulated revaluations Deferred tax assets 13 22 – – Opening balance, 1 January 2016 4 Deferred tax liabilities* 8,260 8,173 – – Closing balance, 31 December 2016 4 Net deferred tax liabilities 8,247 8,151 – – Accumulated amortisation according to plan Breakdown of deferred tax assets and liabilities*: Opening balance, 1 January 2016 –19 Group Sales and disposals 0 SEKm 2017 2016 Amortisation for the year –1 Deferred tax assets Exchange differences 0 Deferred tax assets to be utilised Closing balance, 31 December 2016 –20 after more than 12 months 13 22 Deferred tax assets to be Accumulated impairment utilized within 12 months – – Opening balance, 1 January 2016 –31 13 22 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 –31 Deferred tax liabilities Closing planned residual values, 31 December 2016 52 Deferred tax liabilities to be paid after more than 12 months 8,260 8,173 Cost Deferred tax liabilities to be paid Opening balance, 1 January 2017 99 within 12 months – – Investments 41 8,260 8,173 Reclassifications 0 Deferred tax liabilities (net) –8,247 –8,151 Sales and disposals 0 Exchange differences 0 * All changes in deferred tax have gone via profit or loss, of which SEK –8 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 140 million (4) via other comprehensive income. Accumulated revaluations Opening balance, 1 January 2017 4 Note 12 | Non-cash items Closing balance, 31 December 2017 4 Group Parent Company Accumulated amortisation according to plan SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 –20 Amortisation/depreciation 81 80 0 0 Sales and disposals 0 Capital gains/losses* –127 –45 –40 –53 Amortisation for the year 0 Capital gains on property sales –321 –131 Exchange differences 0 Share of profits of associations –58 –53 – – Closing balance, 31 December 2017 –20 Change in value of forest assets –200 –319 – – Other –19 –41 – – Accumulated impairment Opening balance, 1 January 2017 –31 Total –644 –509 –40 –53 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 –31 * Of which capital loss for the Group SEK 0 million (–3) included in Closing planned residual values, 31 December 2017 93 Other external costs. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 77 N otes Note 14 | Property, plant and equipment is whether the expenditure relates to replacement of identified components, or parts of the same, whereby such expenditure is recognised as an asset. In cases where a new component is created, the expenditure is also added to Accounting principles cost. Any undepreciated carrying amounts on replaced components, or parts Owned assets of components, are disposed of and recognised as an expense when the Property, plant and equipment are reported as assets in the balance sheet if it replacement takes place. Repairs are recognised as an expense on a current is likely there will be future economic benefits for the company and the cost basis. of the asset can be calculated in a reliable manner. Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost after deduction for Borrowing costs accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost includes the Borrowing costs such as interest and other costs that arise and are directly purchase price and costs directly attributable to putting the asset in place and attributable to purchase, construction or production of a qualifying asset in a suitable condition for use in accordance with the intention of the comprise part of the asset’s cost. Other borrowing costs are recognised as an acquisition. Examples of directly attributable expenses included in cost are expense. delivery and handling, installation, registration of title, consulting services and legal services. The accounting principles for impairment losses are specified Depreciation principles in Note 1. Cost is depreciated to a residual value on a straight-line basis over the useful The cost of own-manufactured property, plant and equipment includes life, land is not depreciated. The Group applies component depreciation which expenditure for material, employee benefits, other manufacturing expenses means that the estimated useful lives of components provide the basis for which are considered directly attributable to the assets. depreciation. Property, plant and equipment that consists of components with different useful lives, are treated as separate components of property, plant and equipment. Estimated Depreciation The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is derecognised from Property, plant and equipment useful lives rates the balance sheet at disposal or sale or when no future economic benefits are Industrial buildings 20–33 years 3–5% expected from use or disposal/sale of the asset. Gains or losses that arise from sale or disposal of an asset comprise the difference between the selling Housing and office buildings 40–50 years 2–2,25% price and the carrying amount of the asset with deduction for direct selling Land improvements 20 years 5% costs. Gains and losses are reported as other operating income/expense. Vehicles and other machinery and equipment 3–6 years 16,5–33% Machines and other technical equipment Subsequent expenditure within Skogsplantor operations 5–7 years 14,29–20% Subsequent expenditure is added to cost only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the asset will accrue to the company and the cost can be estimated in a reliable manner. All other subsequent Assessment of an asset’s residual value and useful life is performed annually. expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it arises. An asset is recognised for impairment if its carrying amount exceeds its Decisive for assessment of when a subsequent expenditure is added to cost assessed recoverable amount. Other property plant and equipment Buildings, Constructions Total other other land and land Machinery and in progress property, plant and SEKm Forest land improvements equipment and advances equipment Group Cost Opening balance, 1 January 2016 2,346 555 810 13 1,378 Investments 45 1 82 1 84 From constructions in progress and advances – – 1 –1 – Reclassification 0 0 – –11 –11 Sales and disposals –7 –36 –49 – –85 Exchange differences, etc. 0 0 1 – 1 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 2,384 520 845 2 1,367 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance, 1 January 2016 – –327 –516 – –843 Sales and disposals – 16 44 – 60 Depreciation for the year – –9 –70 – –79 Exchange differences, etc. – 0 –1 – –1 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 – –320 –543 – –863 Accumulated impairment Opening balance, 1 January 2016 – –3 –3 – –6 Impairment for the year – – – – – Closing balance, 31 December 2016 – –3 –3 – –6 Closing planned residual value, 31 December 2016 2,384 197 299 2 498 Cost Opening balance, 1 January 2017 2,384 520 845 2 1,367 Investments 86 6 52 6 64 From constructions in progress and advances 0 3 3 –6 – Reclassification 0 0 – – – Sales and disposals –10 –17 –96 – –113 Exchange differences, etc. 0 0 0 – – Closing balance, 31 December 2017 2,460 512 804 2 1,318 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance, 1 January 2017 – –320 –543 – –863 Sales and disposals – 4 86 – 90 Depreciation for the year – –7 –73 – –81 Exchange differences, etc. – 0 0 – – Closing balance, 31 December 2017 – –323 –530 – –854 Accumulated impairment Opening balance, 1 January 2017 – –3 –3 – –6 Impairment for the year – – – – – Closing balance, 31 December 2017 – –3 –3 – –6 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 2,460 186 271 2 458 78 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Buildings, circum­stances). Costs for reforestation required according to Swedish law other land and are taken into account. Timber extractions are based on Sveaskog’s felling SEKm Forest land land improvements and forest management plans. Sveaskog has set aside large areas of productive forest land as nature Parent Company conservation areas. The value of standing timber in these nature conservation Cost areas is not included in the value determined on a yield basis. The forest Opening balance, 1 January 2016 39 21 land’s other value in the form of hunting revenues and other lease revenues Investments – – are not included in yield. Sales and disposals –3 0 When calculating cash flows from standing timber an assessment is made Closing balance, 31 December 2016 36 21 of costs and income development 100 years forward in time. Prices are based on a rolling ten-year average (2008–2017). Regarding cost development, Accumulated depreciation according to plan current normal costs and inflation assumptions in the model are based on Opening balance, 1 January 2016 – –5 estimated development in the years 2018–2118. Sales and disposals – 0 Asset value is determined through cash flow before tax discounted to a Depreciation for the year – 0 nominal rate which is estimated to correspond to the long-term weighted cost of capital (WACC) for this asset class. Sveaskog’s Board is of the opinion that Closing balance, 31 December 2016 – –5 this rate should describe the long-term cost of capital for an investment in Closing planned residual value, 31 December 2016 36 16 forest assets and not be affected by short-term fluctuations in market interest rates. Cost Provision to deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12 on the Opening balance, 1 January 2017 36 21 entire value of the biological assets according to IAS 41. Deferred tax is Investments – – calculated on the difference between the book value of the properties and Sales and disposals –2 –1 their fiscal value. The book value of the properties consists of the value of Closing balance, 31 December 2017 34 20 standing timber (see Note 14), forest land value as well as other property values (see Note 14). Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance, 1 January 2017 – –5 Important estimations and assessments Sales and disposals – 0 Since an active market and thereby relevant market prices for standing timber Depreciation for the year – 0 of the scope owned by Sveaskog does not exist, the fair value is calculated as a yield. Closing balance, 31 December 2017 – –5 The estimated cash flow from future revenue from timber extractions after Closing planned residual value, 31 December 2017 34 15 deduction for felling, reforestation and other silvicultural costs has been discounted to a present value. Tax assessment values for Swedish properties In the Sveaskog Group forest assets are recognised divided into standing timber which is recognised as a biological asset at fair value (IAS 41) and Group Parent Company forest land which is recognised at cost. Sveaskog has assessed that relevant SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 market prices that can be used to value forest holdings of Sveaskog’s size do not exist. Sveaskog’s valuation is therefore made by calculating the present Biological assets 57,851 64,063 735 776 value of future anticipated cash flows from the standing forest. Measurement Other land 520 512 34 41 at fair value is based on measurement level three (see Note 26). Calculation Buildings 90 93 11 11 of cash flows is performed for the next 100 years, which is assessed as the Total 58,461 64,668 780 828 forest’s felling cycle. Cash flows are calculated on the basis of felling volumes according to Sveaskog’s current felling plans as well as assessments of Recognised in balance sheet: future price and cost development. Costs for replanting are included in the Forest land 2,460 2,384 34 36 measurement since replanting after felling is obligatory according to law. Standing timber 32,054 31,993 – – Cash flows before tax are discounted by a rate of 5.95% (5.95), which is assessed as corresponding to a long-term weighted cost of capital (WACC) Total 34,514 34,377 34 36 for this class of asset. In total, Sveaskog owns 3.11 million hectares of productive forest land with a volume of standing timber of 304 million m3fo, of which 239 m3fo on the managed land. According to current felling plans, which date from 2013 and are based on a forest optimisation model, felling will amount to approximately Note 15 | Biological assets, standing 6.3 million m3sub per year. This level is expected to remain relatively unchanged until 2028. Subsequently, it is expected to increase steadily to timber and forest land over 7.4 million m3sub by 2116. In 2017. Sveaskog is currently carrying out new felling calculations which are expected to be completed in 2018. Accounting principles In 2017 approximately 55% (43) of volume was sold as sawlogs to sawmills and 41% (50) was pulpwood sold to the pulp and paper industry. Biological assets – standing timber Other volume consists of biofuel in the form of branches and tops which is According to IFRS, forest assets are divided up and recognised as standing primarily used as fuelwood, this volume is not included in the measurement. timber according to IAS 41 and land which is recognised as property, plant and equipment. IAS 41 means that standing timber is measured and Timber stocks, timber extraction and timber growth recognised at fair value at each closing date. Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. Group The listed price in an active market provides the best basis for calculation 2017 2016 of the fair value of the assets. There is no functioning market for standing timber of the size that corresponds to Sveaskog’s holding and therefore there Timber stocks*, million m fo, managed land 3 239** 245 are no relevant market prices. Fair value has therefore been calculated as a Net growth*, million m3fo, managed land 10.9** 11.3 value determined on a yield basis, where cash flow from future revenue from Timber extraction from own forests m3sub, managed land 6.55 6.46 timber extractions after deduction for felling, reforestation, road and other silvicultural costs are discounted to a present value. * Managed land. 1 m3fo corresponds to c. 0.82 m3sub. These calculations include future timber extractions which correspond ** Adjustments have been made using laser scanning compared with to a forest growth cycle (60–120 years depending on geographical previous year. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 79 N otes Model assumptions Forest land Revenues (timber prices) are based on prices from a ten-year average Opening balance, 1 January 2016 2,346 (2008–2017) and thereafter an assessed development during the years Acquisition of forest land 45 2017–2118 with a nominal price increase of 1.5% (1.5) per year. Sales of forest land –7 For production costs (felling costs) a current normal cost is applied. The Closing balance, 31 December 2016 2,384 normal cost corresponds to a three-year average (result for current year, previous year as well as budget for next year). These costs are based on an Opening balance, 1 January 2017 2,384 estimated development for the years 2018–2118 with a nominal cost increase Acquisition of forest land 86 of 2.0% (2.0) per year. Sales of forest land –10 Sveaskog has set aside areas of productive forest land as nature Closing balance, 31 December 2017 2,460 conservation areas. These areas are not included in the value of standing timber. Timber prices, SEK per m3sub Sensitivity analysis of key measurement parameters and their impact 600 on Sveaskog’s standing timber 550 Discount rate • A decrease in the discount rate of 0.5 percentage points will increase the value of standing timber by SEK 3,400 million (3,400). 500 • An increase in the discount rate of 0.5 percentage points will reduce value of standing timber by SEK 2,900 million (2,900). 450 Revenues (timber prices) 400 • A decrease in the annual price increase of 0.5 percentage points will 2017 rolling ten-year average = SEK 475 m sub 3 reduce the value of standing timber by SEK 7,300 million (7,300). 2016 rolling ten-year average = SEK 473 m3sub 350 • An increase in the annual price increase of 0.5 percentage points will Price on closing date 2017 = SEK 453 m3sub increase the value of standing timber by SEK 8,900 million (8,900). Price on closing date 2016 = SEK 448 m3sub 300 Costs (felling, silviculture, road and joint costs) 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 • An increase in the annual cost increase of 0.5 percentage points will Ten-year index, nominal annual prices reduce the value of standing timber by SEK 5,700 million (5,600). Future estimated price trend • A decrease in the annual cost increase of 0.5 percentage points will Ten-year average 2008–2017 increase the value of standing timber by SEK 4,600 million (4,500). Summary model assumptions 2017 2016 Discount rate 5.95% 5.95% Note 16 | Shares and participations Revenue 10-year average 10-year average Nominal price increase 1.50% per year 1.50% per year Accounting principles Costs Normal cost* Normal cost* Subsidiaries Nominal cost increase 2.00% per year 2.00% per year Subsidiaries are companies in which the Parent Company Sveaskog AB exercises control. An investor has control over the investee when it is exposed * Normal cost = result for current year and previous year and budget to or entitled to variable returns from its involvement in the investee and can for next year. influence returns through its control over the investee. Subsidiaries are reported according to the acquisition method. This method means that acquisition of a subsidiary is regarded as a transaction whereby SEKm Standing timber the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities Standing timber and contingent liabilities. The consolidated cost is identified through a Cost purchase price allocation (PPA) in conjunction with the business combination. Opening balance, 1 January 2016 31,751 This analysis identifies the cost for the participations or business, the fair value of acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities and contingent Acquisition of standing timber 13 liabilities. The difference between the cost of the subsidiary’s shares and the Sales of standing timber –90 fair value of acquired assets, assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities Changes due to felling –1,426 comprises consolidated goodwill. If the acquisition cost is less than fair value Changes in fair value 1,745 of the acquired subsidiary’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly in Closing balance, 31 December 2016 31,993 profit or loss. Transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss. The subsidiary’s financial statements are included in consolidated financial Opening balance, 1 January 2017 31,993 statements from the acquisition date until the date control ceases Acquisition of standing timber 28 Sales of standing timber –167 Changes due to felling –1,541 Changes in fair value 1,741 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 32,054 80 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Associates Other Associates are companies over which the Group exercises a significant securities held influence, over operational and financial governance, normally through as non-current ownership of between 20 and 50% of the voting rights. Exceptions may exist SEKm Associates* assets if the Group does not exercise a significant influence nor intends to exercise a Group significant influence. From the date that a significant influence is obtained Opening balance, 1 January 2016 354 75 participations in subsidiaries are recognised according to the equity method in the consolidated accounts. The equity method means that the carrying Correction OB 2016 –5 – amount in the Group of shares in associates corresponds to the Group’s share Investments – 1 of equity in associates as well as consolidated goodwill and any residual Sales – –1 values on consolidated surplus and deficit values. In the consolidated income Dividend –6 – statement, the Group’s share of associates’ net profit after tax and any Share of profits of associates** 53 – non-controlling interests also adjusted for any depreciation, impairment or Share of other comprehensive income dissolution of acquired surplus and deficit values is reported as “Share of of associates –6 – profits of associates”. Dividends received from associates reduce carrying Closing balance, 31 December 2016 391 75 amounts. With effect from this annual report the Group includes associate’s other comprehensive income in Statement of comprehensive income and Opening balance, 1 January 2017 391 75 figures for the comparative year have been recalculated. This represents Investments – 1 correction of an error. Dividend –50 – Any difference at acquisition between the cost of the holding and the investor’s share of net fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets, Share of profits of associates** 58 – liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Share of other comprehensive income Business Combinations. of associates 3 – When the share of recognised losses in the associate exceeds the carrying Closing balance, 31 December 2017 403 76 amount of the interests in the Group, the value of these interests is reduced to zero. Accounting for losses also takes place against non-current financial * The holding in Setra Group is reported according to the equity method. The balances without guarantees, which in its economic significance comprises shareholdings in other associates are measured at cost. The equity method part of the investor’s net investment in the associate. When share in the is not applied to these due to their negligible significance. losses of an associate amounts to or exceeds its holding in the associate, no ** Share in associates’ profit after tax and dividend for 2017 (2016) as well as further losses are recognised unless a guarantee has been provided to cover change in intra-group reserve relating to Setra. losses arising in the associate. The equity methods is applied until the date a significant influence ceases. Specification of revenue, earnings, assets and liabilities Correction in associate (Setra Group) The Group previously assessed that the effect of Sveaskog’s share of associates’ other comprehensive income was immaterial but now makes a change and includes Sveaskog’s share of associates’ other comprehensive SEKm 2017 2016 income. Earlier periods have been recalculated and the total effect of SEK Setra Group –11 million has been recognised in equity at 1 January 2016 with SEK –5 According to company’s accounts: million and in profit for 2016 with SEK –6 million. A table showing these Net sales 4,139 4,043 amounts for the period 2012-2016 is provided below. Profit after tax 116 103 Profit from continuing operations 116 103 Other comprehensive income 7 –12 2012 and Comprehensive income for the period 123 91 SEKm earlier 2013 2014 2015 2016 Non-current assets 825 864 Other comprehensive income 5 –17 –11 18 –6 Current assets 1,723 1,572 Total comprehensive income Equity 1,372 1,347 for the year 5 –17 –11 18 –6 Non-current liabilities 465 446 Financial assets Current liabilities 711 643 Shares in associates 5 –13 –23 –5 –11 Equity Parent Company Reserves 10 –13 –24 –2 –7 Earned profit –5 0 1 –3 –4 Cost Impact on earnings per share Opening cost 24,934 24,934 before and after dilution NA NA NA NA NA Closing cost 24,934 24,934 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 81 N otes Specification of shares and participations and other holdings held as non-current assets Equity, Profit for the Carrying amount, Domicile/ Ownership in %* SEKm, 31 Dec year, SEKm SEKm, 31 Dec Reg. no. country No. of shares 2017 2016 2017 2017 2017 2016 Sveaskog AB 556558-0031 Direct holding in group company Hjälmare Kanal AB 556002-4472 Stockholm 5,936 100 100 2 – 3 3 Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB 556016-9020 Stockholm 95,157,179 100 100 20,248 1,123 24,931 24,931 Total directly owned group companies 24,934 24,934 Indirect holding in group company MPH Skydd AB 556852-1339 Stockholm 50 100 100 1 0 – – SIA Sveaskog Baltfor 40003293038 Riga, Latvia 2,500 100 100 24 7 – – Skogsriket Sveaskog AB 556097-2811 Östersund 1,000 100 100 0 – – – Stöten Mark AB (Merger of Sveaskog Timber AB 171227) 556000-1074 Stockholm 90,000 100 100 362 0 – – Sveaskog Försäkringsaktiebolag 516401-8466 Stockholm 500,000 100 100 50 – – – Sveaskog Timber AB (Merged in Stöten Mark AB 171227) 556027-0703 Stockholm – – 100 – – – – Group’s holdings in associates Parent Company’s indirect holdings Setra Group AB 556034-8483 Stockholm 25,761,671 50 50 1,372 116 403 402 Total associates 403 402 Group’s other securities held as non-current assets Parent Company’s indirect holdings EkoNord Invest AB 556769-8625 Krokom 7,143 14.3 14.3 – – 9 9 Shorelink AB 556053-7168 Piteå 18,775 24.1 24.1 – – 2 2 SunPine AB 556682-9122 Piteå 16,685 25.1 25.1 – – 50 50 Swe Tree Technologies AB 556573-9587 Umeå 408,333 13.8 13.8 – – 14 13 Torsta AB 556892-2420 Krokom 200 5.0 5.0 – – 0 0 Svensk Skogskommunikation AB 559031-9231 Stockholm 25,000 25.0 25.0 0 0 Other participations 1 1 Total Group’s other securities held as non-current assets 76 75 Total Group’s holding of shares in subsidiaries and other securities held as non-current assets 479 477 * Share of voting rights agrees for all participations with share of equity. A complete statutory specification of group companies’ holdings is included in the annual report sent to the Swedish Companies Registration Office. This specification is available at www.sveaskog.se. Note 17 | Non-current receivables Group SEKm 2017 2016 Group Parent Company Felling rights 19 15 SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Work in progress on contract 92 77 Consumables 14 14 Interest-bearing non-current Products in process* 118 117 receivables Finished products* 297 359 Receivables from group companies – – 2,400 2,000 Total 540 582 Other non-current receivables 5 7 Total 5 7 2,400 2,000 * Products in process pertain to seedlings, other plants and seed. Finished products pertain to timber inventories, felling residues and tree parts by the Non-interest bearing non-current roadside, fuel at terminals and cuttings. receivables Other non-current receivables – – – – Total – – – – Grand total 5 7 2,400 2,000 Note 19 | Trade receivables, loans and other receivables Accounting principles Note 18 | Inventories Trade receivables are classified in the category loans and receivables. Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method. A reserve for reduction in value of trade ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES receivables is made when there is objective proof that the Group will not Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. receive all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course Impairment of trade receivables is recognised in operating expenses. Trade of business less the estimated costs for completion and selling costs. receivables’ anticipated duration is short, however, so recognition takes place The cost of processed timber amounts to fair value with deduction for at a nominal amount without discount. estimated selling costs at the time of felling in accordance with the accounting principle for biological assets. Cost of inventories is calculated according to the first-in, first-out method (FIFO) and includes expenditure that arises from acquisition of inventory assets and their transport to their current location and condition. Cost includes a reasonable proportion of indirect costs based on normal capacity utilisation. 82 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Group Parent Company Proposed profit distribution, SEK SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Unappropriated profit available to the Annual General Meeting: Trade receivables and loans Trade receivables 956 958 – – Profit brought forward 8,323,285,283 Profit for the year 102 Reserve for doubtful trade receivables –1 –2 – – Receivables from associates 111 103 – – Total 8,323,285,385 Receivables from group companies, The Board proposed that the profit be distributed as follows: interest-bearing – – 0 0 Receivables from other group Dividend to shareholder 900,000,000 companies – – 214 199 Carried forward to new account 7,423,285,385 Total 1,066 1,059 214 199 Total 8,323,285,385 Group Parent Company SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Other receivables Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing | Prepaid expenses 57 58 11 11 liabilities and other financial instruments Accrued income 28 24 – – Other current receivables 342 235 67 65 Accounting principles Total 427 317 78 76 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash as well as immediately available deposits with banks and similar institutions as well as short-term investments. Cash and bank balances consist of bank deposits and investments that can Total trade receivables, loans easily be converted into cash, the latter with a maximum duration at and other receivables 1,493 1,376 292 275 acquisition of 3 months. Carrying amount, cost, is regarded as a good Of which financial 1,387 1,270 281 264 approximation of fair value since a discount based on market conditions is not assessed as leading to significant differences. See Note 26 for an age analysis and information on due non-impaired receivables. Short-term investments consist of commercial papers according to the established counterparty regulation (see Note 26). Investments have a maximum duration of 12 months. Investments are recognised at cost. Unutilised credit facilities amount to SEK 4,200 million (4,200). Note 20 | Equity For most of the Group a so-called group account is used with Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB as the main account holder. Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB’s dealings with group companies relating to the group account are recognised Accounting principles as current interest-bearing receivables and current interest-bearing liabilities Equity in the Group consists of share capital. reserved and earned profits to group companies. Sveaskog AB’s receivables from group companies relate (incl. profit for the year). Equity in the Parent Company consists of share to bank deposits within the group account system. capital, statutory reserve, profit brought forward and profit for the year. Financial liabilities consist of liabilities from the banking system via bilateral Dividends to shareholders are recognised as a liability to shareholders bank loan agreements as well as the capital market via commercial papers after the Annual General Meeting has approved the dividend. and bond loans. The liability is recognised at cost, fair value for the current liabilities is measured at book value including accrued interest which is Group assessed as a good approximation of fair value. The fair value of non-current Share capital debt instruments is determined using valuation models such as, for example, The number of shares amounts to 118,373,034 A shares with a quotient value discounting of future cash flows to quoted market interest rates for the of SEK 1. respective maturity. All the Group’s derivatives are covered by an ISDA agreement which Reserves means that Sveaskog has right of set-off for assets and liabilities against the Reserves consist of hedging reserve and translation reserve. same counterparty in the event of a credit event. Set-off of assets and Hedging reserve liabilities is not applied in the accounts. To calculate the fair value of the The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of cumulative net change derivative a cash flow measurement is used. Interest is a market-based swap in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments attributable to hedging rate which is recalculated to a yield curve and a zero coupon curve. The transactions not yet completed. heading Derivatives in the note includes both interest-bearing and non-­ interest bearing derivatives. Translation reserve When specifying variable interest rates, the most recent variable rate The translation reserve includes all exchange rate differences that arise on (STIBOR three months) for each loan that applied at 31 December 2017 has translation of financial statements from foreign operations that have prepared been used. their financial statements in the currency used in the economic environment in which they have their main operations (functional currency) to SEK. The Derivatives and cash flow hedges Parent Company and the Group present their financial statements in Swedish Derivatives comprise among other things forward contracts, options and kronor. swaps that are used to cover exchange rate fluctuations and exposure to Earned profit interest rate risks. At present, Sveaskog does not hedge exchange rate risks. Earned profit in the Group consists of profit for the year as well as the Changes in value of derivative instruments are recognised in profit or loss previous year’s earned profit after any distribution of profits. based on the purpose of the contract. The Board submits a dividend proposal. The amount of the dividend is If hedge accounting is not applied, increases and decreases in value decided by the Annual General Meeting. of a derivative are recognised as income and expenses respectively within operating profit or loss or within net financial items based on the purpose of Parent Company the use of the derivative instrument and the extent to which such use related to an operating item or a financial item. Statutory reserve If hedge accounting is not applied for the use of interest rate swaps, the The intention of the statutory reserve was to save part of annual profit not interest coupon is recognised as an interest expense and other change in required to cover a loss carried forward. A provision to a statutory reserve is value of the interest rate swap is recognised as a financial income or financial no longer required. expense. Unrestricted equity Profit brought forward in the Parent Company consists of profit for the year Cash flow hedges as well as the previous year’s profit carried forward after any distribution of Interest rate swaps are used to hedge interest rate risk and fixed interest. profit. Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value in the balance sheet. In the The Board submits a dividend proposal. The amount of the dividend is income statement, accrued interest is recognised continuously as an interest decided by the Annual General Meeting. expense and other changes in value of the interest rate swap are recognised A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 83 N otes in other comprehensive income as long as the criteria for hedge accounting On each reporting date, the company evaluates whether there are objective and effectiveness are met. In hedge accounting the excess ineffective indications that a financial asset or group of financial assets are in need of component is recognised in the same way as changes in value of derivatives recognition of impairment. not used for hedge accounting. Financial instruments are classified in the following categories. In order to meet requirements for hedge accounting there must be an unequivocal link to the hedged item. Furthermore, it is required that the Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss hedge effectively protects the hedged item, that hedging documentation This category consists of two sub groups: financial assets and liabilities held is prepared and that effectiveness can be measured and followed up for trading. A financial asset and liability are classified as held for trading if it continuously. Gains and losses on hedges are recognised in profit or loss at was acquired to be sold in the short term. Derivatives are classified as held the same time as gains and losses are recognised for the hedged items. for trading except when hedge accounting is applied, see further under If the requirements for hedge accounting are no longer met, the derivative Derivatives and hedge accounting below. Assets and liabilities in this instrument is recognised at fair value with change in value through profit or category are measured on a current basis at fair value with changes in value loss in accordance with the principle described above. recognised in profit or loss. Liabilities and derivatives are level 2 items, for specification of the different levels see Note 26 Financial risks. Disclosures on financial instrument categories Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet on the assets side Loans and trade receivables include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, shares, loan receivables Loans and trade receivables are financial assets that do not comprise and bond receivables. Among liabilities and equity there are trade payables, derivatives, with fixed payments with payments that can be determined and loan liabilities and derivatives, non-current liabilities and interest-bearing which are not listed in an active market. Receivables arise when the company non-current and current liabilities. provides money, goods and services directly to the borrower without the Financial instruments are initially recognised at cost corresponding to the intention of trading in receivable rights. Assets in this category are measured instrument’s fair value through profit or loss with the addition of transaction at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined on the basis of the effective costs for all financial instruments apart from those that belong to the category interest rate calculated on the acquisition date. financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Recognition thereafter depends on classification as set out below. Available-for-sale financial assets A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value with changes in when the company becomes a party to the contractual conditions of the value in other comprehensive income. instrument. Trade receivables are recognised in the balance sheet when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognised when the counterparty has Other financial liabilities performed and a contractual obligation to pay exists, even if an invoice has Financial liabilities not held for trading are measured in subsequent periods at not been received. amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined on the basis of the effective A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the interest rate calculated when the liability was assumed. This means that contractual rights are realised, expired or the company loses control over surplus and deficit values are accrued over the duration of the liability. them. The same applies to part of a financial asset. A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual obligation is met For other disclosures about the Group’s and the Parent Company’s financing or otherwise extinguished. The same applies to part of a financial liability. and financial risks, refer to Note 26 Financial Risks. Financial instruments are Acquisition and divestment of financial assets are reported on the trade date also described in more detail in Notes 16, 17, 19 and 23. which is the day when the company undertakes to acquire or divest the asset. Derivatives at Available-forfair value Derivatives Other Loans and trade sale financial through profit used for financial receivables assets or loss hedging liabilities Book value Fair value Group, SEKm, financial instruments 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Interest-bearing assets and liabilities Interest-bearing non-current assets Interest-bearing other non-current receivables 5 7 – – – – – – – – 5 7 5 7 Total 5 7 – – – – – – – – 5 7 5 7 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances 1,144 200 – – – – – – – – 1,144 200 1,144 200 Short-term investments 537 870 – – – – – – – – 537 870 537 870 Total 1,681 1,070 – – – – – – – – 1,681 1,070 1,681 1,070 Total interest-bearing assets 1,686 1,077 – – – – – – – – 1,686 1,077 1,686 1,077 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities MTN (Ceiling SEK 8,000m) – – – – – – – – 4,387 3,987 4,387 3,987 4,545 4,155 Bank facilities (Ceiling SEK 4,200m) – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Bond loans – – – – – – – – 800 1,200 800 1,200 801 1,201 Total – – – – – – – – 5,187 5,187 5,187 5,187 5,346 5,356 Interest-bearing current liabilities Commercial paper programme (Ceiling SEK 5,000m) – – – – – – – – 2,412 2,271 2,412 2,271 2,411 2,270 MTN (Ceiling SEK 8,000m) – – – – – – – – 600 1,000 600 1,000 600 1,021 Bank facilities – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Bonds – – – – – – – – 400 – 400 – 400 – Unutilised bank overdraft facility and overnight deposit – – – – – – – – – 10 – 10 – 10 Total – – – – – – – – 3,412 3,281 3,412 3,281 3,411 3,301 Total interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – – – – 8,599 8,468 8,599 8,468 8,757 8,657 Interest rate derivative liability Interest rate futures net (nom amount SEK 0m) – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Interest rate swaps Short<1 year (nom amount SEK 1,100m) – – – – 3 – 27 – – – 30 – 30 – Interest rate swaps Long>1 year nom amount SEK 1,700m) – – – – 9 15 68 127 – – 77 142 77 142 Total – – – – 12 15 95 127 – – 107 142 107 142 84 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Derivatives at Available-forfair value Derivatives Other Loans and trade sale financial through profit used for financial receivables assets or loss hedging liabilities Book value Fair value Group, SEKm, financial instruments 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-interest bearing financial instruments Non-current non-interest bearing assets Other securities held as non-current assets (spec. Note 16 Shares and participations) – – 76 75 – – – – – – 76 75 76 75 Total – – 76 75 – – – – – – 76 75 76 75 Current non-interest bearing assets Trade receivables and other receivables 1,387 1,270 – – – – – – – – 1,387 1,270 1,387 1,270 Total 1,387 1,270 – – – – – – – – 1,387 1,270 1,387 1,270 Total non-interest bearing assets 1,387 1,270 76 75 – – – – – – 1,463 1,345 1,463 1,345 Non-current non-interest bearing liabilities Non-current non-interest bearing liabilities – – – – – – – – 11 13 11 13 11 13 Total – – – – – – – – 11 13 11 13 11 13 Current non-interest bearing liabilities Trade payables – – – – – – – – 790 751 790 751 790 751 Other current liabilities excl. derivatives – – – – – – – – 100 75 100 75 100 75 Total – – – – – – – – 890 826 890 826 890 826 Total non-interest bearing liabilities – – – – – – – – 901 839 901 839 901 839 Total financial instruments 3,073 2,347 76 75 –12 –15 –95 –127 –9,500 –9,307 –6,458 –7,027 –6,616 –7,216 Reconciliation of liabilities attributable to financing operations, Group Non-cash flow events Changed Changes in SEKm 2015 Cash flow Acquisitions interest rates fair value 2016 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 5,187 – – – – 5,187 Interest-bearing current liabilities 3,457 –176 – – – 3,281 Total liabilities attributable to financing operations 8,644 –176 0 0 0 8,468 Non-cash flow events Changed Changes in SEKm 2016 Cash flow Acquisitions interest rates fair value 2017 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 5,187 – – – – 5,187 Interest-bearing current liabilities 3,281 131 – – – 3,412 Total liabilities attributable to financing operations 8,468 131 0 0 0 8,599 Interest rate terms Group at 31 December 2017 Nominal amount in oriNominal values SEKm Interest rate % Fixed-interest Currency ginal currency Total Interest-bearing assets Short-term investments –0.23 Variable SEK 537 537 Cash and bank balances –0.4 Variable SEK 1,144 1,144 Interest-bearing liabilities Commercial papers –0.26 Variable SEK 2,410 2,410 Bonds MTN Bond 2.35 Fixed SEK 2,060 2,060 MTN FRN 0.32 Variable SEK 2,930 2,930 Effect of interest rate swaps 1.98 Fixed SEK 1,200 1,200 Bond loan 0.93 Variable SEK 1,200 1,200 Effect of interest rate swaps 3.57 Fixed SEK 1,200 1,200 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 85 N otes Loans and Available-for-sale Other financial trade receivables financial assets liabilities Book value PARENT COMPANY, SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Interest-bearing assets and liabilities Non-current interest-bearing assets Receivables from group companies 1,400 2,000 – – – – 1,400 2,000 Total 1,400 2,000 – – – – 1,400 2,000 Current interest-bearing assets Receivables from group companies 1,000 – – – – – 1,000 – Total 1,000 – – – – – 1,000 – Total interest-bearing assets 2,400 2,000 – – – – 2,400 2,000 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities MTN – – – – 4,387 3,987 4,387 3,987 Bank facilities – – – – – – – – Bond loans – – – – 800 1,200 800 1,200 Total – – – – 5,187 5,187 5,187 5,187 Current interest-bearing liabilities Commercial paper programme – – – – 2,412 2,271 2,412 2,271 MTN – – – – 600 1,000 600 1,000 Bank facilities – – – – – – – – Bond loans – – – – 400 – 400 – Liabilities to group companies – – – – 10,589 9,849 10,589 9,849 Total – – – – 14,001 13,120 14,001 13,120 Total interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 19,188 18,307 19,188 18,307 Non-interest bearing financial instruments Current non-interest bearing assets Receivables from other group companies 214 199 – – – – 214 199 Other receivables 67 65 – – – – 67 65 Total non-interest bearing assets 281 264 – – – – 281 264 Current non-interest bearing liabilities Liabilities to group companies – – – – 0 0 0 0 Other current liabilities – – – – 0 0 0 0 Total non-interest bearing liabilities – – – – 0 0 0 0 Total financial instruments 2,681 2,264 – – –19,188 –18,307 –16,507 –16,043 Reconciliation of liabilities attributable to financing operations, Parent Company Non-cash flow events Changed Changes in SEKm 2015 Cash flow Acquisitions interest rates fair value 2016 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 5,187 0 – – – 5,187 Interest-bearing current liabilities 12,146 974 – – – 13,120 Total liabilities attributable to financial operations 17,333 974 0 0 0 18,307 Non-cash flow events Changed Changes in SEKm 2016 Cash flow Acquisitions interest rates fair value 2017 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 5,187 – – – 5,187 Interest-bearing current liabilities 13,120 881 – – – 14,001 Total liabilities attributable to financial operations 18,307 881 0 0 0 19,188 86 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Note 22 | Provisions for pensions Group SEKm 2017 2016 Defined contribution plans Net cost of benefit from Obligations mainly relate to obligations to employees linked to the SAF-LO defined benefit pension plans Agreement Pension but also obligations to employees linked to the ITP-1 Operating expense 9 –7 agreement. Obligations relating to payments to defined contribution plans are Interest component in increase for the year recognised as an expense in the income statement when they arise. of present value of pension obligations 8 15 Actuarial gains/losses due to Defined contribution plans changed financial assumptions 10 45 Obligations mainly relate to obligations to employees linked to the ITP 2 agreement and obligations relating to pensions and annuities taken over Actuarial gains/losses due to from the state in conjunction with the incorporation agreement under which experience-based changes –6 –21 Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB took over the Swedish Forest Service’s operations Recognised pension expense 21 32 and assets as per 1 July 1992 as well as corresponding obligations at Svenska Skogsplantor AB, also taken over from the state in conjunction with Expected maturities for pension provisions that company’s takeover of operations and assets from the Swedish Forest Within 1 year (Included in interest-bearing Agency as per 1 July 1994. In addition there are some temporary obligations current liabilities and provisions) 53 60 added in conjunction with rationalisation and restructuring of operations. Beyond 1 year (Included in The Group’s recognised provisions for pensions correspond to the present Provisions for pensions) 439 479 value of these pension obligations except for ITP 2. Total 492 539 Obligations essentially relate to obligations taken over from the state in conjunction with the takeover of operations and related matters after the 31 Dec 31 Dec takeover date. Obligations also include vested commitments to some % 2017 2016 personnel whose employment accompanied the takeover of operations in 1992 as well as some additional pension obligations that are not yet tax Discount factor 1.35 1.60 deductible. The amount taken up includes a provision to cover some Inflation index for consumer prices 2.0 2.0 inadequacies in the basis taken over from the state. Since there are no new Income inflation 3.0 3.0 earnings, the risks are primarily limited to changes in the discount rate but a sensitivity analysis is also performed for life expectancy and inflation. Future salary increased 3.0 3.0 The pension liability is calculated according to IAS 19. Actuarial gains Mortality assumption DUS14 DUS14 and losses due to experience-based adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Sensitivity analysis discount rate The defined benefit pension obligation is calculated annually by A 1.0% increase in the discount rate means a decrease in the liability of independent actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit obligation SEK 36 million (39). A 1.0% decrease in the discount rate means an increase is determined by discounting estimated cash flows using an interest rate in the liability of SEK 50 million (54). for mortgage bonds with the same duration as the pension liability. The contractual non-vested pension entitlement relating to defined benefit Sensitivity analysis inflation pension plans that are earned continuously is financed through premium A 0.5% increase in inflation means an increase in the liability of SEK 23 payments to Alecta. Alecta is capitalised on a collective basis which provides million (24). A 0.5% decrease in inflation means a decrease in the liability a buffer for insurance undertakings against variations in return on capital and of SEK 19 million (20). insurance risks. For employees linked to defined benefit plans administered by Alecta (ITP plan) and not included in the so-called high-earner solution Sensitivity analysis mortality/life expectancy premiums in 2017 amounted to SEK 17 million (17). See also Note 8, Increased life expectancy by one year means an increase in the liability of Employee benefits, average number of employees and sickness absence SEK 32 million (32). Reduced life expectancy by one year means a decrease relating to accounting for Alecta. Provisions for vested commitments are in the liability of SEK 26 million (27). calculated, however, as if earning continuously takes place even if the commitment to the creditor does not arise until the pension date. Anticipated weighted average duration for the present value of these The tables below provide an overview of the items linked to pension obligations as per 31 December 2017 is 7.89 years (7.78). The discount rate is obligations treated as defined benefit and funded obligations and which are determined by the market rate on mortgage bonds. Adjustment is made for included in the net cost of the benefits recognised in the consolidated income the difference between real and nominal government bonds. In this way we statement. can keep the inflation assumption at Riksbanken’s long-term inflation target. Group SEKm 2017 2016 Carrying amount of defined benefit pension plans Note 23 | Non-interest bearing liabilities Present value of obligations 492 539 Recognised provisions for pensions 492 539 Accounting principles Trade payables are classified in the category other financial liabilities. Trade Changes in recognised pension provisions payables have a short anticipated duration and are initially measured at fair in 2017 and 2016 respectively value, subsequently amortised cost using the effective interest method. Trade Provision at 31/12/2016 and 31/12/2015 respectively 539 580 payables’ anticipated duration is short, however, so recognition is at a nominal Actuarial gains/losses due to changed amount without discount. financial assumptions 10 45 Actuarial gains/losses due to Trade payables, etc. Group Parent Company experience-based changes –6 –21 SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 Benefits paid –56 –65 Other change 5 0 Current liabilities Trade payables 783 747 – – Recognised provisions to pensions 492 539 Liabilities to subsidiaries 7 4 – – Liabilities to group companies – – 0 0 Total 790 751 0 0 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 87 N otes Other liabilities Group Parent Company and it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 settle the obligation and a reliable estimation of the amount can be made. Derivative liability 107 142 – – Provision for resource adjustment Prepaid income 32 31 – – A provision for restructuring is recognised when there is an adopted, detailed Accrued costs, etc. 100 128 30 51 and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either started or been Other current liabilities 105 87 0 1 publicly announced. No provision is made for future operating expenses. Total 344 388 30 52 Environmental provisions An environmental provision is recognised in the balance sheet when an Total trade payables existing legal or informal obligation exists due to an event that has occurred and other liabilities 1,134 1,139 30 52 that leads to an outflow of financial resources. Of which financial 890 826 0 0 Onerous contract A provision for an onerous contract is recognised when the anticipated benefits expected to be received from a contract are lower than unavoidable costs for meeting the obligations under the contract. Note 24 | Other provisions Key assessments and estimations Environment Accounting principles Ongoing examinations and valuations are made of possible and existing A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when an existing legal or environmental pollution on Sveaskog’s land. informal obligation exists as a consequence of an event that has occurred, Opening Closing Of which Of which balance Reversed New balance current non-current SEKm 1 January 2016 provisions provisions Utilisation 31 Dec 2016 portion portion Group Provision for resource adjustment 3 0 11 –3 11 8 3 Provision for archive costs, historical impediments, roads and bridges150 150 –1 – –7 142 10 132 Environmental provisions 23 – 5 –4 24 2 22 Onerous contracts and other provisions 3 – 3 –4 2 1 1 Total 179 –1 19 –18 179 21 158 Opening Closing Of which Of which balance Reversed New balance current non-current SEKm 1 January 2017 provisions provisions Utilisation 31 Dec 2017 portion portion Group Provision for resource adjustment 11 –3 26 –5 29 28 1 Provision for archive costs, historical impediments, roads and bridges150 142 – 2 –8 136 8 128 Environmental provisions 24 – 1 –2 23 2 21 Onerous contracts and other provisions 2 – 3 –4 1 1 0 Total 179 –3 32 –19 189 39 150 Provision for resource adjustment Reconciliation of certain balance sheet items Provisions to a reserve for resource adjustment in Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB against the balance sheet, Group relate to reorganisations in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Group SEKm 2017 2016 Provision for archive costs In accordance with the incorporation agreement from 1992 between the state MTN loan non-current portion Note 21 4,387 3,987 and Domän AB (today Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB, SFAB) SFAB is responsible Bond loan non-current portion Note 21 800 1,200 for archive costs, so-called safe-keeping, relating the Swedish Forest Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 5,187 5,187 Service’s documents. The documents are archived at The National Archives. The undertaking is in perpetuity. Non-current portion of other provisions Note 24 above 150 158 Other provisions (non-current) 150 158 Provision for historical impediments Provisions for historical impediments relates to costs for remedying Commercial paper Note 21 2,412 2,271 unapproved reforestations. MTN loan current portion Note 21 600 1,000 Bond loan current portion Note 21 400 – Provision for roads and bridges Unutilised bank overdraft facility The provisions relates to a legal maintenance obligation for sub-standard and overnight deposit Note 21 – 10 roads, bridges and dams. Current portion of provisions for pensions Note 22 53 60 Interest-bearing current liabilities and provisions 3,465 3,341 Current portion of provisions for pensions Note 24 above 39 21 Trade payables and other liabilities Note 23 1,134 1,139 Trade payables, other liabilities and provisions (current) 1,173 1,160 88 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 N otes Note 25 | Pledged assets and contingent liabilities The lender base shall consist of various financing sources so that too great dependence on an individual loan market does not arise. The Sveaskog Group’s external borrowing possibilities consist of a mix of bank loans and Accounting principles market loans – commercial paper and bond loans. In this way the Group is not A contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible commitment that dependent on a single financing source. Sveaskog has not pledged any stems from events that have taken place and when their occurrence is only collateral for these loans. Instead, the loan agreements include a so-called confirmed by one or more uncertain future events entirely outside the control negative clause which means no company in the Group can receive or pledge of the company, or when there is a commitment that is not recognised as a collateral for loans or other business transactions. liability or provision since it is not probable that an outflow of resources will The present loan portfolio consists of commercial paper and bond loans. be required to settle the commitment, or that the size of the commitment can The commercial paper is by its nature short-term with a maximum duration of be calculated with sufficient reliability. twelve months, while the long-term outstanding bond loans have a duration of between one and 26 years. The bilateral bank loan agreements have an Group Parent Company average remaining duration of 3.2 years (3.6). SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 According to the current financial policy, loan maturities must be spread over a period of at least five years but can be spread over a longer period. Pledged assets Maturity within the next twelve months may not exceed 20% of the total loan Bank balances 5 5 – – portfolio excluding commercial papers. In the interval beyond one year, Total 5 5 – – maturities must be spread as evenly as possible. At year-end 12% (11) of the total loan portfolio excluding commercial paper matures within the next twelve Contingent liabilities months. Guarantee commitments for The loan volume under the commercial paper programme amounted to SEK group companies – – 480 515 2,410 million (2,270) which is refinanced continuously. Under the MTN Summa – – 480 515 programme the outstanding volume at 31 December was SEK 4,990 million (4,990). Capital call-off Sveaskog’s financial net debt at year-end amounted to SEK 7,410 million In 2008, the Board of Sveaskog decided to take part in the formation of (7,937) and its maturity structure is shown in the table Liquidity risk, maturity EkoNord Invest AB and to provide a total amount of SEK 20 million. The years for financial liabilities Group. capital is provided in stages through a capital call-off on the part of EkoNord Interest rate risk Invest AB. As per the closing date, SEK 16 million (16) had been paid to Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument varies due EkoNord Invest AB. In 2013, the Board decided to take part in a new issue in to changes in market interest rates which means that interest expenses Swe Tree Technologies AB and to provide a total amount of SEK 4 million. increase or decrease. How fast a trend-related interest rate change has The capital is provided in stages via a capital call-off from Swe Tree effects on earnings depended on the fixed-interest period of the loans and Technologies AB. As per the closing date, SEK 4 million (3) had been made investments. to Swe Tree Technologies in the new issue. Responsibility for management of the Group’s interest rate exposure in accordance with adopted policy is centralised to the treasury function. It is Guarantee incumbent on the treasury function to continuously follow up and take In 2013, the Board of Sveaskog decided that Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB sign relevant action to ensure that interest rate risk is minimised. The financial a surety for a maximum of SEK 19.5 million linked to the economic policy stipulates that the Group’s loan portfolio shall have an average association SDC’s systems upgrade. fixed-interest period that is not less than twelve months and not more than 48 months. In order to achieve this, interest rate derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, are used see Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents, interestbearing liabilities and other financial instruments. The average fixed-interest Note 26 | Financial risks period on the net debt at 31 December 2017 was 34.3 months (32.8) and the gross borrowing cost was 1.31% (1.80). The main purpose of interest rate swaps is at any given time for the ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Sveaskog Group to try to achieve such an optimal fixed-interest as possible Financial policy taking into account the economic situation, interest rate levels, own income The Board of Sveaskog has adopted a financial policy that regulates how the statement and balance sheet, the size of the loan portfolio, etc. financial risks to which the Group is exposed are to be managed. This policy At 31 December 2017, Sveaskog had interest rate swaps with a contract is evaluated and revised once a year. Operational responsibility is delegated value of SEK 2,800 million (2,400), of which SEK 2,400 million (2,000) is via the CEO and Deputy CEO/CFO to the Head of Group Finance who is hedge accounted and SEK 400 million (400) held for trading. responsible for ensuring that the finance function reports monthly to The fair value of the swaps at 31 December 2017 amounted to SEK –107 management and parts of the Board. million (–142) of which SEK –95 million (–127) for derivatives used for Financial risks relate to changes in the Group’s earnings and cash flow hedging purposes and SEK –12 million (–15) for derivatives measured at fair caused by changes in exchange rates, interest rate levels, refinancing value through profit or loss consisting of liabilities of SEK 2,400 million requirements and credit risks. Responsibility for reducing financial risks and (2,400), see table Interest rate derivative liability Note 21. See also page 89 carrying out ongoing financial transactions is centralised to a group-wide for a sensitivity analysis. treasury function. The overall aim for the treasury function is to ensure Gains and losses on interest rate swaps at 31 December 2017 which are cost-effective financing and to minimise the negative effect on consolidated hedge accounted, are recognised in other comprehensive income. profit that might arise through price changes in fixed income and currency markets. Credit risk/counterparty risk Of the different financial risks to which a company can be exposed Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty in a financial transaction cannot – financing risk, interest rate risk, credit risk/counterparty risk and currency meet its obligations. Financial risk management includes exposure to credit risk – financing risk and interest rate risk clearly dominate within Sveaskog. risks. For Sveaskog these arise partly in conjunction with investment of cash Currency risk is relatively small. and cash equivalents but above all in conjunction with counterparty risks in Sveaskog, as a forest-owning and forest management company, finances relation to banks at the purchase of derivative instruments. In order to be able approximately 22% (22) of its assets with external loans. For this reason to enter into derivative transactions with the banks, Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB great emphasis is placed on minimising both financing risk and interest rate has ISDA agreements with the parties concerned. The financial policy risk in this borrowing. Furthermore, efforts are made to not be dependent on includes a special counterparty regulation in which maximum credit exposure individual financing sources and to be restrictive when assessing counter­ to different counterparties is specified. This regulation is strict and specifies parties when placing surplus liquidity. the minimum credit rating that must apply for selected counterparties according to Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rating scales. For Swedish Financing risk counterparty risks up to one year, Nordisk Rating’s highest rating, K1, applies Financing risk is the risk that a major borrowing requirement will arise in a and for risks exceeding one year counterparties must have a long rating tight credit market situation. corresponding to at least A or A3 according to Standard & Poor’s and In order to ensure that the Group in every situation has access to external Moody’s rating scales, respectively. With two exceptions, Sveaskog only has financing, the treasury department ensures that confirmed bank credit lines credit risks from Swedish counterparties. No credit losses for financial are available. In terms of volume, these should in the first instance cover transactions were incurred in 2017. outstanding commercial paper in order to eliminate the risk that these cannot Another type of credit risk is receivables from commercial customers. The be refinanced in a situation where the commercial paper market does not Group has two largest customers each of which exceed 10% of sales and in function. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 89 N otes total these account for 30% (31) of total sales. Credit insurance is managed Currency risk in accordance with the Group’s insurance policy but is not applied to major Sveaskog’s currency exposure is limited. All assets are in Sweden and only a customers. Instead, an internal credit analysis is performed which is followed small proportion of expenses are in foreign currency. No currency hedging of up on a regular basis. At 31 December 2017, outstanding receivables from the commercial flows currently takes place. two largest customers corresponded to 36% (37) of the Group’s total trade receivables on the same date. Sensitivity analysis At 31 December 2017, satisfactory trade receivables amounted to SEK 821 In order to manage interest rate risk, in recent years the Group has issued million (821). bonds with a longer duration than previously in order to reduce the impact of At 31 December 2017, trade receivables amounting to SEK 246 million short-term interest rate fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. In the long term, (242) were due but without any impairment being considered to exist. however, lasting changes in the interest rate situation will have an impact on The overdue receivables relate to a number of customers which have not consolidated earnings. previously had any payment difficulties. In mid-January 2018 the overdue At 31 December 2017 a general increase in interest rates by one trade receivables amounted to SEK 6 million (11). percentage point is estimated to decrease the Group’s profit before tax by At 31 December 2017 there were trade receivables with credit insurance approximately SEK 87 million (85) without taking cash flow hedges into for SEK 346 million (377) of a total of 956 (958). Total exposure to account. Taking cash flow hedges into account which through hedge counterparty risks corresponds to the value in the balance sheet of accounting does not affect profit or loss, profit before tax will decrease by corresponding assets. approximately SEK 63 million (65). Equity is negatively affected in the event of a general increase in the interest rate of one percentage point by SEK 68 Capital management million (66). The Group’s objective for capital structure is to ensure the Group’s ability to continue its operations so that it can continue to generate a return to the Calculation of fair value owner and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital Securities structure in order to keep costs of capital down. Fair value is based on quoted market prices on the closing date. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group can change the dividend paid to the owner, repay capital to the owner, issue new shares Derivative instruments or sell assets to reduce liabilities. Cash flow measurement is used to determine rates on interest rate swaps. At the 2014 Annual General Meeting new financial targets were decided for The rate used in a market based rate for interest rate swaps on the closing the Sveaskog Group which included the Group shall maintain a net debt/ date compiled to a yield curve and then remeasured to a zero coupon curve. equity ratio of between 30% and 60%. This financial target is calculated as interest-bearing net debt divided by equity, all calculated at the end of the Level 2 Other observable data for assets or liabilities than quoted prices period/year. Interest-bearing net debt is calculated as total borrowing incl. in level 1, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, (comprising the items interest-bearing currency liabilities, interest-bearing derived from prices). Derivatives in level 2 include interest rate non-current liabilities and pension liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet) swaps and are used for both trading and hedging purposes. with deduction for cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as Measurement of fair value of interest rate swaps is based on swap equity in the consolidated balance sheet plus net liabilities. The equity ratio at rates taken from a financial information system and converted to a 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: zero coupon curve for measurement. Group Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liabilities that is not based on observable SEKm 2017 2016 market data (that is, unobservable data). See Note 15 for Total borrowing (Note 21, 22) 9,091 9,007 information of assessments of fair value. Less: cash and cash equivalents (Note 21) –1,681 –1,070 Net debt 7,410 7,937 The following table shows the Group’s assets and liabilities measured at fair Total equity 20,669 20,081 value as per 31 December 2017 and 2016: Total capital 28,079 28,018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Net debt/equity ratio 36% 40% SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Assets Age analysis overdue trade receivables, gross Financial assets Group measured at fair value SEKm 2017 2016 through profit or loss Less than 1 month 243 238 Standing timber – – – – 32,054 31,993 1 to 3 months 2 0 Total assets 0 0 0 0 32,054 31,993 3 months and longer 1 4 246 242 Liabilities Non-current liabilities – – 5,345 5,356* – – Doubtful trade receivables, change during the year Current liabilities – – 3,410 3,291 – – Group Derivative instruments 0 0 107 142 0 0 SEKm 2017 2016 Total liabilities 0 0 8,862 8,789 0 0 OB reserve for doubtful trade receivables –2 –6 * An adjustment of method for calculation of fair value has been used for Added during the year –1 –3 non-current liabilities, see measurement techniques level 2 below. Settled/received during the year 2 7 CB reserve for doubtful trade receivables –1 –2 Liquidity risk Maturity for financial liabilities Group (including future interest flows) Between 0–3 mths Between 4–12 mths Between 12–24 mths Between 24–60 mths More than 60 mths SEKm 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Borrowing (excl. liabilities for finance leases) 2,526 3,187 950 147 563 1,061 3,289 2,101 1,779 2,511 Derivative instruments 15 11 30 34 29 32 67 47 43 8 Trade payables and other liabilities 816 762 43 37 8 18 13 8 10 1 Financial guarantee contracts – – 78 78 – – – – – – To secure the extension of Sveaskog’s short-term debt in the event of increased capital shortage, Sveaskog has contracted credit facilities. These credit facilities amounted to SEK 4,200 million (4,200) at 31 December 2017. The financial policy also regulates how large a proportion of the loan portfolio may fall due within 12 months. At present a maximum of 20% may fall due within 12 months. 90 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 NOTEs sig natu res Measurement techniques for Level 2 fair value evaluated one a year. It is then the CEO who via the CFO and Risk Manager Current liabilities are measured at book value including accrued interest shall implement the policy’s directives. which is assessed to provide a good approximation of fair value. Fair value of The biological assets, standing timber, are Sveaskog’s largest assets, but non-current debt instruments is established using valuation models such as also the asset assessed as exposed to the largest individual static risk. In discounting future cash flows to listed market interest rates for the respective the event of damage this can temporarily cause major costs for the Group term. Derivatives in level 2 consist of interest rate swaps and are recognised which could have major effects on the Group’s financial position. Great at market value or as hedge accounting. Measurement at fair value of interest importance has therefore been given to ensuring that the Group has forest rate swaps is based on swap rates obtained from a financial information insurance that covers the extra costs that can occur in conjunction with system and converted to a zero coupon curve for measurement. Compared major damage to standing timber in the form of a storm, for example. To with 2016, no transfers have been made between the different levels in the help it design suitable cover and risk coverage, the Sveaskog Group owns hierarchy and no significant changes have been made in measurement a so-called captive, Sveaskog Försäkrings AB. Via this captive, the Group method, data used or assumptions. transfers the risk of damage on out to the direct insurance market and the reinsurance market. The Group today has coverage for the standing timber Measurement techniques used for Level 3 fair value that covers cost increases of up to SEK 2,000 million. This amount is based Measurement techniques are specified in Note 15 on page 78. on experience from storms in recent years as well as simulated together with external experts. Issues During 2017 Sveaskog has issued SEK 10,600 million (8,530) under the commercial paper programme and SEK 1,000 million (1,000) under the MTN programme. Insurance policy Note 27 | Significant events after year-end 2017 The Board of Sveaskog Ab has adopted an insurance policy that regulates how the Group’s risk management is designed and conducted. This policy is No significant events took place after the balance sheet date. Assurance and signatories’ declaration The undersigned confirm that the consolidated financial statements and Parent Company’s operations, financial position and results of operations annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with international and describe significant risks and uncertainties facing the companies that financial reporting standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, and are part of the Group. The undersigned also submit Sveaskog’s statutory generally accepted accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the sustainability report for 2017. The sustainability report describes Sveaskog’s Group’s and the Parent Company’s financial position and results of oper­ sustainability work and is prepared in accordance with Guidelines for ations, and that the consolidated administration report and the administration Sustainability Reporting, issued by the Global Reporting Initiative. report provide a true and fair view of the development of the Group’s and Sveaskog AB (publ) (556558-0031) Stockholm, 8 March 2018 Eva Färnstrand Thomas Hahn Leif Ljungqvist Chairman Board Member Board Member Annika Nordin Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Sven Wird Board Member Board Member Board Member Kenneth Andersson Sara Östh Employee Representative Employee Representative Per-Olof Wedin President and CEO Our audit report regarding the company’s annual accounts and consolidated financial statement was submitted on 8 March 2018. Deloitte AB Hans Warén Authorised Public Accountant A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 91 Au d ito r’s repo rt Auditor’s report To the Annual General Meeting of Sveaskog AB (publ) company registration number 556558-0031 Report on the Audit of annual accounts and consolidated • Evaluation of the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying the financial statements company’s valuation by comparing previous years’ assumptions with actual outcomes Opinions • Verification of the functionality of the calculation model in terms of We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements mathematical accuracy and the company’s process for obtaining input data of Sveaskog AB (publ) for the financial year 1 January 2017 to 31 December • Verification of input data in the valuation model on a random sample basis 2017 with the exception of the Corporate Governance Report on pages • Review of relevant notes to the financial statements 50–54 and the Sustainability Report on pages 6–7, 18–19, 22–23, 26–43, • Our valuation specialists have reviewed the company’s documentation 45–47 and 52–54. The company’s annual accounts and consolidated financial regarding the long-term average weighted cost of capital which is based on statements are on pages 6–17, 20–25, 28–29 and 32–90 of this document. the opinion of an external specialist. We have also evaluated the experience In our opinion the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with and competence of the specialist. the Annual Accounts Act and present a true and fair view in all material respects of the Parent Company’s financial position as at 31 December 2017 COM PLETE N ESS OF R EVE NU E R ECOG N ITION and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in Sales of sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel are transaction-intensive which places accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as high demands on accounting, follow-up and internal control. A large number of adopted by the European Union and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinion felling assignments are carried out every day on own account and for other does not cover the Corporate Governance Report on pages 50–54 or the forest owners and deliveries to end customers are continuous. There are Sustainability Report on pages 6–7, 18–19, 22–23, 26–43, 45–47 and therefore high demands on support systems to ensure correct handling when 52–54. The statutory Administration Report is consistent with the other parts measuring volumes, reconciliation of delivery data and pricing based on of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. contracted prices. See Note 4 for a description of the principles for revenue We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt the recognition. income statement and balance sheet for the Parent company and for the Our audit included the following examinations but was not limited to these: Group. • Documenting significant transaction flows for revenues and critical business Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated systems as well as evaluating the extent to which the company’s significant financial statements are consistent with the content of the additional report controls for managing the risk of errors in financial reporting are that has been submitted to the Parent Company’s Audit Committee in appropriately designed and implemented accordance with Article 11 of the Audit Regulations (537/2014). • Our IT auditors have specifically reviewed general IT controls regarding permissions and management of changes in the system environment Basis for opinions • An examination of the company’s revenue recognition routines focusing on We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on (1) input data in timber administration systems, (2) completeness of Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our transmission between or data extraction from systems, and (3) a review of responsibilities under those standards are further described in the section accounting documents and reconciliation with actual invoicing Auditor’s responsibilities. We are independent of the Parent Company and the • For a selection of individual revenue transactions verifying that these were Group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and priced according to current customer contracts and that revenue was have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these recognised in the period in which Sveaskog fulfilled its commitments requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and • Implementation of a register analysis for examining the completeness of the belief, no prohibited services referred to in Article 5.1 of the Audit Regulations flow from the timber administration system and recognition in the financial (537/2014) have been provided to the audited company or, if appropriate, its statements parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. • An analytical review of revenue recognition of a monthly basis and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and development of revenues and margins at segment level to identify significant appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. fluctuations for further investigation. Key audit matters R ESE RVES FOR E NVI RONM E NTAL PROVISIONS Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional As a state-owned company that operates within the forest industry, Sveaskog judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and is subject to high demands on identification and recognition of environmental consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were provisions. Sveaskog owns and has previously owned a number of nurseries addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, around the country. In addition to this there are a number of locations where the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements as a whole, but we operations were conducted previously and responsibility can be traced to the do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. former Swedish Forest Service or AssiDomän which Sveaskog has taken over. Sveaskog recognises an environmental provision when the authorities have VALUATION OF FOR EST ASSETS made a decision and called on the company to take action, which is in line with Standing timber comprises 81% of the Group’s assets and is therefore IFRS. quantitatively the Group’s most significant asset. The company reports forest The size of the environmental provision amounts to SEK 23 million at 31 assets amounting to SEK 32,054 million as per 31 December 2017. December 2017 and is therefore not a significant item but has been one of Sveaskog has assessed that there are no relevant market prices for the areas discussed most with management during the year in view of the measuring a forest holding of Sveaskog’s size. Sveaskog’s valuation is assessments and estimates that need to be made. As noted above, the therefore made by calculating the present value of future anticipated cash completeness and valuation of environmental provisions are considered to be flows from the standing timber. Valuation of standing timber places high an area of particular importance. demands on Sveaskog’s valuation process and valuation models since it is Sveaskog’s environmental work is described in several places in the annual based on an assessment of future cash flows over 100 years. accounts. Accounting principles and the size of the provision are provided in The valuation is based on a number of critical assumptions regarding average Note 24. felling cycle, long-term price development, long-term cost levels and the Our audit included the following examinations but was not limited to these: long-term average weighted cost of capital. Since yield models are based on • A review of Sveaskog’s policies and guidelines for mapping and making an very long periods of time, small changes can have major effects on the inventory of environmental commitments valuation. • A review of provisions made against external documentation such as See Note 15 for a more detailed description of how the company applies decisions by authorities and quotations from contractors. IAS 41 and the assessments made. Our audit included the following examinations but was not limited to these: Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated financial • Documenting routines and processes in the valuation process as well as statements evaluating and verifying the effectiveness of implemented key controls in This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and relation to documented guidelines consolidated financial statements and is found on pages 1–5, 18–19, 26–27, 92 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 Au d ito r’s repo rt 30–31, 94–102 and 103–107. The Board of Directors and the CEO are on the size of the parent Company’s and the Group’s equity, consolidation responsible for this other information. requirements, liquidity and position in general. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organisation and does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things assurance conclusion regarding this other information. continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated and ensuring that the company’s organisation is designed so that accounting, financial statements, our responsibility is to read the information identified management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the controlled in a reassuring manner. The CEO shall manage the ongoing annual accounts and the consolidated financial statements. In this procedure administration in accordance with the Board of Directors’ guidelines and we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. fulfil the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude management of assets in a reassuring manner. that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Auditor’s Responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the preparation of the with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of annual accounts and consolidated financial statements and that they give a Directors or the CEO in any material respect: fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning • have undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by rise to liability to the company, or the EU. The Board of Directors and the CEO are also responsible for such • in any other way have acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. annual accounts and consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the annual Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the accounts and consolidated financial statements, The Board of Directors and company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with a the CEO are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the Group’s reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters the Companies Act. that can affect the company’s ability to continue as a going concern and use Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the CEO intend to standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give liquidate the company, to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the to do either of these. company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the is provided on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www.revisorsincompany’s financial reporting process. spektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s report Auditor’s Responsibility Auditor’s examination of the Corporate Governance Report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Corporate accounts and consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from Governance Report on pages 50–54 has been prepared in accordance with material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the Corporate Governance report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of Report is conducted according to FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with auditor’s examination of the Corporate Governance Report. This means that ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect our examination of the Corporate Governance Report is different and a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. basis for our opinion. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. Disclosures in accounts and consolidated financial statements is provided on the Swedish accordance with chapter 6 section 6 second paragraph points 2–6 of the Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsanAnnual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 second paragraph of the same svar. This description is part of the auditor’s report. law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolid­ ated financial statements and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Act. Opinions Auditor’s statement regarding the statutory Sustainability Report In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated financial The Board of Directors is responsible for the Sustainability Report on pages statements, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors 6–7, 18–19, 22–23, 26–43, 45–47 and 52–54 and ensuring that it has been and CEO of Sveaskog AB (publ) the financial year 1 January 2017–31 prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. December 2017 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or Our examination is conducted according to FAR’s recommendation RevR loss. 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory Sustainability Report. This We recommend to the Annual General Meeting that the profit be means that our examination of the Sustainability Report is different and appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory Administration substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with Report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the CEO be International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards discharged from liability for the financial year. in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Basis for opinions A Sustainability Report has been prepared. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further Deloitte AB was appointed auditor of Sveaskog AB (publ) by the Annual described in the section Auditor’s responsibilities. We are independent of the General Meeting on 26 April 2017 and has been the company’s auditor since Parent Company and the Group in accordance with professional ethics for 23 April 2015. accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Stockholm, 8 March 2018 appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Deloitte AB Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. When proposing a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements Hans Warén which the company’s and the Group’s type of operations, size and risks place Authorised Public Accountant A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 93 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Notes to the sustainability report Note S1 | About the sustainability report Sveaskog as a company and which are most significant for Sveaskog’s external and internal stakeholders to take into account, the work is based on a materiality assessment carried Sveaskog prepares a sustainability report in accordance with out and decided upon by the Sustainability Council. First, all the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards for aspects of GRI’s requirements were analysed on the basis sustainability reporting. The Sustainability Report comprises of how important they are for the work with sustainable pages 18–19, 26–27, 30–31 and 94–101 of the Annual development which Sveaskog has identified as significant and Report and Sustainability Report 2017 and is reviewed by the where each aspect’s effect is greatest, within or outside the auditing firm Deloitte AB. company. Based on the identified aspects the various The Board’s signature of the 2017 Sustainability Report and indicators were analysed and a decision taken in the the Auditors’ limited assurance report will be found on page Sustainability Council as to which should be reported. 91 and 92–93 respectively. Boundaries Application of GRI Standards The information applies to the whole of the Sveaskog Group, GRI is a collaborative organisation within the UN Environment unless stated otherwise. The Group includes the wholly owned Programme. The organisation has drawn up global guidelines subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. The sawmill group Setra for how companies report information related to sustainable Group AB, which is owned to 50% by Sveaskog AB, is not development. A complete picture of GRI Standards can be included in the sustainability report except for that part of the found at www.globalreporting.org. financial result for Setra Group AB which affects Sveaskog Sveaskog reports according to GRI Standards at Förvaltnings AB’s earnings. Sveaskog has two members on application level “Core”. A transition from the fourth version Setra Group AB’s board and is thus able to inﬂuence Setra’s (GRI G4) was made in 2017. Sveaskog reports the results sustainability work. achieved for the reporting period against the background of the undertakings, strategies and sustainability governance. Global Compact The intention is to present, measure and accept responsibility Sveaskog has supported the UN Global Compact initiative towards stakeholders, both within and outside the company, since 2005 and thereby takes a clear stance on issues related for what has been achieved in work towards sustainable to human rights, social conditions, environmental responsibility, business. freedom of association and anticorruption. The Global GRI Standards are implemented in internal work with Compact is derived from the Universal Declaration of Human sustainability issues and the information in the indicators Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development meets GRI’s criteria for “Universal standards”. All information which means that Sveaskog commits to working proactively to according to GRI’s “Universal standards” is published on minimise environmental risks throughout the company, the www.sveaskog.se and on pages 108–109 in a GRI index. ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the OECD’s principles and guidelines for how Process for GRI Standards multinational enterprises should conduct responsible business. Sveaskog’s ambition is to provide a comprehensive report of More information about the Global Compact is available at sustainability initiatives, where both negative and positive www.globalcompact.org. Sveaskog works to substantiate how development is clearly stated. The undertakings resulting from these principles are reﬂected in the business. Each year a certification and various memberships, including FSC® and “Communication on Progress” (CoP) report is submitted to the Global Compact, are of major significance for sustainability Global Compact presenting the GRI indicators associated with work. the principles. To support the issues that have the most effect on 94 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Note S2 | Materiality assessment Every year, the company performs an analysis of the entire materiality assessment is an aggregate of the issues that value chain in order to identify and work with the most relevant Sveaskog regards as strategically important and the issues that environmental, social and economic issues. This provides the stakeholders regard as most important. The order of the aspects company with an understanding of how it affects others. The within each of the four fields has no significance. Hunting, fishing and outdoor activities Confidence Local work and assignment providers Economic performance Coexistence Climate effects High Customer satisfaction Biodiversity Equal opportunity, diversity and skills supply Significance for stakeholders Occupational health and safety Discrimination Research and development Low Use of land and water Low High Significance for Sveaskog and opportunities to influence Note S3 | GRI indicators, where influence occurs and examples of initiatives in 2017 that have increased or decreased influence For the most significant aspects of sustainability examples of initiatives that have increased or decreased influence as well as where inﬂuence mainly occurs are specified below. The entire GRI index is available on pages 108–109. Examples of initiatives in 2017 that have increased or decreased influence Sustainability aspect Influence mainly occurs Confidence Employee survey “We at Sveaskog”, study Supplier assessments relating Within and outside “Swedish sustainability ranking” carried out to environment, labour the company by Stockholm Business School, Sveaskog’s practices, human rights and employees engaged as ambassadors, impact on society collaboration with contractors, seminar “Nature tourism’s future in Sweden”, Svenska Skogen’s summer campaign, networking meetings with state-owned companies, dialogues with nature conservation organisations, consultations with Sami villages, meetings in local communities Economic Increased overall productivity, higher Economic performance Outside the company performance prices, new revenues for ecological compensation, changed inventory mix Climate effects Pilot plant at RISE ETC, new rail terminal Energy, Emissions, Economic Outside the company outside Kumla, improved logistics, performance increased blending of ecofuel Customer Sawmill days, participation in Elmia Wood, Labelling of products and Within the company satisfaction short-term hunting, Svenska Skogs­ services plantor’s seedling website, internal efficiency programme Lyftet Biodiversity Membership of Swedish PEFC, ecological Biodiversity Within and outside landscape plans, historical maps the company Equal opportunity, Integration project Growing Power!, Employment, Occupational Within the company diversity and skills forest summer camp, hunting camps, health and safety, Training and supply trainee programme, summer jobs for education, Diversity and equal young people opportunity A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 95 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Note S4 | Stakeholder dialogues Sveaskog has structured and documented stakeholder dialogues. This overview shows the key issues for the ten principal stakeholders, what Sveaskog is doing in these areas and dialogue opportunities. Issues 2017 What is Sveaskog doing? Dialogue opportunities 2017 Customers Product quality, prices, efficient FSC® certification, market prices, Business discussions, Elmia Wood, logistics, renewable vehicle fuels, Code of Conduct, measures delivery forest days, collaboration in sustain­ technology development, FSC® and precision, participates in development ability reporting traceability, reliability, long-term of new fossil-free fuels, timber relationships traceability Owner Meeting financial targets, sustainable Initiatives to meet financial targets, Annual General Meeting, Board business, work with human rights, goals and strategies for sustainable meetings, dialogue with the Chairman stakeholder dialogues and confidence business, clearer reporting of and of the Board, Government Offices of in Sveaskog processes around work with human Sweden and Members of Parliament, rights, stakeholder dialogues networking meetings with state-­ owned companies Lending Economic development, financial Financial targets, financial policy, Investor presentations, business institutes, stability, sustainable business, new prioritises long-term business discussions, capital market days in credit providers business possibilities relationships and customers with connection with issuing the green profitability potential, issues green bond and collaboration with the bonds issuing agent and Norwegian DNV GL Employees Skills development and supply, Internal training programmes, Employee survey VIS 2017, perform­ confidence, equal opportunity, supports job rotation, active recruitance reviews, Improvement of the occupational health and safety, ment, work environment efforts and Year, joint employee meeting organisation develops the organisation, and Sveaskog Days 2017, leadership days project ambassadorship and programme, cooperation with trades unions, workplace meetings, ambassadorship programme, and the new employeeship and leadership principles “We do each other good” Contractors Developed and long-term cooperation, Long-term cooperation, partner Business discussions, follow up, field renewable energy, sustainable forest contractors, cooperation projects, checks, in-depth checks of some ten management, contract/ remuneration information and evaluations, Code of contractors issues, training and working environConduct, Service agreement, requirement, attractiveness of forest industry, ment that framework suppliers shall traceability and certification comply with the UN Global Compact, PEFC certification, daily checks of operating permits, etc., checks against Swedish Tax Agency Timber suppliers Ability to pay, long-term cooperation, Good liquidity, market prices, FSC® Supplier Satisfaction Index, FSC® market prices, renewable energy, planning for felling assignments, cooperation, forest days, business quality of felling assignments, skills participates in development of new discussions supply, sustainable forest managefossil-free fuels, information activities ment, information about Sveaskog’s operations, technology development Tourism Grants land concessions, lease prices, Leases, investments in recreation Seminar “Nature tourism’s future in companies, forest and land for outdoor activities, areas and ecoparks, roads and signs, Sweden”, elk management meetings, hunters, anglers, forest management impact on outdoor maps and information on the website hunt leader meetings, consultations, etc. activities, grazing damage business discussions, continued development of short-term hunting and increased number of destinations Reindeer herders Considerate silvicultural measures and Formalised consultations, better Consultations about silvicultural concessions that do not affect rein­ maps, projects to develop land usage measures in Sami villages, co­ deers’ winter grazing – co-existence operation within Swedish FSC® Authorities Swedish Forestry Act, national environAnnual audits, business management Consultations regarding ecoparks, comental objectives, the Swedish Forest system, follow-up of targets and key operation with the key biotope inventAgency’s decision to pause inventorying indicators orying in northwest Sweden, seminar of key biotopes in northwest Sweden “Nature tourism’s future in Sweden” Nature Biodiversity, nature conservation Targets for sustainable business, Seminar “Nature tourism’s future in conservation environmental objectives and Sweden”, excursions, mail exchange, organisations targets, FSC® membership, nature dialogue meeting in Almedalen, conservation strategy consultation and dialogue meetings in local communities 96 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Note S5 | Environment and nature conservation Nature conservation can take the form of formally protected areas or approach reach 220,000 hectares over time. Of this area 45,000 hectares voluntary set-asides. Sveaskog has chosen to manage 20% of its have so far been left as consideration for nature when felling. The productive forest land as nature conservation areas. The 20% objective remaining 175,000 hectares will be added in future felling plans. applies to forest below the montane forest region. This is achieved in In the montane forests Sveaskog has set aside about 80,000 hectares three ways: ecoparks, high conservation value forests and so-called for nature conservation. In previous years Sveaskog has reported that consideration for nature which is left untouched in the production forests. 100,000 hectares were set aside for nature conservation in the montane The ecoparks comprise a total of 145,000 hectares below the montane forest region. In 2017 a decision was taken to exclude those areas which forest region. An additional 30,000 hectares of ecoparks are located in were made a nature reserve in 2016. This is a total area of 20,000 the montane forest region. hectares. Nature conservation in production forests will with the present Nature conservation areas below the montane forest region: Definition Status 31 December 2017 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Ecoparks 37 ecoparks inaugurated. Ecopark agree80,000 hectares Swedish Forest 50-year agreements with the Swedish ments with the Swedish Forest Agency Agency, County Forest Agency and WWF are in place for 34 of these ecoparks Administrative Boards High conservation Reported at www.sveaskog.se 300,000 hectares Swedish Forest WWF, Swedish Forest Agency, value forests Agency, County County Administrative Boards and Administrative Boards the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation (broad-leaved forest restoration) Consideration for nature Control self-assessments 220,000 hectares Swedish Forest Method development with the in production forests Agency’s follow-up, Swedish Forest Agency Of which Consideration FSC® audit for nature when felling 45,000 hectares Of which Consideration for nature in future felling plans 175,000 hectares Sveaskog’s total nature 600,000 hectares conservation area below the montane forest region Nature conservation in the montane forest region: Definition Status 31 December 2017 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Sveaskog’s montane Nature reserves and ecoparks 80,000 hectares Swedish Forest Dialogue with the Swedish Forest forest region boundary formed and quality assurance of high Agency, County Agency is based on the Swedish conservation value forests underway Administrative Forestry Act and FSC® Boards, FSC® audit Sveaskog’s total nature 680,000 hectares conservation area including the montane forest region Restoration: Definition Status 31 December 2017 Size Third party measurement Cooperation Restoration of wetlands The objective of 100 restored wetlands – – Swedish Wetlands Foundation, and aquatic landscapes achieved. Five aquatic landscapes Swedish Ornithological Society identified A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 97 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Note S6 | Environmental data 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Production Emissions to air * All deliveries, thousand m3sub 10,807 10,838 10,748 10,684 10,817 Fossil CO2, thousand tonnes 138 153** 146 126 121 Deliveries from own forests, of which direct emissions, thousand m3sub 6,255 6,561 6,570 6,459 6,463 thousand tonnes 13 16 14 13 16 Biofuel deliveries, of which indirect emissions, thousand m3sub 1,359 999 868 780 599 Scope 2, thousand tonnes 0.051 0.052 0.052 0.049 0.042 of which indirect emissions, Energy consumption Scope 3, thousand tonnes *** 125 137 132 113 105 Non-renewable fuels, TJ 1,806 1,752 1,519 1,374 1,535 Renewable fuels, TJ 109.1 80.5 233 243 209 Land Indirect energy Total land area, million ha 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 consumption, MWh 9,254 9,222 9,136 8,528 8,191 of which productive forest land, million ha 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 Proportion of total unfelled growth, % **** 40 35 36 36 34 * Sveaskog reports the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide and complies with the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The calculations of CO2 emissions are based on ISO14001:2004, 14040:2004 and GWP according to IPCC 2007 and 2013. ** Starting in 2014, reporting both production and distribution of fuel are included in the emissions calculation which means that carbon dioxide emissions have increased. *** Scope 3 includes felling, transport by road, sea and rail, road building, silviculture and business travel. **** Including unmanaged forests. 98 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Employee data Relates to the entire Sveaskog Group unless otherwise specified. Note S9 | Employee breakdown All employees included in the data have employment contracts with the Group. Since the number of contractors hired during the year varies, these are not included in the audit. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Women, %* 19.7 19.8 21.0 21.6 24.0 Note S7 | Number of employees Men, %* 80.3 80.2 79.0 78.4 76.0 Women/men on the Board, %** 43/57 50/50 67/33 57/43 50/50 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Women/men in Group Management, % 36/64 36/64 45/55 40/60 40/60 Permanent employees 693 678 688 674 685 Women managers, % 26 22 24 24 27 Average number of employees incl. temporary employees* 899 877 851 844 846 * Average number of employees. Number of wage-earners 293 287 282 240 234 ** Elected by Annual General Meeting. Number of salaried employees 400 391 406 434 451 Year of birth of Board members and members of Group Management is Proportion of part-time/ specified in the presentations on pages 56–59. permanent employees, % 2.2 1.6 1.3 1.5 3.4 Proportion of full-time/ permanent employees, % 97.8 98.4 98.7 98.5 96.6 Note S10 | Relation between men’s and women’s Number of HR managers 95 91 96 95 92 salaries Average age, years 48 48 48 47 47 Employees within different age groups 2013 2014 2015 2016 –29 94 89 92 95 101 Wage earners 30–49 384 369 336 344 347 Women/men 21/250 18/248 23/241 19/203 20/196 50– 421 419 423 407 398 Women’s median salary Proportion recruited internally, % 60 61 64 70 68 relation to men’s, % 86 85 87 85 85 Proportion of employees with non-Swedish background, % 3.3 2.9 Salaried employees Women/men 108/277 103/274 115/279 128/294 137/300 * Total number of hours worked/1,650. Women’s median salary in relation to men’s, % 99 99 97 97 96 The number of full-time and part-time employees is not reported for temporary employees. The majority of permanent employees work full time. The comparison above does not take into account that different requireSome of the permanent employees are employed on zero-hours contracts, ments are made for different positions but only provides an overview of which means they work a number of hours when needed. Sometimes this salary structure per agreement area. Salary information and number of means that they work a number of hours corresponding to full time while employees refer to permanent employees in Sweden (excluding foreign at other periods they work less. subsidiaries). Note S8 | Number of permanent employees Note S11 | Employee turnover by market area 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Market area/region 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total, % 6.2 4.6 5.5 7.0 7.7 North* 214 207 215 180 221 Central* 257 249 247 250 241 Women/men By age group By market area South* 131 135 141 158 134 Joined Left Joined Left Joined Left Stockholm** 54 52 55 56 57 33/69 11/42 –30: 19 1 North 47 22 Latvia/Lithuania 34 34 29 29 31 30–50: 66 20 Central 31 18 Finland 3 1 1 1 1 50–: 17 32 South 16 8 Stockholm 5 4 * Including employees in staffs stationed within the market area. Latvia 3 1 ** Stationed at the head office in Stockholm. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 99 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Note S12 | Proportion of employees receiving regular evaluations and monitoring of their performance and career development The performance review is a strong and effective instrument for steering discussion should be of a high quality. In order to provide conditions for towards Sveaskog’s vision and goals since it provides an opportunity to good quality, all managers are offered training in performance reviews. communicate targets, plans and achievements. These reviews also allow Support documents and checklists are available to help with implement­ managers to identify the employees’ needs for skills development in their ation of these reviews. position as well as any preferences for further development. According to the most recent employee survey, VIS 2017, a total of Sveaskog’s objective is that all permanent employees shall have at 83% of all permanent employees had a performance review during the least one performance review during a 12-month period and that the past 12-month period. Note S13 | Sickness absence 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Proportion of employees employed for at least three years with no sickness absence during the past two Sickness absence total, % 2.6 2.7 2.5 2.7 3.1 years Employees of SIA Sveaskog Baltfor are not Sickness absence women, % 3.1 3.4 3.4 3.2 4.2 included. Sickness absence men, % 2.5 2.6 2.2 2.6 2.7 ** Work-related injuries: accidents, travel accidents, Long-term sickness absence, work-related illnesses which on the reporting date are % of total sickness absence 49.7 45.4 34.5 45.6 50.0 expected to lead to absence. Also includes minor injuries at a first-aid level. Contractor’s accidents are Long-term health, %* 44.4 41.3 36.1 35.2 33.0 not included. Work-related injuries are reported in Notified work-related injuries**/ SKIA, the forest industry’s information system for 1,000 average employees 4.4 6.8 3.5 5.9 8.3 working environment operated by AFA Insurance on Notified work-related injuries, behalf of the industry. Injuries are not reported by according to GRI*** 5.4 8.3 4.3 7.0 10 region, but follow-up takes place in the local safety Total absentee days (working days) committees within each market area. There were no due to work-related injuries**** 33 128 14 41 116 fatal accidents during the year. *** Total number of injuries divided by hours worked Sickness absence due to work-related x 200,000. injuries, % 0.02 0.10 0.008 0.02 0.07 **** All absentee days of planned working days commenced within two days of the work-related injury. Note S14 | Average number of training hours Note H16 | Instances of victimisation by employee and year breakdown by employee category* Sveaskog does not tolerate any form of victimisation. This means actions directed at one or more employees in an offensive manner and which can lead to ill-health or that the victim is excluded from the fellowship of the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 workplace. Employees are required to follow the Code of Conduct and managers Number of training hours, are responsible for the code being followed in daily activities. Employees wage earners, average 46 37 52 48 43 or stakeholders who think that Sveaskog is breaking the Code of Conduct Number of training hours, can report this. The report can be made to the General Counsel or the salaried employees, average 45 33 35 31 39 SVP HR and Communications as well as through a whistle-blower Key number of training hours/ ­function on Sveaskog’s website. employee, days 6 4.4 5.4 4.9 5.1 To prevent discrimination there are, among other things, special guide­ lines for recruitment as well as guidelines against victimisation. New Key number of training hours/ managers are continually trained in their responsibilities in cases of employee, hours 46 35 43 39 41 harassment and victimisation. * Average number of employees. Two cases of victimisation were reported in 2017. Investigation of these incidents has been carried out. Note S15 | Proportion of workforce covered by a collective agreement In Sweden, 100% of employees are covered by a collective agreement. Those not covered by a collective agreement are employed in the subsidiary SIA Sveaskog Baltfor registered office in Riga, Latvia. The proportion of employees covered by collective agreements is therefore 96%. 100 100 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Note S17 | Goals and indicator values 2017 Sveaskog measures and monitors its goals regularly using several indicators. The value of these indicators is a central component of the annual review of the business plan and strategies. The table below summarises the goals, indicators and values for the last three years as well as the target for the end of the business plan period in 2021. The indicator Carbon dioxide emissions has a target year of 2020. The most profitable forest company in the short and long term Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Average yield 4.5% Yield 4.7 4.2 4.6 At least 4.5 per year Confidence in Sveaskog Confidence index* 78 78 78 80 Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Satisfied customers Customer Satisfaction Index sawmill customers ** 72 ** 80 Customer Satisfaction Index pulpwood customers ** 64 ** 70 Customer Satisfaction Index biofuel customers ** 69 ** 70 Preferred choice for employees and contractors Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Good leadership and Employee Motivation Index 70 *** 68 75 employeeship as well Leadership Index 73 *** 70 75 as satisfied contractors Contractor Satisfaction Index felling ** 72 ** 73 Contractor Satisfaction Index silviculture ** 76 ** 76 Satisfied suppliers Supplier Satisfaction Index ** 71 ** 71 At least 30% women by 2021 Proportion of women, % 21 22 24 30 Leading within innovation and efficiency Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Increased efficiency, Total productivity +2.7 –1.7 +6.4 At least change %**** 2%/year Leader within sustainable forest management Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2020 Carbon dioxide emissions CO2 emissions tonnes per 13.6 11.8 11.1 10.0 to be reduced by at least delivered thousand m3sub 30% in 2010–2020***** Indicator Metric Value 2015 Value 2016 Value 2017 Target 2021 Environmental values Consideration Index 94 95 95 99 maintained in forest management without significant impact * The Confidence Index is an aggregate of employees’ confidence in Sveaskog’s sustainable forest management and customers’, contractors’ and suppliers’ satisfaction. The employee survey as well as customer, contractor and supplier surveys are carried out by an external company on behalf of Sveaskog. ** Measurements are taken every other year. *** No measurements in 2016. **** For measurement, the operating profit from continuing operations has been adjusted for non-recurring items. ***** In 2010, CO2 emissions amounted to 14.9 tonnes/delivered thousand m3sub. Note S18 | Certificates Note S19 | Competitors Sveaskog holds the following certificates: Sveaskog’s competitors in the market for wood raw material include: FSC® forest management certificate for own forests and group Bergvik Skog, Holmen, SCA, the Swedish Forest Society FSC® chain of custody certificate Foundation, forest owner associations, the Church of PEFC chain of custody certificate Sweden and Sydved. PEFC forest management certificate for group Some of the companies that are competitors in the ISO 14001 market for wood raw material may also be Sveaskog AEO certificate for customs simplification/security customers when they buy pulpwood or seedlings. The and protection same companies can also be suppliers when Sveaskog Sveaskog’s FSC licence number is FSC-C008344 buys wood raw material to satisfy customer demands. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 101 Notes to the sustai nabi lity report Note S20 | Post-issuance report according to the “Green Bond Principles” For more information, see the separate “Post-issuance report on Sveaskog’s green bonds” on www.sveaskog.se. Whole of Sveaskog Project name Project category Total investTotal costs incurred (SEK Share of the project financed Most significant measuraccording to ment (SEK thousands) allocated to the green by the green bond (%) able environmental impact framework thousands) bond at 31 December 2017 at 31 December 2017 as a result of financing Silviculture Environmentally 627,284 489,010 78% Carbon dioxide sustainable forestry sequestration of 4,533,000 tonnes Fertilising Environmentally 11,632 9,068 78% and a substitution sustainable forestry benefit of 3,064,000 tonnes in fossil Regeneration Environmentally 477,524 372,262 78% carbon dioxide felling sustainable forestry emissions avoided Nature Environmentally 7,244 5,647 78% conservation sustainable forestry Research and development Project name Project category Total investment Total costs incurred (SEK Share of the project financed Most significant measuraccording to (SEK thousands)/ of which thousands) allocated to the green by the green bond (%) able environmental impact framework Sveaskog’s share bond at 31 December 2017 at 31 December 2017 as a result of financing Somatic Research and 16,000/4,000 2,251 14% Reduced energy embryogenesis development consumption Higher raw Research and 12,000/3,000 1,000 8% Increased climate bematerial yield development nefit in the value chain Bio vehicle fuel Research and 30,000/7,500 1,000 3% Reduced use of from lignin in development fossil vehicle fuels black liquor Competitive Research and 7,000/780 390 6% Reduced use of production of development fossil raw materials wood-fibre based compos­ ites SeedPad Research and 2,500/2,500 417 17% Reduced energy development consumption Bigger and Research and 3,000/3,000 377 6% Reduced use of longer vehicles development fossil vehicle fuels Bio4Gasification Research and 31,600/800 200 1% Reduced use of development fossil vehicle fuels Flowcut Research and 2,250/300 100 4% Reduced use of development fossil raw materials Acquisition of property Project name Project category Total investTotal costs incurred (SEK Share of the project financed Most significant measuraccording to ment (SEK thousands) allocated to the green by the green bond (%) able environmental impact framework thousands) bond at 31 December 2017 at 31 December 2017 as a result of financing MA North Acquisition of 1,025 1,025 100% FSC® certification of 108 forest land hectares of forest land MA Central Acquisition of 52,876 52,876 100% FSC® certification of 1,164 forest land hectares of forest land MA South Acquisition of 64,377 64,377 100% FSC® certification of 791 forest land hectares of forest land Total SEK 1,000,000 thousand 102 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 au d ito r’s repo rt o n s ustai nabi lity R epo rt Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Sveaskog’s Sustainability Report To Sveaskog AB (publ) Introduction engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted Sveaskog AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance auditing standards in Sweden. engagement of Sveaskog AB (publ)’s sustainability The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard report for the financial year 2017. The company has on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a defined the scope of the Sustainability Report on comprehensive system of quality control including page 1. documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the standards and applicable legal and regulatory Group Management for the sustainability report requirements. We are independent of Sveaskog AB The Board of Directors and the Group Management (publ) in accordance with professional ethics for are responsible for the preparation of the sustainability accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these explained on page 94 in the sustainability report, and requirements. are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The procedures performed consequently do not (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) enable us to obtain assurance that we would become which are applicable to the sustainability report, as well aware of all significant matters that might be identified as the accounting and calculation principles that the in a reasonable assurance engagement. Company has developed. This responsibility also Accordingly, the conclusion of the procedures includes the internal control relevant to the preparation performed do not express a reasonable assurance of a sustainability report that is free from material conclusion. misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Group Management as Responsibilities of the auditor described above. We consider these criteria suitable Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the for the preparation of the sustainability report. sustainability report based on the limited assurance We believe that the evidence we have obtained is procedures we have performed.. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our We conducted our limited assurance engagement in conclusion below. accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Conclusion Information. A limited assurance engagement consists Based on the limited assurance procedures we have of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible performed, nothing has come to our attention that for the preparation of the sustainability report, and causes us to believe that the sustainability report, is applying analytical and other limited assurance not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are Group Management. less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance Stockholm, 8 March 2018 Deloitte AB Hans Warén Didrik Roos Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 103 Defi n iti o n s Definitions Capital turnover rate Operating capital Net sales divided by average operating capital. Total assets excluding interest-bearing assets, tax assets and assets held for sale minus non-interest bearing liabilities and Equity ratio deferred tax liabilities, all calculated at the end of the year. Equity divided by total assets, all calculated at the end of the year. Operating margin Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin Operating profit before depreciation and share of profits of Operating profit from continuing operations associates expressed as a percentage of net sales. Operating profit before change in value of forest assets, share of profits of associates and capital gains from property sales. Interest-bearing net debt Interest-bearing liabilities minus interest-bearing assets, all Return on equity calculated at the end of the year. Profit after tax expressed as a percentage of average equity. Interest cover Return on operating capital Operating profit before change in value of forest assets excl. Operating profit divided by average operating capital, excluding capital gains on property sales plus financial income divided by deferred tax. financial expenses. Yield Net debt/equity ratio Operating profit before change in value of forest assets Interest-bearing net debt divided by equity. excluding capital gains on property sales, divided by average operating capital, excluding deferred tax. Net earnings per share Profit for the period/year after tax divided by average number of shares during the period/year. Alternative performance measures The company presents some financial performance measures Operating capital in the annual report which are not defined according to IFRS. The company is of the opinion that these measures provide Definition: Total assets excluding interest-bearing assets, tax assets and assets held for sale minus non-interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax valuable complementary information to investors and the liabilities, all calculated at the end of the year. The Group’s definition is company’s management since they facilitate an evaluation of unchanged compared with previous periods. the company’s performance. Since not all companies calculate Comments: Sveaskog calculates operating capital for the performance financial performance measures in the same manner, these are measures return on operating capital and average operating capital. not always comparable with measures used by other companies. These financial performance measures should therefore 2017 2016 not be regarded as a replacement for measures as defined Current receivables, etc., non-interest bearing 1,662 1,520 according to IFRS. Of which advance payments to suppliers 168 136 Of which tax assets 1 8 Performance measures not defined according to IFRS, Of which accounts receivable, loans unless otherwise stated, are presented in the tables below. and other receivables 1,493 1,376 Current, other liabilities 1,264 1,162 Of which tax liabilities 91 2 Of which accounts payable and other liabilities 1,173 1,160 Total assets 39,445 38,594 Minus interest-bearing assets (cash and cash equivalents) –1,681 –1,070 Minus tax assets –1 –8 Minus other liabilities and provisions (non-current) –8,421 –8,344 Minus accounts payable and other liabilities –1,173 –1,160 Operating capital 28,169 28,012 104 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 Defi n iti o n s Yield 2017 2016 Operating profit 1,827 1,631 Definition: Operating profit before change in value of forest assets Divided by average operating capital 28,091 27,908 excluding capital gains on property sales, divided by average operating = Return on operating capital in % 6.5% 5.8% capital, excluding deferred tax. The Group’s definition is unchanged compared with previous periods. Comments: Yield is one of Sveaskog’s financial targets. The target is that an average yield of at least 4.5%. This target reflects return on Return on equity Sveaskog’s operations without impact from forest asset valuations and incidental property sales. Definition: Profit after tax expressed as a percentage of average equity. The Group’s definition is unchanged compared with previous periods. 2017 2016 Comments: Sveaskog is of the opinion that this performance measure Operating profit before change in value reflects the company’s return during the year on the capital the owner has of forest assets 1,627 1,312 invested in operations and therefore shows how profitable the company is Minus capital gains on property sales –321 –131 for its shareholder. Subtotal 1,306 1,181 2017 2016 Operating capital, opening balance 28,012 27,804 Equity, opening balance 20,081 19,709 Operating capital, closing balance 28,169 28,012 Equity, closing balance 20,669 20,081 Average operating capital (OB + CB)/2 28,091 27,908 Average equity (OB + CB)/2 20,375 19,895 Subtotal from above 1,306 1,181 Profit for the year 1,359 1,190 Divided by average operating capital 28,091 27,908 Divided by average equity 20,375 19,895 = Yield in % 4.6% 4.2% = Return on equity in % 6.7% 6.0% Interest-bearing net debt Interest cover Definition: Interest-bearing liabilities minus interest-bearing assets, all Definition: Operating profit before change in value of forest assets excl. calculated at the end of the year. The Group’s definition is unchanged capital gains on property sales plus financial income divided by financial compared with previous periods. expenses. The Group’s definition is unchanged compared with previous Comments: Sveaskog calculates interest-bearing net debt for the periods. performance measure net debt/equity ratio. Comments: Sveaskog is of the opinion that this performance measure states the company’s ability to meet its financial expenses (interest, etc.). 2017 2016 Interest-bearing assets (cash and cash equivalents) 1,681 1,070 2017 2016 Interest-bearing liabilities and provisions (non-current) –5,626 –5,666 Financial items in income statement –108 –174 Interest-bearing liabilities (current) –3,465 –3,341 Of which financial income 28 15 Interest-bearing net debt –7,410 –7,937 Of which financial expenses –136 –189 Operating profit before change in value of forest assets 1,627 1,312 Net debt/equity ratio Minus capital gains on property sales –321 –131 Plus financial income 28 15 Definition: Interest-bearing net debt divided by equity. The Group’s Subtotal 1,334 1,196 definition is unchanged compared with previous periods. Comments: Net debt/equity ratio is one of Sveaskog’s financial targets. Subtotal above 1,334 1,196 The target is a net debt/equity ratio of 0.3–0.6. Sveaskog is of the opinion Divided by financial expenses 136 189 that this performance measure reflects the possibility for dividends and = Interest cover, multiple 9,8 6,3 implementation of strategic investments as well as assessing the Group’s ability to meet its financial commitments. 2017 2016 Equity ratio Interest-bearing net debt 7,410 7,937 Definition: Equity divided by total assets, all calculated at the end of the Divided by equity 20,669 20,081 year. The Group’s definition is unchanged compared with previous periods. = Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.36 0.40 Comments: Sveaskog is of the opinion that this performance measure states the size of the assets financed by equity and indicates the company’s sensitivity to interest-rate fluctuations. Return on operating capital 2017 2016 Definition: Operating profit divided by average operating capital, Equity 20,669 20,081 excluding deferred tax. The Group’s definition is unchanged compared Divided by total assets 39,445 38,594 with previous periods. = Equity in % 52% 52% Comments: Sveaskog is of the opinion that this measure shows the company’s return in a fair manner independent of financial assets and financing options. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 105 G lossary Glossary 2030 Agenda restoring existing conservation presence of (biotope-depend­ agricultural parcels by On 25 September 2015 the values in other areas. ent) red-listed species can be exchanging land between UN General Assembly adopted expected. These forests are properties. the resolution 2030 Agenda Ecopark often old and have the for Sustainable Development. A large, contiguous forest character of natural forests. SE seedlings The Agenda means that all 193 landscape with high conservaPropagation method called member states are committed tion values and nature conm sub 3 somatic embryogenesis. to working to achieve a socially, servation ambitions. Sveaskog Volume measurement for A technology based on seeds. environmentally and econom­has established 37 ecoparks timber. Means solid cubic From a single seed it is ically sustainable world by the around Sweden. metres under bark. Measures possible to raise many identical year 2030. The Agenda has 17 the actual volume of wood copies of a tree with desired Ecosystem services without bark. Common properties in the same way as goals and 169 targets. Services provided by nature on measurement unit for with cuttings. AEO which humans are directly pulpwood. Authorised Economic Operator. dependent, for example Seed plantation AEO is an EU-wide quality pollination by bees and water Marking (for cross-cutting) A seed plantation produces assurance of a company’s purification in wetlands. Preparing timber, cutting a seeds with known hardiness, customs procedures. trunk into logs. high growth and other attribEdge zone utes that are desirable for Biodiversity A line of forest which is left Mosaic felling forest cultivation. Diversity of everything living in primarily along waterways and Filling with heightened all habitats and ecological lake shores to benefit aquatic consideration that is spread Seed processing unit processes of which they are a insects and fish. over an area. Svenska Skogsplantor has a part. Includes diversity within seed processing station in FSC® MTN programme Lagan which produces forest and between species and in Forest Stewardship Council. MTN is an acronym for Medium ecosystems. seed for all parts of Sweden. An international organisation Term Note. It is a continuous The raw material, cones, comes Biotope which promotes environ­ bond that is normally due for from seed plantations covering A region uniform in its mentally appropriate, socially repayment within five to ten 1,000 hectares. environmental conditions and responsible and economically years of issue. MTN bonds are in its population of animals and viable management of the often issued within the Selective felling plants for which it is the habitat. world’s forests. framework of a MTN proA collective name for silvigramme with the aim of culture systems, methods and CFO Global Reporting Initiative providing the issuer with an activities which means the Chief Financial Officer. (GRI) continuous source of finance forest is managed so that the GRI is an independent without the need to prepare land is never as bare as when Cleaning foundation within the United extensive legal documentation clear felled. Caring for a stand by thinning Nations. GRI publishes from scratch. out the forest and leaving the standardised international Sensitive biotopes removed trunks. guidelines for sustainability Nanocellulose Assessment of what reporting. The intention is to Nanocellulose is extracted constitutes a sensitive biotope Commercial paper create homogeneity and from wood fibre. It is is done by aggregating programme comparability between sustainexceptionally strong and is a conservation values in the area. A borrowing commitment used ability reports to make it easier renewable material. by companies for short-term to evaluate and compare Stand funding. companies from social, environPEFC An area which has a consistent mental and economic perspectProgramme for the Endorseenvironment for plants. Compensation land ment of Forest Certification Land which is surrendered to a ives. Sustainability/sustainable Schemes. An international private individual or to the state Hectare, ha organisation which works for development for nature conservation One hectare is 10,000 m2. certification of forests and Sustainable development is purposes. 1 km2 corresponds to 100 recognition of different about long-term retention of hectares. certification programmes. ecosystems’ production Contractor capacity and reducing negative A person or a company that High conservation value Productive forest land effects on nature and human carries out work on a contract forests Forest land which produces at health. Sustainability has three basis, for example a builder. Forests that have been set least 1 m3fo/ha/year on dimensions: social, ecological COP21 aside within the framework of average. and economic. Between 30 November and Sveaskog’s target of 20% nature conservation land. High Protective zone Thinning 11 December 2015 the interStrip at the edge of a field that Caring for a stand by thinning national community met in conservation value forests are, for example, key biotopes and is not worked. The aim is to out the forest and making use Paris for COP21, the 21st prevent runoff of nutrients and of the trunks removed as yearly session of the Conferconservation value areas or have good potential to develop weed killers for example to pulpwood and possibly ence of the Parties to the 1992 watercourses or depressions in sawlogs. UN Framework Convention on such conservation values. the ground. Climate Change. At the meetHigh conservation value UN Global Compact ing the states agreed on a new trees Raw pine oil A UN initiative to encourage global climate agreement to Trees which are left to develop A by-product from the companies to adopt sustaintake effect from 2020. naturally. Often thick or old. production of paper pulp. able business routines. The Called raw pine oil regardless Global Compact has ten COSO HVO diesel of which tree species the raw principles in the areas human Committee of Sponsoring HVO stands for Hydrogenated material consists of. rights, labour, environment and Organizations of the Treadway Vegetable Oil. It is a renewable anti-corruption. Commission. COSO is a vehicle fuel component which Red-listed species framework for evaluating a can be blended with or replace Species whose long-term Whistle-blower function company’s internal control over diesel. survival is uncertain, sometimes The possibility for a person its financial reporting. due to forestry. Classified to anonymously report ISO according to international irregularities or misconduct Dead wood International Organization for threatened species categories within the organisation. Wood which is left in a clearStandardization. An internatioin a red list. felled area as consideration for nal standards body that works nature. with industrial and commercial Re-zoning standardisation. Re-zoning means that the Ecological compensation entire property structure is Compensation for lost or Key biotope divided into larger contiguous damaged conservation values An area of forest with high areas. The aim is to create by, for example, creating new or conservation values where the more practical forest and 106 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 Financial calendar 2018 Interim report January – March 2018 23 April 2018 Interim report January – June 2018 17 July 2018 Interim report January – September 2018 26 October 2018 Financial reports Sveaskog’s annual reports and interim reports are available at www.sveaskog.se Printed information can be ordered from: • www.sveaskog.se • E-mail info@sveaskog.se • Telephone +46 771 787 000 • Letter to Sveaskog, HR and Communications, Torsgatan 4, SE-105 22 Stockholm Questions If you have any questions about Sveaskog and our operations, you are welcome to contact our communications department by e-mail info@sveaskog.se or telephone +46 771 787 000. If you have any questions about our sustainability work, you are welcome to contact our Sustainability Manager Lena Sammeli-Johansson by e-mail lena.sammeli@sveaskog.se or telephone +46 582 68 69 75. If you have any questions about our financial reports, you are welcome to contact our Head of Group Finance, Treasury & Risk Management Anders Jakobsson by e-mail anders.jakobsson@sveaskog.se or telephone +46 8 655 91 94. Annual General Meeting 2018 Sveaskog’s Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 April 2018 at 13.00 at IVA, Grev Turegatan 16, Stockholm. The Annual General Meeting is open to the public. Members of the Swedish Parliament have a special righ to attend and to ask questions. Members of Parliament and the public who wish to attend the AGM can notify this to: • www.sveaskog.se/arsstamman • E-mail kundcenter@sveaskog.se • Telephone +46 771 787 100 Notifications of attendance should reach Sveaskog no later than one week prior to the Annual General Meeting. Sveaskog HR and Communications has produced our annual report and sustainability report in collaboration with Ahnlund Ateljé. Photographers Ulla-Carin Ekblom (front cover), Shutterstock-Peyker (inside front cover), Shutterstock-Sparrow-hawk (page 1), Ulla-Carin Ekblom (2), Pernilla Widén (3), Ben GT Nyberg (4), Patrik Svedberg (6), Leif Öster (6, 7), Shutterstock-FloridaStock (8), Thomas Adolfsén (8), Lina Alriksson (8), Jonas Ljungdahl (9), Folkhem (9), Shutterstock-Oleg Doroshin (9), Ulla-Carin Ekblom (9), Mats Samuelsson (10), Jimmy Pettersson (10), Bengt Alm (10), Leif Öster (11), Leif Nilbrink (12), Thomas Olsson (14), Alexander von Sydow (15), Shutterstock-Guryanov Andrey (16), Patrick Degerman (16), Shutterstock-Piotr Wawrzyniuk (19), Ulla-Carin Ekblom (21), Alexander von Sydow (21, 23), Ola Jennersten (23), Madeleine Magnusson (24), Carl Lundberg (25), Kurt Rohde (26), Maria Edblad (27), Shutterstock-Conrado (27), Esbjörn Wahlberg (28), Ulla-Carin Ekblom (29), Katrin Hellström (30), Jan Lindkvist (31), Bengt Alm (32), Maria Nordlund (32), Shutterstock-1000 Words (36), Setra Group (37), Shutterstock-Andrei Mayatnik (38), Shutterstock-Mark Agnor (39), Magnus Eklund (39), Fortum (40), Mats Samuelsson (41), Anna Hållams (42), Per Wichmann (42), Carl Johan Erikson (43), Shutterstock-Jokerpro (46–47), Lars Ardarve (48), Stig-Göran Nilsson (49), Pernilla Widén (55), Fredrik Persson (56, 58). Printed at TMG Sthlm in March 2018 on FSC®-certified paper from Swedish forests. A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi l it y R ep o rt 2 017 107 G R I I ND E X GRI index The below index provides an account of Sveaskog’s reporting according to Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines GRI level Core and where the information can be found. All page references below refer to Sveaskog’s Annual Report/Sustainability Report 2017. W = www.sveaskog.se Content index Standard disclosures Where to find information Comments Strategy and analysis Indicator 102-14 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability for the organisation and its strategy 4–5 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Indicator 102-1 Name of the organisation Cover 102-2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4, 6–7 102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Back cover 102-4 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries where the organisation has significant operations 82 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2–3, 35, 50, 70 102-6 Markets served 36–40 102-7 Scale of the organisations 6, 18, 61, 99, inside cover 102-8 Number of employees by employment contracts, employment type, region and gender 99 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 100 96% 102-9 Description of organisation’s supply chain 30–31 102-10 Change regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain 50–55 102-11 How the precautionary principle is approached 17, 22–26, 53, 94 102-12 External initiatives 21–22, 30, 54, 94 Global Compact, Haga Initiative, BioInnovation 102-13 Membership of associations 21–22, 30, 33, 54, 94 Global Compact, FSC, Eustafor, Bioinnovation, Träcentrum Norr, PEFC IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Indicator 102-46 Defining report content and aspect boundaries (materiality assessment) 94–95 102-47 List of material aspects 12–14, 95–96 103-1 Aspect boundary within the organisation for each material aspect 95 103-1 Aspect boundary outside the organisation, for each material aspect 95 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 26–27 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 12–13, 94, 102 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Indicator 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16–18, 95–96 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholder groups 94 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 95–96 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to these key topics and concerns 16–18, 95–96 REPORT PROFILE Indicator 102-50 Reporting period 94 102-51 Date of most recent report 102-52 Reporting cycle 94, 107 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 107 102-55 GRI content index 108, www.sveaskog.se 102-56 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report GOVERNANCE Indicator 102-18 Governance structure 50–55 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Indicator 102-16 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and code of ethics 15–18, 28–29 108 A n n ua l R ep o rt a n d S u stai n abi lit y R ep o rt 2 017 G R I I ND E X Report content Specific standard disclosures Material aspects Governance (DMA) Where to find information Comments Economic impact ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4–5, 45,47, 53–54, W 18–19, 34–35 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s 4, 45–47, 53–54, W 45–47 activities due to climate change Environmental impact ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 26–27, 45–47, 53–54, W 98 304-3 Habitats protected or restored -”22–24, 97, W BIODIVERSITY 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 22–25, 45–47, 53–54, W 22–24, 97, W 304-3 Habitats protected or restored -”22–24, 97, W EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 26–27, 45–47, 53–54, W 26–27, 98 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions -”26–27, 98 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions -”26–27, 98 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 30, 45–47, 53–54, W 30–31 Social impact – Labour practices and decent work EMPLOYMENT 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover by gender and region 28–28, 45–47, 53–54, W 99 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, -”100 Sveaskog deviates and and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities does not report workrelated injuries by region and gender 1) TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category -”100 Sveaskog deviates and does not report training days by gender 2) 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, -”28–29, 100 Sveaskog deviates by gender and employee category and does not report performance reviews by gender and employee category 3) DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category, -”56–59, 99 Sveaskog does not according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity register employee minority group membership or ethnicity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration to women and men -”99 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 30, 45–47, 53–54, W 30–31 Social impact – Human rights NON-DISCRIMINATION 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 45–47, 53–54, W 28–29, 45–47, 54 Social impact – organisation’s role in society SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 45–47, 53–54, W 30 Social impact – Product responsibility PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING 102-43 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 16, 36–43, 95–96, W 16, 36–43, 95–96 102-44 1) Since this applies in so few cases which means that anonymity cannot be guaranteed. 2) Sveaskog will examine the feasibility of also breaking down this information by gender in future. 3) Sveaskog will examine the feasibility of also breaking down this information by gender and employee category in future. Sveaskog AB Reg. no. 556558-0031 Head office SE-105 22 Stockholm Tel 0771-787 000 Visitors’ address: Torsgatan 4 E-mail info@sveaskog.se www.sveaskog.se facebook.com/sveaskog twitter.com/sveaskog vimeo.com/sveaskog youtube.com, search word “sveaskog”
