GLOBAL COMPACT END OF YEAR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2017 TactiX Strategic Consulting Building No.20, Farazdaq St. Jabal AlWeibdeh, P.O. Box 1989 Amman 11118 Jordan Contact Person Mr. Nasif Khoury Founder/Partner Tel: + 962 6 5689820 n.khoury@tactixconsulting.com 1 Statement of Commitment TactiX Strategic Consulting has consistently focused on maintaining a healthy, productive and safe work environment for all involved. We understand that human rights must be upheld to the utmost degree, and are committed to functioning at a global standard. Our unwavering values are the foundation of our corporate policies. Therefore, these values have acted as a rule of law to our team throughout the years. Participating in the United Nation’s Global Compact allowed us to be a part of an institution that is dedicated to improving universal labour and social conditions, and this honor facilitates our duty to ensue the change necessary. This year, we reiterate our commitment to Global Compact’s ten principles. Our involvement allowed us to further improve our internal and external procedures in a manner that permits us to be a positive member of our local, as well as global community. We will continue to do our greatest to maintain eligibility for Global Compact. As a member of the global market we prioritize transparency, protection of labour laws and advocate for equal rights. Since we started applying the Global Compact regulations, we have been able to maintain a quality of work that enabled TactiX to maintain loyal and satisfied clients as well as employees. We are pleased to present you with this year’s report, which reflects the progress we made while observing the Global Compact’s ten principles, and how they have impacted our corporate strategies and daily activity. Yours truly, Nasif Khoury Founding Partner at TactiX Strategic Consulting 2 About TactiX Strategic Consulting TactiX Strategic Consulting was established in 2003 with the goal of providing elite marketing and public relations services to all sectors in Jordan. They continuously succeed in effectively serving clients by articulate their products and services to targeted audiences. TactiX is committed to provide high-quality services in public relations and digital communications to a wide variety of clients. TactiX’s clients are specialized in a number of social and economic sectors. This includes: the automotive, entertainment, food and beverage, non-governmental organizations, industrial groups, education, tourism and retail. Additionally, TactiX is a member in the Action Global Communications Network, global communications collective offering TactiX clients any services they may require with their affiliates anywhere around the world. Through its diverse operations, TactiX seeks to add a stroke of ingenuity to businesses by providing insights, multifaced strategic approaches to clients’ public relations and marketing operations. This is achieved by simply helping them realizing their goals and supporting the journey to reach these goals. TactiX Strategic Consulting persists to add new life to local industries and by working to enhance local and regional markets. TactiX’s success goes handin-hand with our clients’ success, making them determined to comprehensively enhance their communications. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES TactiX consistently ensures to uphold all articles of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights as it contains guidelines that guarantee the rights of all are duly recognized. It is incumbent on us to do our best to implement these globally recognized articles. Equality for All Assessment, Policy and Goals In Article 2 of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it states: Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty. TactiX's administration does its utmost to ensure the unconditional respect of all its employees, regardless of their religious and/or ethnic background. We have adopted numerous measures and company policies to guarantee the integral preservation of all our employees. Implementation Respectful and quality interaction with our employees are the backbone of TactiX’s daily operations. Management employ an open-door policy, facilitating comfortable and consistent conversation the entire company. TactiX convenes once a week, at the end of to allow various team building activities and improve productivity and interactions. Since TactiX's managers also take part in these weekly gatherings, we are able to effectively eliminate any problems or disagreements that may occur. Once controversy arises, the administration ensures mutual respect is maintained and that any differences do not infringe the rights of co-workers. An open discussion regarding local politics and social developments are covered. We require that TactiX is perpetually aims to be a safe space, as we our staff is diverse in background, nationality, gender and beliefs. Not only do we enjoy a multicultural environment, we find that the various intersectionalities that exist adds value to the strategic and tactical plans that we implement for our clients. TactiX makes sure to recognize successes and support their team members through challenging projects and circumstances. The employees are free to move, take breaks and have access to work remotely if their circumstances require them to do so. 4 TactiX also provides incentive for business development, as the employee that brings in a new client on retainer is intitled with a monthly commission for the first year of service. Measurement of Outcomes All issues are dealt with directly by senior management. If one of our employees is subjected to any form of discrimination, they can meet with the administration to discuss the matter in person or via email. The individual's identity is left anonymous and the perpetrator will be reprimanded and given a chance to review his/her conduct. If misconduct persists, the wrongdoer will receive a warning and possible termination of employment as a final solution. These are precautionary measures incorporated by our administration. however, no such events have occurred at TactiX requiring the utilization of such procedures. On another note, these meetings have positively impacted our administrative policies by offering helpful insight and enables the management to hear and understand employee opinions. Employees have the liberty to discuss company policies and voice their opinions, while the senior administration investigates any concerns and makes changes where appropriate. TactiX’s Social Security Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX currently offers social security to all its employees, regardless of their nationality. Upon the activation of employment contracts, employees are automatically registered to benefit from social security. Implementation After employee approval, appropriate deductions are made on a monthly basis which will be compensated by the individual during future periods of unemployment. All deduction details are made transparent and any additional information will be disclosed to the employee upon request. Measurement of Outcomes As all employee bank checks are processed and certified by TactiX's senior management, the opportunity arises to periodically review and assess social security and income tax deductions made prior to the issuance of salaries. 5 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Labour principles reflect a cooperation’s values. TactiX holds it value to the highest importance. This permits all actions taken to remain just in their implementations, and accounts for all concerned parties. When they are maintained, they ensure a transparent, equal and safe environment for all. Honestly in Pay scales Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX is determined to exercise honesty in all its dealings and assure a fair deal is given to all employees. By upholding such values and giving due appreciation to its members of staff, TactiX hopes to set an example for other corporations and secure deals of mutual benefit. Pay scales are predetermined by TactiX and the minimum offer is given and made clear in the employment contract before it is put into effect. Implementation While conducting interviews, TactiX’s senior management attentively listens to all the interviewee’s stated qualifications, while viewing his/her curriculum vitae for accuracy. After the administration determines that the employee’s background qualifies for the posted position, it suggested that the employee states his/her desired salary. However, if the stated salary is below the minimum offered by TactiX, the interviewer will revert with a counter offer that is more appropriate. Measurement of Outcomes Our current policy has proven useful as it promotes trust and sets a good first impression for our employees. All hired employees know that they are appreciated at TactiX and the current method has contributed greatly to lowering turnover and guaranteeing dedicated performance from the whole team. Moreover, the performance of all our employees is reviewed on a yearly basis and bonuses are measured and given according to work ethics seen, as well as the quality of their work. Health Insurance Assessment, Policy and Goals Health insurance is the fundamental right of all workers after the three-month probation period is completed. Tactix informs its employees of this during interviews and puts it into effect during the initial week after the probation period. 6 Implementation After employees are briefed on the full medical coverage offered by TactiX, senior management will send them a follow-up email and arrange a meeting to discuss the salary deductions that will be made upon their approval. Currently, our company has upgraded the health insurance to a larger network with one of the largest health insurance company. This now includes dental coverage, and elective cancer insurance. Moreover, TactiX has added Maternity benefits within its health insurance plan. Therefore, additional applications are available upon request. With the employee’s approval, the management informs its insurance company for registers the individual as a TactiX employee. The new staff member is given a yearly insurance card, a directory of doctors insured through the company and health insurance applications. The employee may request new applications when needed and will be given additional ones at the earliest possible date. Measurement of Outcomes TactiX’s administration ensures that all staff members have enough insurance applications and any individual who may be suffering from a chronic illness is checked on every two weeks to guarantee they are getting the best medical treatment. Annual Gatherings and Retreats Assessment, Policy and Goals In order to foster a positive company culture and strengthen bonds with the employees, the administration conducts recreational outings on a yearly basis. This is also an effective way of relieving stress accumulated over the year, and employees look forward to such events upon its arrival. TactiX also makes sure to celebrate birthdays of its employees, and has recently increased the number of its team building activities. This also includes charity and celebration of local religious celebration of all beliefs, such as breaking fast (Iftar) during the holy month of Ramadan. Implementation Our senior management arranges the recreational activities that are suggested by any of the employees. After discussing it with our employee’s person-to-person or via email, TactiX arranges the outings according to a majority vote. A reminder is sent to the team on the scheduled outings. Birthday celebrations have now become part of the company culture, where each employee gets to celebrate his or her birthday with cake and a small gathering at the end of the day to celebrate the individual. 7 Measurement of Outcomes We gather feedback from the team allows us to plan future outings, and management is open to suggestions made by any and all the employees at TactiX. Biometric Time Attendance Clock Assessment, Policy and Goals To guarantee the prompt attendance of all employees and with our high transparency policy, TactiX has installed a biometric time attendance clock. Implementation TactiX administration has set up a biometric time attendance clock adjacent to the main entrance; employees are given fingerprint identifications and are required to identify themselves upon arrival and departure. Measurement of Outcomes This helps measure that all the TactiX employees are working within hours as supported by the labour policies that execute their rights, as well ensures that they work an appropriate number of hours. Employees who fail to honor our prompt attendance policy are given a verbal warning for their tardiness. Employees who continuously to fail to abide then receive a written warning from the administration and are informed that timely attendance at the office is vital to performance. As a final course of action, non-adherents will have their employment contract terminated. The policy is effective and necessary in guaranteeing that both the employer and employee benefit mutually. Abolition of Child Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX’s senior management has taken on the responsibility of ensuring that no individual below 18 years of age is hired. This is articulated in the ILO Core Conventions, under Article 11 which stipulates: Only adult able-bodied males who are of an apparent age of not less than 18 and not more than 45 years may be called upon for forced or compulsory labour. 8 Implementation TactiX periodically reviews all received résumés before contacting qualified individuals for interviews. Before putting employment contracts into effect, we request general identification and references to verify the eligibility of our staff members. To implement this law further, we strictly work with vendors that share these principles. We ensure that the freelancers are also given their full rights as well. Measurement of Outcomes If any information regarding the above article is breached, Article 10 of the ILO Core Conventions is reviewed for possible conditions of continued employment. If no options are internationally recognized, the worker’s contract is immediately terminated. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES TactiX is aware that we are a part of a larger ecosystem that supports a plethora of species, and we hope to leave a clean earth for all the generations to come. It is paramount that we all contribute our share, and we hope to leave a legacy of our time with very little negative environmental impact. Paper-light and Newspaper recycling Assessment, Policy and Goals Over time, TactiX has achieved a paper-light office. With the progress of technology, we manage to perform as a PR and communications agency through electronic mediums. Documents are only printed when necessary, and measures are taken to ensure the least amount of papers are used in the process. Additionally, our media department recycles newspapers in a manner that helps support local businesses. Implementation TactiX has agreed as whole that with new innovations in communications, we are able to do our job well without hurting the environment. Therefore. We also found that we want to support local and small businesses, such as providing our newspapers as part of their supplies. 9 Measured outcome We have reduced our paper usage this year in comparison to the pervious year. Also, we enjoy building relationships with local businesses, and supporting them by lowering their cost as well as reduce our impact on environment is important to TactiX. Automated and energy saving lighting Assessment, Policy and Goals We recently moved to a new, economically and environmentally conserving office space. Additionally, we have installed motion censored lighting to ensure regulated energy saving to illuminate utilized spaces only. We also made sure that all light bulbs are energy saving. Implementation We aim to make sure that all electronics that are not in use are turned off, and again, only areas with movement are illuminated. We try to keep all electronics updated and any innovations to save natural resources are in use at TactiX. We aim to use natural lighting, and light use of the Air Conditioning when the weather permits. Measured Outcomes We try to decrease our carbon footprint as much as possible. The newly implemented automated lighting and energy saving methods have helped reduce the amount of energy consumption at TactiX. 10 Other Environmentally Friendly Campaigns & Social Initiatives Al Hussein Society – Corporate Social Responsibility Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX ensures that we offer our services to organizations that help individuals that may face challenges, that are underprivileged and that need to raise awareness to help improve the quality of life of Jordanian citizens. This year in particular we are helping Al Hussein Society. An organization and a school that focuses on rehabilitation, inclusion and provides medical and social support to peoples with disabilities. Implementation We offer full PR and digital communications to Al Hussein Society though out the year of 2017 and is ongoing in 2018. We support and create strategies, and tactical approaches that help increase awareness and funding. Measured Outcomes We helped raise funding from prominent telecom companies in Amman, and our national awareness campaign focused help others envision one’s challenge in terms of accessibility they face physical disabilities. We also contacted the top companies to ensure full accessible facilities in their establishments. GIZImprovement of Communal Water Efficiency GIZ along with the ministry of water and water entities, are implementing a project to raise awareness of water awareness and water conservation methods and techniques through religious argumentation. Implementation The objective of TactiX is to help the project in spreading awareness on the importance of required behavior change related saving water, along with changing the mindsets of the local community through media tools. TactiX provided regular digital communications and social media training sessions to all project’s parties in different governorates by providing complete digital communications services. 11 Measured Outcomes Through training and capacity building, the local employees were able to better their targeting, and spreading awareness about economic conservation of resources, knowing the right messages to insight a change in attitude and behavior that leads to conserve water supplies within their area. GIZSolid Waste Management We worked the local branch of Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) to help facilitate new and innovative solid waste management in Jordan. Implementation TactiX helped GIZ develop the communication strategy to raise people's awareness about this important sector and how they could contribute in improving it by adopting the best practices and behaviors, To underpin the donation and procurement of new waste trucks through other donor programs, the project advises selected municipalities in solving their most urgent waste collection problems. Technical and managerial capacities of the municipal staff are enhanced through trainings in order to improve municipal fleet management and collection services. Furthermore, the project provides equipment and supplies for the municipalities, such as basic fittings, containers, spare parts and tools. In addition, municipal waste collection services are supported with optimization of their routing systems and the procurement of GPS devices. Measured Outcomes As it is an ongoing project, we are still working towards improving solid waste technology in the northern government of Jordan. We predict a positive outcome, as the initiative wil lead to efficient and Injazvolunteer to teach classes in public schools TactiX employees volunteered to teach a 6-week course to public schools, a topic that is outside of the regular curriculum. 12 Implementation We taught courses that focuses on self-efficacy and exploration of artistic and creative expression. Our line of business allows us to navigate a creative path within a highly professional atmosphere. We were able to provide a type of knowledge that is not often provided within the Jordanian PublicSchool system. Measured Outcomes We were able to build relationships with the young students, enabling students to think more out of the box and gain confidence for their future endeavors. Through our leadership programs, we hoped to impart knowledge to give the students hope to reach for bright futures. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES: TactiX honors and enforces all local and international laws, especially anticorruption, as it is a rampant issue that is faced in Jordan. It is part of daily professional activities. Therefore, TactiX truly takes this matter seriously and is sincerely dedicated to preventing corruption in every way possible. Single Person Accountability Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX has incorporated a single accountability policy to properly prevent any attempts made at embezzlement and guarantees. Our accountant is the only one with access to our company’s safe, giving him the sole privilege of accessing TactiX’s internal finances. Additionally, a single individual is authorized to sign cheques by TactiX. This makes sure that only one individual is liable. Implementation Our methods safeguard that a single copy of keys is given to the accountant with the exact amount of money recorded. Secondly, a record is kept by the senior administration of any withdrawals made, reasons behind each deductions and deposits are similarly tracked. Furthermore, our financials are accounted for at the end of every week to assure that exact amounts are in accordance with financial records. 13 Measured Outcomes TactiX annually administers internal and external auditors to verify that our financial statements are free of any misconduct, waste, or fraud. Any ambiguity is addressed with due diligence. Our senior management arranges an appointment with our auditors and our accountant to ensure there is mutual understanding in our transactions and all audits are in harmony with our internal records. If any acts of corruption are made apparent, legal action is taken and the utmost levels of professionalism are maintained. No Bribery Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX guarantees that higher management and all other employees faithfully uphold this internal principle guideline. Any gifts received with a nominal value exceeding 40 USD are not accepted, and all employees are prohibited from accepting any form of cash. This policy has been active since the first year of our establishment. It is a key pillar which underlines our honest and trustworthy reputation. Implementation Over the years, our adopted methods of implementation have proved fruitful. We have requested that all our employees inform TactiX's senior management of gifts received which must have a clear and legitimate basis for its presentation. Moreover, all dinners and arrangements for customers of all types are required to have a clear and appropriate reason and take place publicly. Measured Outcomes TactiX has never been involved in any sort of legal cases related to bribery or other acts of corruption. Our auditors can support our claims, as our General Manager receives a detailed yearly report of all our incoming and outgoing financial transactions. All audits are frequently reviewed by higher management to ensure TactiX’s profits can be accounted for and no form of bribery has occurred. We are also notified throughout the course of the year of any suspicious activity. 14 Active Involvement in Anti-Corruption Campaigns Assessment, Policy and Goals Our senior management always seeks to participate in anti-corruption initiatives whether locally or regionally. TactiX is a strong advocate of anti-corruption awareness and tries to devise additional strategies to ensure the highest levels of trust are achieved at the company. Implementation During our weekly company gatherings (mentioned previously in Human Rights Principles) we regularly stress the hazards of corruption and continually emphasize to maintain our ethical behavior. TactiX further encourages its employees to bring forth any attempted acts of bribery made by clients and affiliates. Measured Outcomes If any information surfaces of an attempted bribe, a timely investigation is conducted and can result in the cancellation of a client's contract; however, no such incident has occurred over the past year. Our employees have learned to appreciate strong moral value while working with us, and ones who have pursued other jobs have informed us of their strong conviction to preserving such values. 15
